 Wanchoo, CJ.	None
(also on behalf of J. C. Shah, R. S. Bachawat, V. Ramaswami, G. K. Mitter and K. S. Hegde JJ.)1.	None
These twentyone petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution for a writ of habeas corpus raise common questions of law and will be dealt with together.	Issue
It is enough to set out the facts in one of the petitions (No. 142 of l967), for the facts in other petitions are almost similar.	Facts
The petitioner was arrested on November 11, 1966 and detained under an order passed under R. 30 (1) (b) of the Defence of India Rules, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules).	Facts
It appears that though the order was reviewed after the period of six months, no opportunity was given to the petitioner to represent his case before the reviewing authority.	Facts
In consequence the detention of the petitioner became illegal after the first period of six months in view of the judgment of this Court in P. L. Lakhanpal v. Union of India AIR 1967 SC 1507 .	Facts
The State Government realising this defect, cancelled the order dated November 11, 1966 on August 3, 1967, and on the same day a fresh order of detention was passed and it is this order which is being challenged before us.	Facts
It is not in dispute that in view of the judgment of this Court in Jagdev Singh v. State of Jammu and Kashmir, W. P. No. 69 of 1967, D  1481967 (AIR 1968 SC 327 ), it was open to the State Government, in view of the formal defect in making the review, to pass a fresh order of detention after revoking the earlier order, which in any case became ineffective after the first six months, if the circumstances which led to the detention originally still continued.2.	Facts
The main attack of the petitioners is on the order of the President passed on November 3, 1962, as amended on November 11, 1962, under Article 359 (1) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
By this order the President declared that the right to move any court for the enforcement of the fundamental rights conferred by Articles 14, 21 and 22 of the Constitution would remain suspended for the period during which the Proclamation of Emergency issued under Article 352 (1), was in force, if any person was deprived of such right under the Defence of India Ordinance (No. 4 of 1962) or any rule or order made thereunder.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument in support is put this way.	Arguments of Petitioner
The President is an authority within the meaning of Article 12 and therefore is comprised within the definition of the word State and the order passed under Article 359 is a law within the meaning of Article 13 (2) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Consequently an order passed by the President under Article 359 is liable to be tested on the anvil of the fundamental rights enshrined in Part III of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, it is urged that an order passed under Article 359 is made in the context of the Emergency and therefore enforcement of only such fundamental rights can be suspended which have nexus with the reasons which led to the Proclamation of Emergency.	Arguments of Petitioner
In consequence, the President can only suspend the enforcement of fundamental rights under Article 22 and Article 31 (2) under an order passed under Article 359 and no others.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly, it is urged that even if the President can suspend the enforcement of any fundamental right, the order passed can still be tested under the very fundamental right enforcement of which has been suspended.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fourthly, it is urged that an order passed under Article 359 can in any case be challenged under Article 14, and if so, the order passed in the present case is violative of Article 14 because some persons can be detained under the Defence of India Act, 51 of 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and the Rules while others can be detained under the Preventive Detention Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
As the Act and the Rules give more drastic powers for detention as compared to the powers conferred by the Preventive Detention Act, there is discrimination, for there is no indication as to when detention should be made under the Act and the Rules and when under the prevention law, and the matter is left to the arbitrary discretion of the executive.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fifthly, it is urged that in view of the language of the order under Article 359, there should have been an express provision in the Act and the Rules to the effect that enforcement of fundamental rights under Articles 14, 21 and 22 was suspended and in the absence of such an express provision, the Presidential order under Article 359 cannot stand in the way of the detention order being tested under Part III of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sixthly, it is urged that Article 22 (5) provides that grounds of detention should be furnished to a detenu and the order of the President did not do away with the necessity of furnishing the grounds.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Besides these main contentions, three subsidiary contentions have also been raised in one petition or another and they are  (i) that the fresh order had not been communicated to the detenus and was therefore of no avail (ii) that the order was not in the form as required by Article 166 of the Constitution and it is therefore for the State Government to prove that it was passed by the authority which had the power to do so and (iii) that the fresh order was male fide.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitions have been opposed on behalf of the State Government.	Arguments of Respondent
It is unnecessary to set out in detail the contentions in reply to the main points raised on behalf of the petitioners.	None
It is enough to say that the contention on behalf of the State is that once the President has passed an order under Article 359 suspending the enforcement of any fundamental right, it is not open to rely on that fundamental right for any purpose, so long as the order under Article 359 stands and such an order cannot be tested in any manner by the very fundamental right the enforcement of which it has suspended.	Arguments of Respondent
Further as to the subsidiary points, the State contends that the fresh order of detention was communicated to each detenu and that the order was in the form required by the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and that Article 166 has no application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir.	Arguments of Respondent
It was finally denied that the order was mala fide in any of the cases.5.	Arguments of Respondent
Part XVIII deals with Emergency Provisions and begins with Article 352 which provides for making a declaration that a grave emergency exists whereby the security of India or of any part of the territory thereof is threatened, whether by war or external aggression or internal disturbance, if the President is so satisfied.	None
Articles 353 and 354 provide for the effect of the Proclamation of Emergency	None
but it is unnecessary to refer to them for present purposes.	None
Article 356 lays down that during the period that a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation, Article 19 shall remain suspended.	None
Article 359 with which we are particularly concerned lays down thatwhere a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation, the President may by order declare that the right to move any Court for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III as may be mentioned in the order and all proceedings pending in any court for the enforcement of the rights so mentioned shall remain suspended for the period during which the Proclamation is in force or for such shorter period as may be specified in the order.	None
The order made under Article 359 may extend to whole or any part of the territory of India and has to be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament.6.	None
It will be seen from the terms of Article 359 that it gives categorical powers to the President during the period when a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation to suspend the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III.	Reasoning
It is for the President to decide the enforcement of which of the fundamental rights should be suspended during the operation of the Proclamation of Emergency.	Reasoning
There is nothing in Article 359 which in any way limits the power of the President to suspend the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III.	Reasoning
It is to our mind quite clear that the President has the power to suspend the enforcement of way of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III and there is nothing thereunder which makes any distinction between one fundamental right or another.	Reasoning
As Article 359 stands, it seems to us, it clearly envisages that once a Proclamation of Emergency has been issued, the security of India or any part of the territory thereof may require that the President should suspend the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III.	Reasoning
There is in our opinion no scope for inquiry into the question whether the fundamental right the enforcement of which the President has suspended under Article 359 has anything to do with the security of India which is threatened whether by war or external aggression or internal disturbance for Article 359 posits that it may be necessary for the President to suspend any of the fundamental rights in Part III for the sake of the security of India.	Reasoning
There is thus a basic assumption in Article 359 that it may be necessary for the President to suspend the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III in the interest of the security of India.	Reasoning
If he considers that necessary, it is unnecessary in the face of that basic assumption to inquire whether enforcement of a particular fundamental right suspended by the President has anything to do with the security of India, for that is implicit in Article 359.It follows therefore that it is open to the President to suspend the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III by an order under Article 359 and this Article shows that wherever such suspension is made it is in the interest of the security of India and no further proof of it is necessary.7.	Reasoning
This brings us to the main ground raised on behalf of the petitioner that an order under Article 359 is a law made by the State within the meaning of Article 13 (2) and has therefore to be tested under Part III of the Constitution.	Issue
We may assume for present purposes that the President is comprised within the word State in Article 12.	None
We may also assume that the order made by the President under Article 359 is a law in its widest sense.	Reasoning
The question however is whether such an order can be considered to be a law for the purpose of Article 13 (2) and tested thereunder.	Reasoning
Article 13 (2) and Article 359 being parts of the same Constitution stand on an equal footing and the two provisions have to be read harmoniously in order that the intention behind Article 359 is carried out and it is not destroyed altogether by Article 13 (2).	Reasoning
It follows that though an order under Article 359 may be assumed to be law in its widest sense, it cannot be law within the meaning of Article 13 (2), for if that were so, Article 359 would be made nugatory.	Reasoning
The Constitution through Article 359 says that the President may suspend the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights in Part III where a Proclamation of Emergency is in force and that means that during the period of Emergency the fundamental rights, enforcement of which is suspended, cannot be enforced.	Reasoning
If the order is a law within the meaning of Article 13 (2), the result would be that though the order says that the enforcement of a particular fundamental right is suspended during the period of Emergency the order can still be tested with the aid of Article 13 (2) on the anvil of the same fundamental right, the enforcement of which it suspends.	Reasoning
That would in our opinion result in making Article 359 completely nugatory, for then a declaration made thereunder that the enforcement of certain fundamental rights is suspended during the period of Emergency would have no meaning whatsoever.	Reasoning
Therefore, applying the principle of harmonious construction we are of opinion that an order passed under Article 359 cannot be law for the purpose of Article 13 (2), assuming it to be law in its widest sense.	Reasoning
It follows therefore that an order under Article 359 derives its force from Article 359 itself and takes affect in accordance with its tenor and cannot be affected by Article 18 (2) and cannot be tested under any of the provisions of Part III of the Constitution which it suspends.8.	Reasoning
Reliance in this connection is placed on the judgment of this Court in Ghulam Sarwar v. Union of India, 19672	None
SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SC 1335 ) where the majority made a distinction between the Presidents order itself under Article 359 and the effect of that order.	None
In that case it was observed dietthere is a clear distinction between deprivation of fundamental rights by force of a constitutional provision itself and such deprivation by an order made by the President in exercise of a power conferred on him under a constitutional provision.	None
It was further observed thatArticle 359 (1) does not operate by its own force.	None
The President has to make an order declaring that the right to move a court in respect of a fundamental right or rights in Part III is suspended.	None
He can only make an order which is a valid one.	None
It was further observed that an order making an unjustified discrimination in suspending the right to move a court under Article 14, would be void at its inception and would be a still born order.9.	None
We must say with greatest respect that it is rather difficult to understand how an order under Article 359 which suspends the enforcement of a fundamental right can be tested under that very fundamental	Reasoning
right	Reasoning
It is true that there is a distinction between Article 358 and Article 359 (1).	Reasoning
Article 358 by its own force suspends the fundamental rights guaranteed by Article 19 Article 359 (1) on the other hand does not suspend way fundamental right of its own force but gives power to the President to suspend the enforcement of any fundamental rights during the period of Emergency.	Reasoning
But that cannot mean that an order passed under Article 359 (1) suspending the enforcement of a particular fundamental right has still to be tested under the very fundamental right which it suspends.	Reasoning
That would in our opinion be arguing in a circle and make Article 359 completely nugatory.	Reasoning
It seems that the majority in Ghulam Sarwars case, 19672 SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SC 1335 ) was also conscious of the fact that the reasoning on which it came to the conclusion that an order made under Article 359 could be tested under Article 14, though it suspended that Article, was open to the criticism that it was an argument in a circle.	Reasoning
The argument was however met by making a distinction between the order and the effect of that order and it was observed that if the order did not violate Article 14 it could validly take away the right to enfore the fundamental right under Article 14.	Reasoning
With greatest respect it is difficult to appreciate this reasoning and the distinction on which it is based.	Reasoning
It seems to us that if Article 359 is to have any meaning at all and is not to be wiped out from the Constitution an order passed thereunder suspending a fundamental right cannot possibly be tested under that very fundamental right which it suspends.	Reasoning
If that were permissible no order under Article 359 could really be passed.	Reasoning
If Article 359 is not to be rendered nugatory, it must be held that an order passed thereunder cannot be tested under the very fundamental	Reasoning
right the enforcement of which it suspends.	Reasoning
We must therefore respectfully differ from the view taken in Ghulam Sarwars case 19672 SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SC 1335 ), and hold that an order passed under Article 359 (1) cannot he tested with the aid of Art 13 (2) under that very fundamental	Reasoning
right the enforcement of which it suspends.	Reasoning
There is therefore no force in the first point raised on behalf of the petitioners.10.	Reasoning
We also see no force in the second point raised by the petitioners.	Reasoning
As we have already indicated Article 359 envisages that an order passed thereunder for suspension of the enforcement of a particular fundamental right is for the sake of security of India.	Reasoning
It is therefore not necessary to enquire whether there is any nexus between a particular fundamental right suspended and the security of India.	Reasoning
Article 359 itself posits that it may be necessary in the interest of the security of India to pass an order suspending the enforcement of any fundamental right thereunder.	Reasoning
This is clear from the fact that Article 359 (1) provides for the suspension of the enforcement of the fundamental rights in Part III of the Constitution only during the period of Emergency meaning thereby that suspension of the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights which the President considers necessary is for the security of India.	Reasoning
We fail to see why only fundamental rights under Article 22 or under Article 31 (2) can he suspended under Article 359 Article 359 clearly shows that any fundamental right in Part III can be suspended during an Emergency and we cannot limit Article 359 in the face of the unambiguous and express words thereof and say that only the enforcement of fundamental rights under Articles 22 and 31 (2) can he suspended thereunder.	Reasoning
It may be that prima facie these two fundamental rights appear to have a clearer nexus with security of India but it does not follow that other fundamental rights may not in an Emergency have such a nexus.	Reasoning
In any case Article 359 itself proceeds on the basis that the suspension of the enforcement of all or any of the fundamental rights is for the sake of security of India and so gives the power to the President to suspend such enforcement if he considers it necessary for that purpose.	Reasoning
The second contention raised on behalf of the petitioners must also be rejected.11.	Reasoning
As to the third contention, we have already indicated that an order passed under Article 359 (1) suspending the enforcement of 8 Particular fundamental right cannot be tested under that very fundamental right.	Reasoning
We cannot see how if the order under Article 359 suspends Article 14 its validity can still be tested under that very Article.	Reasoning
We have already expressed our respectful dissent from the view taken in Ghulam Sarwars case, 19672 SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SC 1335 ) and must reject this contention.12.	Reasoning
As the enforcement of the fundamental right under Article 14 was suspended by the Presidents order under Article 359, no question of that order being bad under that Article can arise even if we assume that the provisions for detention under the Act and the Rules are more stringent than the provisions for detention under the Preventive Detention Act.	Reasoning
The fourth contention also fails.13.	None
As to the fifth contention it is urged at on the words of the order passed by the President suspending the enforcement of fundamental rights under Articles 14, 21 and 22, there had to be a provision in the Act and the Rules expressly to the effect that these fundamental rights would not be enforceable.	Arguments of Petitioner
We cannot understand how any provision could have been made in the Act and Rules to this effect.	None
Such a provision in the Act or the Rules would be clearly unconstitutional.	Reasoning
It is only because Article 359 (1) provides that the President may suspend the enforcement of a particular fundamental right that it is possible for the enforcement of any fundamental right to be suspended during the Emergency.	Reasoning
What the President has provided in the present case is that the enforcement of fundamental rights under Articles 14, 21 and 22 would be suspended if any person has been deprived of such right under the Defence of India Ordinance (later replaced by the Act) or the Rules or orders made thereunder.	Reasoning
It is necessary to emphasise that the Presidents order speaks of suspension under the Ordinance (later replaced by the Act) or the Rules or orders made thereunder.	Reasoning
It does not say that the enforcement of such right is suspended if any person is deprived of it by the Ordinance, the Rules or orders made thereunder.	Reasoning
Therefore it was not necessary that there should be any express provision in the Act or the Rules suspending the enforcement of fundamental rights under Articles 14, 21 and 22.	Reasoning
The clear intendment of the Presidents order is that if any fundamental right of any person under Articles 14, 21 and 22 was invaded by any action taken under the Ordinance (later replaced by the Act), or any rule or order thereunder, that action could not be tested on the anvil of those fundamental rights.	Reasoning
It was therefore not necessary to make any express provision in the Act or the Rules for the suspension of the enforcement of the fundamental rights under Articles 14, 21 and 22.	Reasoning
The fifth contention must also fail.14.	None
The sixth contention is that Article 22 (5) which lays down that grounds of detention must be communicated to the person detained must still be applicable.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have not been able to understand this argument at all.	None
If the Presidents order is validly madeas we hold it to beand if it suspends Article 22 as it doeswe fail to see how clause (5) continues, for it is only a part of Article 22, which has been suspended.	Reasoning
There is no question therefore of furnishing any ground under Article 22 (5) to the detenu if the detention is under the Act or the Rules, for the entire Article 22 has been suspended.	Reasoning
The argument under this head is also rejected.15.	Reasoning
This brings us to the subsidiary points raised on behalf of the Petitioners.	Reasoning
It is first said that the fresh order was not communicated to the detenus.	Reasoning
This has been denied on behalf of the State.	Reasoning
We see no reason why the fresh order which was passed on the same day on which the earlier order was cancelled would not have been communicated.	Reasoning
Nothing has been shown to us to disbelieve the statement on behalf of the State that the fresh order was communicated in each case and therefore any argument based on it not being communicated must fail.16.	None
Then it is argued that the order is not in the form as required by Article 166.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is enough to say that Article 166 does not apply to the state of Jammu and Kashmir.	Reasoning
We have to look to the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir to see whether the form of the order is in accordance therewith.	Reasoning
It is clear that the order is in the form required by S. 45 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir The presumption must therefore be made that it was passed validly unless the petitioners can show that it was not passed as required by law.	Reasoning
No attempt has been made on behalf of the petitioners to show that.	Reasoning
The contention on this head must therefore also be rejected.17.	Reasoning
Lastly, It is urged that the orders in these cases were male fide.	Reasoning
This has been denied on behalf of the State.	Reasoning
No grounds have been shown which may lead us to the conclusion that the fresh orders which were passed were male fide.	Reasoning
The necessity for fresh orders arose because the review was not made in accordance with the manner indicated by this Court in Lakhanpals case, AIR 1967 SC 1507 .	Reasoning
The fresh order that was made was on the same facts and must in the circumstances be held to be valid in view of the judgment of this Court in Jagdev Singhs case, W. P. No. of 1967, D  1481967 (AIR 1968 SC 327 ).18.	Reasoning
The petitions therefore fail and are hereby dismissed.	Decision
Hidayatullah, J. 19.	None
I agree that the petitions be dismissed.	Decision
As I was a member of the Constitution Bench which decided Ghulam Sarwars case, 19672 SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SC 1335 ).	None
I wish to say a few words in explanation.	None
The judgment of Subbarao, C. J. to which I was a party has expressed itself somewhat unhappily on the point on which it has been overruled in the Judgment just delivered.	None
The former Chief Justice upheld the extension of G. S. R. 1418/301062 (which suspended the benefits of Articles 21 and 22 to a foreigner) by G. S. R. 1275/2781965.	None
The latter order suspended Article 14 in addition to the two articles already suspended.	None
This suspension was upheld on the ground that shore was a dear classification between citizens and foreigners and in a state of war and emergency foreigners could be treated as a class.	None
In other words, the order was tested on the ground of Article 14 itself which the order of the President sought to suspend.20.	None
In the judgment just delivered it has been said that the reasoning in Ghulam Sarwars case, 19672 SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SC 1335 ) is difficult to understand and that the suspension of Article 14 precludes examination of the order under that article.	None
I should have thought that I had sufficiently explained my position during the discussion of the draft judgment in Ghulam Sarwars case, 19672 SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SO 1335)	None
but it appears that in spite of my doubts about the width of language in that judgment, the decision to which I became a party continued to bear the meaning now attributed to it.	None
If I may say with great respect the judgment Just delivered also suffers from a width of language in the other direction.	None
The truth lies midway.21.	None
Although a suspension of a fundamental right under Article 359 (1) may be made either for the whole of India or any part of the territory of India, Ghulam Sarwars case, 19672	None
SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SC 1335 ) points out that there is nothing to prevent the President from restricting the scope of the order to a class of persons provided the operation of the order is confined to an area and to a period.	None
As the order was applicable to the whole of India and for the duration of the emergency although it affected a class, namely, foreigners it was upheld.	None
This was not the application of Article 14.	None
This was said because the argument was that the order could only be with reference to the whole or a part of the territory of India and not with respect to a class such as foreigners.	None
That meant that the order was considered in relation to the words of Article 359 (1).	None
Room was, however, to be left for the play of Art.	None
14 for those theoretically possible (and fortunately only theoretically possible) cases in which the exercise of the power itself may be a cloak for discrimination, in other words cases of male fide action and cleat abuse of the power for some collateral purpose.	None
This strict reservation only was intended to go into the judgment in Ghulams Sarwars case, 19672 SCR 271 (AIR 1967 SC 1335 ) but if a wider meaning can be spelled out from that Judgment	None
I dissent from it and say that I never intended to be a party to such a wide statement.	None
The examination under Article 14 of the suspension of the article itself, as expressed in the judgment of Subbarao, C. J. gives a very different impression.	None
For the same reason I cannot subscribe to the width of language in the judgment just delivered which apparently does not make any reservation at all	None
Therefore I agree to the order proposed but reserve my reasons.22.	None
Petitions dismissed.	Decision
