SAWANT, J. Leave granted The appellantcompany runs a unit known as Modi Vanaspati Manufacturing Company at Modinagar, District Ghaziabad.	None
At the relevant time, there were about 350 workmen working in this unit.	Facts
On December 19, 1990, there was a dispute between the management and the trade union leaders which resulted in two cross first information reports being lodged by the management and the trade union leaders against each other and suspension of 30 workmen from service.	Facts
According to the company, from December 21, 1990 the workmen came to the companys premises but did not discharge their duties.	Facts
On account of this, there was a complete halt in production.	Facts
According to the respondenttrade unions, however, the workmen reported for duty regularly but the production could not be carried on as the suspended 30 workmen were technicians and in their absence it was not possible to operate the machines.	Facts
On December 27, 1990 an agreement was arrived at between the management and the trade unions which provided that except the suspended workmen, the other workmen will join work and discharge their duties.	Facts
It appears that in spite of this agreement, the work could not be carried on.	Facts
According to the management, it was the noncooperation of the workmen which was responsible for the situation whereas according to the trade unions, the management did not permit the workmen to work and hence the said stalemate.	Facts
While the situation continued thus, the District Administration and the Labour Department of the State Government took initiative by making efforts to enable the workmen to work in the company.	Facts
On February 8, 1991, a meeting was held in the presence of the Additional District Magistrate and the Deputy Labour Commissioner in which the representatives of the management and the leaders of the trade unions participated.	Facts
In this meeting, the Additional District Magistrate suggested that out of the suspended workmen, those who had no serious charges against them be reinstated and the inquiry be conducted against all the suspended workmen including those so reinstated so that work could be carried on.	Facts
The representatives of the management, however, did not agree to the said suggestion and requested for postponement of the meeting to enable them to consult their higher officials.	Facts
The meeting was, therefore, postponed to February 11, 1991.	Facts
No positive reply was received from the management with the result that work could not be carried on up to and inclusive of March 3, 1991.	Facts
The work started and the production commenced only on March 4, 1991.	Facts
The management did not pay wages to the workmen for the period from December 21, 1990 to March 3, 19913.	Facts
The Additional Labour Commissioner issued a notice dated February 27, 1991 under Section 3 of the U.P. Industrial Peace (Timely Payment of Wages) Act, 1978 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) whereby the appellantcompany was called upon to show cause as to why order for payment of wages to the workmen under Section 3 of the Act be not made against it.	Facts
The hearing of the notice was fixed on March 10, 1991.	Facts
The appellantcompany submitted its representation including the supplementary representation.	None
The company was given personal hearing.	Facts
After considering the material placed by the company on record, the Additional Labour Commissioner passed an order on April 29, 1991 directing the recovery of Rs. 3, 67, 474 from the company for payment of wages to the workmen for the month of January 1991 only.	Facts
This order was challenged by the company on various grounds by a writ petition filed in the High Court.	Facts
The High Court by the impugned order negatived all the contentions and dismissed the petition.	Facts
The operative part of the order of the High Court is as follows When order is passed under Section 3 of the Act for recovery of wages and the aggrieved party approaches the Government to refer the dispute under the Industrial Disputes Act, the Government has hardly any option in view of the reasons given above.	Facts
The Government if required by any party to refer the dispute to the Industrial Tribunal, it has to pass an appropriate order in connection	Facts
therewithThe writ petition is accordingly dismissed, .	Facts
There shall be no order as to costs.	Facts
In case the petitioner approaches the Government for reference under the Industrial Disputes Act to the Industrial Tribunal, Labour Court, the State Government shall pass appropriate order within six weeks from the date of presentation of the application for reference along with the certified copy of this order.	Facts
After reference is made, the Industrial Tribunal Labour Court will decide the dispute expeditiously in accordance with law.	Facts
The short question that falls for considerations is whether the order passed by the Labour Commissioner on April 29, 1991 directing the recovery of the amount is valid.	Issue
Shri Salve, the learned counsel appearing for the appellantcompany contends that since in the present case there was a dispute as to whether the workmen were entitled to receive the payment of wages for the period in question, the Labour Commissioner ought to have directed the workmen to raise a industrial dispute or to approach the civil court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had no jurisdiction to decide the said dispute which he virtually did by passing the impugned order.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel further contended that assuming that the Labour Commissioner had such power, he ought to have passed a speaking order dealing with the contentions of the parties and since in the present case the Labour Commissioner has merely given a certificate of recovery without giving any reasons, the order is prima facie bad in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
His third submission was that the Labour Commissioner could not have entertained the complaint of nonpayment of wages since Section 3 of the Act under which the Labour Commissioner has chosen to exercise his power, confers on him jurisdiction to make an order of payment only when the industrial establishment is in default of the payment of a wagebill in respect of the entire establishment and not of a few individual workmen.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Tarkunde, the learned counsel appearing for the workmen, while not questioning the submission that the Labour Commissioner under the Act cannot go into the disputed questions of law and fact submitted that the disputed question in the present case was only of an incidental nature and the Labour Commissioner has the authority to decide the same in order to give relief to the workmen.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the power conferred on the Labour Commissioner under Section 3 of the Act is of a summary nature and it has been conferred on him with a view to give a speedy relief to the workmen who are deprived of their wages.	Arguments of Respondent
He further contended that the order passed by the Commissioner being administrative in nature, he was not bound to give reasons for the same In order to resolve the controversy between the parties, it is first necessary to examine the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
As the title of the Act itself suggests it has been enacted to secure industrial peace by ensuring timely payment of wages to the workmen.	None
The preamble of the Act states that it is an Act to provide for in the interest of maintenance of industrial peace, a timely payment of wages in bigger industrial establishments and for matters connected therewith.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act states that delays in payment of wages of workmen lead to simmering discontent among them.	None
Sometimes a grave threat to law and order is also forced on this account.	None
The provisions of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 have been found to be inadequate to ensure timely payment of wages.	Reasoning
The incidence of disturbance of industrial peace being greater in comparatively bigger establishments, it was considered necessary to provide that if the wagebill in default exceeds Rs. 50, 000 the amount should be recoverable as arrears of land revenue.	None
Further, in order to curb the tendency of the employers to keep large amounts of wages in arrears, it was also necessary to make it a penal offence to be in default of a wagebill exceeding Rs. 1 lakh Section 2(a) of the Act defines industrial establishment to mean any factory, workshop or other establishment in which articles are produced, processed, adopted or manufactured with a view to their use, transport or sale.	None
Wagebill is defined by Section 2(d) to mean the total amount of wages payable by an industrial establishment to its workmen.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 3 then states that where the Labour Commissioner is satisfied that the occupier of an industrial establishment is in default of payment of wages and that the wagebill in respect of which such occupier is in default exceeds fifty thousand rupees, he may, without prejudice to the provisions of Sections 5 and 6, forward to the Collector, a certificate specifying the amount of wages die from the industrial establishment concerned.	None
Subsection (2) of that section states that upon receipt of the certificate referred to in subsection (1), the Collector shall proceed to realise from the industrial establishment, the amount specified therein, besides recovery charges at the rate of ten per cent, as if such amount was an arrear of land revenue.	None
Subsection (3) of that section states that the amount so realised shall be placed at the disposal of the Labour Commissioner and he shall disburse the same among the workmen entitled thereto.	None
Subsection (4) states that when the amount so realised falls short of the wagebill in respect of which there has been a default, the Labour Commissioner may arrange for disbursement of such proportion or respective proportions of the wages due to various categories of workmen, as he may think fit.	None
Subsection (5) then states that the liability of the occupier towards each workman in respect of payment of wages shall to the extent of the amount pad to such workman, stand discharged.	None
Section 4 specifies the powers of the Labour Commissioner when he entertains the complaint of the default of payment of the wagebill.	None
It states that for the purposes of ascertaining the wagebill of an establishment in respect of which default has been committed, the Labour Commissioner shall have all the powers of a civil court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 in respect of enforcing the attendance of witnesses, examining them on oath and compelling production of documents, and shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of Section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	None
Section 5 prescribes penalty.	None
It states that no occupier of an industrial establishment shall at any time be in default of a wagebill exceeding Rs. 1 lakh, and every occupier who is so in default shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three months but which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.	None
The Court is given power to impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than three months for adequate and special reasons to be recorded in writing.	None
Section 6 provides for punishment of persons when the offence is by the company, which includes firms and association of individuals It will thus be clear from the preamble, the statement of objects and reasons and the provisions of the Act that, firstly, the Act has been placed on the statute book to ensure timely payment of wages by the bigger establishments, the incidence of disturbance of industrial peace being greater in such establishments on account of the default in payment of wages.	None
Secondly, the Act deals with defaults in payment of the wagebill of all the workmen in the establishment.	Reasoning
It is not meant to provide a remedy for the default in payment of wages of individual workmen.	Reasoning
That can be taken care of by the provisions of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 which provisions are found inadequate to ensure timely payment of wages of the whole complement of workmen in an establishment.	Reasoning
Thirdly, it is not in respect of the default in payment of every wagebill but only of a wagebill exceeding Rs. 50, 000 that the Labour Commissioner can be approached under the Act for redressal of the grievance.	Reasoning
Fourthly, the Act is not applicable to all establishments but only those establishments which produce, process, adopt or manufacture some articles.	Reasoning
It will, therefore, be evident that the Act does not supplant or substitute the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 but supplements the said Act, in the limited area, viz., where the establishment, as stated above, (i) produces, processes, adopts or manufactures some articles, (ii) where there is a default in the wagebill of the entire such establishment and (iii) where such wagebill exceeds Rs. 50, 000.	Reasoning
The object of the Act as stated above is not so much to secure payment of wages to individual workmen but to prevent industrial unrest and disturbance of industrial peace on account of the default on the part of the establishment in making payment of wages to their workforce as a whole.	Reasoning
It appears that many establishments had a tendency to delay the payment of wages to their workmen and were playing with the lives of the workmen with impunity.	Reasoning
This naturally led to a widespread disturbance of industrial peace in the State.	Reasoning
Hence the legislature felt the need for enacting the present statute.	Reasoning
This being the case, the inquiry by the Labour Commissioner contemplated under Section 3 of the Act is of a very limited nature, viz.	Reasoning
, whether the establishment has made a default in timely payment of wages to its workmen as a whole when there is no dispute that the workmen are entitled to them8.	Reasoning
The inquiry under Section 3 being thus limited in its scope, the Labour Commissioners powers extend only to finding out whether the workmen who have put in the work were paid their wages as per the terms of their employment and within the time stipulated by such terms.	Reasoning
If the Labour Commissioner is satisfied that the workmen, though they have worked and are, therefore, entitled to their wages, are not paid the same within time, he has further to satisfy himself that the arrears of wages so due exceed Rs. 50, 000.	Reasoning
It is only if he is satisfied on both counts that he can issue the certificate in question.	Reasoning
Under the Act, the Labour Commissioner acts to assist the workmen to recover their wages which are admittedly due to them but are withheld for no fault on their behalf.	Reasoning
He does not act as an adjudicator if the entitlement of the workmen to the wages is disputed otherwise than on frivolous or prima facie untenable grounds.	Reasoning
When the liability to pay the wages, as in the present case, is under dispute which involves investigation of the questions of fact and or law, it is not the function of the Labour Commissioner to adjudicate the same.	Reasoning
In such cases, he has to refer the parties to the appropriate forum9.	Reasoning
The powers conferred on the Labour Commissioner under Section 3 of the Act are to prevent apprehended or present breach of industrial peace.	Reasoning
That is why the inquiry contemplated is of a summary nature.	Reasoning
The exercise of the said powers by the Labour Commissioner does not prevent either party from approaching the regular forum for the redressal of its grievance.	Reasoning
Construing a more or less similar provision of Section 3(b) of the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 in State of U.P. v.	None
Basti Sugar Mills Co. Ltd.	None
this Court had taken the same view.	None
The provisions of the said Section 3(b) read as follows3.	None
Power to prevent strikes, lockouts, etc.  	None
If, in the opinion of the State Government, it is necessary or expedient so to do for securing the public safety or convenience or the maintenance of public order or supplies and services essential to the life of the community, or for maintaining employment, it may, by general or special order, make provision  (a) (b) for requiring employers, workmen or both to observe for such period, as may be specified in the order, such terms and conditions of employment as may be determined in accordance with the order In that case, the State Government under the above provision had directed the sugar factories to pay bonus to the workmen.	None
Repelling the challenge to the direction of the Government, this Court observed as follows We entirely agree with Mr. Pathak that the normal way of dealing with an industrial dispute under the Act would be to have it dealt with judicially either by conciliation or by adjudication and that judicial process cannot be circumvented by resort to executive action.	None
The proceeding before a conciliator or an adjudicator is, in a sense, a judicial proceeding because therein both the parties to the dispute would have the opportunity of being heard and of placing the relevant material before the conciliator or adjudicator.	None
But there may be an emergency and the Government may have to act promptly for securing the public safety or convenience or the maintenance of public order or supplies and services essential to the life of the community or maintaining employment.	None
It was, therefore, necessary to arm it with additional powers for dealing with such an emergency.	None
Clause (b) of Section 3 was apparently enacted for this purpose.	None
An order made thereunder would be in the nature of a temporary or interim order as would be clear from the words for such period as may be specified appearing therein and from the second proviso to Section 3.	None
Under this proviso where an industrial dispute is referred for adjudication under clause (d) an order made under clause (b) cannot be enforced after the decision of the adjudicating authority is announced by or with the consent of the State Government.	None
It would, therefore, follow from this that where the Government has made an executive order, as it did in this case, under clause (b) of Section 3, it is open to the aggrieved party to move the Government to refer the industrial dispute for conciliation or adjudication under clause (d) of Section 3, A similar view is expressed in Basti Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of U.P.	None
This nature of the provisions of Section 3 of the present Act emphasises two aspects which are relevant for our purpose.	None
Firstly, the power conferred on the Labour Commissioner being meant to be used speedily to prevent apprehended or continuing industrial unrest, the procedure to be adopted by him is essentially of a summary nature.	None
It does not contemplate a protracted inquiry.	None
Secondly, the purpose of the inquiry being to redress the grievance of the nonpayment of wages, the authority of the Labour Commissioner extends only to finding out whether on the admitted fact that the workmen had worked, the grievance of the workmen has a substance in it or not.	None
It does not, however, mean that the employer can defeat the provisions of the Act by raising frivolous pleas to avoid the payment of wages and when the employer does so, the Labour Commissioner has to wash his hands of the complaint of the workmen.	None
While looking into the grievance of the workmen, the Labour Commissioner will undoubtedly have power to find out whether the employer has a plausible defence or not.	None
Hence the Labour Commissioner would have to examine the pleas and to deal with them.	None
He would have, therefore, to give reasons for accepting or not accepting them.	None
To that extent, he is called upon to give reasons while issuing or refusing to issue the certificate.	None
It must be remembered that Labour Commissioner is not a mere recovery officer.	None
While the recovery officer acts on a claim which is already crystallised in some order, the Labour Commissioner in the present case, has to ascertain himself whether and to what extent, the workmen are entitled to the wages and then issue or refuse to issue the certificate.	None
The inquiry that the Labour Commissioner conducts for the purpose is thus of a quasijudicial nature.	None
It is the Collector to whom he forwards the certificate who in fact acts as the recovery officer.	None
As is provided in Section 3 itself, on receipt of the claim or complaint of the workmen, the Labour Commissioner has to satisfy himself that the occupier of the industrial establishment concerned is in default of payment of wages and that the wagebill in respect of which the default is complained of exceeds Rs. 50, 000.	None
He cannot satisfy himself without hearing the occupier of the industrial establishment on the claim made.	None
That is why under Section 4, he is clothed with the powers of the civil court in the matter of enforcing the attendance of the witnesses, examining them on oath and compelling production of documents.	None
It has further to be borne in mind that the consequences to the parties of the issuance or nonissuance of the certificate are grave.	None
When the certificate is not issued, the employees claim stands deferred to an indefinite period.	None
When, it is issued, the employer is saddled with a sizeable financial liability and the nonpayment of the amount indicated in the certificate visits him with penal consequences of both imprisonment and fine.	None
The decisions of this Court in Mahabir Jute Mills Ltd., Gorakhpur v. Shibban Lal Saxena, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education v. K. S. Gandhi and C. B. Gautam v. Union of India on which Shri Tarkunde relied in support of his proposition that administrative orders need not contain reasons for the same, according to us, therefore, have only a limited application in the present case.	None
The Labour Commissioner may have to deal with broadly three different situations, viz., (i) where there is no defence whatsoever raised by the employer to the claim of the workmen (ii) where the employer raises frivolous and untenable pleas to resist the claim and (iii) where there is a genuine dispute with regard to the entitlement of the workmen to the wages and the said dispute cannot be resolved without investigating the disputed questions of fact or law.	None
In the first case, the Labour Commissioner is not called upon to give any reasons while issuing the certificate.	None
In the second case, the Labour Commissioner has to give reasons as to why according to him, the pleas raised are untenable.	None
In the third situation, the Labour Commissioner when he rejects the claim of the workmen, has to indicate the disputed questions of law or fact which prevent him from exercising his limited jurisdiction.	None
Thus, both for issuing the certificate as well as for rejecting it, the Labour Commissioner may be called upon to give his reasons depending upon the facts in each case.	None
It is well settled by a series of decisions beginning with A. K. Kraipak v. Union of India that even administrative decisions must bear reasons for some of them may have more vital consequences on the rights of the parties than even judicial decisions.	None
It is not, therefore, correct to say that the Labour Commissioner is not required to give reasons for his orders As stated earlier, whether the certificate is issued or not, the parties remedy to approach the appropriate forum for the adjudication of their claim is not taken away.	None
They can still approach the regular forum meant for the resolution of the dispute.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Act are only of a summary nature meant to deal speedily with situations requiring urgent solution13.	Reasoning
On the facts of the present case, we are more than satisfied that there did exist a genuine dispute between the parties as to whose acts of omission or commission were responsible for the halting of the production in the factory for the period in question.	Reasoning
This was put into issue before the Labour Commissioner by the appellantcompany.	None
The Labour Commissioner, in the circumstances, could not have proceeded to issue the certificate.	Reasoning
He ought to have referred the parties to industrial adjudication which was the proper forum for the purpose.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances, we set aside the impugned certificate dated April 29, 1991 issued by the Labour Commissioner14.	Reasoning
The record shows that this Court, while granting interim stay of the recovery proceedings, directed the appellantcompany to pay to the workmen, 50 per cent of the wages as per the certificate issue by the Labour Commissioner.	Reasoning
The dispute has been pending since 1990.	Reasoning
We, therefore, direct the respondentState of Uttar Pradesh to refer the dispute between the parties with regard to the entitlement of the workmen to receive the wages and the liability of the appellantcompany to pay the same for the period between December 21, 1990 to March 3, 1991, for adjudication to the appropriate authority under the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, within four weeks from today.	Decision
In the meanwhile, with a view to mitigate hardship of the workmen, the appellantcompany will pay to the workmen additional 25 per cent of the wages as found due by the Labour Commissioner under his impugned certificate.	Decision
The payments made shall be subject to the outcome of industrial adjudication.15.The appeal is allowed accordingly and the order of the High Court is modified in the above terms.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, there will be no order as to costs.	Decision
