 Das Gupta, J.1.	None
The common question which arises for decision in this group of cases is as regards the validity of the Bihar Act No. XVI of 1959 (Bihar Land Reforms Amendment Act, 1959), in so far as it amends with retrospective effect Ss. 4 and 6 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, to be indicated later, and inserts the new sections, S. 7B and S. 7C in that Act.	Facts
It appears that sometime after the Bihar Land Reforms Act became law and action was taken under S. 3 thereof by the State Government issuing notifications, declaring that the estates or tenures of proprietors or tenureholders, specified in the notifications had passed to and become vested in the State, the Revenue authorities started interfering with the rights of those exproprietors and extenureholders to hold Melas on lands of which they were thereafter in occupation as occupancy raiyats under the State and started settling rights to realize tolls from such Melas on behalf of the State Government.	Facts
Aggrieved by this action taken by the Revenue authorities on behalf of the State Government applications were made by several of these erstwhile intermediaries  now occupancy raiyats  to the High Court of Patna for writs restraining the Government and its officers from such interference with their rights.2.	Facts
Five such applications have given rise to the five appeals which are numbered as C. A. No. 351 of 1959, C. A. No. 27 of 1960, C. A. No. 92 of 1960, C. A. No. 285 of 1960 and C. A. No. 411 of 1960.	Facts
The High Court held that in view of the provisions of S. 6 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act (before its amendment) and the fact that the provisions made in S.4 (a) of the Act about the consequences that would ensue on the vesting of an estate or tenure in the State were subject to the provisions of S.6, the State had no right to hold Melas on the Bakasht lands of the exintermediaries  now occupancy raiyats.	Facts
Accordingly the High Court allowed the applications and issued writs as prayed for.	Facts
Against these orders of the High Court the State of Bihar and its officers have preferred the five appeals mentioned above, after obtaining special leave from this Court.3.	Facts
Sometime after special leave was obtained by these appellants the Bihar Legislature enacted in 1959.	Facts
the Bihar Land Reforms Amendment Act, 1959 (Bihar Act XVI of 1959).	Facts
This Act amended inter alia S. 4 cl.	Facts
(b) of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, by adding the word Mela after the words jalkars, hats and bazaars and by omitting the words subject to the subsequent provisions of this Chapter in cl.	Facts
(a) of S.4.	Facts
It also amended S. 6 of the 1950 Act by substitution for the words Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act the words subject to the provisions of Ss 7A and 7B. Of these S. 7B provides that Where on any land deemed to be settled with the intermediary under the provisions of S. 5, S. 6 or S. 7, a Mela was being held by the intermediary at any time within 3 years of the date of vesting, the right to hold such Mela on such land shall with effect from such date, vest in the State and notwithstanding anything contained in any law, the State shall have and the intermediary shall not, except with the consent of the State Government have the right to hold such Mela on such land or to do anything which may prejudicially affect such Mela.	Facts
Section 7C contains provisions as regards settlement of hats, bazars or melas referred to in S. 7A and S. 7B and provides inter alia that settlements will be made with the outgoing intermediary or his heir after application is received from him and if there are several of them who apply for settlement, with the most suitable of them.	Facts
The Amending Act made the amendments mentioned above, except the insertion of S. 7C, retrospective, with effect from the date of enactment of the parent Act.	Facts
The amending Act had already been passed, when several other applications under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution for similar relief against the interference by the Government with the intermediaries right to hold Melas came up for consideration before the High Court.	Facts
The High Court rejected these applicants attack against the validity of the Amending Act and held that in view of the provisions now made the applicants were not entitled to any relief.	Facts
Civil appeal No. 574 of 1960 has been preferred by one of such applicants on a certificate granted by the High Court.4.	Facts
The two applications under Art.	Facts
32 of the Constitution were filed in this Court for writs of mandamus against the State of Bihar and its officers restraining them from interfering with the applicants right to hold melas on their lands.	Facts
Both of these were filed after the Bihar Land Reforms Amendment Act, 1959, had become law.5.	Facts
It is obvious that if the Amending Act is valid legislation, in so far as it amends with retrospective effect S. 4 and S. 6 of the 1950 Act as mentioned above and inserts S. 7B, the exintermediaries have not and the State has the right to hold melas on the Bakasht lands.	None
The main question therefore is whether this is a valid legislation.	None
To answer this question we have to examine in the first place whether the Bihar Legislature which enacted the Amending Act had on that date the legislative competence under Art.	None
246 of the Constitution to do so and secondly, whether, the law was void because of the provisions of Art. 13 of the Constitution.	None
The amending legislation was clearly within Item 42 of the Concurrent List, being a law as regards acquisition of property.6.	None
Mr. Tarkeshwar Dayal, who appeared on behalf of one of the exintermediaries submitted that this was really not a matter of land reform the purpose of the Amending legislation being only to augment the revenue of the State.	None
It is true that the law by taking the right to hold melas from certain persons and giving it to the State is likely to augment the revenues of the State.	None
It may well be that this object of augmenting the revenues was one of the main purpose behind the Amending legislation.	None
That however is no reason to think that this legislation is not also concerned with land reform.	Reasoning
It is however unnecessary for us to consider this question further, for whether it is a law as regards land reform or not, it is clearly and entirely as regards acquisition of property.	Reasoning
The question of the legislature having attempted legislation not within its competence by putting it into the guise of legislation within its competence does not even arise.	Reasoning
The conclusion that necessarily follows is that the amending legislation was within the legislative competence of the Bihar Legislature under Art.	Reasoning
246 of the Constitution.7.	None
This beings us to the main question in controversy, viz., whether the amending legislation is void on the ground that it violates Arts.31, 19 and 14 of the Constitution.	None
A complete answer to this question is furnished in favour of the State if this is a law within the saving provisions of Art.	Reasoning
31A. Art.	Reasoning
31A was enacted in the Constitution by the Constitution (First Amendment Act) with retrospective effect from the commencement of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It was further amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, also with retrospective effect from the date of the commencement of the Constitution.	Reasoning
This Article, provides inter alia, that notwithstanding anything contained in Art. 13, no law providing for the acquisition by the State of any estate or of any rights thereinshall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Arts. 19, 31 and 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Is the amending legislation a law providing for the acquisition by the State of any estate or of any rights therein?	Reasoning
Two arguments have been advanced on behalf of the exintermediaries to convince us that it is not such a law.	Reasoning
The first argument is that what the amending legislation provides for is not acquisition at all within the meaning of Art.	Reasoning
31A as it is not acquisition for a public purpose.	Reasoning
It has been urged that the purpose is a mere augmentation of revenue.8.	Reasoning
It does not appear to us that when the right of holding the Mela is taken over by the State the only purpose is the augmentation of revenue.	Reasoning
There is scope for thinking that the legislature believed that melas would be better run and be more in the interests of the general public when run by the State than when they are left without control in the hands of private individuals with whom the profit motive is likely to be the sole guiding principle.	Reasoning
It is unnecessary however to answer this question for, in our opinion, a law, may be a law providing for acquisition even though the purpose behind the acquisition is not a public purpose.9.	Reasoning
It is important to notice that the constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act made important alterations in Art. 31 also.	Reasoning
One of the amendments of Art. 31 was that cl.	Reasoning
2 now provides that no property shall be compulsorily acquired, (1) save for a public purpose, and (2) save by authority of a law which contains provisions for compensation for the property acquired and either fixes the amount of compensation or specifies the principles on which and the manner in which the compensation is to be determined and given.	Reasoning
Then, Art.	Reasoning
31A provides inter alia that a law providing for acquisition will not be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with or takes away or abridges a right conferred by Art. 31.	Reasoning
Reading the two articles together as they stand after the fourth amendment of the Constitution it becomes obvious that when Art.	Reasoning
31A speaks of a law of acquisition it contemplates a law which may be for acquisition, though not for a public purpose and lays down that even though this will be in violation of the fundamental right guaranteed by the first part of Art. 31	Reasoning
(2) the law will not be void because of such violation.10.	None
The question whether the validity of a law for compulsory acquisition of property by the State can be challenged on the ground that the acquisition is not for a public purpose had to be considered by this Court even before the amendment of Art. 31(2) as mentioned above in State of Bihar v. Sir Kameshwar Singh.	None
1952	None
SCR 889 (AIR 1952 SC 252 ).	None
Art. 31(2) as it then stood did not in so many words provide that no acquisition can be made save for a public purpose but it was argued on behalf of the State that such a provision was implicit in the words of Art. 31(2).	None
This argument was rejected by Mahajan and Chandrasekhara Aiyar, JJ.	None
but it was accepted by Patanjali Sastri, C. J., and Das J., both of whom held that the requirement of public purpose being a condition for compulsory acquisition laid down by Art.	None
31 (2) the law was saved in spite of the violation of such condition by Art. 31 (4) and also Art.	None
31A. Mukherjea, J., also said that the requirement of public purpose was a condition implied in the provisions of Art. 31(2).	None
His Lordship then added For my part, I would be prepared to assume that Cl.	None
(4) of Art.	None
31 relates to everything that is provided for in Cl.	None
(2) either in express terms or impliedly and consequently the question of the existence of a public purpose does not come within the purview of an inquiry in the present case.	None
It was in this State of judicial opinion that Art. 31 (2) was amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act as mentioned above and the requirement of public purpose was expressly made a condition for compulsory acquisition by the State.	None
The basis for the argument that the question whether there was a public purpose or not is open to judicial review in spite of Art.	None
31A has therefore disappeared.11.	None
It is worth noticing in this connection that in Sir Kameshwar Singhs case, 1952 SCR 889 (AIR 1952 SC 252 ) the argument that quite apart from anything in Art. 31(2) as it then stood no law of acquisition could be made except for a public purpose was sought to be reinforced by the words in Item 36 of the State List and Item 42 of the Concurrent List.	None
These items read as follows36.	None
Acquisition or requisitioning of property, except for the purposes of the Union, subject to the provisions of entry 42 of List III.42.	None
Principles on which compensation for property acquired or requisitioned for the purposes of the Union or of a State or for any other public purposes is to be determined, and the form and the manner in which such compensation is to be given.	None
The argument on the basis of these entries was that the State legislatures had no power to make a law for acquisition of property without fulfilling the condition of public purpose.	None
The Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act which came into force on the 1st day of November, 1956, deleted Entry 36 of the State List and substituted for the former phraseology of Item 42 of the Concurrent List the words acquisition and requisition of property.	None
It is quite clear that after this amendment the legislative list permits the State legislature to enact a law of acquisition even without a public purposes and that the only obstacle to such a law being enacted without a public purpose is the provisions of Art. 31(2).	None
That obstacle also disappears if the law in question is one within Art.	None
31A.12.	None
It was next contended that the acquisition of the right to hold the Mela, for which the amending Act provides is not acquisition, in any case of right in any estate within the meaning of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A as defined in Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
2(b) of the same Article.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that this definition includes only rights of persons who are intermediaries and unless the raiyat whose rights are being acquired is an intermediary, that is, a person between the State and the tiller of the soil, his rights are not rights within the definition of rights in relation to an estate and consequently, a law providing for acquisition of the rights of such a raiyat is not a law within the saving provisions of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that on the date the Amending Act was passed the exintermediaries had ceased to exist as intermediaries and had become occupancy raiyats under S. 6 of the parent Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
What were being acquired therefore, it is argued, were not rights of intermediaries but rights of raiyats who had ceased to be intermediaries.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has to be noticed that the impugned provisions amending S. 4 and S. 6 and S. 7(b) have been given retrospective effect so that the parent Act of 1950 has to be read as containing on the very date of its enactment provisions in these sections not as originally enacted but as they stood after the amendment of 1959.	Reasoning
In deciding whether rights of raiyats were being acquired or not we have to forget what happened in consequence of the unamended S. 6.	Reasoning
Projecting ourselves to the date September 25. 1950, when the Presidents assent to the Bihar Land Reforms Act. 1950, was published in the Gazette and reading the Act as containing S. 4 and S. 6 as amended and also S. 7(b) it cannot but be held that what were being acquired by means of these provisions of the amending legislation giving retrospective effect were certain rights of the intermediaries.	Reasoning
These intermediaries had not on September 25, 1950.	Reasoning
ceased to be intermediaries and the fact that under the unamended provisions of S 6 they later on became occupancy raiyats should not be allowed to confuse the fact that the acquisition of certain properties by the amending legislation being itself with effect from September 25. 1950, what was being provided for was acquisition of intermediaries rights.13.	Reasoning
Even if it be assumed that what the amending legislation provided for was the acquisition of raiyats rights, there is no justification for holding that these rights were not rights in any estate within the definition of Cl. 2 of Art.	None
31A. Clause 2(b) is in these wordsthe expression rights in relation to an estate, shall include any rights vesting in a proprietor, subproprietor, underproprietor, tenureholder, raiyat, underraiyat or other intermediary and any rights or privileges in respect of land revenue.14.	None
The contention on behalf of the exintermediaries is that the rights of raiyats who are not intermediaries, in the sense of being middlemen between the State and the tiller of the soil, are not within this definition.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention does not however stand a moments scrutiny, for the simple reason, that it is well known that ordinarily at least, a raiyat or an under raiyat is not a person, who can be called an intermediary.	None
It is reasonable to think that the word raiyat was used in its ordinary wellaccepted sense, of the person who holds the land under the proprietor or a tenureholder for the purpose of cultivation and the word underraiyat used in the equally well accepted and ordinary sense of a person who holds land under a raiyat for the purpose of cultivation.	None
It is necessary to remember in this connection that Art.	None
31A as first enacted by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act did not contain these words raiyat, underraiyat and that after the First Amendment the definition ran thusthe expression rights, in relation to an estate shall include any rights vesting in a proprietor, underproprietor, tenureholder or other intermediary and any rights or privileges in respect of land revenue.15.	None
It was the Fourth amendment which in the year 1958 inserted the words raiyat, underraiyat immediately after the words tenureholder.	Reasoning
At that time laws had already been passed in most of the States for the acquisition of the rights of intermediaries in the estates rights of raiyats or underraiyats who might answer the description intermediary were also within the definition because of the use of the words or other intermediary.	Reasoning
The only reason for specifically including the rights of raiyats and underraiyats in the definition could therefore be to extend the protection of Art.	Reasoning
31A to laws providing for acquisition by the State Government of rights of these raiyats or underraiyats.	Reasoning
In the circumstances and in the particular setting in which the words raiyat or underraiyat were introduced into the definition, it must be held that the words or other intermediary occurring at the end, do not qualify or colour the meaning to be attached to the tenures newly added.16.	None
Another contention raised in support of the argument that the impugned law is not for acquisition of a right in an estate is that the right to hold a Mela is not a right in the lands at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention is wholly unsound.	None
Holding a hat, or bazaar or mela is only a mode of user by the owner of his land.	None
Just as he can enjoy the land belonging to him in other ways, he can use it for the purpose of having a concourse of peoplebuyers and sellers and others for a hat or bazaar or melasubject, as in the case of other user to the requirement that no nuisance is created and the legal rights of others are not infringed.	None
Consequently, the right to hold a Mela has always been considered in this country to be an interest in land, an interest which the owner of the land can transfer to another along with the land or without the land.	None
There can be no doubt therefore that the right of the proprietor of an estate to hold a Mela on his own land is a right in the estate, being appurtenant to his ownership of the land so also the right of a tenureholder, who it has to be remembered is the owner of the land subject only to the payment of rent to the proprietor, to hold a mela on land forming part of the tenure.	None
It is true that a licence to hold a Mela on anothers land in which no interest is transferred is not an interest in land but there is no question here of the acquisition of any licence to hold a Mela at another persons land.	Reasoning
The argument that the impugned law was not a law for acquisition of a right in the estate because the right to hold a mela was not a right in the land must therefore be rejected.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, it was contended that long before the date of the amending Act the estates had ceased to exist as a consequence of the notifications issued under S. 3 of the Parent Act and consequently whatever was being acquired in 1959 could not be a right in an estate.	Arguments of Petitioner
Here also we have to take note of the fact that the impugned provisions of the Amending Act were made retrospective with effect from the date of the original enactment so that we have to project ourselves to September 25, 1950, the date of the original enactment, and consider whether on that date the law provided for acquisition of a right in an estate.	None
Undoubtedly the estates did exist on that date and so the acquisition retrospectively provided for from that date was acquisition of a right in an estate.18.	Reasoning
Even if we ignore the fact that the impugned provisions of the Amending Act were given retrospective effect there is no warrant for saying that what was being acquired was not a right in an estate.	Reasoning
Estate was defined in the Bihar Tenancy Act to mean any land included under one entry in any of the general registers of revenuepaying lands and revenuefree lands prepared and maintained under the law for the time being in force by the Collector of a District.	Reasoning
It is not disputed before us that in spite of the fact that in consequence of notifications under Section 3 of the Act the estates had become vested in the State, these registers continued to be maintained at least up to the date of the Amending Act and even later.	Reasoning
The position therefore is that the estates have become vested in the State but have still not ceased to be estates.19.	Reasoning
We have therefore come to the conclusion that the impugned provisions of the Amending Act is a law providing for the acquisition by the State of rights in an estate within the meaning of Art.	Reasoning
31A of the Constitution and consequently even if we assume that they are inconsistent with or take away or abridge any of the rights conferred by Arts.	Reasoning
14, 19 and 32	Reasoning
they are not void on that ground.	Reasoning
The conclusion cannot therefore be escaped that the exintermediaries have not and the State has the right to hold melas on the Bakasht lands of which they have become occupancy raiyats under the provisions of S. 6.20.	Reasoning
We therefore allow the appeals by the State and set aside the order of the High Court for the issue of writs and order that the applications under Art.	Decision
226 made before the High Court be dismissed.	Decision
We also dismiss the two petitions under Art.	Decision
32 of the Constitution filed in this Court, and also Civil appeal No. 574 of 1960.21.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, we make no order as to costs.22.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
