 Untwalia, J.1.	None
By this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India the petitioner has challenged the constitutional validity of the Gujarat Vacant Lands in Urban Areas (Prohibition of Alienation) Act, 1972 Gujarat Act No. 12 of 1972  hereinafter referred to as the Act  on the ground that it violates the fundamental rights of the petitioner granted under Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution.	Issue
In the writ petition the petitioner claims that he owns 9559 square yards of land situate in District Bulsar, subdistrict and Taluka Navsari, village Kahilpore.	Facts
He intends to sell the said land but is unable to do so because of the prohibition of alienation imposed under the Act.2.	Issue
Mr. S. Sen, learned counsel for the petitioner conceded, and in our opinion rightly, that the since the proclamation of Emergency is in operation under Article 358 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19 is under suspension and therefore the Act could not be assailed for infraction of Article 19 even if there be any.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel, however, submitted that it does violate the guarantee of equal protection of the law and offends Article 14.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the Act under Section 2 is embodied a declaration that the Act is for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution and consequently Article 31C would save the Act from attack on account of the infraction of Article 14.	Arguments of Petitioner
But it was submitted that the Act is not directly relatable to the object of Article 39 (b) and (c) and hence Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31C cannot protect it.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion it is not necessary in this ease to take recourse to Art.31C for upholding the constitutional validity of the Act as it does not infringe the equal protection of law guaranteed under Art.15 of the Constitution.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the petitioner endeavoured to make out the following points for attacking the Act as being violative of Article 14(1) That the limit of prohibition in respect of the area of the vacant land is the same irrespective of its situation and value thus putting unequals as equals.(2) That it does not apply to building lands and building areas have been left out.(3) That there is discrimination between the permissible limit of alienation on the basis of the irrational consideration of the area forming part of a compact block or not.(4) That there is no rational basis for not applying the Act in respect of the alienation of vacant lands in favour of the State Govt., the Central Govt., local Authorities, Govt.	Arguments of Petitioner
companies, Govt. corporations or the Cooperative House Building Societies.(5)	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no guideline provided in Section 7 of the Act for exercise of the power of exemption.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Solicitor General appearing for the respondent, the State of Gujarat, submitted that none of the points urged on behalf of the petitioners has got any substance and there is no violation of the equal protection of law guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution.5.	Arguments of Respondent
We shall first refer to and wherever necessary read some of the relevant provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
The Preamble of the Act indicates that it is an Act to prohibit alienation of certain vacant lands in urban areas in the State of Gujarat.	Reasoning
The object of the Act is to prohibit alienation of the vacant lands so that ultimately the ownership and control of the material resources of the community may be so distributed as best to subserve the common good and may prevent the concentration of wealth to the common detriment.	Reasoning
It may be pointed out here that the impugned Act is a temporary one.	Reasoning
Originally it was to remain in force for one year but the period is being extended from time to time in order to enable the State legislature to pass the Urban Property Ceilings Act.	Reasoning
Prohibition of alienation by the Act is a preparatory measure for distribution of the material resources of the community.	Reasoning
The definition section of the Act is Section 3.	Reasoning
Clause (b) defines City to mean a City as constituted under the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act, 1949.	Reasoning
The definition of collector includes certain other officers also as mentioned in clause (c).	Reasoning
It is necessary to read clause (d) which defines the compact block to mean any block of vacant land in an urban area exceeding one thousand square metres in extent, (whether owned by one person or jointly by more than one person or owned in continuous parts separately by one or more members of a family unit) and whether or not divided by a private road, street, lane, footway, passage or drain natural or artificial.	Reasoning
Under clause (dd) family unit means an individual, his or her spouse and their children.	Reasoning
Clause (e) defines municipal borough to mean a municipal borough as constituted under the Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963.	Reasoning
It is necessary to read clauses (i) and (j) of Section 3 in full,(i) urban area means (1) any area which is comprised for the time being in a City or a Municipal borough and also any such area in the vicinity thereof, within a distance, not exceeding sixteen kilometers from the local limits of the City, or as the case may be, of the Municipal borough concerned, as the State Govt.	None
may, having regard to the extent of and the scope for the urbanisation of that area or other relevant considerations, by a notification in the official Gazette, specify in this behalf, and(2) any other area which the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette declare to be an urban area, having regard to any project existing in that area on the appointed day or having regard to the possibility in the near future of any project being established in that area where any such project, in the opinion of the State Government, has led to or is likely to lead to urbanisation of that area(i) vacant land means land in an urban area agricultural or nonagricultural, other than land on which any building has been or is being constructed in accordance with any law regulating such construction and the land appurtenant to such building, to the minimum extent required under such law or under the provisions of the Bombay Town Planing Act. 1954.	None
or any other corresponding law for the time being in force.	None
Explanation  For the purposes of this clause, any land which is vacant on the appointed day shall be deemed to be vacant land, notwithstanding that the construction of a building thereon been commenced on or after the said day.6.	None
Section 4 provides for prohibition of alienation etc.	None
in these terms(1)	None
No person who owns any vacant land shall, on or after the appointed day, alienate such land by way of sale, gift exchange, (mortgage other than simple mortgage,), lease or otherwise, or effect a partition or create a trust of such land and any alienation made or partition effected or trust created in contravention of this section shall be null and voidProvided that nothing in this subsection shall apply to the alienation by any person of any one plot of vacant land owned by him not exceeding one thousand square metres in extent and not forming part of a compact block or to the effecting of a partition or creation of a trust of any such plot.(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply to any sale, partition or creation of trust, of vacant land of any person in execution of decree or order of a civil Court or of any award or order of my other authority.	None
Restrictions on registration of documents have been put in Section 5.	None
Section 6 (1) says that Nothing in this Act shall apply to any transfer of vacant land by or in favour of(a)	None
A State Government or the Central Government or a local authority(b) A Government Company as defined in Section 617 of the Companies Act, 1856(c)	None
A corporation established by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act, which is controlled or managed by a State Government or the Centra1 Government(d) Such cooperative house building societies established for the purpose of providing housing accommodation to weaker sections of people, as may be approved by the State Government in this behalf Subsection (2) of Section 6 makes distinction in the application of subsection (2) of Section 4 in relation to the execution of a decree or an order of a Civil Court in favour of the Government or the local authority.	None
Under subsection (1) of Section 7 the State Government may, by a general or special order in writing and reasons to be recorded therein, exempt any area or any alienation or other transfer of any vacant land from all or any of the provisions of this Act.	Reasoning
Under subsection (2), to avoid any hardship also, the State Government may if it considers it necessary so to do, exempt, by an order in writing, any alienation or other transfer of any vacant land from all or any of the provisions of this Act.	None
Subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf or to any general or special orders of the State Government, the Collector has been authorised under subsection (3) of Section 7 by order in writing, to exempt any alienation or other transfer of any vacant land from the provisions of this Act in case the land is to be used for any educational, scientific, industrial or commercial purpose or for such other purpose as may be prescribed.	None
Prescribed means under clause (a) of the third section Prescribed by rules made under this Act.	None
The State Government has power under Section 12 to make the rules.	None
Subsection (4) enjoins that every order issued by the State Government, under subsections (1) and (2) and by the collector under Section 3 shall be laid before the State Legislature as soon as possible after its issue.	None
Alienation etc. made on or after the 1st July, 1972 but before the appointed day under the Act has also been affected under Section 8.	None
Section 9 gives a right to appeal against the order of the collector under subsection (3) of Section 7 to the State Government within the prescribed period and in the prescribed manner.	None
The jurisdiction of the Civil Court has been barred under Section 10.	None
A penalty has been provided under Section 11.	None
The Act overrides other laws in view of Section 13.7.	None
It would be noticed that the urban area means any area which is comprised in the city or a Municipal borough.	None
Surrounding distance of the City or municipal borough has to be fixed by a notification of the State Govt.	Reasoning
in the Official Gazette having regard to the relevant considerations.	Reasoning
The maximum distance of such an area cannot exceed sixteen kilometers.	Reasoning
We were informed at the Bar by the learned Solicitor General that notifications have been issued fixing the maximum limit of 16 kilometers in case of big cities like Ahmedabad, Baroda etc.	Reasoning
but lesser limits of distance have been notified in case of small municipal boroughs.	Reasoning
Under the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 4 a person is not prohibited from alienating one plot of vacant land owned by him not exceeding 1000 sq. meters provided it does not form part of a compact block.	Reasoning
When the limit of the distance outside the City or town area differed from place to place it was not necessary to fix the limit of permissible area of transfer with reference to the value of the land.	Reasoning
It was neither feasible nor expedient to do so.	Reasoning
From the permissible limit of transfer the area forming part of the compact block had to be excluded as it would have led to manipulations and manoeuverings by persons belonging to the same family unit.	Reasoning
The land belonging jointly to more than one person or owned in contiguous part separately by one or more members of a family unit, which unit is a narrow one as defined in clause (dd) of Section 3, comes under the definition of compact block.	Reasoning
Then only the permissible limit of transfer does not apply.8.	Reasoning
Excluding the land on which any building has been or is being constructed in accordance with any law regulating such construction and only the permissible limit of the vacant land appertaining to it is a reasonable classification distinguishing the vacant land from the building land.	None
The object of the Act is to prevent alienation of certain vacant lands and that being so it rightly excluded the building lands from its operation.9.	None
It is plain that the main object of the Act being ultimately to distribute the ownership and control of the material resources of the community as best to subserve the common good and to prevent concentration of wealth, a transfer in favour of the Govt.	Reasoning
local authorities, Govt.	Reasoning
companies or Corporations had to be excluded as such transfer could not possibly defeat the object of the Act, rather.	Reasoning
it would give a fillip to it.	Reasoning
Permitting transfers of vacant lands in favour of Cooperative Housing Building Societies is obviously a step for the fulfilment of the object of the Act.	Reasoning
The Act cannot be held to be discriminatory on such grounds.10.	Reasoning
The power of the State Government under subsection (1) of Section 7 to exempt any area or any alienation or other transfer of vacant land from all or any of the provisions of the Act is a power which is to be exercised for the reasons to be recorded in the general or the special order and in furtherance of the object of the Act.	Reasoning
The guideline is to be found in the object of the Act itself.	Reasoning
The power under subsection (2) has to be exercised by the State Government for avoiding any hardship.	Reasoning
There is sufficient guideline for exemption in case of hardship which will depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
The order of exemption to be made by the collector can only be in a case where the land is to be used for any educational, scientific industrial or commercial purposes.	Reasoning
It has not been left open to the collector to decide for what other purpose he can grant the exemption.	Reasoning
Such other purpose can be only that as may be prescribed by the State Government by rules made under Section 12 of the Act.	Reasoning
Subsection (4) of Section 7 is a good safety valve.	Reasoning
The State Legislature will act as a Supervisor of the orders of exemption made by the State Government or the Collector.	Reasoning
The exercise of the power of exemption by the collector is further controlled by providing an appeal to the State Government under S. 9 of the Act.11.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, there is no violation of the equal protection of law guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Classifications are all reasonable and there is a clear nexus between the object of the Act and the classifications.	Reasoning
They have neither put unequals as equals nor has discriminated between equals.12.	Reasoning
In the result the writ petition fails and is dismissed with costs.13.	None
Writ petition dismissed.	None
