 P. JEEVAN REDDY, J. Heard the counsel for the parties.	None
Leave granted The appeal is preferred by the plaintiff against the judgment and order of a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court allowing the appeal preferred by the respondent defendant.	Issue
The appeal before the High Court was directed against an order of the city civil Court, Calcutta dismissing an application filed by the defendant to set aside the ex parte decree passed against, him, under Order 9 Rule 13 of the Civil Procedure code.	Issue
The relevant facts may be noticed briefly The plaintiff appellant filed a suit for ejecting the defendant  tenant on the ground of default in paying rent and also on the ground that the such premises are required for his own use and occupation.	Facts
The suit was posted for final hearing on June, 9, 1988  seven years after it institution.	Facts
On an earlier occasion, the defendant had filed two interlocutory application, one under Order 14 Rule 5 and the other under Order 6 rule 16 CPC On May 19, 1988 the city civil court had passed an order on the said applications observing that the said applications shall be considered at the final hearing of the suit.	Facts
According to the defendant (as per his statement made in the application filed by him for setting aside the ex parte decree) his advocate advised him he need not be present at the hearing of the suit on June 9, 1988, and thereafter till the applications filed by his under Order 14 rule 5 and Order 6 Rule 16 CPC are disposed of.	Facts
Be that as it may, on June 9, 1988, the advocate for the diffident prayed for an adjournment till the next day.	Facts
It was adjourned accordingly.	Facts
On June 10, neither the advocate for the defendant no the defendant appeared, with the result the defendant was set ex parte.	Facts
Hearing of the suit was commenced and concluded on June 11, 1988.	Facts
The suit was posted for delivery of judgment to June 13, 1988.	Facts
On June 11, 1988, an application was made on behalf of the defendant stating the circumstances in which his advocate had to retire from the case.	Facts
This application, however, contained no prayer whatsoever.	Facts
The suit was decreed ex parte on June 13, 1988.	Facts
Thereafter the defendant filed the application to set aside the ex parte decree.	Facts
In this application he referred to the fact of his filing two interlocutory applications as aforesaid, the order of the court therein passed on May, 19, 1988 and then stated due to the advice of the learned advocateonrecord that your petitioner need not be present at the hearing of the a 1988, and thereafter till the applications filed by him under Order 14 rule 5 suit on June 9, 1988 and thereafter till the disposal of the application filed under Order 6 Rule 16 and Order 14 Rule 5 read with Section 151 of the Code of civil Procedure in the 1988, and thereafter till the applications filed by him under Order 14 Rule 5 a 1988, and thereafter till the applications filed by him under Order 14 rule 5 the above suit, the defendant did not appear before the Court.	Facts
It was stated that Mr. Ravindran the Principal Of fiber of the defendant  Company was out of town on that date.	Facts
It was submitted that because the defendant had acted on the basis of the advice given by the advocateon record of the defendant, there was sufficient cause to set aside the ex parte decree within the meaning of Order 9 Rule 13 C PC.	Facts
The trial court dismissed the said application against which an appeal was preferred by the defendant to the Calcutta high Court.	Facts
The appeal was heard by a Division Bench and judgment pronounced in open court on July 8, 1991 dismissing the appeal.	Facts
However, it appears, before the judgment was signed by the learned judges constituting the Division Bench, an application was moved by the defendant for alteration or modification and or reconsideration of the said judgment mainly on the notice of the Division Bench the decision of this Court in Rafiq v. Munshilal and that the said decision clearly supports the defendants case.	Facts
The counsel for the plaintiff opposed the said request.	Facts
He submitted that once the judgment was pronounced in open court, it was final an that matter cannot be reopened just because a relevant decision was not brought to the notice of the Court.	Facts
After hearing the counsel for both the parties, the division Bench reopened just because a relevant decision was not brought to the notice of the Court.	Facts
After hearing the counsel for both the parties, the division Bench reopened the appeal on the ground that technicalities should bit be allowed to stand in the way of doing justice to the parties.	Facts
The Bench observed that when they disposed of the appeal, their attention was not invited to the decision of this court in Rafiq v. Munshilal and that in view of the said judgment they were inclined to reopen the matter.	Facts
The Division Bench was of the opinion that after a judgment is delivered by the High Court Bench was of the opinion that after a judgment is delivered by the High Court ignoring the decision of the Supreme Court or in disobedience of a clear judgment of the Supreme court, it would be treated as nonest and absolutely without jurisdiction when our attention has been drawn that our judgment is per incuriam, it is out duty to apply this decision and to hold that out judgment was wrong and liable to be recalled .	Facts
(We express no opinion on the correctness of the above premise since it is not put in issue in this appeal.	Facts
Accordingly, the division Bench here the counsel for the parties and by its judgment and order dated March 3, 1992 allowed the appeal mainly relying upon the decision of this Court in Rafiq	Facts
In this appeal Shri Ganguli, learned counsel for the appellant plaintiff submitted that the decision in Rafiq does not support the defendants case and that the Calcutta High Court has erred in holding otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the defendant in this case is a private limited company, managed by persons who are not only well educated but are practical businessmen unlike the appellant in Rafiq who as rustic innocent villager placing his entire trust in his advocate.	Arguments of Petitioner
on the other hand Shri Santosh Hegde, the learned counsel for the defendant respondent submitted that when the High Court has applied and acted upon a decision of this Court, It would not be proper to set aside their order under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
he submitted that defendant company implicitly trusted their advocate an acted according to his advice and should not be penalised therefore Since the judgment under appeal is exclusively based upon the decision of this Court in Rafiq it is necessary to ascertain what precisely does the said decision say.	None
The appellant, Rafiq had referred a second appeal in the Allahabad High Court through an advocate.	None
His advocate was not present when the second appeal was taken up for hearing with the result it was dismissed for default.	None
The appellant then moved an application to set aside the order of dismissal for default which was dismissed by the High Court.	None
The correctness of the said order was questioned in this Court.	None
The matter came up before a Bench comprising D. A. Desai and Bharul Islam, JJ.	None
D.A. Desai, J. speaking for the Bench observed thus (SCC p. 789, para 3)	None
The disturbing feature of the case is that under out present adversary legal system where the parties generally appear through their advocates, the obligation of the parties is to select his advocate, brief him, pay the fees demanded by him and then trust the learned Advocate to do the rest of the things.	None
The party may be a villager or may belong to a rural area and may have no knowledge of the courts procedure.	None
After engaging a lawyer, the party may remain supremely confident that lawyer will look after his interest.	None
At the time of the hearing of the appeal, the personal appearance of the party is not only not required but hardly useful.	None
Therefore, the part having done everything in his power to effectively participate in the proceedings can rest assured that he has neither to go to the High Court to inquire as to what is happening in the High Court with regard to his appeal nor is he to act as a watchdog of the advocate that the latter appears in the matter when it is listed.	None
it is no part of his job.	None
It was then argued by the counsel for the respondent in that appeal that a practice has grown up in the High Court of Allahabad among the lawyers to remain absent when they did not like a particular Bench and that the absence of the appellants advocate in the High Court was in accordance with the said practice, which should not be encouraged.	None
While expressing no opinion upon the existence or justification of such practice, the learned Judge observed that if the dismissal order is not set aside the only one who would suffer would not be the lawyer who did not appear but the party whose interest he represented, and then made the following further observations (SCC p. 790, para 3)	None
The problem that agitates us is whethers it is proper that the party should suffer for the inaction, deliberate omission, or misdemeanor of his agent.	None
The answer obviously is in the negative.	None
Maybe that the learned advocate absented himself deliberately or intentionally.	None
We have to material for ascertaining that aspect of the matter.	None
We say nothing more on the aspect of the matter.	None
however, we cannot be a party to an innocent party suffering injustice merely because his chosen advocate defaulted.	None
The question is whether the principle of the said decision comes to the rescue of the defendant respondent herein.	Issue
Firstly, in the case before us it was not an appeal preferred by an outstation litigant but a suit which was posted for final hearing seven years after the institution of the suit, The defendant is a privet limited company having its registered office at Calcutta itself.	Reasoning
The persons in charge of the defendantcompany are not rustic villagers not they are innocent illiterates unaware of court procedures.	Reasoning
Prior to the suit coming up for final hearing on June 9, 1988 the defendant had filed two applications whereupon the court ordered that they will be considered at the time of the final hearing of the suit.	Reasoning
The plaintiffs case no doubt is that the said applications were part of delaying tactics being adopted by the defendanttenants with a view to protract the suit, be that as it may, the defendanttenants with a view to protract the suit.	Reasoning
But that as it may, the defendantthereafter refused to appear before the court.	Reasoning
According to the defendant, their advocate advised them that until the interlocutory applications filed by them are disposed of the defendant need not appear before the court which means that the defendants need not appear at the final hearing of the suit.	Reasoning
It may be remembered that the court proposed to consider the said interlocutory applications at the final hearing of the suit.	Reasoning
It is difficult to believe that the defendants implicitly believed their advocates advice.	Reasoning
Being educated businessmen they would have known that nonparticipation at the final hearing of the suit would necessarily result in an adverse decision.	Reasoning
Indeed we are not prepared to believe that such an advice was in fact tendered by the advocate.	Reasoning
No advocate with his salt would give such advice to his client.	Reasoning
Secondly, the several contradictions in his deposition which are pointed out by the Division Bench in the impugned order go to show that the whole story is a later fabrication.	None
The following are the observations made in the judgment of the Division Bench with respect to the conduct of the said advocates We found that the said learned advocate conducted the proceedings in a most improper manner that his absence on June 10, 1988 and on subsequent date was not only discourteous but possibly a dereliction of duty to his client the learned advocate had forgotten his professional duty is not making inquiry too the court as to what happened on June 10, 11, and 13, 1988 the learned advocate acted in a most perfunctory manner in the matter and the learned advocate dealt with the matter in a most unusual manner.	None
We have also found that the said learned advocate had made serious contradiction in the deposition before the court below.	None
The learned advocate in his deposition stated that he did not file an application for adjournment on June 9, 1988.	None
But from the record it was evident that it was on the basis of the application filed on June 9, 1988, the case was adjourned for crossexamination of the witnesses whose examination was called on the next date.	None
The above facts stated in the deposition of the advocate show that he indeed made an application for adjournment of June 9, 1988 to enable him to crossexamine the witnesses on the next date.	None
There fore, his present stand that he advised his client not to participate in the trial from and including June 9, 1988 onwards is evidently untrue.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the story set up by the defendant in his application under Order 9 Rile 13 is an afterthought and ought not to have been accepted by the division Bench in its order dated March 3, 1992  more particularly when it had rejected the very case in its earlier judgment dated July 8, 1991	None
The advocate is the agent of the party.	None
His acts and statements, made within the limits of authority given to him, are the acts and statement of the principal i.e. the party who engaged him.	None
It is true that in certain situation, the court may, in the interest of justice, set aside a dismissal order or an expert decree notwithstanding the negligence and or misdemeanour of the advocate where it finds that the client was an innocent litigant but there is no such absolute rule that a party can disown its advocate at any time and seek relief.	None
No such absolute immunity can be recognised.	None
Such an absolute rule would make the working of the system extremely difficult.	None
The observations made in Rafiq must be understood as an absolute proposition.	None
As we have mentioned hereinabove, this was an ongoing suit posted for final hearing after a lapse of seven years of its institution.	Reasoning
It was not a second appeal filed by a villager residing away from the city, where the court is located.	Reasoning
The defendant is also not a rustic ignorant villager but a private limited company with its headoffice at Calcutta itself and managed by educated businessmen who know where their interest lies.	Reasoning
It is evident that when their application piqued and refused to appear before the court.	Reasoning
Maybe, it was part of their delaying tactics as alleged by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
Maybe not.	Reasoning
But one thing is clear  they chose to noncooperate with the court.	Reasoning
Having adopted such a stand towards the court, the defendant has no right to ask its indulgence.	Reasoning
Putting the entire blame upon the advocate and trying to make it our as if they were totally unaware of the nature or significance of the proceedings is a theory which cannot be accepted and ought not to have been accepted For the above reasons, 10.	Reasoning
the appeal is allowed.	Decision
The order of the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court dated March 3, 1992 is set aside and its order dated July 8, 1991 is restored.	Decision
The companydefendant shall bear the costs of the appellant in this appeal which are assessed at Rs. 5000.	Decision
