 K. Sikri, J. The appellant assessee challenges the correctness and validity of the final order dated 10.10.2002 passed by the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal (CEGAT), New Delhi in the appeal which was preferred by the assessee against the order of Commissioner (Appeals) who had upheld the OrderinOriginal dated 17.3.1999 passed by the Additional Commissioner pursuant to show cause notice dated 4.8.1997 issued by him.	Facts
In the said show cause notice the Additional Commissioner had proposed to classify the product of the appellant assessee under Heading 2108 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985, as Miscellaneous Edible preparation not elsewhere specified or included.	Facts
It may be stated that assessee is engaged in the packing combination of mixture of raw rice, dehydrated vegetables and spices in the name of Rice and Spice.	Facts
The exact process which is taken note of by the Tribunal as explained by Cl.	Facts
R.L. Mehta, Deputy General Manager of the assessee is as follows This product i.e. Rice Spice is a combination of Raw Rice, Dehydrated vegetables and certain spices and condiments mixed in a predetermined proportion and that blended together in a mixer for uniformity and the blended mixer is heated, if required, to sterlize the product.	Facts
The mixed product is the packed in pouches with Nitrogen flushing for a longer shelf life.	None
The defence putforth by the assessee to the show cause notice issued by the Additional Commissioner was that the aforesaid process does not amount to manufacture within the meaning of Section 2(f) of the Central Excise Act, 1944.	None
It was also argued that, in any case, the product was not classifiable under Heading 2108 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 as claimed by the Revenue but it should be covered under Heading 11.01.	Facts
That Heading applies to products of the milling industry, including flours, groats, meal and grains of cereals, and flour, meal or flakes of vegetables on which nil duty is payable.	Facts
It was, thus, contended that in no case the assessee was under any obligation to pay the duty on the aforesaid process.	Facts
The Additional Commissioner did not agree with the contention of the assessee holding it to be a manufacturing process, and opinion of the Additional Commissioner is accepted by the Commissioner (Appeals) as well as by CEGAT.	Facts
Ms. Charanaya, the Learned counsel appearing for the appellant argued before us that the authorities committed serious error in holding the aforesaid process of the assessee as manufacturing process.	Arguments of Petitioner
Her arguments was that from the reading of the process described above, it would be manifest that it only involved mixing of raw rice, dehydrated vegetable with some spice and did not bring about any new product.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the aforesaid mixture, which is sold in a packaged form, is raw food and still needs to be cooked to make it edible.	Arguments of Petitioner
She pointed out that on the packing pouch of the product even the cooking instructions are mentioned in the following manner All cooking appliances vary in performance, these are guidelines only.	Arguments of Petitioner
Empty contents into 375 ml (2/3 pints) of cold water, stir well.	Arguments of Petitioner
Add I tablespoon of butter or margarine.	Arguments of Petitioner
Bring to boil, uncovered, in a small saucepan.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reduce heat, cover the saucepan and simmer gently for approximately 15 minutes or until all water is absorbed.	None
It was further submitted that there was no new product which came into existence as that product was still known as rice which did not lose its essential character and therefore it could not be treated as manufacture.	None
In support the aforesaid submission Ms. Charanya referred to certain judgments which shall be discussed by us at the later stage.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of her other submission viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
that the product would still be classified under Heading 11.01, the learned counsel referred to the Rule of Interpretation contained in the Schedule of Excise Tariff known as Rules for the Interpretation of this Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this behalf Rule 3 and in particular clause (b) thereof was pressed into service.	None
Therefore it would be apposite to take note of this clause as well which we reproduce below When by application of subrule (b) of rule 2 or for any other reason, goods are, prima facie, classifiable under two or more headings, classification shall be effected as follows(a) The heading which provides the most specific description shall be preferred to headings providing a more general description.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, when two or more headings each refer to part only of the materials or substances contained in mixed or composite goods or to part only of the items in a set, those headings are to be regarded as equally specific in relation to those goods, even if one of them gives a more complete or precise description of the goods.(b) Mixtures, composite goods consisting of different materials or made up of different components, and goods put up in sets, which cannot be classified by reference to (a), shall be classified as if they consisted of the material or component which gives them their essential character, insofar as this criterion is applicable.(c)	Arguments of Petitioner
When goods cannot be classified by reference to (a) or (b), they shall be classified under the heading which occurs last in the numerical order among those which equally merit consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. A.K. Sanghi learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Revenue, countered the aforesaid submission by pointing out that a specific finding was arrived at by the Tribunal, affirming the finding of the quasijudicial authorities below to the effect that a new product had come into existence as a result of the processes undertaken by the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
It was specifically held by the CEGAT that rice did not remain rice at all as a mixed product containing rice, vegetable and spices emerges after the specific process was undertaken by the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
He also referred to those observations of the CEGAT where it has remarked that there is a transformation of a new commodity commercially known as distinct and separate commodity having its own character, use and name.	Arguments of Respondent
Be it the result of one process or several processes in fact manufacture had taken place.	Arguments of Respondent
He, thus, argued that when a new commodity had come into existence as held by CEGAT, this was the trigger point for the levy of excise duty under the Excise Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that in view of the aforesaid, viz.	Arguments of Respondent
coming into existence a new product, that particular edible product had to be fallen under Chapter 11 of the Tariff as it is not a product of milling industry not classifiable under Chapter 11 of the Tariff.	Arguments of Respondent
From the aforesaid arguments advanced by counsel on the either side, it is clear that there is no dispute about the legal proposition that the process would be treated as manufacture only if new product known to the market comes into existence with original product losing its original character.	None
The only question is as to whether this test is satisfied on the facts of the present case.	Issue
Before we embark on the discussion on this issue and answer the same, it would be advisable to take note of few judgments wherein legal position that prevails on this subject is stated with elaboration.	Issue
The first judgment which we want to mention, which was cited by Ms. Charanya, is Crane Betel Nut Powder Works vs. Commissioner of Customs, Central Excise, Tirupathi (2007 (210) ELT, 171 (S.C.).	None
In the said case the assessee was engaged in the business of marketing betel nuts in different sizes after processing them by adding essential nonessential oils, menthol, sweetening agent etc.	None
Initially, the assessee cleared the goods under Chapter Subheading 2107 of the Central Excise Tariff and was paying duty accordingly.	None
However, the assessee filed a revised classification declaration under Rule 173B of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, with effect from 17th July, 1997, claiming classification of its product under Chapter Subheading 0801.00 of the Central Excise Tariff.	None
It was contended by the assessee that the crushing of betel nuts into smaller pieces with the help of machines and passing them through different sizes of sieves to obtain goods of different sizes grades and sweetening the cut pieces did not amount to manufacture in view of the fact that mere crushing of betel nuts into smaller pieces did not bring into existence a different commodity which had a distinct character of its own.	None
Though the authorities below had decided against the assessee, this Court reversed the said view holding that the said process would not amount to manufacture as the process involving manufacture does not always result in the creation of a new product.	Reasoning
In the instant case notwithstanding the manufacturing process, it could not be said that a transformation had taken place resulting in the formation of a new product.	None
The relevant portion of the judgment is reproduced below .30.	None
In our view, the process of manufacture employed by the appellantcompany did not change the nature of the end product, which in the words of the Tribunal, was that in the end product the betel nut remains a betel nut.	None
The said observation of the Tribunal depicts the status of the product prior to manufacture and thereafter.	None
In those circumstances, the views expressed in the D.C.M. General Mills Ltd. (supra) and the passage from the American Judgment (supra) become meaningful.	None
The observation that manufacture implies a change, but every change of not manufacture and yet every change of an article is the result of treatment, labour and manipulation is apposite to the situation at hand.	None
The process involved in the manufacture of sweetened betel nut pieces does not result in the manufacture of a new product as the end product continues to retain its original character though in a modified form.	None
What is to be highlighted is that even after the betel nut which had been cut to different sizes and had undergone the process, the Court did not treat it as manufacture within the meaning of Sec.2(f) of the Act on the ground that the end product was still a betel nut and there was no change in the essential character to that article even when it was the result of treatment, labour and manipulation, inasmuch as even after employing the same it had not resulted in the manufacture of a new product as the end product continued to retain its original character.	Reasoning
Another judgment which was referred to by learned counsel for the appellant is Commissioner of Central Excise vs. Laljee Godhoo Co. (2007 (216) ELT 514 (S.C).	None
Vide this judgment the Court affirmed the view taken by the CEGAT, holding that the process of subjecting raw asafoetida (hing) resulting in formation of compounded asafoetida does not amount to manufacture, even when this process has undergone chemical change, because of the reason that the said chemical change had not brought even after it underwent a process, any new product as the product remained the same at starting and terminal points of the process.	None
Though the exact process undertaken is not discernible from the judgment, the learned counsel pointed out that this process is described in the order passed by the CEGAT against which the appeal was preferred by the Department.	None
The order of the CEGAT is reported in Laljee Godhoo Co. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Mumbai (2001 (132) ELT 287 (S.C.).	None
The process noted in the judgment of the CEGAT runs thus The gum Arabic and wheat flour are blended in the sigma mixers.	None
Filtered water mixed asafoetida is then poured slowly into the mixer over the gum and wheat flour.	None
This gets the product ready.	None
Further the resultant product is given a heat treatment by suction in pipes through which a heater is attached and the moisture is sucked out.	None
The powder is then passed through a hammer mill where it is crushed thoroughly.	None
This powder is then passed through a sieve, which contains magnet balls absorbing any fine iron particles.	None
The compounded asafoetida in powder form is then packed in different grammage bottles.	None
In case of lump form, the gum and wheat flour along with filtered water mixed with asafoetida is poured into the sigma mixer.	None
This process takes about 40 minutes.	None
After this the mixture, which has by now made into lumps is extracted and put into the aluminium trays and dried for a day before it is packed in cartons.	None
We would like to reproduce para 5 of the order of the CEGAT, since this judgment was upheld by this Court in the said case.	None
This para is to the following effect It is common ground that the processes to which the raw asafoetida is subjected, resulting in the lump or powder which is sold does not bring about any chemical change in the asafoetida.	None
The process, as we have seen, is nothing more than the addition to the asafoetida of wheat flour and gum arabic.	None
It is stated that gum Arabic is added in order that the particles of the asafoetida and wheat flour adhere to each other.	None
Neither the gum arabic nor the wheat flour reacts chemically with the asafoetida.	None
The contention is that while the raw asafoetida itself is used in cases where its very strongly pungent flavour is required, for example, in the making of pickles and papad, it is compounded in order to render it more suitable for use in daytoday cooking where a lighter flavour is desired.	None
The essential character of the product therefore does not change.	None
It is used in both its concentrated and blended form only as an addition to food preparation, flavouring agent or for the medicinal properties that it is reputed to possess.	None
Again the test which was applied was that essential character of the product did not change and, therefore, it would not amount to manufacture.	None
It was so held even when gum arebic as well as wheat flour were mixed in the process.	Reasoning
A pertinent aspect which was noted was that mixing of these articles did not result in chemical reaction with asafoetida.	None
Last judgment to which we would like to refer to is Deputy Commissioner Sales Tax (Law), Board of Revenue (Taxes), Ernakulam Vs. PIO Food Packers (1980 (6) ELT 343 (S.C.).	None
In that case, the process undertaken by the assessee was to wash the pineapple, after purchase, and then remove inedible portion, the end crown as well as skin and inner core.	None
After removing those inedible portions the pineapple fruit used to be sliced and the slices were filled in canes after adding sugar as preservative.	None
Thereafter, canes would be sealed under temperature and then put in a boiled water for sterlisation.	None
Identical question was posed viz.	None
whether this process amounted to manufacture.	None
Giving the answer in the negative, the Court held that even when with each process suffered, the original commodity experienced a change, such a change would not amount to manufacture unless it seized to be the original commodity and a new and distinct article was produced therefrom.	None
This is explained in detail in paras 4 and 5 of the said judgment and therefore we would like to reproduce the same as under Section 5A(1)(a) of the Kerala General Sales Tax Act envisages the consumption of a commodity in the manufacture of another commodity.	None
The goods purchased should be consumed, the consumption should be in the process of manufacture, and the result must be the manufacture of other goods.	None
There are several criteria for determining whether a commodity is consumed in the manufacture of another.	None
The generally prevalent test is whether the article produced is regarded in the trade, by those who deal in it, as distinct in identity from the commodity involved in its manufacture.	None
Commonly, manufacture is the end result of one or more processes through which the original commodity is made to pass.	None
The nature and extent of processing may vary from one case to another, and indeed there may be several stages of processing and perhaps a different kind of processing at each stage.	None
With each process suffered, the original commodity experiences a change.	None
But it is only when the change, or a series of changes, take the commodity to the point where commercially it can no longer be regarded as the original commodity but instead is recognised as a new and distinct article that a manufacture can be said to take place.	None
Where there is no essential difference in identity between the original commodity and the processed article it is not possible to say that one commodity has been consumed in the manufacture of another.	None
Although it has undergone a degree of processing, it must be regarded as still retaining its original identity.	None
A large number of cases has been placed before us by the parties, and in each of them the same principle has been applied Does the processing of the original commodity bring into existence a commercially different and distinct article ?	None
Some of the cases where it was held by this Court that a different commercial article had come into existence include Anwarkhan Mehboob Co. v. The State of Bombay and Others (where raw tobacco was manufactured into bidi patti), A Hajee Abdul Shukoor and Co. v. The State of Madras (raw hides and skins constituted a different commodity from dressed hides and skins with different physical properties), The State of Madras v. Swasthik Tobacco Factory (raw tobacco manufactured into chewing tobacco) and	None
Ganesh Trading Co.	None
Karnal v. State of Haryana and Another, (paddy dehusked into rice).	None
On the other side, cases where this Court has held that although the original commodity has undergone a degree of processing it has not lost its original identity include Tungabhadra Industries Ltd., Kurnool v. Commercial Tax Officer, Kurnool (where hydrogenated groundnut oil was regarded as groundnut oil) and Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P., Lucknow v. Harbiles Rai and sons (where bristles plucked from pigs, boiled, washed with soap and other chemicals and sorted out in bundles according to their size and colour were regarded as remaining the same commercial commodity, pigs bristles).	None
Another important aspect which needs to be highlighted from this judgment is that the argument of the Revenue that the sale of pineapple slices after the aforesaid process, was at a higher price in the market than the original fruit and, therefore, it constituted a different commercial commodity.	Reasoning
The Court negatived this contention as well by observing that the process undertaken by the assessee may have made value addition to the product but the essential character of the product did not undergo any change, which is the determinative factor, inasmuch as pineapple remained the pineapple albeit in slice form and continued to be known as pineapple in the market.	None
For this proposition the Court decided to rely upon a foreign judgment where the U.S. Supreme Court had held that dressed and frozen chicken was not a commercially distinct article from the original chicken.	None
Detailed discussion of the said judgment appears in para 7 which reads as follows While on the point, we may refer to East Taxes Motor Freight Lines vs. Frosen Food Express, where the U.S. Supreme Court held that dressed and frozen chicken was not a commercially distinct article from the original chicken.	None
It was pointed out killing, dressed and freezing a chicken is certainly a change in the commodity.	None
But it is no more drastic a change than the change which takes place in milk from pasteurising, homogenizing, adding vitamin concentrates, standardizing and bottling.	None
It was also observed there is hardly less difference between cotton in the field and cotton at the gin or in the bale or between cotton seed in the field and cotton seed at the gin, than between a chicken in the pen and one that is dressed.	None
The ginned and baled cotton and the cotton seed, as well as the dressed chicken, have gone through a processing stage.	None
But neither has been manufactured in the normal sense of the word.	None
Referring to AnheuserBusch BrewingAssociation v. United States the Court said Manufacture implies a change but every change is not manufacture and	None
yet every change in an article is the result of treatment, labour and manipulation.	None
But something more is necessaryThere must be transformation a new and different article must emerge having distinctive name, character on use.	None
And further At some point processing and manufacturing will merge.	None
But where the commodity retains a continuing substantial identity through the processing stage we cannot say that it has been manufactured.	None
The comment applies fully in the case before us.	None
Although a degree of processing is involved in preparing pineapple slices from the original fruit, the commodity continues to possess its original identity, notwithstanding the removal of inedible portions, the slicing and thereafter canning it on adding sugar to preserve it.	Reasoning
It is contended for the Revenue that pineapple slices have a higher price in the market than the original fruit and that implies that the slices constitute a different commercial commodity.	Reasoning
The higher price, it seems to us, is occasioned only because of the labour put into making the fruit more readily consumable and because of the cane employed to contain it.	Reasoning
It is not as if the higher price is claimed because it is a different commercially commodity.	Reasoning
It is said that pineapple slices appeal to a different sector of the trade and that when a customer asks for a cane of pineapple slices he had in mind something very different from fresh pineapple fruit.	Reasoning
Here again, the distinction in the mind of the consumer arises not from any difference in the essential identity of the two, but is derived from the mere form in which the fruit is desired.	None
Learned counsel for the Revenue contends that even if no manufacturing process involved, the case still falls within Section 5(1)(a) of the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, because the statutory provision speaks not only of goods consumed in the manufacture of other goods for sale but also goods consumed otherwise.	None
There is a fallacy in the submission.	None
The clause, truly read, speaks of goods consumed in the manufacture of other goods for sale or goods consumed in the manufacture of other goods for purposes other than sale.	None
It follows from the above that mere addition in the value, after the original product has undergone certain process, would not bring it within the definition of manufacture unless its original identity also under goes transformation and it becomes a distinctive and new product.	None
When we apply the aforesaid principle to the facts of this case, it is clear that mere addition of dehydrated vegetables and certain spices to the raw rice, would not make it a different product.	Reasoning
Its primary and essential character still remains the same as it is continued to be known in the market as rice and is sold as rice only.	Reasoning
Further, this rice, again, remains in raw form and in order to make it edible, it has to be cooked like any other cereal.	Reasoning
The process of cooking is even mentioned on the pouch which contains cooking instructions.	Reasoning
Reading thereof amply demonstrates that it is to be cooked in the same form as any other rice is to be cooked.	Reasoning
Therefore, we do not agree with the CEGAT that there is a transformation into a new commodity, commercially known as distinct and separate commodity.	Reasoning
Since we are holding that the activity undertaken by the assessee does not amount to manufacture, this appeal is liable to succeed on this ground itself inasmuch in the absence of any manufacture there is no question of payment of any excise duty.	Reasoning
We may, however, remark that even otherwise the classification of the product by the Revenue under subheading 21.08 may not be correct.	Reasoning
In fact, the CEGAT has accepted that classification only on the ground that the product after mixing of raw rice with dehydrated vegetable and spice, has become a new product as it amounts to manufacture and on that basis it has held that it no longer remains product of milling industry.	Reasoning
As we have held that it does not amount to manufacture as the essential characteristics of the product, still remains the same, namely, rice, a natural corollary would be that it continues to be the product of the milling industry and would be classifiable under subheading 11.01.	Reasoning
Rate of duty on this product, in any case, is nil.	Reasoning
This appeal, accordingly, succeeds and is allowed.	Decision
The order of the CEGAT as well as demand of excise duty by the Revenue are hereby set aside.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
