Phukan, J.	None
In this appeal by special leave the appellant has assailed the judgment dated 21061999 passed by the Patna High Court in LPA No. 57 of 1999 (R).	None
By the impugned judgment the Division Bench affirmed the judgment of the learned Single Judge dated 03021999 passed in CWJC No. 2970 of 1997 (R).	None
The appellant joined the respondentcompany as a Draftsman Trainee in the year 1964 and was promoted to the post of General Foreman (Electrical).	Facts
On October 12, 1995, the respondentcompany issued an improved Voluntary Retirement Scheme (for short VRS) giving more benefits to the employees, which was effective from 12th October, 1995 to 18th October, 1995.	Facts
The appellant applied for voluntary retirement on 18th October, 1995 under the scheme, which was accepted by the Management on 30th July, 1997 with the condition that the release memo along with details particulars will follows.	Facts
On August 07, 1997, the appellant sent a letter withdrawing his option from the VRS by registered post but no response was received by him from the respondents.	Facts
Again on September 27, 1997 another letter was sent by the appellant withdrawing his option from the scheme.	Facts
This letter was received on 25th September, 1997 but there was no reply from the respondent.	Facts
The respondentcompany issued a memorandum on 25th September, 1997 releasing the appellant from the service of the company w.e.f.	Facts
26th September, 1997 (afternoon).	Facts
The appellant filed a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court challenging the said release order, which was dismissed by the learned Single Judge and it was upheld by the impugned judgment.	Facts
That is how the matter is before us.3.	Facts
This appeal came up for final hearing before a Division Bench of this Court and by order dated April 13, 2000, the appeal was allowed on the reasoning that the appellant was not relieved from service and was allowed to continue in service till 26091997, which, for all practical purpose would be the effective date as it was on this date that he was relieved from service.	Facts
As the appellant had already withdrawn the offer from VRS on 07081997, the resignation in spite of its acceptance could be withdrawn before the said effective date and, therefore, such withdrawal was valid in law	Facts
See Shambhu Murari Sinha vs. Project Development India Another (2000) 5 SCC 621 .	Facts
The Division Bench relied on the followinig decisions of this Court namely, Balram Gupta vs. Union of India (1987) Supp.	Facts
SCC 228, J.N. Srivastava vs. Union of India (1998) 9 SCC 559 and Power Finance Corpn.	Facts
Ltd. vs. Pramod Kumar Bhatia (1997) 4 SCC 280 .4.	Facts
A Review Petition was filed by the respondents which was allowed by another Division Bench of this Court and the order is extracted below Delay condoned.	Facts
Heard counsel for the parties.	None
We find that the scheme providing for voluntary retirement of employees, prima facie, discloses that once an option to voluntary retire is exercised by an employee and the same is accepted by the employer, the employee is not entitled to withdraw the voluntary retirement.	Facts
The said scheme which has bearing on the case was not adverted to while deciding this appeal.	Facts
Further, the decision of this Court in Balram Gupta vs. Union of India Anr. 1987 (Supp.)	Facts
SCC 228, Raj Kumar vs. Union of India Anr. 1968 (3) SCR 857 and Union of India vs. Gopal Chandra Mishra, 1978 (2) SCC 301 which are applicable to this case were not considered while deciding the appeal.	Facts
Moreover, the decision under review is likely to affect a large number of employees.	Facts
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the judgment under review deserves to be reviewed.	Facts
We, therefore, set aside the judgment dated 13.4.2000 and restore the appeal to its original number.	Facts
The Review Petition is thus allowed.	Facts
Let this appeal be posted for hearing.	Facts
In view of the decision on Review Petition, the Contempt Petition is rejected.	Facts
We have perused the whole scheme and we do not find any condition that once an option to voluntary retire is exercised by an employee and the said is accepted by the employer, the employee is not entitled to withdraw from voluntary retirement.	None
This position is accepted at the Bar.	None
While allowing the appeal, the Division Bench of High Court in fact considered the ration laid down in Balram Guptas case (supra).	None
The short question to be decided is what was the effective date in the case in hand, before which the appellant could have withdrawn his offer of the voluntary retirement under the scheme.	Issue
The only contention raised before us by the learned counsel for the appellant is that in view of the law laid down by this Court since 1978, the appellant was within his right to withdraw his option for voluntary retirement even after its acceptance but before the actual date of release from the employment.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention learned counsel has placed before us various decisions of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent has contended that from the date of acceptance of the letter of voluntary retirement by the respondent, the relationship of employer and employee came to an end and, therefore, the appellant ceased to be an employee of the respondent w.e.f.	Arguments of Respondent
30th July, 1997.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel also sought to raise the question of financial burden on the respondentcompany, which we need not consider while deciding the legal issue involved in the present appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
A Constitution Bench of this Court in Union of India Others vs. Gopal Chandra Misra Others (1978) 2 SCC 301 in paragraph 50 held that the general principle is that in the absence of a legal, contractual or constitutional bar, a prospective resignation can be withdrawn at any time before it becomes effective, and it becomes effective when it operates to terminate the employment or the officetenure of the resignor.	None
(emphasis ours) As stated above in the present case in the VRS, there was no indication regarding effective date of voluntary resignation and there is also no condition that once it was accepted it could not be withdrawn.	None
In Balram Gupta vs. Union of India Anr.	Facts
(1987)	None
Supp.	None
SCC 228 the principle laid down in Gopal Chandra Misra (supra) was summarised as follows A complete and effective act of resigning office is one which severs the link of the resignor with his office and terminates his tenure.	None
In Balram Guptas case, the appellantemployee offered to voluntary retire from service w.e.f.	None
31st March, 1981 and accordingly sent a letter within the notice period.	None
However, he changed his mind and sent a letter on 31.01.1981 seeking to withdraw his notice of voluntary retirement but the request was disallowed by the concerned authority on the ground that the withdrawal of notice could only be with the specific approval of the authority.	None
This Court held that the dissolution of the contract of employment would be brought about only on the date indicated i.e. 31.03.1981 and upto that date the appellant continued as Government employee.	None
He is at liberty to withdraw his notice of voluntary retirement and for this purpose, prior approval is not required.	None
The decision in J.N. Srivastava vs. Union of India (1998) 9 SCC 559 is also to the same effect.	None
This Court held as follows It is now well settled that even if the voluntary retirement notice is moved by an employee and gets accepted by the authority within the time fixed, before the date of retirement is reached, the employee has locus poenitentiae to withdraw the proposal for voluntary retirement.	Reasoning
The said view has been taken by a Bench of this Court in the case of Balram Gupta vs. Union of India.	None
In Nand Keshwar Prasad vs. Indian Farmers Fertilizers Cooperative Ltd. Ors.	None
(1998) 5 SCC 461 , in paragraph 11, this Court reiterated that it is open to the employee concerned to withdraw letter of resignation before the date indicated in the notice of voluntary retirement.	None
It was also observed therein it appears to us that the law is well settled by this Court in a number of decisions that unless controlled by condition of service or the statutory provisions, the retirement mentioned in the letter of resignation must take effect from the date mentioned therein and such date cannot be advanced by accepting the resignation from an earlier date when the employee concerned did not intend to retire from such earlier date.	None
In Raj Kumar vs. Union of India (1968) 3	None
SCR 857 the normal rule has been stated as follows When a public servant invited by a letter of his resignation determination of his employment, his service normally stands terminated from the date on which the letter of resignation is accepted by the appropriate authority and in the absence of any law or rule governing the conditions of his service to the contrary it will not be open to the public servant to withdraw his resignation after it is accepted by the appropriate authority in consonance with the rules governing the acceptance, the public servant concerned has locus poenitentiae but not thereafter.	None
The above cases may not have direct application to the facts of the present case, however, the principles laid down therein deserve notice.	None
In Power Finance Corporation Ltd. vs. Pramod Kumar Bhatia (1997) 4 SCC 280 this Court went a step further and observed thus It is now settled legal position that unless the employee is relieved of the duty, after acceptance of the offer of voluntary retirement of resignation, jural relationship of the employee and the employer does not come to an end.	None
It was pointed out in that case that the acceptance of voluntary retirement was not unconditional and before the conditions could be complied with, the employee could withdraw from the scheme.	None
On those facts, the above observations were made.	None
It is not necessary to consider whether in all cases, actual relief becomes the crucial date.	None
However, the ratio of decision in Balram Guptas case coupled with the observations of the Constitution Bench in Gopal Chandra Misras case (underlined above) could usefully applied to the present case.	None
Coming to the case in hand the letter of acceptance was a conditional one inasmuch as though option of the appellant for the voluntary retirement under the scheme was accepted	None
but it was stated that the release memo along with detailed particulars would follow.	None
Before the appellant was actually released from the service, he withdrew his option for voluntary retirement by sending two letters dated August 07, 1997 and September 24, 1997, but there was no response from the respondent.	Reasoning
By office memorandum dated 25th September, 1997, the appellant was released from the service and that too from the next day.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that the appellant was paid his salaries etc. till his date of actual release i.e. 26th September, 1997, and, therefore, the jural relationship of employee and employer between the appellant and the respondents did not come to an end on the date of acceptance of the voluntary retirement and said relationship continued till 26th of September, 1997.	Reasoning
The appellant admittedly sent two letters withdrawing his voluntary retirement before his actual date of release from service.	Reasoning
Therefore, in view of the settled position of the law and the terms of the letter of acceptance, the appellant has locus poenitentiae to withdraw his proposal for voluntary retirement before the relationship of employer and employee came to an end.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the respondent could not have refused to accept the resignation of the appellant as it was sent before the jural relationship of employee and employer came to an end.	None
Consequently, the impugned judgment is liable to be set aside, which we hereby do.	Reasoning
The appellant shall be entitled to rejoin his duty and he shall be paid all his salaries and other benefits during the period he was out from the service.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the respondent has stated that by this time the appellant might have retired from service on attaining the age of superannuation, if that be so, he shall be paid full salary and allowances for the entire period he was out of service till the date of his retirement and thereafter, he shall be entitled to get all retiral benefits counting the above period as if he was in service.	Reasoning
We, therefore, allow the appeal by setting aside the impugned judgment 21. .	None
We leave the parties to bear their own cost.	None
