Surinder Singh Nijjar, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi rendered in OMP No.46 of 2013 dated 22nd March, 2013.	Issue
By the aforesaid judgment, the Delhi High Court has allowed the petition filed by the respondent under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the Arbitration Act, 1996), challenging the Final Partial Award dated 12th September, 2012.	Issue
By the aforesaid Award, the objection raised by the Union of India relating to the arbitrability of the claims made by the petitioner in respect of Royalties, Cess, Service Tax and CAG Audit have been rejected.	None
Before we discuss the legal issues, it would be pertinent to make a very brief note of the relevant facts.4.	Facts
The parties had entered into Two Production Sharing Contracts dated 22nd December, 1994 (as amended by Amendment Agreement No.1 and Amendment Agreement No.2) (hereinafter referred to as PSC or PSCs) as and when appropriate.	None
These two PSCs provide for the exploration and production of petroleum from the Mid and South Tapti Fields (hereinafter referred to as Tapti or Tapri Field) and for the exploration and production of petroleum from Panna and Mukta Fields which shall be hereinafter referred to either as Panna Mukta or Panna Mukta fields.	Facts
The two PSCs shall be referred to Tapti PSC and Panna Mukta PSC, respectively.5.	None
One of the PSCs was entered into with Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), the appellant, a body corporate established under the laws of India.	Facts
It is a major Indian multinational and the largest private sector company in India, with interests in activities including exploration and production of oil and gas, petroleum refining and marketing petrochemicals, textiles, retail and special economic zones.	Facts
The other PSC was entered into with BG Exploration and Production India Limited (BG), a body corporate established under the laws of the Cayman Islands.	Facts
It is a company forming part of BG Group, an international energy group headquartered in the United Kingdom with business operations in numerous countries.	Facts
In 2002, BG Group acquired the share capital of Enron Oil and Gas India Limited (EOGIL, a company formerly part of the Enron group of companies).	Facts
Upon its acquisition on 15th February, 2003, the name of EOGIL was changed to BG Exploration and Production India Limited.6.	Facts
ONGC is a stateowned oil and gas company in India in which the Government of India holds a 74.14 equity stake.	Facts
It produces various petroleum products including crude oil, natural gas and LPG.	Facts
These three companies are together defined as the Contractor (in the PSCs Clause 1.23).7.	Facts
The two PSCs provide a detailed procedure for Alternative Dispute Redressal Mechanisms.	Facts
Articles 32 and 33 of the PSCs are relevant for this purpose.	Facts
These Articles provide as under Article 32 Applicable Law and Language of the Contract 32.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 33.12, this Contract shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of India.32.2 Nothing in this Contract shall entitle the Government or the Contractor to exercise the rights, privileges and powers conferred upon it by this Contract in a manner which will contravene the laws of India.32.3 The English language shall be the language of this Contract and shall be used in arbitral proceedings.	Facts
All communication, hearings or visual materials or documents relating to this Contract shall be in English.	Facts
Article 33 Sole Expert, Conciliation and Arbitration 33.1	Facts
The Parties shall use their best efforts to settle amicably all disputes, differences or claims arising out of or in connection with any of the terms and conditions of this Contract or concerning the interpretation or performance thereof.33.2 Except for matters which, by the terms of this Contract, the Parties have agreed to refer to a sole expert and any other matters which the Parties may agree to so refer, any dispute, difference or claim arising between the Parties hereunder which cannot be settled amicably may be submitted by any Party to arbitration pursuant to Article 33.3.	Facts
Such sole expert shall be an independent and impartial person of international standing with relevant qualifications and experience appointed by agreement between the Parties.	Facts
Any sole expert appointed shall be acting as an expert and not as an arbitrator and the decision of the sole expert on matters referred to him shall be final and binding on the Parties and not subject to arbitration.	Facts
If the Parties are unable to agree on a sole expert, the disputed subject matter may be referred to arbitration.33.3 Subject to the provisions herein, any unresolved dispute, difference or claim which cannot be settled amicably within a reasonable time may, except for those referred to in Article 33.2, be submitted to an arbitral tribunal for final decision as hereinafter provided.33.4	Facts
The arbitral tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators.	Facts
The Party or Parties instituting the arbitration shall appoint one arbitrator and the Party or Parties responding shall appoint another arbitrator and both Parties shall so advise the other Parties.	Facts
The two arbitrators appointed by the Parties shall appoint the third	Facts
arbitrator.33.5 Any Party may, after appointing an arbitrator, request the other Party (ies) in writing to appoint the second arbitrator.	Facts
If such other Party fails to appoint an arbitrator within fortyfive (45) days of receipt of the written request to do so, such arbitrator may, at the request of the first Party, be appointed by the Secretary General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague, within fortyfive (45) days of the date of receipt of such request, from amongst persons who are not nationals of the country of any of the Parties to the arbitration proceedings.33.6	Facts
If the two arbitrators appointed by the Parties fail to agree on the appointment of the third arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second arbitrator and if the Parties do not otherwise agree, the Secretary General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague may, at the request of either Party and in consultation with both, appoint the third arbitrator who shall not be a national of the country of any Party.33.7 If any of the arbitrators fails or is unable to act, his successor shall be appointed in the manner set out in this Article as if he was the first appointment.	Facts
33.8	Facts
The decision of the arbitration tribunal and, in the case of difference among the arbitrators, the decision of the majority, shall be final and binding upon the Parties.33.9 Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the arbitration rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) of 1985 except that in the event of any conflict between these rules and the provisions of this Article 33, the provisions of this Article 33 shall govern.33.10 The right to arbitrate disputes and claims under this Contract shall survive the termination of this Contract.33.11	Facts
Prior to submitting a dispute to arbitration, a Party may submit the matter for conciliation under the UNCITRAL conciliation rules by mutual agreement of the Parties.	Facts
If the Parties fail to agree on a conciliator (or conciliators) in accordance with the rules, the matter may be submitted for arbitration.	Facts
No arbitration proceedings shall be instituted while conciliation proceedings are pending and such proceedings shall be concluded within sixty (60) days.33.12 The venue of conciliation or arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Article, unless the Parties otherwise agree, shall be London, England and shall be conducted in the English Language.	Facts
The arbitration agreement contained in this Article 33 shall be governed by the laws of England.	Facts
Insofar as practicable, the Parties shall continue to implement the terms of this Contract notwithstanding the initiation of arbitral proceedings and any pending claim or dispute.33.13	Facts
The fees and expenses of a sole expert or conciliator appointed by the Parties shall be borne equally by the Parties.	Facts
Assessment of the costs of arbitration including incidental expenses and liability for the payment thereof shall be at the discretion of the arbitrators.	Facts
In accordance with Article 33.12, the arbitral proceedings were to be held in London as the neutral venue.	Facts
At the time of entering into the PSCs, none of the parties were domiciled in U.K. In fact, subsequently, the venue of the arbitral proceedings was shifted to Paris and again reshifted to London.	Facts
Consequently on 24th February, 2004, the parties to the PSCs entered into an agreement amending the PSCs, whereby it was stated that  Applicable Law and Arbitration Except the change of venue seat of Arbitration from London to Paris, the Articles 32 and 33 of the Contract shall be deemed to be set out in full in this Agreement mutatis mutandis and so that references therein to the Contract shall be references to this Agreement.	Facts
It appears that certain disputes and differences have arisen between the parties, under or in connection with the PSCs.	Facts
Consequently, the appellant issued a notice of arbitration dated 16th December, 2010.	Facts
The disputes, differences and claims are common to both the Tapti PSC and Panna Mukta PSC.	Facts
The appellant claims that all attempts to resolve the disputes with the respondent amicably through correspondences and meetings have failed.	Facts
The disputes, differences and claims arising out of or in connection with the PSCs have been summarized in paragraph 6 of the notice of arbitration.10.Pursuant to the aforesaid notice, the arbitral tribunal was duly constituted on 29th July, 2011.	Facts
Under Article 33.12, the venue of arbitration is in London.	Facts
The parties confirmed the term of appointment of the Arbitral Tribunal on 29th July, 2011, signed by the Chairman on 15th August, 2011.	Facts
A substantive hearing was held between 21st May, 2012 to 29th May, 2012 in Singapore.	Facts
Thereafter, on the basis of the amendment made in the PSC as noticed above, by agreement of the parties, the arbitral tribunal made the Final Partial Consent Award on 14th September, 2011.	Facts
In the aforesaid award, it is recorded as under Final Partial Award as to Seat3.1 Upon the agreement of the Parties, each represented by duly authorized representatives and through counsel, the Tribunal hereby finds, orders and awardsa)	Facts
That without prejudice to the right of the Parties to subsequently agree otherwise in writing, the juridical seat (or legal place) of arbitration for the purposes of the arbitration initiated under the Claimants Notice of Arbitration dated 16th December, 2010 shall be London, England.b) That any hearings in this arbitration may take place in Paris, France, Singapore or any other location the Tribunal considers may be convenient.c)	Facts
That, save as set out above, the terms and conditions of the arbitration agreements in Article 33 of the PSCs shall remain in full force and effect and be applicable in this arbitration.	Facts
This Consent Award was duly signed by Mr. Christopher Lau SC (Chairman), Mr. Peter Leaver QC (Coarbitrator) and Mr. Justice B.P. Jeevan Reddy (Coarbitrator).	None
Pursuant to Clause 28 of the terms of appointment, the Chairman of the Tribunal is empowered to make interlocutory orders and consult other members of the tribunal if he considers appropriate or one of the parties requests that a decision be given by the whole tribunal.	None
Various directions orders clarifications were made by the Chairman, with the concurrence of the other members of the tribunal.	Facts
Pursuant to the above directions orders clarifications, the claimants Appellants served upon the tribunal its statement of claim and amendment to the statement of claim dated 5th August, 2011 and claimants revised amendment to the statement of claim dated 19th January, 2012.Similarly, the Respondent served upon the Tribunal its statement of defence dated 31st January, 2012 and additional statement on behalf of Respondent dated 10th April, 2012 pursuant to procedural order dated 13th March, 2012.	Facts
The aforesaid procedural order dated 13th March, 2012 as amended by directions dated 15th May, 2012 set out the list of issues (the May 2012 issues) to be heard and be determined by the tribunal at the hearing fixed to commence on 21st May, 2012 and to conclude on 29th May, 2012 (the May 2012 hearing).	Facts
The parties served upon each other witness statement of their witnesses.	None
The documents relied upon by both the parties were also placed on record.13.	Facts
The Partial Final Award dated 12th September, 2012 records the claimants claims for relief as set out in Section E of the Statement of the Scheme.	Facts
Paragraph 30.3 of the Statement of Claim reads as follows (1) a declaration that, for the purposes of Article 15.6.1, the value of Gas at the wellhead should be calculated by deducting from the sales price at the Delivery Point an amount reflecting all of the costs which are incurred between the wellhead and the Delivery point regardless of whether such costs are classified as capital expenditure or operating expenditure and regardless of whether such costs are recoverable out of Cost Petroleum under Article 13 of the PSCs.(2) a declaration that, with effect from the date of any partial or final award to the termination of the PSCs, and pursuant to Article 15.6.1 of the PSCs, the Government is required to reimburse any excess royalties paid as a result of the exclusion of postwellhead capital expenditure from wellhead value calculations made pursuant to the Gazette Notification or pay damages in the same amount for failure to procure an exemption in respect of such excess royalties.(3) a declaration that the Government is liable to reimburse the Claimants pursuant to Article 15.6.1 of the PSCs in respect of any additional royalties imposed and paid by the Claimants since August 2007 as a result of the exclusion of postwellhead capital expenditure from wellhead value calculations made pursuant to the Gazette Notification.(4) on award in favour of the Claimants requiring the Government to reimburse the Claimants pursuant to Article 15.6.1 in the sum of US 11,413,172 in respect of the additional royalties imposed and paid under protest between August 2007 and March 2011 or pay damages in the same amount for failure to procure on exemption in respect of such additional royalties.	Facts
In the alternative, the appellants claimed the reimbursement pursuant to Article 15.7 and 15.8 of the relevant PSCs (as the case may be), the relief prayed for was as under a) directing the parties to consult in order to make the necessary revisions and adjustments to the PSCs so as to maintain the expected benefit to the Claimants as from August 2007 by requiring the respondent to reimburse any excess royalties payable following the issuance of the Gazette Notificationb) consequential declaratory relief andc) an award in damages in the same amount as are claimed in paragraph 30.3(4) of the Statement of Claim.	Facts
The third set of relief claimed by the appellant is set out in paragraph 30.3 of the Statement of Claim and is as follows (1) a declaration that payment of royalties under the PSCs should be made by 15 February in respect of the period 1 July to 31 December and by 15 august in respect of the period 1 January to 30 June.(2) a declaration that, provided royalties are paid within the timeframes specified in (1) no interest is payable under the terms of the PSCs and any interest otherwise imposed is to be reimbursed by the Government.(3) a declaration that, in the event royalties are paid after the timeframes specified in (1), any interest in excess of LIBOR plus one percentage point is to be reimbursed by the Government.(4) a declaration that the Government is liable to reimburse the claimants pursuant to Article 15.6.1 of the PSCs in respect of any additional royalties or interest imposed which does not accord with the principles outlined at (1) to (3) above.(5) an award in favour of the claimants requiring the Government to reimburse the Claimants pursuant to Article 15.6.1 in the sum of Rs.7,26,00,532 in respect of the additional royalties imposed in relation to royalty payments made between 1995 to 2002.	Facts
As noticed earlier, the aforesaid reliefs were claimed by the appellant under Article 15.6.1, which is as under 15.6.1	None
The constituents of the (claimants) shall be liable to pay royalties and cess on their participating interest share of Crude Oil and Natural Gas saved and said in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.	None
The royalty on oil saved and sold will be paid at RS.	Facts
481 per metric ton and cessan oil saved and said will be paid at Rs.900 per metric ton.	Facts
Royalty on Gas saved and said will be paid at ten per cent (10) of the value at wellhead.	Facts
No cess shall be payable in response of Gas.	Facts
Royalty and cess shall not exceed the herein above amounts throughout the term of the contract.	Facts
Royalty and cess shall be payable in Indian Rupees.	Facts
Any such additional payment shall be made by the (respondent)	None
Further the relief is claimed under Article 15.8 of the Tapti PSC which is in identical terms of Article 15.7 in the Panna Mukta PSC, which is as under 15.8 If any change in or to any Indian law, rule or regulation by any authority results in a material change to the economic benefits accruing to any of the parties to this contract after the effective date, the parties shall consult promptly to make necessary revisions and adjustments to the contract in order to maintain such expected benefits to each of the parties.	Facts
The four preliminary objections raised by the Union of India before the Arbitral Tribunal are as follows  The Claimants claims in regard to royalties (paragraph 14.1 of the Statement of Defence) are not arbitrable(2)	Facts
The Claimants claims in respect of cess (paragraph 14.2 of the Statement of Defence) are not arbitrable(3)	None
The Claimants claims in respect of service tax (paragraph 14.3 of the State of Defence) are not arbitrable and(4)	None
The Claimants claims in respect of the Comptroller and Auditor Generals (CAG) audit (paragraph 20.10 of the Statement of Defence) are not arbitrable.	Facts
The aforesaid preliminary objections are raised for, for inter alia, the following reasons  (a) the Claimants claim entail a challenge to the validity of the Oilfields (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (the ORD Act) and of the powers exercised under it(b) the claimants cannot contract out of such legislation and any agreement to that effect would be void and unenforceable by virtue of Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872(c)	Facts
the Claimants cannot avoid the effect of the legislation by relying on the doctrine of estoppel(d) any dispute in respect of royalties should be referred to arbitration under Rule 33 of Petroleum and Natural Gas Rules 1959 (the PNG Rules)(e)	Facts
there will likely be a defence to enforcement of any award in India under Article V(2)(b) of the New York Convention as a matter of the public policy of India(f) since any award has to be enforced in India, this Tribunal ought not to enter into or adjudicate questions issues relating to royalties in view of Rule 33 of the PNG Rules and the decisions of the Indian Supreme Court in Nataraj Studios vs. Navarang Studios (1981) 1 SCC 523 ,Amrit Banaspati Co. Ltd. vs. State of Punjab (1992) 2 SCC 411 and Mafatlal Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India (1997) 5 SCC 536 and(g) were the Tribunal to do so in reliance on Tamil Nadu Electricity Board v.	Facts
STCMS Electric Co Pvt. Ltd.	None
(2007) 2 All ER (Comm) 701, it would be contrary to the law as laid down by the English Court of Appeal in Ralli Bros v. CIA Navleria (1920) 2 KB 287.	None
The respondents also contended that the Arbitral Tribunal cannot, or ought not, to go into or adjudicate the questions raised by the appellants (claimants) with respect to royalties and leave the parties, if they choose, to seek the necessary relief before the specific forums created under the Oilfields (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Rules, 1956.21.	None
The appellants (the claimants) on the other hand submitted that the issue of arbitrability is governed by the law of the seat of arbitration.	Facts
The seat of the arbitration being England, the issue of arbitrability is governed by the English Law.	Facts
It was also submitted that although challenge to the validity of the terms of PSC is governed by Indian Law (Article 32.1 of the PSC), nevertheless it falls within the jurisdiction of the tribunal just as any other substantive dispute.	Facts
The appellants relied upon the judgment in Tamil Nadu Electricity Board Vs. STCMS Electric Co. Pvt. Ltd .	Facts
((2007) 2 All ER (Comm) 701)	Facts
It was also submitted that the reliefs claimed are founded, only, on contractual rights.	Facts
Further, whether or not any of those contractual rights are vitiated by Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 is a question of substance and accordingly a dispute as to the underlying merits of the claim.	Facts
The case of the appellants (claimants) assumes that respondent is entitled to rely on the relevant legislation but the claims of the appellants are purely contractual in nature.22.	Facts
Upon consideration of the entire matter, the arbitral tribunal in the final award concluded as under Summary of Conclusions Formal Final Partial Award 6.1 The Tribunal, having carefully considered the documentary evidence, the oral evidence and the submissions of the Claimants and the respondent, and rejecting all submissions to the contrary, hereby makes, issues and publishes this Formal Final Partial Award and for the reasons set out above FINDS, AWARDS, ORDERS AND DECLARES that the Claimants claims in respect of royalties, cess, service tax and CAG audit are arbitrabe.6.2.	Facts
In stating its conclusion on the four arbitrability issues identified in Section A of the List of issues for the May 2012 Hearing, the Tribunal wishes to make it clear that it is expressing no opinion on the merits of the parties respective submissions which were made during the May 2012 Hearing.	Facts
Subject to further order in the meantime, the merits of those issues will be decided in the March, 2013 Hearing.	None
Union of India challenged the aforesaid award before the High Court of Delhi in OMP No.46 of 2013.	None
The respondents invoked the jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act for various reasons namely, (i) the terms of the PSCs entered would manifest an unmistakable intention of the parties to be governed by the laws of India and more particularly the Arbitration Act 1996 (ii) the contracts were signed and executed in India (iii) the subject matter of the contracts, namely, the Panna Mukta and the Tapti Fields are situated within India (iv) the obligations under the contracts have been for the past more than 15 years performed within India (v) the contracts stipulate that they shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of India (vi) they also provided that nothing in this contract shall entitle either of the parties to exercise the rights, privileges and powers conferred upon them by the contract in a manner which will contravene the laws of India (Article 32.2) and (vii) the contracts further stipulate that the companies and the operations under this Contract shall be subject to all fiscal legislation of India (Article 15.1).24.	Facts
The appellant raised preliminary objection to the maintainability of the arbitration petition primarily on the ground that by choosing English Law to govern their agreement to arbitration and expressly agreeing to London seated arbitration, the parties have excluded the application of Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996.	Facts
It was submitted that the High Court of Delhi had no jurisdiction to entertain the objection filed by the Union of India under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.	Facts
It was emphasized that Courts of England and Wales have exclusive jurisdiction to entertain any challenge to the award.	Facts
It was pointed out that the PSCs were amended on two occasions.	Facts
On 24th February, 2004, PSC was sought to be amended to change the seat of arbitration from London to Paris.	Facts
However, on 14th September, 2011, the parties to the arbitration agreed that the seat of the present arbitration proceedings would be London, England.	Facts
This agreement is recorded in the Final Partial Consent Award rendered by the arbitral tribunal on 29th July, 2011.	Facts
As noticed earlier, the final partial consent award provided that the juridical seat or legal place of arbitration for the purpose of arbitration initiated under the claimants notice of arbitration dated 16th December, 2011 shall be London, England.	Facts
Article 33.9 of the PSC provides that the arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the UNCITRAL Rules, 1985.	Facts
However, subsequently it was recorded in the award that the applicable rules shall be the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, 1976.	Facts
It was also submitted on behalf of the appellants that the objections raised by the UOI are yet to be determined by the tribunal on merits and shall be considered after considering the evidence at the time of rendering the final award.25.Upon consideration of the entire matter, the High Court has held that undoubtedly the governing law of the contract i.e. proper law of the contract is the law of India.	Facts
Therefore, the parties never intended to all together exclude the laws of India, so far as contractual rights are concerned.	Facts
The Laws of England are limited in their applicability in relation to arbitration agreement contained in Article 33.	Facts
This would mean that the English Law would be applicable only with regard to the curial law matters i.e. conduct of the arbitral proceedings.	Facts
For all other matters, proper law of the contract would be applicable.	Facts
Relying on Article 15(1), it has been held that the fiscal laws of India cannot be derogated from.	Facts
Therefore, the exclusion of Indian public policy was not envisaged by the parties at the time when they entered into the contract.	Facts
The High Court further held that to hold that the agreement contained in Article 33 would envisage the matters other than procedure of arbitration proceedings would be to rewrite the contract.	Facts
The High Court also held that the question of arbitrability of the claim or dispute cannot be examined solely on the touchstone of the applicability of the law relating to arbitration of any country but applying the public policy under the laws of the country to which the parties have subjected the contract to be governed.	Facts
Therefore, according to the High Court, the question of arbitrability of the dispute is not a pure question of applicable law of arbitration or lex arbitri but a larger one governing the public policy.	Facts
The High Court then concluded that public policy of India cannot be adjudged under the laws of England.	Facts
Article 32.1 specifically provides that laws of India will govern the obligations of the parties in the PSCs.	Facts
The High Court also concluded that the effect of the interplay of Article 32.1 and Article 32.2 and 33.12 leads to the conclusion that law of England shall operate in relation to matters contained in Article 33 in so far as they are not inconsistent with the law of India.	Facts
Since the question of arbitrability of the claim is a larger question effecting public policy of State it should be determined by applying laws of India.	Facts
This would give a meaningful effect to Article 32.2, otherwise it would be rendered otiose.	Facts
On the basis of the aforesaid plain reading, according to the High Court, the conclusion is that the intention of the parties under the agreement was always to remain subject to Indian laws and not to contravene them.	Facts
It is further held that Article 33 was confined to conducting the arbitration in accordance with the laws of England and not for all other purposes.	Facts
Relying on the judgment of this Court in Bhatia International Vs.	Facts
Bulk Trading S.A. Anr .	Facts
((2002) 4 SCC 105 ), it has been held that Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would be applicable as there is no clear express or implied intention of the parties to exclude the applicability of the Arbitration Act, 1996.	Facts
The High Court also relies on the judgment of this Court in Venture Global Engineering Vs.	Facts
Satyam Computer Services Ltd .	Facts
((2008) 4 SCC 190 ), in support of the conclusion that the Delhi High Court has jurisdiction to entertain and adjudicate the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.	Facts
Since, according to High Court, the dispute raised by the appellant relate to public policy of India, the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act is maintainable.	Facts
The High Court also gives additional reasons for concluding that the petition to challenge final partial award is maintainable.	Facts
According to the High Court, the disputes involved rights in rem.	Facts
Therefore, due regard has to be given to Indian laws.	Facts
An award which is said to be against public policy can be permitted to be challenged in India even though the seat of arbitration is outside India.	Facts
The High Court also took support from the doctrine of public trust with regard to natural resources.	Facts
Since the appellants are seeking refund of amount of cess, royalties, service tax, all matters of public money in India, the jurisdiction of the Indian courts cannot be excluded.	Facts
The High Court concludes that there is no reason why the public money be allowed to invested for seeking adjudication of the claims which may be eventually found to be impermissible to be enforced.	Facts
Finally, the High Court declined to consider the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bharat Aluminium on the basis that the operation of the judgment has been made prospective by the court.	Facts
The final conclusion has been given in paragraph 59 which is as under No submission on the part of the respondents remains unaddressed.	Facts
I have already observed that upon testing the instant case on the principles of law laid down in the case of Bhatia International (supra) as well as Venture Global (supra), no inference as to express or implied exclusion of the Part I of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 can be drawn.	Facts
Resultantly, the objection raised by the respondents relating to lack of jurisdiction of Indian court on the count of express choice of laws provisions cannot be sustained as Indian laws including provisions of Part I of the Act are not expressly nor impliedly excluded.	Facts
The said objection is therefore rejected.	Facts
It is this judgment of the High Court which is subject matter of this appeal.	Facts
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
Learned senior counsel for both the parties have made very elaborate oral submissions.	None
These submissions have been summed up and supplemented by the written submissions.	None
Dr. Singhvi appearing for the appellants submitted that once the English Law is selected as the proper law of arbitration, the applicability of Arbitration Act, 1996 would be ruled out.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the High Court has wrongly intermingled the issues relating to the challenge to the arbitral proceedings or the arbitration award with the merits of the disputes relating to the underlying contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, even if the law laid down in Bhatia International (supra) is applicable, the arbitral tribunal would apply the provisions contained in the Indian Contract Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the English Courts will have jurisdiction over the control and supervision of the arbitration including, challenge to the arbitral award.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submission, Dr. Singhvi relies on Videocon Industries Limited Vs. Union of India Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
((2011) 6 SCC 161 )	Arguments of Petitioner
He has also relied on Yograj Infrastructure Limited Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ssang Yong Engineering and Construction Company Limited ((2011) 9 SCC 735 ), M s Dozco India P. Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Reasoning
M s Doosan Infracore Co. Ltd .	Arguments of Petitioner
((2009) 3 ALR 162), Bharat Aluminium Company Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc. ((2012) 9 SCC 552 )29.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Singhvi submitted that the reliance placed by the High Court on Venture Global Engineering (supra) is misplaced.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, the Court was not concerned with a clause such as Article 32.1 of the PSC, which has to be interpreted subject to the provisions contained in Article 33.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Dr. Singhvi, the ratio of Venture Global Engineering (supra) has lost its efficacy as it has been overruled by the Constitution Bench in Bharat Aluminium Company (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Singhvi then submitted that the concern shown by the High Court for Indian public policy was wholly misplaced and erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has failed to appreciate that Article 32.1 and 32.2 deal only with the proper law of the contract and not with the proper law of the arbitration agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has erroneously distinguished the ratio of law laid down in Videocon Industries Limited (supra) on the ground that although the arbitration clause therein was the same but the question of public policy had not been addressed by the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on State of Gujarat Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Reasoning
Justice R.A.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mehta (Retired) Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
((2013) 3 SCC 1 ), Dr. Singhvi submitted that even if the issue of public policy was not particularly raised or addressed, the judgment in Videocon Industries Limited (supra) still be a binding precedent.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, whilst concluding that the parties did not intend to exclude the applicability of the Arbitration Act, 1996 to the arbitration agreement, the High Court has erroneously held that it was necessary for the parties to exclude not only the provisions of the Arbitration Act but also specifically plead that public policy is also excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned senior counsel, Article 15.6.1 has no relevance for the determination of the question as to whether the Arbitration Act, 1996 will apply to the arbitration, which is being held in London.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. A.K. Ganguly, learned senior counsel appearing for Union of India submits that the decision in this case has been correctly rendered by the High Court based on the law laid down by this Court in Bhatia International and Venture Global Engineering (supra) as the arbitration agreement is pre BALCO.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that in order to determine whether Arbitration Act, 1996 is excluded, the contract had to be seen as a whole.	Arguments of Respondent
Here, the contract is in India, for the work to be done in India over 25 years secondly, it deals with natural resources, Union of India is a trustee of these resources for the citizens of India.	Arguments of Respondent
London was designated as the seat of arbitration only to provide certain measure of comfort level to the foreign parties.	Arguments of Respondent
The contract can not be read in such a way as to exclude the Arbitration Act, 1996.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has correctly concluded that arbitrability had to be decided by taking into consideration Indian Laws, which would include the Indian Arbitration Act and not under the English Arbitration Act, 1996.	Arguments of Respondent
He emphasized that the present proceedings relate to the interpretation of the contract, which is of national importance to develop the oil rich areas in the Indian Coasts.	Arguments of Respondent
He points out that under the PSC, the contractor has agreed to be always mindful of the rights and interests of India in the conduct of petroleum operations Article 7.3(a).	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ganguly also relied on Article 32.1 and 32.2 and submitted that Contract is to be governed and interpreted in accordance with laws of India.	Arguments of Respondent
He points out that there is a negative covenant in Article 32.2, wherein Government or the contractor are not entitled to exercise the rights, privileges, and powers conferred under the PSC in a manner which will contravene laws of India.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ganguly further pointed out that the High Court has correctly applied the law laid down by this court in Bhatia International and Venture Global Engineering (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
He also objected to the additional documents, which are sought to be relied upon by the petitioners in I.A. No. 7 of 2014.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that none of these documents were on the record before the High Court and can not be permitted to be relied on for the first time in this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
He, therefore, submitted that I.A.	Arguments of Respondent
No. 2 ought to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that similar request was made before the High Court, which was rejected.31.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ganguly emphasized that the issues raised by the Union of India are of public law and not purely contractual as sought to be projected by the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
He points out that the appellants have sought a number of reliefs with respect to CAG Audit.	Arguments of Respondent
It is a challenge to the conclusions recorded by the CAG Audit and such a challenge would not be arbitrable.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by him that the issues raised with regard to royalty is also not arbitrable as it is not a commercial issue.	Arguments of Respondent
He has distinguished the judgment of this Court in Videocon Industries Limited (supra) on the basis that the issue with regard to the public law was not considered by the Court in that judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
As noticed earlier, both the learned senior counsel have also submitted written submissions.	None
Primarily, the submissions made in the Court have been reiterated and, therefore, reference will be made to the same as and when necessary.	None
We have considered the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties.	None
Before we analyze the submissions made by the learned senior counsel for both the parties, it would be appropriate to notice the various factual and legal points on which the parties are agreed.	None
The controversy herein would have to be decided on the basis of the law declared by this Court in Bhatia International (supra).	None
The parties are agreed and it is also evident from the Final Partial Consent Award dated 14th September, 2011 that the juridical seat (or legal place) of arbitration for the purposes of the arbitration initiated under the Claimants Notice of Arbitration dated 16th December, 2010 shall be London, England.	Facts
The parties are also agreed that hearings of the Notice of Arbitration may take place at Paris, France, Singapore or any other location the Tribunal considers may be convenient.	Reasoning
It is also agreed by the parties that the terms and conditions of the arbitration agreement in Article 33 of the PSCs shall remain in full force and effect and be applicable to the arbitration proceedings.	Facts
The essential dispute between the parties is as to whether Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would be applicable to the arbitration agreement irrespective of the fact that the seat of arbitration is outside India.	None
To find a conclusive answer to the issue as to whether applicability of Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 has been excluded, it would be necessary to discover the intention of the parties.	Reasoning
Beyond this parties are not agreed on any issue.36.	Reasoning
We are also of the opinion that since the ratio of law laid down in Balco (supra) has been made prospective in operation by the Constitution Bench itself, we are bound by the decision rendered in Bhatia International (supra).	Reasoning
Therefore, at the outset, it would be appropriate to reproduce the relevant ratio of Bhatia International in paragraph 32 which is as under  To conclude, we hold that the provisions of Part I would apply to all arbitrations and to all proceedings relating thereto.	Reasoning
Where such arbitration is held in India the provisions of Part I would compulsorily apply and parties are free to deviate only to the extent permitted by the derogable provisions of Part I.	Reasoning
In cases of international commercial arbitrations held out of India provisions of Part I would apply unless the parties by agreement, express or implied, exclude all or any of its provisions.	Reasoning
In that case the laws or rules chosen by the parties would prevail.	Reasoning
Any provision, in Part I, which is contrary to or excluded by that law or rules will not apply.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid, it would be necessary to analyze the relevant Articles of the PSC, to discover the real intention of the parties as to whether the provisions of Arbitration Act, 1996 have been excluded.	Reasoning
It must, immediately, be noticed that Articles 32.1 and 32.2 deal with applicable law and language of the contract as is evident from the heading of the Article which is Applicable Law and Language of the Contract.	Reasoning
Article 32.1 provides the proper law of the contract i.e. laws of India.	Reasoning
Article 32.2 makes a declaration that none of the provisions contained in the contract would entitle either the Government or the Contractor to exercise the rights, privileges and powers conferred upon it by the contract in a manner which would contravene the laws of India.38.	Reasoning
Article 33 makes very detailed provision with regard to the resolution of disputes through arbitration.	Reasoning
The two Articles do not overlap  one (Art.32) deals with the proper law of the contract, the other (Art.33) deals with ADR, i.e. consultations between the parties conciliation reference to a sole expert and ultimately arbitration.	Reasoning
Under Article 33, at first efforts should be made by the parties to settle the disputes among themselves (33.1).	Reasoning
If these efforts fail, the parties by agreement shall refer the dispute to a sole expert (33.2).	Reasoning
The provision with regard to constitution of the arbitral tribunal provides that the arbitral tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators (33.4).	Reasoning
This article also provides that each party shall appoint one arbitrator.	Reasoning
The arbitrators appointed by the parties shall appoint the third arbitrator.	Reasoning
In case, the procedure under Article 33.4 fails, the aggrieved party can approach the Permanent Court of Arbitration at Hague for appointment of an arbitrator (33.5).	Reasoning
Further, in case the two arbitrators fail to make an appointment of the third arbitrator within 30 days of the appointment of the second arbitrator, again the Secretary General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at Hague may, at the request of either party appoint the third arbitrator.	Reasoning
In the face of this, it is difficult to appreciate the submission of the respondent Union of India that the Arbitration Act, 1996 (Part I) would be applicable to the arbitration proceedings.	Reasoning
In the event, Union of India intended to ensure that the Arbitration Act, 1996 shall apply to the arbitration proceedings, Article 33.5 should have provided that in default of a party appointing its arbitrator, such arbitrator may, at the request of the first party be appointed by the Chief Justice of India or any person or Institution designated by him.	Reasoning
Thus, the Permanent Court of Arbitration at Hague can be approached for the appointment of the arbitrator, in case of default by any of the parties.	Reasoning
This, in our opinion, is a strong indication that applicability of Arbitration Act, 1996 was excluded by the parties by consensus.	Reasoning
Further, the arbitration proceedings are to be conducted in accordance with the UNCITRAL Rules, 1976 (33.9).	Reasoning
It is specifically provided that the right to arbitrate disputes and claims under this contract shall survive the termination of this contract (33.10).39.	Reasoning
The Article which provides the basis of the controversy herein is Article 33.12 which provides that venue of the arbitration shall be London and that the arbitration agreement shall be governed by the laws of England.	Reasoning
It appears, as observed earlier, that by a Final Partial Consent Award, the parties have agreed that the juridical seat (or legal place of arbitration) for the purposes of arbitration initiated under the claimants notice of arbitration dated 16th December, 2010 shall be London, England.40.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion, upon a meaningful reading of the aforesaid Articles of the PSC, that the proper law of the contract is Indian Law proper law of the arbitration agreement is the law of England.	Reasoning
Therefore, can it be said as canvassed by the respondents, that applicability of Arbitration Act, 1996 has not been excluded?	None
It was submitted by Mr. Ganguly that the intention of the parties was never to exclude the applicability of Arbitration Act, 1996.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the expression laws of India under Article 32.2 would also include the Arbitration Act, 1996.	None
This submission is without any merit.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the expression laws of India as used in Article 32.1 and 32.2 have a reference only to the contractual obligations to be performed by the parties under the substantive contract i.e. PSC.	Reasoning
In other words, the provisions contained in 33.12 are not governed by the provisions contained in Article 32.1.	Reasoning
It must be emphasized that Article 32.1 has been made subject to the provision of Article 33.12.	Reasoning
Article 33.12 specifically provides that the arbitration agreement shall be governed by the laws of England.	Reasoning
The two Articles are particular in laying down that the contractual obligations with regard to the exploration of oil and gas under the PSC shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of India.	Reasoning
In contradistinction, Article 33.12 specifically provides that the arbitration agreement contained in Article 33.12 shall be governed by the laws of England.	Reasoning
Therefore, in our opinion, the conclusion is inescapable that applicability of Arbitration Act, 1996 has been ruled out by a conscious decision and agreement of the parties.	Reasoning
Applying the ratio of law as laid down in Bhatia International (supra) it would lead to the conclusion that the Delhi High Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the petition under Article 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.42.	Reasoning
Article 33 provides for ADR its limited application is to dispute resolution through arbitration as opposed to civil litigation.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is no violation of 32.2, as Arbitration Act, 1996, in fact signifies Parliamentary sanction of ADR.	Reasoning
In fact, Article 32.3 indicates that obligations under PSC and Arbitration Agreement are separate.	Reasoning
Hence, it is provided that English shall be the language of the Contract.	Reasoning
Followed by the stipulation that English shall also be the law of arbitral proceedings.	Reasoning
Therefore, the conclusion of the High Court that PSC is a composite contract is not in tune with the approved provisions of the PSC.	Reasoning
This separateness is further emphasized by Article 32.1 by making the provision subject to the provision of Article 33.12.	None
Laws of India have been made applicable to the substantive contract.	Reasoning
Law of England govern the Dispute Resolution Mechanism.	Reasoning
Provision for Arbitration is a deliberate election of remedy other than usual remedy of a civil suit.	Reasoning
The ADR mechanism under the Arbitral Laws of different nations is legally and jurisprudentially accepted, sanctified by the Highest Law Making Bodies of the member States, signatories to the New York Convention.	Reasoning
India is not only a signatory to the New York Convention, but it has taken into account the UNCITRAL Model Laws and the UNCITRAL Rules, whilst enacting the Arbitration Act, 1996.	Reasoning
Therefore, it would not be possible to accept the submission of Mr. Ganguly that the Law of the Contract is also the Law of the Arbitration Agreement.43.	Reasoning
In our opinion, it is too late in the day to contend that the seat of arbitration is not analogous to an exclusive jurisdiction clause.	Reasoning
This view of ours will find support from numerous judgments of this Court.	Reasoning
Once the parties had consciously agreed that the juridical seat of the arbitration would be London and that the arbitration agreement will be governed by the laws of England, it was no longer open to them to contend that the provisions of Part I of the Arbitration Act would also be applicable to the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
This Court in the case of Videocon Industries Ltd. (supra) has clearly held as follows  	None
In the present case also, the parties had agreed that notwithstanding Article 33.1, the arbitration agreement contained in Article 34 shall be governed by laws of England.	Facts
This necessarily implies that the parties had agreed to exclude the provisions of Part I of the Act.	Reasoning
As a corollary to the above conclusion, we hold that the Delhi High Court did not have the jurisdiction to entertain the petition filed by the respondents under Section 9 of the Act and the mere fact that the appellant had earlier filed similar petitions was not sufficient to clothe that High Court with the jurisdiction to entertain the petition filed by the respondents.	Reasoning
In coming to the aforesaid conclusion this Court interpreted similar if not identical provisions contained in the arbitration agreement.	None
The provision with regard to proper law of the contract and the arbitration agreement was as follows For the sake of convenience, the relevant clauses of Articles 33, 34 and 35 of the PSC are extracted below 33.1.	Facts
Indian law to govern.	None
Subject to the provisions of Article 34.12, this contract shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of India.33.2.	Facts
Laws of India not to be contravened.	None
Subject to Article 17.1 nothing in this contract shall entitle the contractor to exercise the rights, privileges and powers conferred upon it by this contract in a manner which will contravene the laws of India.	Reasoning
34.3.	Facts
Unresolved disputes.	None
Subject to the provisions of this contract, the parties agree that any matter, unresolved dispute, difference or claim which cannot be agreed or settled amicably within twentyone (21) days may be submitted to a sole expert (where Article 34.2 applies) or otherwise to an Arbitral Tribunal for final decision as hereinafter provided.	None
34.12.	None
Venue and law of arbitration agreement.	None
The venue of sole expert, conciliation or arbitration proceedings pursuant to this article, unless the parties otherwise agree, shall be Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and shall be conducted in the English language.	None
Insofar as practicable, the parties shall continue to implement the terms of this contract notwithstanding the initiation of arbitral proceedings and any pending claim or dispute.	Facts
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 33.1, the arbitration agreement contained in this Article 34 shall be governed by the laws of England.	Facts
35.2.	None
Amendment.	None
This contract shall not be amended, modified, varied or supplemented in any respect except by an instrument in writing signed by all the parties, which shall state the date upon which the amendment or modification shall become effective.	None
We are of the opinion that in the impugned judgment the High Court has erred in not applying the ratio of law laid down in Videocon Industries Ltd. (supra) in the present case.	Reasoning
The first issue raised in Videocon Industries Limited (supra) was as to whether the seat of arbitration was London or Kuala Lumpur.	Reasoning
The second issue was with regard to the Courts that would have supervisory jurisdiction over the arbitration proceedings.	Reasoning
Firstly, the plea of Videocon Industries Limited was that the seat could not have been changed from Kuala Lumpur to London only on agreement of the parties without there being a corresponding amendment in the PSC.	Reasoning
This plea was accepted.	Reasoning
It was held that seat of arbitration cannot be changed by mere agreement of parties.	Reasoning
In Paragraph 21 of the judgment, it was observed as follows Though, it may appear repetitive, we deem it necessary to mention that as per the terms of agreement, the seat of arbitration was Kuala Lumpur.	Reasoning
If the parties wanted to amend Article 34.12, they could have done so only by a written instrument which was required to be signed by all of them.	Reasoning
Admittedly, neither was there any agreement between the parties to the PSC to shift the juridical seat of arbitration from Kuala Lumpur to London nor was any written instrument signed by them for amending Article 34.12.	Reasoning
Therefore, the mere fact that the parties to the particular arbitration had agreed for shifting of the seat of arbitration to London cannot be interpreted as anything except physical change of the venue of arbitration from Kuala Lumpur to London.	Reasoning
The other issue considered by this Court in Videocon Industries Limited (supra) was as to whether a petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would be maintainable in Delhi High Court, the parties having specifically agreed that the arbitration agreement would be governed by the English Law.	Reasoning
This issue was decided against Union of India and it was held that Delhi High Court did not have the jurisdiction to entertain the petition filed by Union of India under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act.47.	Reasoning
In the present appeal, this Court is also considering the issue as to whether the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 filed by Union of India in Delhi would be maintainable.	Issue
The parties have made the necessary amendment in the PSCs to provide that the juridical seat of arbitration shall be London.	Reasoning
It is also provided that the arbitration agreement will be governed by laws of England.	Reasoning
Therefore, the ratio in Videocon Industries Limited (supra) would be relevant and binding in the present appeal.48.	Reasoning
The aforesaid judgment (Videocon) has been rendered by this Court upon consideration of Venture Global Engineering (supra).	Reasoning
Venture Global Engineering and Videocon Industries Ltd. are both judgments delivered by twoJudge Bench.	None
In our opinion, the factual and legal issues involved in the Videocon Industries case are very similar to the controversy involved in the present appeal.	Reasoning
The Arbitration Agreement in this appeal is identical to the arbitration agreement in Videocon Industries.	Reasoning
In fact, the factual situation in the present appeal is on a stronger footing than in Videocon Industries Limited (supra).	Reasoning
As noticed earlier, in Videocon Industries, this Court concluded that the parties could not have altered the seat of arbitration without making the necessary amendment to the PSC.	Reasoning
In the present appeal, necessary amendment has been made in the PSC.	Reasoning
Based on the aforesaid amendment, the Arbitral Tribunal has rendered the Final Partial Consent Award of 14th September, 2011 recording that the juridical seat (or legal place) of the arbitration for the purposes of arbitration initiated under the Claimants Notice of Arbitration dated 16th December, 2010 shall be London, England.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the judgment in Videocon Industries is subsequent to Ventura Global.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, bound by the ratio laid down in Videocon Industries Limited (supra).	None
We may also point out that the judgment in Videocon Industries has been followed on numerous occasions by a number of High Courts.	None
This apart, the judgment of this Court in Videocon Industries Ltd. also reflects the view taken by the Courts in England on the same issues.	None
In the case of A Vs. B (2007 (1) All E.R. (Comm) 591)considering a similar situation, it has been held as follows an agreement as to the seat of an arbitration is analogous to an exclusive jurisdiction clause.	None
Any claim for a remedyas to the validity of an existing interim or final award is agreed to be made only in the courts of the place designated as the seat of arbitration.	None
(emphasis supplied).	None
This Court in Dozco India Ltd. (supra) again reiterated the principle of law laid down in Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. (supra), wherein the law was very clearly enunciated in Para 16 The law which would apply to the filing of the award, to its enforcement and to its setting aside would be the law governing the agreement to arbitrate and the performance of that agreement.	None
This judgment is rendered by a threeJudge Bench.	None
It is noteworthy that the judgment in Sumitomo was not dissented from in Bhatia International on which the judgment in Venture Global is based.	None
This again persuades us to follow the law laid down in Videocon (supra).	None
Again this Court in Yograj Infrastructure (twoJudge Bench) considered a similar arbitration agreement.	None
It was provided that the arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in English in Singapore in accordance with the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) Rules.	None
(Clause 27.1).	None
Clause 27.2 provided that the arbitration shall take place in Singapore and be conducted in English language.	None
This Court held that having agreed that the seat of arbitration would be Singapore and that the curial law of the arbitration proceedings would be SIAC Rules, it was no longer open to the appellant to contend that an application under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would be maintainable.	None
This judgment has specifically taken into consideration the law laid down in Bhatia International (supra) and Venture Global (supra).	None
The same view has been taken by Delhi High Court, Bombay High Court and the Gujarat High Court, in fact this Court in Videocon has specifically approved the observations made by the Gujarat High Court in Hardy Oil (supra).	Reasoning
The effect of choice of seat of arbitration was considered by the Court of Appeal in C Vs. D. (2008 1 Lloyds Law Rep 239).	None
This judgment has been specifically approved by this Court in Balco (supra) and reiterated in Enercon (supra).	None
In C Vs. D (supra), the Court of Appeal has observed Primary Conclusion16.	None
I shall deal with Mr Hirsts arguments in due course but, in my judgment, they fail to grapple with the central point at issue which is whether or not, by choosing London as the seat of the arbitration, the parties must be taken to have agreed that proceedings on the award should be only those permitted by English law.	None
In my view they must be taken to have so agreed for the reasons given by the judge.	None
The whole purpose of the balance achieved by the Bermuda Form (English arbitration but applying New York law to issues arising under the policy) is that judicial remedies in respect of the award should be those permitted by English law and only those so permitted.	None
Mr Hirst could not say (and did not say) that English judicial remedies for lack of jurisdiction on procedural irregularities under sections 67 and 68 of the 1996 Act were not permitted he was reduced to saying that New York judicial remedies were also permitted.	None
That, however, would be a recipe for litigation and (what is worse) confusion which cannot have been intended by the parties.	None
No doubt New York law has its own judicial remedies for want of jurisdiction and serious irregularity but it could scarcely be supposed that a party aggrieved by one part of an award could proceed in one jurisdiction and a party aggrieved by another part of an award could proceed in another jurisdiction.	None
Similarly, in the case of a single complaint about an award, it could not be supposed that the aggrieved party could complain in one jurisdiction and the satisfied party be entitled to ask the other jurisdiction to declare its satisfaction with the award.	None
There would be a serious risk of parties rushing to get the first judgment or of conflicting decisions which the parties cannot have contemplated.	None
The aforesaid observations were subsequently followed by the High Court of Justice Queens Bench Division, Commercial Court (England) in SulameRica CIA Nacional De Seguros SA Vs.	None
Enesa Engenharia SA Enesa ((2012) WL 14764).	Reasoning
In laying down the same proposition, the High Court noticed that the issue in this case depends upon the weight to be given to the provision in Condition 12 of the insurance policy that the seat of the arbitration shall be London, England.	Reasoning
It was observed that this necessarily carried with it the English Courts supervisory jurisdiction over the arbitration process.	None
It was observed that this follows from the express terms of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and, in particular, the provisions of Section 2 which provide that Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 applies where the seat of the arbitration is in England and Wales or Northern Ireland.	Reasoning
This immediately establishes a strong connection between the arbitration agreement itself and the law of England.	Reasoning
It is for this reason that recent authorities have laid stress upon the locations of the seat of the arbitration as an important factor in determining the proper law of the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
In our opinion, these observations are fully applicable to the facts and circumstances of this case.	Reasoning
The conclusion reached by the High Court would lead to the chaotic situation where the parties would be left rushing between India and England for redressal of their grievances.	Reasoning
The provisions of Part I of the Arbitration Act 1996 (Indian) are necessarily excluded being wholly inconsistent with the arbitration agreement which provides that arbitration agreement shall be governed by English law.	Reasoning
Thus the remedy of the respondent to challenge any award rendered in the arbitration proceedings would lie under the relevant provisions contained in Arbitration Act, 1996 of England and Wales.	None
Whether or not such an application would now be entertained by the courts in England is not for us to examine, it would have to be examined by the Court of Competent Jurisdiction in England.	None
Public Policy Mr. Ganguly has vehemently argued that the issues involved here relate to violation of public policy of India.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the applicability of Part I of the Indian Arbitration Act cannot be excluded even if the seat of arbitration is London.	Arguments of Respondent
It would also, according to Mr. Ganguly, make no difference that the arbitration agreement specifically provides for the arbitration agreement to be governed by the Laws of England.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Ganguly, proper law of the contract would be relevant to determine the question as to whether the interim final award would be amenable to challenge under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the aforesaid submission of the learned counsel runs counter to the well settled law in India as well as in other jurisdictions.	Arguments of Respondent
As noticed earlier, Mr. Ganguly has submitted that the disputes in relation to royalties, cess, service tax and the CAG audit report are not arbitrable.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this submission, he relies on the provisions contained in Article 15.1 read with Article 32.2.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying upon these two Articles, Mr. Ganguly submitted that the obligation with regard to taxes, royalties, rentals etc. are not purely contractual, they are governed by the relevant statutory provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
He, therefore, placed strong reliance on the judgment in Venture Global (supra) in support of his submission that since the disputes are not arbitrable, the award cannot be enforced under Part II of the Arbitration Act, 1996 but is amenable to challenge under Section 34 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It would be appropriate to point out that the judgment in Venture Global is in two parts.	None
The first part is based on Bhatia International Ltd., wherein it is held as follows  32.	Reasoning
.In cases of international commercial arbitrations held out of India provisions of Part I would apply unless the parties by agreement, express or implied, exclude all or any of its provisions.	Reasoning
In that case the laws or rules chosen by the parties would prevail.	Reasoning
Any provision, in Part I, which is contrary to or excluded by that law or rules will not apply.	Reasoning
In this case, the parties have by agreement provided that the juridical seat of arbitration will be in London.	Reasoning
On the basis of the aforesaid agreement, necessary amendment has been made in the PSCs.	Reasoning
On the basis of the agreement and the consent of the parties, the Arbitral Tribunal has made the Final Partial Consent Award on 14th September, 2011 fixing the juridical seat (or legal place) of arbitration for the purposes of arbitration initiated under the claimants notice of arbitration dated 16th December, 2010 in London, England.	Facts
To make it even further clear that the award also records that any hearing in the arbitration may take place in Paris, France, Singapore or any other location the tribunal considers convenient.	Reasoning
Article 33.12 stipulates that arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in English language.	Reasoning
The arbitration agreement contained in Article 33 shall be governed by the laws of England.	Reasoning
A combined effect of all these factors would clearly show that the parties have by express agreement excluded the applicability of Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 (Indian) to the arbitration proceedings.59.	Reasoning
We are also unable to agree with Mr. Ganguly that Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 (Indian) would be applicable in this case, in view of the law laid down by this Court in Venture Global Engineering (supra).	Reasoning
In our opinion, even the second part of the ratio in Venture Global Engineering (supra) from paragraph 32 of the judgment onwards would not be applicable to the facts and circumstances of this case.	Reasoning
Firstly, in our opinion, all the disputes raised by the petitioners herein are contractual in nature.	Reasoning
Secondly, the performance of any of these obligations would not lead to any infringement of any of the laws of India per se.	Reasoning
Thirdly, the nonobstante clause which was under consideration in Venture Global is nonexistent in the present case.	None
In Venture Global, the court was concerned with direct violation of Foreign Exchange Management Act.	Reasoning
The actions of the respondents therein would also have been contrary to various provisions of the Companies Act in the event the shares were to be transferred in accordance with the award.	Reasoning
Therefore, this Court was persuaded to take the view that inspite of the applicability of Part I having been excluded as the seat of arbitration was outside nonetheless	Reasoning
Part I would apply as the transfer of the shares would be against the laws of India and, therefore, violate public policy.	Reasoning
In our opinion, such circumstances do not exist in the present case as there is no danger of violation of any statutory provisions.	Reasoning
Prima facie, it appears that there is no challenge to the Gazette Notification.	Reasoning
In fact, claim statement shows that the amounts of royalties cess levied have been paid.	Reasoning
Prayer is for reimbursement of the amounts paid, based on Articles 15.6 and 15.7 of the PSC.	Reasoning
There also seems to be a claim for making necessary revisions and adjustment to the contract to offset the effect of any changes in the law.	Reasoning
We fail to see any apparent or so patently obvious violation of Indian Laws in any of these claims.	Reasoning
The basis for filing the petition under Section 34 is that the Appellants are bound to obey the Laws of the country.	Reasoning
The appellants have nowhere claimed to be exempted from the Laws of India.	Reasoning
They claim that the Government of India, party to the Contract, i.e., PSC has failed to seek and obtain exemption as stipulated in the contract.	Reasoning
Whether or not the claim has substance is surely an arbitral matter.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the appellants that they are not bound by the Laws of India, relating to the performance of the contractual obligations under the PSCs.	Reasoning
In view of what we have said earlier, it is not possible to sustain the conclusion reached by the High Court.	Reasoning
The arbitration agreement can not be jettisoned on the plea that award, if made against the Government of India, would violate Public Policy of India.	Reasoning
Merely because the Arbitral Tribunal has held that claims are arbitral does not mean that the claims have been accepted and an award adverse to India has been given.	Reasoning
We, therefore, have no hesitation in rejecting the submission made by Mr. Ganguly.	Reasoning
For the same reasons, we are unable to sustain the conclusions reached by the High Court of Delhi.60.	Reasoning
Another good reason for not accepting or approving the conclusions reached by the High Court is that it has failed to distinguish between the law applicable to the proper law of the contract and proper law of the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
The High Court has also failed to notice that by now it is settled, in almost all international jurisdictions, that the agreement to arbitrate is a separate contract distinct from the substantive contract which contains the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
This principle of severability of the arbitration agreement from the substantive contract is indeed statutorily recognized by Section 16 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996.	Reasoning
Section 16(1) specifically provides as under Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction.(1)	None
The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,(a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract and(b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.	None
A bare perusal of the aforesaid would show that the arbitration agreement is independent of the other terms of the contract.	None
Further, even if the contract is declared null and void, it would not lead to the foregone conclusion that the arbitration clause in invalid.	None
The aforesaid provision has been considered by this Court in a number of cases, which are as follows Reva Electric Car Company P. Ltd.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
Green Mobi l. ((2012) 2 SCC 93 ), Today Homes and Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd .	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
Ludhiana Improvement Trust and Anr., (2013 (7) SCALE 327 ), Enercon (India) Ltd.	Reasoning
Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
Enercon GMBH Anr., (2014 (1) Arb.	Reasoning
LR 257 (SC))	Reasoning
World Sport Group (Mauritius) Ltd .	Reasoning
Vs. MSM Satellite (Singapore) PTC Ltd.	Reasoning
Civil Appeal No. 895 of 201462.	Reasoning
This principle of separability permits the parties to agree that law of one country would govern to the substantive contract and laws of another country would apply to the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
The parties can also agree that even the conduct of the reference would be governed by the law of another country.	Reasoning
This would be rare, as it would lead to extremely complex problems.	Reasoning
It is expected that reasonable businessman do not intend absurd results.	Reasoning
In the present case, the parties had by agreement provided that the substantive contract (PSC) will be governed by the laws of India.	Reasoning
In contradistinction, it was provided that the arbitration agreement will be governed by laws of England.	Reasoning
Therefore, there was no scope for any confusion of the law governing the PSC with the law governing the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
This principle of severability is also accepted specifically under Article 33.10 of the PSC, which is as under The right to arbitrate disputes and claims under this Contract shall survive the termination of this contract.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, unable to uphold the conclusions recorded by the High Court that the applicability of the English Law would be limited in its application only to the conduct of the reference.	Reasoning
For the same reasons, we are unable to accept the submissions made by Mr. Ganguly on this issue.64.	Reasoning
In 1982, the Government provided a model Production Sharing Contract to potential bidders, which provided a governing law clause, which read as follows 32.1	None
This contract shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with laws of India.	None
This was specifically amended and incorporated in the present PSCs signed on 22nd December, 1994 and provided that the governing law clause (32.1) would be subject to the provision of Article 33.12.	None
Considering the aforesaid two provisions, it leaves no manner of doubt that Article 32.2 would have no impact on the designated juridical seat as well as governing law of the arbitration agreement.	None
This would become evident from a perusal of the Final Partial Consent Award dated 14th September, 2011, signed by all the three members of the arbitral tribunal recording that the juridical seat of the arbitration initiated under the Claimants Notice dated 16th December, 2010 shall be London, England.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are unable to accept the conclusion reached by the Delhi High Court and the submission made by Mr. Ganguly that Arbitration Act, 1996 (Part I) would be applicable to the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
Mr. Ganguly has next sought to persuade us that the seat of arbitration shall be in India as the PSC is governed by the law of India.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Ganguly, laws of India would include the Arbitration Act, 1996.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, irrespective of the provisions contained in Article 33.12, Arbitration Act, 1996 would be applicable to arbitration proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
The English law would be applicable only in relation to the conduct of the arbitration upto the passing of the Partial Final Award.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept the aforesaid submissions of Mr. Ganguly.	None
As noticed earlier, Article 32.1 itself provides that it shall be subject to the provision of Article 33.12.	Reasoning
Article 33.12 provides that the arbitration agreement contained in this Article shall be governed by the laws of England.	Reasoning
The term laws of England cannot be given a restricted meaning confined to only curial law.	None
It is permissible under law for the parties to provide for different laws of the contract and the arbitration agreement and the curial law.	Reasoning
In Naviera Amazonica SA (supra), the Court of Appeal in England considered an agreement which contained a clause providing for the jurisdiction of the courts in Lima, Peru in the event of judicial dispute and at the same time contained a clause providing that the arbitration would be governed by the English Law and the procedural law of arbitration shall be the English Law.	Reasoning
The Court of Appeal observed as follows  All contracts which provide for arbitration and contain a foreign element may involve three potentially relevant systems of law (1) the law governing the substantive contract (2) the law governing the agreement to arbitrate and the performance of that agreement (3) the law governing the conduct of the arbitration.	None
In the majority of cases all three will be the same.	Reasoning
But (1) will often be different from (2) and (3).	Reasoning
And occasionally, but rarely (2) may also differ from (3).	None
From the above, it is evident that it was open to the parties to agree that the law governing the substantive contract (PSC) would be different from the law governing the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
This is precisely the situation in the present case.	Reasoning
Article 32.1 specifically provides that the performance of the contractual obligations under the PSC would be governed and interpreted under the laws of India.	Reasoning
So far as the alternative dispute redressal agreement i.e. the arbitration agreement is concerned, it would be governed by laws of England.	Reasoning
There is no basis on which the respondents can be heard to say that the applicability of laws of England related only to the conduct of arbitration reference.	Reasoning
The law governing the conduct of the arbitration is interchangeably referred to as the curial law or procedural law or the lex fori.	Reasoning
The delineation of the three operative laws as given in Naviera Amazonica (supra) has been specifically followed by this Court in the case of Sumitomo (supra).	Reasoning
The court also, upon a survey, of a number of decisions rendered by the English Courts and after referring to the views expressed by learned commentators on International Commercial Arbitration concluded that The law which would apply to the filing of the award, to its enforcement and to its setting aside would be the law governing the agreement to arbitrate and the performance of that agreement.	None
In coming to the aforesaid conclusion, this Court relied on a passage from Law and Practice of Commercial Arbitration in England, 2nd Edn.	None
by Mustill and Boyd which is as under An agreed reference to arbitration involves two groups of obligations.	None
The first concerns the mutual obligations of the parties to submit future disputes, or an existing dispute to arbitration, and to abide by the award of a tribunal constituted in accordance with the agreement.	None
It is now firmly established that the arbitration agreement which creates these obligations is a separate contract, distinct from the substantive agreement in which it is usually embedded, capable of surviving the termination of the substantive agreement and susceptible of premature termination by express or implied consent, or by repudiation or frustration, in much the same manner as in more ordinary forms of contract.	None
Since this agreement has a distinct life of its own, it may in principle be governed by a proper law of its own, which need not be the same as the law governing the substantive contract.	None
The second group of obligations, consisting of what is generally referred to as the curial law of the arbitration, concerns the manner in which the parties and the arbitrator are required to conduct the reference of a particular dispute.	None
According to the English theory of arbitration, these rules are to be ascertained by reference to the express or implied terms of the agreement to arbitrate.	None
This being so, it will be found in the great majority of cases that the curial law, i.e., the law governing the conduct of the reference, is the same as the law governing the obligation to arbitrate.	None
It is, however, open to the parties to submit, expressly or by implication, the conduct of the reference to a different law from the one governing the underlying arbitration agreement.	None
In such a case, the court looks first at the arbitration agreement to see whether the dispute is one which should be arbitrated, and which has validly been made the subject of the reference, it then looks to the curial law to see how that reference should be conducted and then returns to the first law in order to give effect to the resulting award.	None
It may therefore be seen that problems arising out of an arbitration may, at least in theory, call for the application of any one or more of the following laws 1.	None
The proper law of the contract, i.e., the law governing the contract which creates the substantive rights of the parties, in respect of which the dispute has arisen.2.	None
The proper law of the arbitration agreement, i.e., the law governing the obligation of the parties to submit the disputes to arbitration, and to honour an award.3.	None
The curial law, i.e., the law governing the conduct of the individual reference.	None
1.	None
The proper law of the arbitration agreement governs the validity of the arbitration agreement, the question whether a dispute lies within the scope of the arbitration agreement the validity of the notice of arbitration the constitution of the tribunal the question whether an award lies within the jurisdiction of the arbitrator the formal validity of the award the question whether the parties have been discharged from any obligation to arbitrate future disputes.2.	None
The curial law governs the manner in which the reference is to be conducted the procedural powers and duties of the arbitrator questions of evidence the determination of the proper law of the contract.3.	None
The proper law of the reference governs the question whether the parties have been discharged from their obligation to continue with the reference of the individual dispute.	None
In the absence of express agreement, there is a strong prima facie presumption that the parties intend the curial law to be the law of the seat of the arbitration, i.e., the place at which the arbitration is to be conducted, on the ground that that is the country most closely connected with the proceedings.	None
So in order to determine the curial law in the absence of an express choice by the parties it is first necessary to determine the seat of the arbitration, by construing the agreement to arbitrate.	None
The same legal position is reiterated by this Court in Dozco (supra).	None
In paragraph 12 of the judgment, it is observed as follows In the backdrop of these conflicting claims, the question boils down to as to what is the true interpretation of Article 23.	Reasoning
This Article 23 will have to be read in the backdrop of Article 22 and more particularly, Article 22.1.	Reasoning
It is clear from the language of Article 22.1 that the whole agreement would be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of The Republic of Korea.	Reasoning
It is for this reason that the respondent heavily relied on the law laid down in Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. v. ONGC	Reasoning
Ltd.6 This judgment is a complete authority on the proposition that the arbitrability of the dispute is to be determined in terms of the law governing arbitration agreement and the arbitration proceedings have to be conducted in accordance with the curial law.	Reasoning
This Court, in that judgment, relying on Mustill and Boyd The Law and Practice of Commercial Arbitration in England, 2nd Edn., observed in para 15 that where the law governing the conduct of the reference is different from the law governing the underlying arbitration agreement, the court looks to the arbitration agreement to see if the dispute is arbitrable, then to the curial law to see how the reference should be conducted, and then returns to the first law in order to give effect to the resulting award.	Reasoning
In para 16, this Court, in no uncertain terms, declared that the law which would apply to the filing of the award, to its enforcement and to its setting aside would be the law governing the agreement to arbitrate and the performance of that agreement.	None
We are in respectful agreement with the aforesaid judgment.71.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid binding precedent, we are unable to accept the submission of Mr. Ganguly that the Arbitration Act, 1996 has not been excluded by the parties by agreement.	Reasoning
For the same reasons, we are unable to approve the conclusions reached by the Delhi High Court that reference to laws of England is only confined to the procedural aspects of the conduct of the arbitration reference.72.	Reasoning
We are also unable to agree with the submission of Mr. Ganguly that since the issues involved herein relate to the public policy of India, Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would be applicable.	Reasoning
Applicability of Part I of Arbitration Act, 1996 is not dependent on the nature of challenge to the award.	Reasoning
Whether or not the award is challenged on the ground of public policy, it would have to satisfy the precondition that the Arbitration Act, 1996 is applicable to the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the High Court has committed a jurisdictional error in holding that the provisions contained in Article 33.12 is relevant only for the determination of the curial law applicable too the proceedings.	Reasoning
We have already noticed earlier that the parties by agreement have provided that the juridical seat of the arbitration shall be in London.	Reasoning
Necessary amendment has also been made in the PSCs, as recorded by the Final Partial Consent Award dated 14th September, 2011.	Reasoning
It is noteworthy that the Arbitration Act, 1996 does not define or mention juridical seat.	Reasoning
The term juridical seat on the other hand is specifically defined in Section 3 of the English Arbitration Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, this would clearly indicate that the parties understood that the arbitration law of England would be applicable to the arbitration agreement.73.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid, we are unable to uphold the conclusion arrived at by the Delhi High Court that the applicability of Arbitration Act, 1996 to the arbitration agreement in the present case has not been excluded.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we hold that The petition filed by respondents under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 in the Delhi High Court is not maintainable.(ii)	Decision
We further overrule and set aside the conclusion of the High Court that, even though the arbitration agreement would be governed by the laws of England and that juridical seat of arbitration would be in London, Part I of the Arbitration Act would still be applicable as the laws governing the substantive contract are Indian Laws.(iii)	Decision
In the event, a final award is made against the respondent, the enforceability of the same in India, can be resisted on the ground of Public Policy.(iv)	Decision
The conclusion of the High Court that in the event, the award is sought to be enforced outside India, it would leave the Indian party remediless is without any basis as the parties have consensually provided that the arbitration agreement will be governed by the English law.	Decision
Therefore, the remedy against the award will have to be sought in England, where the juridical seat is located.	Decision
However, we accept the submission of the appellant that since substantive law governing the contract is Indian Law, even the Courts in England, in case the arbitrability is challenged, will have to decide the issue by applying Indian Law viz.	Decision
the principle of public policy etc. as it prevails in Indian Law.	Decision
In view of the above, the appeal is allowed and the impugned judgment of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
