 	Issue
These appeals have been filed against the common order passed by the learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court at Nagpur.	Issue
The appellants in these criminal appeals are the Directors of a Company, which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of Vanaspati, having its factory at Amalner in Maharashtra.	Issue
The Food Inspector attached to Amalner municipality took samples of Vanaspati and after analysis it was found that the sample did not conform to the standards prescribed under the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rules made thereunder.	Issue
The prosecution was launched impleading all these appellants as accused.	Issue
Out of the five cases, in three cases one S.K. Tokhi was arrayed as an accused as a person nominated by the Company under subsection (2) of Section 17 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act.	Issue
In two cases, the company and the Members of Board of Directors were arrayed as accused.	Issue
The appellants when received summons from the Magistrate Court filed application under section 482 Cr.P.C.	Issue
before the High Court to quash the prosecution against these appellants.	Issue
They contended that the company had validly nominated a person under subsection (2) of Section 17 to be Incharge and responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company and therefore Members of the Board of Directors are not liable to be prosecuted.	Issue
They also contended that the averments in the complaint were not sufficient to implicate these appellants as accused.	Issue
The learned Single Judge found that the averments are sufficient and the prosecution against these appellants is sustainable and declined to quash the prosecution.	Issue
Aggrieved by the same, the present appeals have been filed.	Issue
We heard the learned counsel for the appellants and also for the counsel for the respondent.	None
The counsel for the respondent submitted that the nomination made under subsection (2) of Section 17 is not valid nomination, and we feel that is a matter to be decided by the Magistrate.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the complicity of these appellants, counsel for the respondent submitted that in the complaint it is alleged that they are Directors of the Company.	Reasoning
That apart, we do not find any allegation in the complaint.	Reasoning
It is not stated in the complaint that the appellants during the relevant time was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company.	Reasoning
It is also to be noticed that in the complaint filed by the Food Inspector, there are no averments to implicate these appellants under subclause (4) of section 17.	None
Our attention was drawn by the learned counsel for the appellants to the fact that four other criminal complaints were filed by the same Food Inspector against these appellants and the Members of the Board of Directors and those prosecution were quashed as against the Members of Director Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
Same averments have been made in this complaint.	None
In this view of the matter, this complaint should have been quashed by the learned Single Judge as against these appellants.	Reasoning
In the result, the order passed by the learned Single Judge is quashed.	Reasoning
However, we make it clear that if the prosecution is successful in producing any materials before the trial court to show that if these appellants could be prosecuted either under Section 17(a)(ii) or section 17(4), the trial court would be at liberty to take action in accordance with law.	Reasoning
In the result, we set aside the order of the learned Single Judge and the complaints are quashed as against these appellants are concerned.	Decision
The appeals are disposed of.4.	Decision
S.L.P. (Crl).	Decision
No. 38183825 of 2002 In view of the observations made by the learned Single Judge in Para 47 of the impugned judgment, we are not inclined to interfere with the order.	Decision
The Special Leave Petitions are dismissed.	Decision
