 PATHAK, J.1.	None
These appeals, by special leave, raise the question whether the respondents are entitled to claim fixation of their seniority in the Subordinate Accounts Service after taking into account their length of service as Upper Division Clerks.	Issue
The respondents entered service in the Office of the Accountant General, Tamil Nadu as Upper Division Clerks.	Facts
They appeared in the Subordinate Accounts Service Examination but it was only after a number of attempt s that they succeeded in passing.	Facts
They passed the examination held in November, 1969 and were promoted shortly thereafter.	Facts
They claimed seniority on the basis that their length of service in the inferior post should be taken into account, and rested their claim on paragraph 143 of the Manual of Standing Orders issued by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral as it stood before its amendment by a correction slip of 27th July, 1956.	Facts
The correction slip removed the factor of weightage on the basis of length of service in the determination of seniority.	Facts
The claim was rejected by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral.	Facts
A writ petition filed by them in the High Court of Madras was allowed by a learned Single Judge, and h is judgment was affirmed by an appellate Bench, of the High Court.	Facts
Against the judgment of the appellate Bench, the Accountant General, Tamil Nadu and the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral have appealed to this Court, and those appeals are pending as Civil Appeals Nos. 1584 to 1588 of 1973.	Facts
During the pendency of those appeals the President enacted the Indian Audit and Accounts Department (Subordinate Accounts Service Subordinate Railway Audit Service) Service Rules, 1974 (refer red to hereinafter as the Rules of 1974).	Facts
The Rules of 1974 purport to give statutory recognition to the amendment of paragraph 143 by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral.	Facts
The validity of the Rules of 1974 and the amendment made in paragraph 143 are assailed by the respondents in the instant appeals.2.	Facts
The Rules of 1974 have been enacted by the President.	None
They are deemed to have come into force on 27th July, 1956, which has been defined, for the purposes of the Rules as the appointed day.	Facts
The Subordinate Accounts Service (the Service) includes members appointed to it before the appointed day as well as persons recruited to it in or before that day.	Facts
Rule 5 provides that recruitment shall be made by direct recruitment in accordance with, the orders or directions issued by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral from time to time and also by promotion.	None
Rule 6 provides6.	None
AppointmentsAppointments to the Service shall be made from the list prepare d in accordance with the orders and instructions issued by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral from time to time and applicable at the time of appointment to the Service.	None
Rule 7 deals with seniority, and declares7.	None
Seniority(1)	None
The seniority interse of the persons appointed to the service before the appointed day shall be regulated by the orders or instructions issued by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral as were in force at the relevant time before such day.(2)	None
The seniorityinterse of the persons appointed to the Service on or after the appointed day shall be in the order in which the appointments are made to the service in accordance with rule 6.Provided that a direct recruit shall on appointment to the Service rank senior to all officiating persons in the service (excluding a direct recruit) passing in the same departmental examination or subsequent departmental examinations.	None
Provided further that the seniority of a person who had declined the appointment to the Service but who is subsequently appointed to the Service shall be determined with reference to the date on which he assumed charge of the post in the cadre.3.	None
By virtue of Rule 9, in matters not specifically provided for in the Rules, every person appointed to the Service is governed by the rules, regulations, orders or instructions made or issued in respect of the Central Civil Services as applicable to the Indian Audit and Accounts Department.	None
Rule 10 empowers the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral to issue, from time to time, such general or special instructions or orders as he may consider necessary or expedient for the purpose of giving, effect to the Rules.4.	None
The respondents have raised two contentions.	Arguments of Respondent
The first is that the Rules are invalid as clause (5) of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
148 to which alone, it is said, they must be ascribed, does not permit the retrospective enactment of rules made thereunder.	Arguments of Respondent
The other contention is that the specific rules affecting the seniority of the respondents are in valid be cause in entrusting power to the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral to issue orders and instructions in his discretion the doctrine against excessive delegation of legislative power has been violated Taking the first contention first, it may be noted that the Rules of 1974 purport, according to the recital in the Notification dated 4th November, 1974 publishing them, to have been made by the President in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Art. 309 and clause (5) of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
148 of the Constitution and after consultation with the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral of India.	None
The respondents say that the only provision of the Constitution under which those Rules could be made is clause (5) of Art.	None
148, and	None
we should ignore reference to the proviso to Art. 309.	None
If that is done, they urge, there will be no ju stification for holding that the Rules of 1974 can be given retrospective operation.	None
Unlike the proviso to Art.	None
309, it is pointed out, clause (5) of Art.	None
148 does not permit the enactment of retrospectively operating rules.	None
We think that the respondents are right.5.	None
Article 309 provides for legislation by the appropriate Legislature to regulate the recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State, and the proviso to Art.	None
309 declares that until such legislation is enacted by the appropriate Legislature the President is empowered in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union, and the Governor of a State in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of a State, to make rules regulating the recruitment and the conditions of service of persons appointed to such services and posts.	Reasoning
There is a clear dichotomy in the power conferred by Art.	Reasoning
309, a division of power between the Parliament or President, as the case may be, on the one side and the State Legislature or Governor on the other.	Reasoning
The division is marked by the circumstance that under Art 309, services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union are dealt with by a separate authority from the services and posts in connection with the affairs of a State.	Reasoning
That dichotomy it seems, is not possible in the power employed for appointing persons in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department and for prescribing their conditions of service.	Reasoning
The Comptroller and AuditorGeneral of India, who is the head of that department, is a constitutional functionary holding a special position under the Constitution.	Reasoning
Under Art. 149, he performs duties and exercises powers in relation to the accounts of the Union and also of the States.	Reasoning
Clause (1) of Art. 151 requires him to submit a report relating to the accounts of the Union to the President, who causes them to be laid before each House of Parliament.	Reasoning
Likewise, clause (2) of Art. 151 requires him to submit a report relating to the accounts of a State to the Governor of the State, who causes them to be laid before the Legislature of the State.	Reasoning
It cannot be said, in the circumstances, that the persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department are holding office in connection with the affairs of the Union exclusively.	Reasoning
It may be p ointed out that when the Constitutional Adviser prepared the Draft Constitution for consideration by the Constituent Assembly the document contained separate provisions for the appointment of the AuditorGeneral of the Federation and Audit orsGeneral for the Provinces.	Reasoning
The AuditorGeneral for the Federation was to be appointed by the President and his functions extended to the accounts of the Federation as well as of the Provinces.	Reasoning
But it was open to a Provincial Legislature to provide by law for the appointment of an AuditorGeneral for the Province and the appointment to that office was to be made by the Governor.	Reasoning
The Expert Committee on the financial provisions of the Union Constitution favoured the continuance of a single AuditorGeneral for the Government of India as well as for the Provincial Governments and hoped that the Provincial Governments would refrain from using their power of appointing separate AuditorsGeneral of their own.	Reasoning
When the matter came before the Drafting Committee, it decided that the persons performing the functions of the AuditorGeneral in a State should be designated AuditorinChief in order to distinguish him from the AuditorGeneral of India, a nd that the salaries and allowances of the staff of these officers should be fixed by the AuditorGeneral of India and the AuditorinChief in consultation with the President and the Governor respectively.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the Drafting Committee reconsidered the desirability of permitting a multiplicity of audit authorities, one for the Union and one for each State.	Reasoning
On 1st August, 1949 Shri T.T. Krishnamachari moved an amendment deleting the draft articles enabling the State Legislatures to create their own AuditorsinChief.	Reasoning
He pointed out that since the Constituent Assembly had already adopted articles whereby the auditing and accounting would become one institution, so to say, under the authority of the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral, it was not necessary to have separate provision for the States.	Reasoning
Accordingly, he proposed the addition of a new article now clause (2) of Art.	Reasoning
151 about the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral, requiring him to submit the re ports of the accounts of a State to the Governor for being laid before the State Legislature.	Reasoning
These amendments were adopted by the Constituent Assembly.	Reasoning
It is evident that the authority vested in the Comptroller and Auditor General ranges over functions associated with the affairs of the Union as well as over functions associated with the affairs of the States.	Reasoning
It is a single office, and the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, which it heads, is a single department.	Reasoning
They cannot be said to be concerned with the affairs of the Union exclusively.	Reasoning
Consequently, the regulation of the recruitment and conditions of service of persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department cannot be regarded as a matter falling with the domain of the President within the terms of the proviso to Art.	Reasoning
309.	Reasoning
A special provision was necessary to entrust the President with that power, and that provision is clause (5) of Art, 148.	Reasoning
The power contained in clause (5) of Art.	Reasoning
148 is not related to the power under the proviso to Art.	Reasoning
309.	Reasoning
The two powers are separate and distinct from each other and are not complementary to one another.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the reference to the proviso under Art. 309 in the recital of the Notification publishing the Rules of 1974 is meaningless and must be ignored.6.	Reasoning
The next question is whether clause (5) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
148 permits the enactment of rules having retrospective operation.	Reasoning
It is settled law that unless a statute conferring the power to make rules provides for the making of rules with retrospective operation, the rules made pursuant to that power can have prospective operation only.	Reasoning
An exception, however, is the proviso to Art.	Reasoning
309.	Reasoning
In B. S. Vadera v. Union of India Ors.	Reasoning
this Court held that the rules framed under the proviso to Art. 309 of the Constitution could have retrospective operation.	Reasoning
The conclusion followed from the circumstance that the power conferred under the porviso to Art .	Reasoning
309 was intended to fill a hiatus that is to say, until Parliament or a State Legislature enacted a law on the subject matter of Art.	Reasoning
309.	Reasoning
The rules framed under the proviso to Art. 309 were transient in character and were to do duty only until legislation was enacted.	Reasoning
As interim substitutes for such legislation it was clearly intended that the rules should have the same range of operation as an Act of Parliament or of the State Legislature.	Reasoning
The intent was reinforced by the declaration in the proviso to Art. 309 that any rules so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of any such Act.	Reasoning
Those features are absent in clause (5) of Art.	Reasoning
148.	Reasoning
There is nothing in the language of that clause to indicate that the rules framed therein were intended to serve until Parliamentary legislation was enacted.	Reasoning
All that the clause says is that the rules framed would be subject to the provisions of the Constitution and of any law made by Parliament.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that clause (5) of Art.	Reasoning
148 confers power on the President to frame rules operating prospectively only.	Reasoning
Clearly then.	Reasoning
the rules of 1974 cannot have retrospective operation, and therefore subrule (2) of rule 1, which declares that they will be deemed to have come into force on 27th July, 1956 must be held ultra vires.7.	None
If the Rules of 1974 do not cover the case of the respondents then admittedly the only question which remains in regard to them is whether the amendment intended by the Comptroller and Auditor General in 1956 to paragraph 143 of the Manual of Standing Orders results in amending that paragraph.	None
The amendment is in the form of a correction slip which, it is not disputed, possesses the status of an administrative instruction.	None
The contention on behalf of the respondents is that paragraph 143 possesses the status of a statutory rule and, therefore, the amendment attempted by the correction slip has no legal effect on it.	None
The High Cour t held that paragraph 143 was a statutory rule and it proceeded to hold so on the basis of affidavits filed before it.	Arguments of Respondent
But the matter has been more carefully researched since, and the relevant material is now set out in the special leave petition, which has given rise to this appeal.	None
It appears that in 1921 the AuditorGeneral, as the administrative head of the Indian Audit Department, inserted Art.	None
1666A by a circular No. 1757E/1129 dated 18th April, 1921 giving weight to the l ength of service in the fixation of seniority.	None
In the Audit Code prepared subsequently, Art, 1666A appeared as Art.	None
52.	None
Thereafter, in the Manual of Standing Orders issued by the AuditorGeneral in 1938, Art. 52 found expression as paragraph 143.	None
The provision never acquired statutory force under the Government of India Act, 1919.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents urges that it acquired statutory force under subs.	None
(2) of s. 252.	Arguments of Respondent
Government of India Act, 1935.	None
Subss.	None
(1) and (2) o	None
f s. 252 provide252.	None
(1) All persons who immediately before the commencement of Part III of this Act were members of the staff of the High Commissioner for India, or members of the staff of the Auditor of the accoun ts of the Secretary of State in Council, shall continue to be, or shall become, members of the staff of the High Commissioner for India or, as the case may be, of the Auditor of Indian Home Accounts.(2)	None
All such persons aforesaid shall hold their offices or posts subject to like conditions of service as to remuneration, pensions or otherwise, as therefore, or not less favourable conditions, and shall be entitled to reckon for purposes of pension any service which they would have been, entitled to reckon if this Act had not been passed.	None
Subs.	None
(2) of s. 252 does not help the respondents.8.	None
Firstly, the guarantee conferred by it covered those persons who held offices or posts on the staff of the Auditor of the accounts of the Secretary of State in Council and on the staff of the Indian Home Accounts immediately before the commencement of Part III of the Act.	Reasoning
The respondents are clearly not such persons.	Reasoning
Secondly, even if it be assumed that the benefit of subs.	Reasoning
(2) can be extended to the respondents, subs.	Reasoning
(2) merely protects the conditions of service enjoyed by them a s they existed before.	Reasoning
The sub section does not enlarge or improve on the quality of those conditions of service.	Reasoning
If seniority was determined by a departmental instruction, subs.	Reasoning
(2) did not give that provision the higher status of a statut ory rule.	Reasoning
It remained what it always was, a departmental instruction.	Reasoning
We were also referred to Art.	Reasoning
313 of the Constitution, but that provision also does not result in converting a departmental instruction into a statutory rule.	Reasoning
Plainly, paragra ph 143 in the Manual of Standing Orders remained throughout a departmental instruction and, therefore, could be amended by the departmental instruction contained in the correction slip issued by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral in 1956.	Reasoning
On that conclusion being reached, the claim of the respondents must fail.	Decision
The appeals have to be allowed.9.	None
In the connected writ petition No. 357 of 1979 there are 15 petitioners.	None
The first ten passed the Subordinate Accounts Service Examination and were promoted to the service after 1956 and before the enactment of the Rules of 1974.	Reasoning
They will be governed by the legal position e nunciated in the aforesaid appeals.	Reasoning
The eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth petitioners passed t he examination immediately before the enactment of the Rules of 1974 but were promoted after the Rules were enacted.	Reasoning
The remaining petitioners appeared at the examination and were promoted after the enactment of the Rules.	Reasoning
In the case of the last two categories the Rules of 1974 will apply.	Reasoning
Having regard to the provision determining the fixation of seniority under the Rules of 1974 and the position obtaining thereafter, none of the petitioners can claim the benefit of weigtage on the basis of length of service.	Reasoning
But these petitioners rely on the second of the two contentions concerning the validity of the Rules of 1974.	Reasoning
They assail specifically the validity of Rule 7(2) which provides for fixation of seniority.	Reasoning
The argument is that the fixation of seniority has been made by Rule 7(2) to depend on the order in which appointments to the service are made under Rule 6, and that, it is pointed out, depends on an arbitrary power conferred on the Comptroller and Auditor General to pass orders and instructions.	Reasoning
We see no force in the contention.	Reasoning
The Comptroller and Auditor General is a high ranking constitutional authority, and can be expected to act according to the needs of the service and without arbitrariness.	Reasoning
He is the constitutional head of one of the most important departments of the State, and is expected to know what the department requires and how best to fulfil those requirements.	Reasoning
We are unable to hold that the power conferred on h im under the Rules violates the principle against excessive delegation.10.	Reasoning
The writ petition No. 4367 of 1978 must also be treated on the basis that the petitioners are not, in the fixation of their seniority, entitled to weightage with reference to their length of service.	Decision
Both writ petitions must, therefore, be dismissed.11.	None
Civil Appeals Nos. 15841588 of 1973 are allowed, the judgment and order of the Madras High Court is set aside and the writ petition is dismissed.	None
Writ Petit ion Nos. 357 of 1979 and 4367 of 1978 are also dismissed.12.	Decision
In the circumstances, there is no order as to costs.13.	None
Appeals allowed and Petitions dismissed.	None
