 Palekar, J.1.	None
This is an appeal from the judgment and Order dated January 21, 1971 of the Delhi High Court in Civil Writ Petition No. 719/1969.2.	None
Respondent no. 2	Facts
Ved Prakash was originally employed as a Driver in the Delhi Road Transport Authority which had been constituted under the Delhi Road Transport Authority Act, 1950.	Facts
The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 came into force in January, 1958.	Facts
By section 516 (1) (a) of the Corporation Act, the Delhi Road Transport Authority Act, 1950, stood repealed and in virtue of several other sections of the Corporation Act the functions of the Delhi Road Transport Authority were taken over by the Corporation.	Facts
Under section 511 every officer and employee of the Transport Authority stood transferred to and became an officer and employee of the Corporation.	Facts
Thus respondent no. 2 became an employee of the Corporation from January, 1958.3.	Facts
A disciplinary enquiry was started against respondent no. 2 by the Assistant General Manager (Transport) in 1962 and the Assistant General Manager decided to remove respondent no. 2 from service with effect from 1651963.	Facts
At that time an Industrial dispute was pending before respondent no. 1 the Presiding Officer of the Labour Court, and hence an application was made under section 33 (2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act for approval of the proposed action of removal of respondent no. 2 from service.	None
Respondent no. 1 did not approve of the action on the ground that the Order for removal was made by the Assistant General Manager and not the General Manager who alone could have removed him from service.	Facts
That order was challenged in the High Court which, however, agreed with the view taken by respondent no.	Facts
1.	Facts
Hence the present appeal.4.	None
The short point with which we are concerned is whether the Assistant General Manager of the Delhi Transport Undertaking of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi was a competent authority to remove respondent no .2 from service.5.	None
There is no dispute that under S. 511(1) of the Corporation Act, respondent no. 2 became an employee of the Corporation from January, 1958.	None
By reason of section 516 (2) (a) his appointment continued in force and was deemed to have been made under the provisions of the Corporation Act.	None
Section 92 which comes under Chapter VI of the Corporation Act dealing with Municipal officers and other Municipal employees, so far as is relevant, is as follows92 (1) Subject to the provisions of section 89 the power of appointing municipal officers and other municipal employees, whether temporary or permanent,(b) to posts carrying a minimum monthly salary (exclusive of allowances) of less than three hundred and fifty rupees, shall vest inthe General Manager (Transport).The minimum monthly salary of respondent no 2 was less than Rs. 350/ and hence the appropriate authority under the Corporation Act to appoint respondent	None
no .2 would be the General Manager (Transport).6.	None
Section 95 deals with disciplinary actions against municipal officers and employees.	None
Subsection (1) provides.every municipal officer or other municipal employee shall be liable to have his increments or promotion withheld or to be censured, reduced in rank, compulsorily retired, removed or dismissed for any breach of any departmental regulations or of discipline or for carelessness, unfitness, neglect of duty or other misconduct by such authority as may be prescribed by regulations.	None
The first proviso to the above subsection reads Provided that no such officer or other employee as aforesaid shall be reduced in rank, compulsorily retired, removed or dismissed by any authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed.7.	None
In view of the proviso referred to above it was contended on behalf of respondent no. 2 that he cannot be removed by any authority subordinate to the General Manager (Transport) and since the Assistant General Manager was a subordinate of the General Manager, the Order of removal was unauthorised and illegal.	Arguments of Respondent
That contention has been upheld by the High Court.8.	None
Two more provisions of the Corporation Act have to be noticed at this stage.	None
They are sections 491and 504 in Chapter XXV entitled Miscellaneous.	None
Section 491 is as followsThe Commissioner may by order direct that any power conferred or any duty imposed on him by or under this Act shall, in such circumstances and under such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, be exercised and performed also by any municipal officer or other municipal employee specified in the order.	None
Section 504 so far as is relevant is as followsSave as expressly provided in this Act and unless the context otherwise requires,Any reference in this Act to the Commissionershall be construed(ii) in relation to any matter pertaining to the Delhi Transport Undertaking, as a referenceto the General Manger (Transport)9.	None
Reading these two provisions together one sees that the General Manager (Transport) is entitled by order to direct that any power conferred or any duty imposed on him by or under the Act shall be exercised and performed also by any municipal officer or other municipal employee specified in the order.	None
It is common ground that the General Manager (Transport) has by an order issued in 1961 delegated his power to the Assistant General Manager to appoint and, consequently, to remove from service a driver like respondent no. 2.10.	None
Mr. Chagla, appearing on behalf of the appellant Undertaking, contended that respondent no. 2 had been actually appointed by the Manager of the Delhi Road Transport Authority constituted under the Delhi Road Transport Authority Act, 1950 and on the repeal of that Act and the takeover of the authority by the Corporation, any officer of the appellant Undertaking, competent to appoint or remove a driver, was entitled to remove him from service.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Assistant General Manager of the Undertaking could not be described as subordinate to the Manager of the Delhi Road Transport Authority because factually he was not.	Reasoning
Therefore, he contended, the provision that he shall not be removed by the authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed found in section 95 of the Corporation Act was inapplicable.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, the contention is not well founded.	Reasoning
The proviso to section 95 subsection (1) gives protection to every officer and employee of the Undertaking that he may not be removed or dismissed from service by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed.	Reasoning
It may be that in 1961 the functions of the General Manager (Transport) had been delegated to the Assistant General Manager.	Reasoning
The only consequence is that is if after 1961 the Assistant General Manager makes the appointment of a driver like respondent no. 2, he would no doubt be entitled to remove him from service.	Reasoning
But so far as respondent no. 2 is concerned his individual position will have to be determined with reference to the time when he was absorbed in Corporation Service.	Reasoning
That was in January, 1958.Section 516 while repealing the Delhi Road Transport Authority Act, 1950 by clause (a) of subsection (1) protects the appointments made under that Act.	None
Subsection 2 (a) provides Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section (a) any appointmentmadeand in force immediately before the establishment of the Corporation, shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue in force and be deemed to have been madeunder the provisions of this Act, unless and until it is superseded by any appointmentmade under the said provisions.	None
Since under section 92 (1) (b) already referred to, the power of appointing municipal employees to posts carrying a minimum monthly salary of Rupees 350/ vested in the General Manager (Transport) respondent no. 2, at the time of his absorption in January, 1958 would be deemed to have been appointed under section 92 (1) (b) which would mean that he was appointed by the General Manager (Transport).	None
Being so appointed, no subordinate of his including the Assistant General Manager (Transport) would be entitled to remove him from service in view of section 95 (1) proviso.11.	None
Section 95 (1) dealing with disciplinary action against municipal officers and employees specifically provides that every officer or other municipal employee shall be liable to be punished in the several ways referred to in that section by such authority as may be prescribed by regulations.	None
The definition of the word regulation given in clause 48 of section 2 is as follows Regulation means regulation made by the Corporation under this Act by notification in the official gazette.	None
In other words, the power of making regulations is vested in the Corporation and it is open to the Corporation to prescribe by regulation who would be the authority to punish any municipal officer or employee for his delinquency.	None
Such a regulation may provide that an employee of the status of respondent no. 2 can be removed for example, by the Assistant General Manager.	None
And yet by virtue of the proviso to that subsection respondent	None
no. 2 would be protected against any such action of the Assistant General Manager because his appointing authority was the General Manager and the Assistant General Manager was his subordinate.	None
A similar situation had arisen in R. T. Rangachari v. Secretary of State 64 Ind. App. 40 (AIR 1937 PC 27 ).	None
The appellant Rangachari had been appointed by the Inspector General of Police but his dismissal was ordered in 1928 by an official lower in rank than the Inspector General.	None
Rangachari claimed protection under Section 96 (b) of the Government of India Act, 1919 which so far as we are concerned was as followsSubsection (1)  Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder every person in the Civil Service of the Crown in India holds office during his Majestys pleasure and may be employed in any manner required by a proper authority within the scope of his duty but no person in that service may be dismissed by any authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed.	None
Since rules had been framed by which the power of dismissal had been delegated by the Inspector General of Police to a subordinate authority it was contended, though with certain amount of hesitation, that the dismissal of Rangachari was proper.	None
Lord Roche delivering the judgment in the case observed the courts below held that the power of dismissal was in fact delegated and was lawfully delegated to the person who purported to exercise it.	None
Counsel for the respondent candidly expressed a doubt as to the possibility of maintaining this view and indeed it is manifest that if power to delegate this power could be taken under the rules, it would wipe out a proviso and destroy a protection contained not in the rules but in the section itself.	None
Their Lordships are clearly of opinion that the dismissal purporting to be thus ordered in February was by reason of its origin bad and inoperative.	None
It is manifest that the stipulation or proviso as to dismissal is itself of statutory force and stands on a footing quite other than any matters of rule which are of infinite variety and can be changed from time to time.	None
It is plainly necessary that this statutory safeguard should be observed with the utmost care and that a deprivation of pension based upon a dismissal purporting to be made by an official who is prohibited by statute from making it rests upon an illegal and improper foundation.12.	None
It is, therefore, clear that a protection which is given to an employee by the statute cannot be nullified by rules and regulations authorised by the statute itself.	Reasoning
In other words, any regulation made by the Corporation which would have authorised the Assistant General Manager to remove respondent no. 2 from service would have been inoperative qua respondent no. 2, as his appointing authority was the General Manager (Transport).The question now is whether, if the Corporation itself by any regulation could not have destroyed the above protection given by the statute to respondent no. 2, it would be appropriate to say that the General Manager by an order delegating his functions to the Assistant General Manager under Sections 491 r w 504 of the Corporation Act could destroy the protection.	Reasoning
Since the General Manager (Transport) is an officer of the Corporation and subordinate to the Corporation, it will amount to saying that what the Corporation could not do by a regulation could be done by an officer of the Corporation by merely delegating his functions to the Assistant General Manager.	Reasoning
The position would look ridiculous.	Reasoning
The true position in law is that while Sections 491 and 504 read together authorised the General Manager (Transport) to delegate his powers and functions to a subordinate, they did not authorise delegation of his rank.	Reasoning
What is involved in matters of appointment and removal is the status and rank of the employee and the status and rank of the authority taking action.	Reasoning
When the proviso to subsection (1) of section 95 says that an officer and an employee shall not be dismissed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed the subordination is of rank and not of functions.	Reasoning
The proviso places an embargo on any subordinate of the appointing authority from removing or dismissing an employee from service and, therefore, the High Court was right in holding in the present case that the removal of respondent no. 2 by the Assistant General Manager (Transport) was illegal.13.	Reasoning
Mr. Chagla then contended that by reason of the delegation, the Assistant General Manager had become an agent of the General Manager and the act of the Assistant General Manager must be deemed to be the act of the General Manager himself.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not concerned here with the law of agency.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is implicit in the statutory prohibition debarring removal by a lesser authority, that the appointing authority has to personally apply its mind to the question of removal and cannot delegate such a function.	Reasoning
Since the authority which can remove an employee is the appointing authority or its superior in office, the protection thus provided cannot be destroyed by importing concepts of agency.14.	Reasoning
In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.15.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
