 Wanchoo, J. 1.	None
These two appeals by special leave from the judgments of the Calcutta High Court raise a common question of law and will be dealt with together.	None
It will be convenient to set out the facts of appeal 309 and deal with them in connection with the point raised on behalf of the appellant.	Facts
These facts are that a contract was entered into between the parties for supply of cornsacks on August 29, 1951.	Facts
The contract contained an arbitration clause in the following terms All matters, questions, disiputes, difference and or claims arising out of and or concerning and or in connection with and or in consequence of or relating to this contract whether or not the obligation of either or both parties under this contract be subsisting at the time of such dispute and whether or not this contract has been terminated or purported to be terminated or completed shall be referred to the arbitration of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce under the rules of its Tribunal of Arbitration for the time being in force and according to such rules the arbitration shall be conducted.	Facts
Disputes arose with respect to carrying out of the contract and on October 25, 1951 the respondent referred these disputes to the arbitration of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the Chamber).	Facts
That case was numbered 217G of 1951 in the Chambers records.	Facts
On April 17, 1952, the Tribunal of Arbitration made an award disallowing the claim of the respondent.	Facts
This award was filed in the High Court.	Facts
On May 25, 1953, the award was set aside on the ground of misconduct on the part of the arbitrators by a learned Single Judge.	Facts
That order was taken in appeal and on July 8, 1954, the appeal was dismissed.	Facts
Later, leave to appeal to this Court was refused and thus the order of the learned single Judge setting aside the award finally stood.	Facts
2.	None
Soon after the award had been set aside by the learned Single Judge, the respondent addressed a letter to the Chamber on September 7,1953.	Facts
It was said in this letter that as the award in case No. 217G of 1951 had been set aside by the High Court, the respondent begged to refer the matter for arbitration de novo and enclosed its statement of the case.	Facts
Thereupon another tribunal was constituted under the rules of the Chamber to decide the dispute afresh.	Facts
The appellant appeared before the tribunal and contended that it had no jurisdiction to make an award on a second reference in the same dispute.	Facts
The tribunal, however, proceeded to decide the reference and made the award on March 15, 1955.	Facts
This time the award was in favour of the respondent.	Facts
Thereupon on August 4, 1955, the appellant made an application to the High Court praying that the award be set aside.	Facts
In the alternative, the appellant prayed that the award be declared null and void and the arbitration agreement between the parties be superseded on the ground that the second reference was incompetent, 3.	Facts
The application was opposed by the respondent and its contention was that this was not a second reference, and what the respondent wanted was that the Chamber should in the event that had happened take up the dispute again and make a proper award.	Facts
Reliance in support of the plea that such a course was permissible was placed on behalf of the respondent on the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Barangore Jute Factory Co. Ltd. v. M s. Hulaschand Rupchand, 62 Cal W N 754 (AIR 1958 Cal .490).	Facts
4.	None
The learned Single Judge relied on the decision in 62 Cal W N 734 (AIR 1958 Cal 490 ) and held that from what the respondent said to the Chamber in its letter of September 7, 1953 it was reasonably clear that all that it wanted was that the Chamber should in the event that had happened take up the dispute again and make a proper award.	Facts
It could not therefore be held because of some language used in the letter that the respondent was making a fresh reference, Consequently, it was held that the Chamber had jurisdiction to decide the dispute after the earlier award had been set aside and what the respondent had asked for was for the continuance of the original reference, which had not been superseded.	Facts
The learned Single Judge then went into the question whether there was such misconduct as would justify setting aside the award and held that there were no grounds made out which would justify the setting aside of the award, Consequently, the application for setting aside the award was dismissed.	Facts
Thereafter the appellant came to this Court for special leave, which was granted and that is how the matter has come up, before us.	Facts
5.	None
The main question that has been argued before us is that after the first award was set aside on May 25, 1953, the reference was exhausted and the arbitrator had become functus officio and it was therefore not possible without a fresh arbitration agreement to have the same dispute decided again by the arbitrator, irrespective of whether the letter of September 7,1953 amounted to a second reference or was a mere request for continuation of the proceedings in the original reference, which had proved abortive as the award originally made had been set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance in this connection is placed on what are called certain fundamental principles governing all arbitrations.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that once an award is wholly set aside, the arbitrator is functus officio and thereafter he cannot function again to decide the same dispute.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is said to be a fundamental principle of all arbitrations, and reliance is placed on a passage in Russel on Arbitration (15th Edn., p. 298), where the effect of setting aside an award is stated thus If an award is wholly set aside, the arbitratior is functus officio.	None
Reliance is also placed on Mordue v. Palmer, (1870)	None
6	None
Ch A 22 where it was heldAn arbitrator having signed his award is functus officio and cannot alter the slightest error in it, even though such error has arisen from the mistake of the clerk in copying the draft.	None
The proper course in such a case is to obtain an order to refer the award back to the arbitrator.	None
Reliance is also placed on Sutherland and Company v. Hannevig Brothers Ltd., (1921) 1 K B 336.	None
That was a case under the English Arbitration Act of 1889 which provided that an arbitrator could correct in an award any clerical mistake or error from any accidental slip or omission and had thus varied the rule laid down in Mordues case, (1870) 6	None
Ch A 22.	None
It was however held in that case that the correction made by the arbitrator was not justified under the Arbitration Act.	None
These cases in our opinion have not much bearing on the question before us.	None
It is true that generally speaking, an arbitrator is functus officio after he has made the award but this only means that no power is left in the arbitrator to make any change of substance in the award that he had made (except in certain circumstances which have been provided in the law).	Reasoning
What we have to see however are the scheme and the provisions of the Arbitration Act, No. X of 1940 (hereinafter called the Act), which govern the proceedings in arbitration in this case.	None
These provisions are to be found in Chap.	None
II of the Act which deal with arbitration without intervention of a Court.	None
6. Sections 3 to 7 deal with various aspects of arbitration agreements with which we are not concerned in the present case.	None
Sections 8, 11 and 12 deal with the power of a Court to appoint or remove arbitrators or umpire.	None
Sections 9 and 10 deal with the right of a party to appoint a new arbitrator or a sole arbitrator and also with the appointment of an umpire.	None
Section 13 deals with the power of the arbitrator and S.14 provides for the signing of the award and giving notice in writing to the parties of the making and signing of the award and filing the same in Court.	None
Section 15 gives power to the Court to modify the award in the circumstances mentioned therein.	None
Section 16 gives Power to the Court to remit the award for reconsideration under certain circumstances.	Reasoning
Section 17 provides for delivery of judgment in terms of the award where the Court sees no cause to remit the award or to set it aside, Section 18 provides for making interim orders.	None
Section 30 which is in Chap.	None
V sets out the ground on which an award may be set aside.	None
Finally, we come to S. 19, which is the section on the interpretation of which the decision of this case depends, Section 19 reads as followsWhere an award has become void under subsection (3) of section 16 or has been set aside, the Court may by order supersede the reference and shall thereupon order that the arbitration agreement shall cease to have effect with respect to the difference referred.	None
Before we consider what S.19 provides we might advert to two matters.	None
In the first place, it is not disputed before us that the English Arbitration Act does not contain a provision similar to S.19 the consequence of this is that the decisions of English Courts may not be of much assistance on this particular aspect of the matter before us.	None
Secondly, there was a parallel provision in para.	None
15 (2) of Sch. II of the Code of Civil Procedure before 1940 as to the order to be passed by the Court when setting aside an award, which was in these terms (2) Where an award becomes void or is set aside under clause (1), the Court shall make an order superseding the arbitration and in such case shall proceed with the suit.	None
7.	None
It will be seen from this provision that when a Court set aside an award under Sch.	None
II the reference had to be superseded also, and the Court was enjoined to proceed with the suit, the provision being contained in that part of Sch. II which dealt with arbitration in suits.	None
But the provision also applied to cases covered by para.	None
17 read with para.	None
19 and also by implication to arbitrations outside Court under para 21.	None
But S. 19 of the Act has clearly made a departure from the parallel provision contained in Sch. II, para.	None
15 (2) and we have therefore to see what is the extent of the departure made by it.	None
8.	None
It is clear from S. 19 that there are three matters which have to be borne in mind in arbitration proceedings.	Reasoning
There is first the arbitration agreement.	None
Next comes the reference to arbitration and lastly the award.	None
Section 19 provides inter alia that where an award has been set aside, the Court may by order supersede the reference and shall thereupon order that the arbitration agreement shall cease to have effect with respect to the difference referred.	Reasoning
The section therefore leaves it to the discretion of the Court when it decides to set aside an award, whether to supersede the reference or not.	None
It may not supersede the reference at all in which case though the award may be set aside the reference will continue.	None
But if it supersedes the reference it has also in consequence to order that the arbitration agreement on the basis of which the reference was made would cease to have effect with respect to the difference referred.	None
It is only therefore when the Court orders supersession of the reference that the consequence follows that the arbitration agreement ceases to have effect with respect to the subject matter of the reference.	None
The intention of the legislature in making this change in the consequences to follow the setting aside of an award is clear in as much as the provision recognises that there may be different kinds of arbitration agreements, some of which might be exhausted by the reference already made and the award following thereon which has been set aside while others may be of a more comprehensive nature and may, contemplate continuation of the reference relating to the same dispute or successive references relating to different disputes covered by the arbitration agreement.	None
The legislature has therefore given discretion to the Court under S. 19 to decide when it sets aside an award what the consequences of its order setting aside the award will be.	None
If the Court finds that the arbitration agreement is of the kind which exhausts itself after the first reference is made or if it finds on account of the reasons which have impelled it to set aside the award that there should be no further reference of the dispute to arbitration, the Court has the power to supersede the reference and thereupon order that the arbitration agreement shall cease to have effect with respect to the difference referred.	Reasoning
On the other hand if the Court finds that the arbitration agreement is of a general nature and contemplates continuation of the reference with respect to the same dispute or successive references with respect to different disputes arising under the terms of the arbitration agreement it may not supersede the reference with the result that the reference as well as the arbitration agreement on which it is based survives.	None
In such a case there can in our opinion be no doubt that where the reference and the arbitration agreement survive the same dispute may go before the arbitrators again provided there is machinery provided in the arbitration agreement which makes this possible.	Reasoning
It will thus be seen that the discretion vested in the Court under S. 19 depends upon the nature of the arbitration agreement in particular cases and it is on a consideration of those terms that the Court may decide in one case to supersede the reference and order the arbitration agreement to cease to have effect after taking into account the reasons which have impelled it to set aside the award and in another not to set aside the reference with the result that the reference and the arbitration agreement subsist and if the arbitration agreement provides for machinery to have further arbitration on the same dispute or other disputes arising under the arbitration agreement it is permissible to have further arbitration on the same dispute or other disputes.	Reasoning
The same discretion is given to the Court with respect to arbitration under Chap.	Reasoning
III of the Act dealing with arbitration with intervention of a Court where there is no suit pending, as S. 20 (5) provides that after the arbitration agreement has been ordered to be filed, the arbitration shall proceed in accordance with, and shall be governed by, the other provisions of the Act so far as they can be made applicable.	Reasoning
Further we find that the same discretion has been given to the Court in the matter of arbitration in suits provided under Chap.	Reasoning
IV, as S. 25 provides that the provisions of the other chapters shall, so far as they can be made applicable, apply to arbitration under this Chapter.	Reasoning
The proviso to S. 25 gives discretion to the court in any of the circumstances mentioned in Ss. 8, 10, 11 and 12, instead of filling up the vacancies or making the appointments, to make an order superseding the arbitration and proceed with the suit, and where the court supersedes the arbitration under S. 19 it shall proceed with the suit.	Reasoning
The scheme of the Act therefore is whether the arbitration is under Chap.	None
II, Chap.	None
III or Chap.	None
IV, to give discretion to the Court to decide whether to supersede the reference or not.	None
Where it decides to supersede the reference it has to order that the arbitration agreement shall cease to have effect with respect to the difference referred but where it decides not to supersede the reference and the reference and the arbitration agreement subsist and if there is machinery provided in the arbitration agreement for making a further reference or for continuing the same reference, further arbitration can take place.	Reasoning
The contention therefore urged on behalf of the appellant that once the award is set aside the arbitrator becomes, functus officio and consequently there can be no further reference with respect to the dispute decided by the award which is set aside, must fail in view of the specific provisions of S. 19 of the Act.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already said that generally speaking, the arbitrator becomes functus officio after he has given the award but that does not in out opinion mean that in no circumstances can there be further arbitration proceedings where an award is set aside or that the same arbitrator can never have anything to do with the award with respect to the same dispute.	Reasoning
Section 13 (d), for example, gives power to the arbitrator to correct in an award any clerical mistake or error arising from any accidental slip or omission.	Reasoning
Further S. 16 gives power to the court to remit the award to the arbitrator for reconsideration.	Reasoning
Therefore, when it is said that the arbitrator is generally functus officio after he has made the award, it only means that he cannot change that award in any matter of substance himself.	Reasoning
But that does not take away the courts power to remit the award for reconsideration under S. 16 or to refuse to supersede the reference even though the award is set aside leaving it to the parties to take such further action under the arbitration agreement for further arbitration if it is possible so to do under the terms of a particular arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that whatever may be the position in the absence of a provision similar to S. 19 of the Act there can be no doubt that S. 19 gives power to the court not to supersede the reference and so leave the arbitration agreement effective even when it sets aside the award and thereupon it will depend upon the terms of the arbitration agreement whether arbitration proceedings can go on with respect to the same dispute or with respect to some other disputes arising under the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
This was the view taken in the Barangore Jute Factory case, 62 Cal W N 734 (AIR 1958 Cal 490 ).	None
Similar view has been taken in Rallis India Ltd. v. B. V. Manickam Chetti and Co., AIR 1956 Mad 369 and in Firm Gulab Rai Girdhari Lal v. Firm Bansi Lal Hansraj, AIR 1959 Punj 102.	None
We think that this view is correct.	None
10.	None
It is not in dispute that the reference was not superseded in this case when the award was set aside in May 1953.	Reasoning
It will therefore depend upon the terms of the arbitration agreement in this case whether it was possible to have further arbitration with respect to the same dispute.	Reasoning
We have already set out the term in the contract relating to arbitration and it is clear that that term is very wide in its amplitude and contemplates reference of disputes as and when they arise between the parties to the Chamber.	Reasoning
Further as the Chamber is constituted the arbitrator in this term of the contract and as the Chamber consists of a large number of members and has its own rules for constituting arbitral tribunals, it is in our opinion quite possible on the terms of such an arbitration agreement to constitute another tribunal to decide the same dispute where the reference remains pending and has not been set aside under S. 19, provided there is machinery for appointing different persons as arbitrators under the rules of the Chamber.	Reasoning
It is however urged that this is a second reference of the same dispute and this at any rate is not contemplated by the term relating to arbitration in the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not impressed by this argument.	Arguments of Petitioner
Stress in this connection has been laid on the letter of September 7, 1953, in which the respondent said that it begged to refer the matter for arbitration de novo.	Arguments of Petitioner
Those words do not in our opinion show that a second reference was being made of the dispute.	None
The letter begins by saying that the Chamber was aware that the previous award had been set aside.	Reasoning
It was in those circumstances that the respondent told the Chamber that it begged to refer the matter for arbitration de novo.	Reasoning
In the context this can only mean that the respondent was asking the Chamber to take up the reference again as the reference had not been superseded and arrange to continue the arbitration proceedings further.	Reasoning
The only question therefore that will arise is whether under the rules of the Chamber it was possible to constitute another tribunal to consider this dispute again.	Reasoning
If that is possible, we fail to see why the arbitration proceedings should not go on further as the reference was not superseded in this case, and the arbitration agreement subsisted.	Reasoning
11.	None
This brings us to the rules of the Chamber relating to the appointment of arbitral tribunals.	None
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that there is no provision in these rules for appointment of an arbitral tribunal where an award made by an earlier tribunal is set aside, say, for misconduct.	Arguments of Petitioner
If this contention is justified it will certainly not be possible to appoint another arbitral tribunal to decide the reference after the award made on it by the earlier tribunal is set aside.	Reasoning
Reliance however is placed on behalf of the respondent on Rr. 5, 7 and 10 made by the Chamber for the appointment of arbitral tribunals.	None
It appears that no reliance was placed on R. 5 in the High Court reliance however was placed on Rr. 7 and 10 in the High Court.	Reasoning
The High Court held that R. 7 justified the appointment of the tribunal in the present case, though it was of the view that R. 10 would not justify it.	Reasoning
The appellant on the other hand contends that none of the three rules authorises the appointment of a fresh tribunal after an award is set aside and therefore there is no machinery under the terms of the arbitration agreement by which the arbitration can be further carried on, it being not disputed that the earlier tribunal whose award had been set aside on account of misconduct could not be again appointed.	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	None
Rule 5 (1) provides for an application for arbitration.	None
Rule 5(2) lays down that on receipt of such application, the Registrar shall constitute a Court for the adjudication of the dispute.	None
It is urged on behalf of the respondents that a fresh tribunal could be constituted under R. 5 (2) after the award of the earlier tribunal had been set aside, as the Registrar is authorised to constitute a court on receipt of an application by the Chamber under R. 5 (1).We are of opinion that this contention is not well founded.	Arguments of Respondent
Rule 5 (2) applies to the first appointment after the receipt of the application and that appointment was made in this case and the award of the tribunal appointed under R. 5 (2) was set aside.	Reasoning
Rule 5 (2) does not in our opinion contemplate a second appointment after the award of the Court appointed under it on receipt of the application has been set aside.	Reasoning
The respondent cannot sustain the appointment of a fresh tribunal under R. 5 (2).	None
13.	None
Rule 7 has been pressed into service by the High Court in this connection and it has been held on the basis of the Barangore Jute Factorys case, 62 Cal W N 734 (AIR 1958 Cal 490 ) that R. 7 justified the appointment of a fresh tribunal in a case where an award made by the earlier tribunal is set aside.	None
In that case the High Court was conscious that it was stretching the rule in applying it to the situation where an award is set aside.	None
Rule 7 says thatif the Court have allowed the time or extended time to expire without making any award, and without having signified to the Registrar that they cannot agree, the Registrar shall constitute in manner aforesaid another Court which shall proceed with the arbitration and shall be at liberty to act upon the record or the proceedings as then existing and on the evidence, if any, then taken in the arbitration or to commence the arbitration de novo.	None
Rule 25 makes provision that the award shall be made within four months or within such extended time as may be agreed to between the parties to the reference.	None
Rule VII obviously refers to a case where the time or the extended time allowed to the tribunal has been allowed to expire it cannot refer to a case where the tribunal has made the award within the time fixed but later that award is set aside by Court.	Reasoning
It would in our opinion be stretching the language of R. VII too far to make it applicable to a case like the present.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, agree with the High Court that R. VII justified the appointment of a fresh tribunal in the present case.	None
14.	None
This brings us to R. X.	None
The High Court thought that this rule could not apply.	None
Rule X is in these terms If any appointed arbitrator or umpire neglects or refuses to act, or dies or become incapable of acting the Registrar shall substitute and appoint a new arbitrator, or umpire as the case may be in manner aforesaid and the Court so reconstituted shall proceed with the arbitration with liberty to act on the record of the proceedings as then existing and on the evidence, if any then taken in the arbitration, or to commence the proceedings de novo.	None
We are of opinion that it was open to the Registrar under this rule to appoint a fresh tribunal because the earlier tribunal had become incapable of acting in view of the fact that its award had been set aside on the ground of misconduct.	None
It has been urged on behalf of the appellant that the words becomes incapable of acting apply only to physical inability to act and in particular stress is laid on the collocation of words where these words follow the word dies.	None
We are however of opinion that these words cannot take their colour from the word dies and are a separate category by themselves and must be interpreted on their own.	None
Now there is no doubt that generally speaking an arbitrator may become incapable of acting because of some physical cause, for example, he may fall ill or may go mad and so on.	Reasoning
But we do not think that these words only refer to physical incapacity in our opinion, they refer to any kind of incapacity, which may supervene after the appointment of the arbitrators, even to an incapacity from before but which was not known to the parties, or in this case to the Chamber, before they are appointed.	Reasoning
We may in this connection refer to the opinion of Russel (Russel on Arbitration, 15th Edn., p. 187), where dealing with similar words in S. 10 (b) of the English Arbitration Act of 1950, it has been said as follows ?	None
It would appear that the word incapable in S. 10 (b).	None
must refer to some incapacity arising after the date of the appointment, or not known to the parties at that date.	None
Clearly, therefore, the words becomes incapable of acting, do not merely refer to physical incapacity but to any kind of incapacity which arises after the appointment or which was there before the appointment but was not known to the parties, or to the Chamber in this case.	Reasoning
Take for example, the case of persons appointed by the Chamber to decide a dispute after the appointment, one arbitrator acquires an interest in the subject matter of the dispute.	Reasoning
Obviously such a person must be held to have become incapable of acting even though there is no question of any physical incapacity on his part.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of opinion that the words becomes incapable of acting in R. X are of wide amplitude and do not refer to cases only of physical incapacity but to any kind of incapacity arising after the appointment or even before the appointment provided it was not known to the parties, or to the Chamber in the present case.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, agree with the High Court that R. X will not apply to the present case.	Reasoning
15.	None
What has happened in this case is that the previous tribunal made an award.	Reasoning
That award has been set aside on account of misconduct.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we are of opinion that the previous tribunal has become incapable of acting as arbitrator to decide this dispute because of its misconduct.	Reasoning
Further as the reference has not been superseded and the arbitration agreement subsists, it was in our opinion open to the Chamber, on the request of the respondent, to appoint another arbitral tribunal under	Reasoning
R. X. Therefore, as there is a machinery by which fresh arbitrators can be appointed according to the terms of the arbitration agreement read with the rules of the Chamber and as the reference has not been superseded, the appointment of a fresh tribunal and the carrying on of the arbitration further were within the terms of the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
16.	None
No other point has been urged on behalf of the appellant in this appeal to challenge the correctness of the decision of the High Court.	Reasoning
Therefore, appeal No. 309 must fail.	Reasoning
17.	None
Turning now to appeal No. 525, it is enough to say that it is similar to appeal No. 309 in all respects except one.	Reasoning
The difference is that in this case the appellant objected to the appointment of a fresh tribunal and an application was made under S. 33 of the Act praying for the relief that no arbitration agreement existed after the earlier award had been set aside and, therefore, there could be no further arbitration.	Reasoning
For reasons which we have already given this contention must fail, for it is not in dispute that in this appeal also when the earlier award was set aside there was no supersession of the reference and the arbitration agreement is in the same terms as in the other appeal.	None
What happened in this case was that the learned Single Judge allowed the application and revoked the authority of the Chamber to arbitrate.	None
There was then an appeal by the present respondent which was allowed on the basis of the Barangore Jute Factory case, 62 Cal W N 734 (A I R 1958 Cal 490 ).	None
Thereupon the present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave.	Facts
It has been contended on behalf of the appellant that the order under S. 33 was not appealable in view of the provisions of S. 39 of the Act and, therefore, the High Court had no jurisdiction in appeal to set aside the order of the learned Single Judge.	None
This point as to jurisdiction was not taken before the appeal Court nor has it been taken in the special leave petition to this Court or in the statement of case.	None
It seems that the appeal was entertained on the High Court on the view that an appeal lay under the Letters Patent from an order of a Single Judge.	Reasoning
Even if we were to entertain this argument, the respondent will he entitled to ask for special leave to appeal against the order of the Single Judge and we will be justified having regard to the course of events and the view expressed in the companion appeal in granting leave after condoning the delay, and in passing the same order which has been passed by the High Court in appeal.	Reasoning
Technical requirements of procedure may of course be fulfilled by following the course suggested but no useful purpose will be served thereby.	Reasoning
For reasons which we have already given the order of the appeal Court is right.	Reasoning
There is no reason to interfere with it and this appeal will also have to be dismissed.	Reasoning
18.	None
We, therefore, dismiss the appeals with costone set of hearing costs.	Decision
19.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
