 Dr D Y CHANDRACHUD, J A The Context	None
In the batch of petitions before this Court, the petitioners seek an inquiry into the circumstances of the death of Brijgopal Harikishan Loya.	None
He was a judicial officer in the State of Maharashtra in the rank of a district judge and died on 1 December 2014.	None
Articles on his death were published in the issues of Caravan magazine dated 20 and 21 November 2017.	None
The first article was titled ?	None
A family breaks its silence shocking details emerge in death of judge presiding over Sohrabuddin trial?	None
Since the petitions are founded on the two articles published in Caravan, it would be necessary to extract them in this judgment Caravan article dated 20 November 2017 ?	None
On the morning of 1 December 2014, the family of 48yearold judge Brijgopal Harkishan Loya, who was presiding over the Central Bureau of Investigation special court in Mumbai, was informed that he had died in Nagpur, where he had travelled for a colleague?s daughter?s wedding.	None
Loya had been hearing one of the most highprofile cases in the country, involving the allegedly staged encounter killing of Sohrabuddin Sheikh in 2005.	None
The prime accused in the case was Amit ShahGujarat?s minister of state for 4 home at the time of Sohrabuddin?s killing, and the Bharatiya Janata Party?s national president at the time of Loya?s death.	None
The media reported that the judge had died of a heart attack.	None
Loya?s family did not speak to the media after his death.	None
But in November 2016, Loya?s niece, Nupur Balaprasad Biyani, approached me while I was visiting Pune to say she had concerns about the circumstances surrounding her uncle?s death.	None
Following this, over several meetings between November 2016 and November 2017, I spoke to her mother, Anuradha Biyani, who is Loya?s sister and a medical doctor in government service another of Loya?s sisters, Sarita Mandhane and Loya?s father, Harkishan.	None
I also tracked down and spoke to government servants in Nagpur who witnessed the procedures followed with regard to the judge?s body after his death, including the postmortem.	None
From these accounts, deeply disturbing questions emerged about Loya?s death questions about inconsistencies in the reported account of the death about the procedures followed after his death and about the condition of the judge?s body when it was handed over to the family.	None
Though the family asked for an inquiry commission to probe Loya?s death, none was ever set up.	None
At 11 pm on 30 November 2014, from Nagpur, Loya phoned his wife, Sharmila, using his mobile phone.	None
Over around 40 minutes, he described to her his busy schedule through the day.	None
Loya was in Nagpur to attend the wedding of the daughter of a fellow judge, Sapna Joshi.	None
Initially he had not intended to go, but two of his fellow judges had insisted that he accompany them.	None
Loya told his wife that he had attended the wedding, and later attended a reception.	None
He also enquired about his son, Anuj.	None
He said that he was staying at Ravi Bhavan, a government guest house for VIPs in Nagpur?s Civil Lines locality, along with the judges he had accompanied to Nagpur.	None
It was the last call that Loya is known to have made, and the last conversation that he is known to have had.	None
His family received the news of his death early the next morning.?	None
His wife in Mumbai, myself in Latur city and my daughters in Dhule, Jalgaon and Aurangabad received calls,?early on the morning of 1 December 2014, Harkishan Loya, the judge?s father, told me when we first met, in November 2016, in his native village of Gategaon, near Latur city.	None
They were informed?that Brij passed away in the night, that his postmortem was over and his body had been sent to our ancestral home in Gategaon, in Latur district,?he added.?I felt like an earthquake had shattered my life.?The family was told that Loya had died of a cardiac arrest.?We were told that he had chest pain, and so was taken to Dande Hospital, a private hospital in Nagpur, by auto rickshaw, where some medication was provided,?Harkishan said.	None
Biyani, Loya?s sister, described Dande Hospital as?an obscure place,?and said that she?later learnt that the ECG?the electrocardiography unit at the facility?was not working.?Later, Harkishan said, Loya?was shifted to Meditrina hospital?another private hospital in the city?where he was declared dead on arrival.?	None
The Sohrabuddin case was the only one that Loya was hearing at the time of his death, and was one of the most carefully watched cases then underway in the country.	None
In 2012, the Supreme Court had ordered that the trial in the case be shifted from Gujarat to Maharashtra, stating that it was?convinced that in order to preserve the integrity of the trial it is necessary to shift it outside the State.?The Supreme Court had also ordered that the trial be heard by the same judge from start to finish.	None
But, in violation of this order, JT Utpat, the judge who first heard the trial, was transferred from the CBI special court in mid 2014, and replaced by Loya.	None
On 6 June 2014, Utpat had reprimanded Amit Shah for seeking exemption from appearing in court.	None
After Shah failed to appear on the next date, 20 June, Utpat fixed a hearing for 26 June.	None
The judge was transferred on 25 June.	None
On 31 October 2014, Loya, who had allowed Shah the exemption, asked why Shah had failed to appear in court despite being in Mumbai on that date.	None
He set the next date of hearing for 15 December.	None
Loya?s death on 1 December was reported only in a few routine news articles the next day, and did not attract significant media attention.	None
The Indian Express, while reporting that Loya had?died of a heart attack?noted,?Sources close to him said that Loya had sound medical history.?The media attention picked up briefly on 3 December, when MPs of the Trinamool Congress staged a protest outside the parliament, where the winter session was under way, to demand an inquiry into Loya?s death.	None
The next day, Sohrabuddin?s brother, Rubabuddin, wrote a letter to the CBI, expressing his shock at Loya?s death.	None
Nothing came of the MPs?	None
protests, or Rubabuddin?s letter.	None
No followup stories appeared on the circumstances surrounding Loya?s death.	None
Over numerous conversations with Loya?s family members, I pieced together a chilling description of what Loya went through while presiding over the Sohrabuddin trial, and of what happened following his death.	None
Biyani also gave me copies of a diary she said she maintains regularly, which included entries from the days preceding and following her brother?s death.	None
In these, she noted many aspects of the incident that disturbed her.	None
I also reached out to Loya?s wife and son, but they declined to speak, saying that they feared for their lives.	None
Biyani, who is based in Dhule, told me that she received a call on the morning of 1 December 2014 from someone identifying himself as a judge named Barde, who told her to travel to Gategaon, some 30 kilometres from Latur, where Loya?s body was sent.	None
The same caller also informed Biyani and other members of the family that a postmortem had been conducted on the body, and that the cause of death was a heart attack.	None
Loya?s father normally resides in Gategaon, but was in Latur at the time, at the house of one of his daughters.	None
He, too, received a phone call, telling him his son?s body would be moved to Gategaon.?Ishwar Baheti, an RSS worker, had informed father that he would arrange for the body to reach Gategaon,?Biyani told me.?Nobody knows why, how and when he came to know about the death of Brij Loya.?	None
Sarita Mandhane, another of Loya?s sisters, who runs a tuition centre in Aurangabad and was visiting Latur at the time, told me that she received a call from Barde at around 5 am, informing her that Loya had died.?He said that Brij has passed away in Nagpur and asked us to rush to Nagpur,?she said.	None
She set out to pick up her nephew from a hospital in Latur where he had earlier been admitted, but?just as we were leaving the hospital, this person, Ishwar Baheti, came there.	None
I still don?t know how he came to know that we were at Sarda Hospital.?According to Mandhane, Baheti said that he had been talking through the night with people in Nagpur, and insisted that there was no point in going to Nagpur since the body was being sent to Gategaon from there in an ambulance.?He took us to his house, saying that he will coordinate everything,?she said.	None
(Questions that I sent to Baheti were still unanswered at the time this story was published.)	None
It was night by the time Biyani reached Gategaonthe other sisters were already at the ancestral home by then.	None
The body was delivered at around 11.30 pm, after Biyani?s arrival, according to an entry in her diary.	None
To the family?s shock, none of Loya?s colleagues had accompanied his body on the journey from Nagpur.	None
The only person accompanying the body was the ambulance driver.?It was shocking,?Biyani said.?The two judges who had insisted that he travel to Nagpur for the marriage had not accompanied him.	None
Mr Barde, who informed the family of his death and his postmortem, had not accompanied him.	None
This question haunts me why was his body not accompanied by anyone??One of her diary entries reads,?He was a CBI court judge, he was supposed to have security and he deserved to be properly accompanied.?	None
Loya?s wife, Sharmila, and his daughter and son, Apurva and Anuj, travelled to Gategaon from Mumbai, accompanied by a few judges.	None
One of them?was constantly telling Anuj and the others not to speak to anybody,?Biyani told me.?Anuj was of course sad and scared, but he maintained his poise and kept supporting his mother.?	None
Biyani recounted that when she saw the body, she felt that something was amiss.?There were bloodstains on the neck at the back of the shirt,?she told me.	None
She added that his?spectacles were below the neck.?Mandhane told me that Loya?s spectacles were?stuck under his body.?	None
A diary entry by Biyani from the time reads,?There was blood on his collar.	None
His belt was twisted in the opposite direction, and the pant clip is broken.	None
Even my uncle feels that this is suspicious.?Harkishan told me,?There were bloodstains on the clothes.?Mandhane said that she, too, saw?blood on the neck.?She said that?there was blood and an injury on his head on the back side,?and that?his shirt had blood spots.?Harkishan said,?His shirt had blood on it from his left shoulder to his waist.?But in the postmortem report, issued by the Government Medical College Hospital in Nagpur, under a category described as?Condition of the clotheswhether wet with water, stained with blood or soiled with vomit or foecal matter,?a handwritten entry reads, simply,?Dry.?	None
Biyani found the state of the body suspicious because, as a doctor,?I know that blood does not come out during PM?postmortem?since the heart and lungs don?t function.?She said that she demanded a second postmortem, but that Loya?s gathered friends and colleagues?discouraged us, telling us not to complicate the issue more.?The family was tense and scared, but was forced to carry out Loya?s funeral, Harkishan said.	None
Legal experts suggest that if Loya?s death was deemed suspiciousthe fact that a postmortem was ordered suggests that it wasa panchnama should have been prepared, and a medico legal case should have been filed.?As per legal procedure, the police department is expected to collect and seal all the personal belongings of the deceased, list them all in a panchnama and hand them over to the family as they are,?Asim Sarode, a senior Pune based lawyer, told me.	None
Biyani said the family was not given any copy of a panchnama.	None
Loya?s mobile phone was returned to the family, but, Biyani said, it was returned by Baheti, and not by the police.?We got his mobile on the third or fourth day,?she said.?I had asked for it immediately.	None
It had information about his calls and all that happened.	None
We would have known about it if we got it.	None
And the SMSes.	None
Just one or two days before this news, a message had come which said, Sir, stay safe from these people.?	None
That SMS was on the phone.	None
Everything was deleted from it.?	None
Biyani had numerous questions about the events of the night of Loya?s death and the following morning.	None
Among them was that of how and why Loya had been taken to hospital in an auto rickshaw, when the auto stand nearest to Ravi Bhavan is around two kilometres away from it.?There is no auto rickshaw stand near Ravi Bhavan, and people do not get auto rickshaws near Ravi Bhavan even during the day, Biyani said.?How did the men accompanying him manage to get an auto rickshaw at midnight??	None
Other questions, too, remain unanswered.	None
Why was the family not informed when Loya was taken to hospital?	None
Why were they not informed as soon as he died?	None
Why were they not asked for approval of a postmortem, or informed that one was to be performed, before the procedure was carried out?	None
Who recommended the postmortem, and why?	None
What was suspicious about Loya?s death to cause a postmortem to be recommended?	None
What medication was administered to him at Dande Hospital?	None
Was there not a single vehicle in Ravi Bhavanwhich regularly hosts VIPs, including ministers, IAS and IPS officers and judges available to ferry Loya to hospital?	None
The winter session of the Maharashtra state assembly was to begin in Nagpur on 7 December, and hundreds of officials usually arrive in the city well in advance of assembly sessions for the preparations.	None
Who were the other VIPs staying in Ravi Bhavan on 30 November and 1 December??These all are very valid questions,?Sarode, the lawyer, said.?Why was the report of the medication administered at Dande hospital not given to the family?	None
Will the answers to these questions create problems for someone??	None
Questions such as these?still keep bothering the family, friends and relatives,?Biyani said.	None
It added to their confusion that the judges who had insisted that Loya travel to Nagpur did not visit the family for?one or one and a half months?after his death, she said.	None
It was only then that the family heard their account of Loya?s last hours.	None
According to Biyani, the two men told the family that Loya experienced chest pain at around 12.30 am, that they then took him to Dande Hospital in an auto rickshaw, and that there,?he climbed the stairs himself and some medication was administered.	None
He was taken to Meditrina hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.?	None
Even after this, many questions were left unanswered.?We did try to get the details of the treatment administered in Dande Hospital, but the doctors and the staff there simply refused to divulge anydetails,?Biyani said.	None
I accessed the report of Loya?s postmortem, conducted at the Government Medical College Hospital in Nagpur.	None
The document raises several questions of its own.	None
Every page of the postmortem report is signed by the senior police inspector of Sadar police station, Nagpur, and by someone who signed with the phrase?maiyatacha chulatbhau?or the paternal cousin brother of the deceased.	None
This latter person is supposed to have received the body after the postmortem examination.?I do not have any brother or paternal cousin brother in Nagpur,?Loya?s father said.?Who signed on the report is another unanswered question.?	None
Further, the report states that the corpse was sent from Meditrina Hospital to the Government Medical College Hospital by the Sitabardi police station, Nagpur, and that it was brought in by a police constable named Pankaj, of Sitabardi police station, whose badge number is 6238.	None
It notes that the body was brought in at10.50 am on 1 December 2014, that the postmortem began at10.55 am, and that it was over at 11.55 am.	None
The report also noted that, as per the police, Loya?died on 1/12/14 at 0615 hours?after experiencing?chest pains at 0400 am.?It stated,?He was brought to Dande hospital first and then shifted to Meditrina hospital where he was declared to be in dead condition.?	None
The time of death cited in the report6.15 amappears incongruous, since, according to Loya?s family members, they began receiving calls about his death from 5 am onwards.	None
Further, during my investigation, two sources in Nagpur?s Government Medical College and Sitabardi police station told me they had been informed of Loya?s death by midnight, and had personally seen the dead body during the night.	None
They also said that the postmortem was done shortly after midnight.	None
Apart from the calls that the family received, the sources?	None
accounts also raise serious questions about the postmortem report?s claim that the time of death was 6.15 am.	None
The source at the medical college, who was privy to the post mortem examination, also told me that he knew that there had been instructions from superiors to?cut up the body as if the PM was done and stitch it up.?	None
The report mentions?coronary artery insufficiency?as the probable cause of death.	None
According to the renowned Mumbaibased cardiologist Hasmukh Ravat,?Usually old age, family history, smoking, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes are the causes for such coronary artery insufficiency.?Biyani pointed out that none of these were applicable to her brother.?Brij was 48,?she said.?Our parents are 85 and 80 years old, and are healthy with no cardiac history.	None
He was always a teetotaller, played table tennis for two hours a day for years, had no diabetes or blood pressure.?	None
Biyani told me that she found the official medical explanation for her brother?s death hard to believe.?I am a doctor myself, and Brij used to consult me even for minor complaints such as acidity or cough,?she said.?He had no cardiac history and no one from our family has it.?	None
Caravan article dated 21 November 2017 ?	None
Brijgopal Harkishan Loya, the judge presiding over the CBI special court in Mumbai, died sometime between the night of 30 November and the early morning of 1 December 2014, while on a trip to Nagpur.	None
At the time of his death, he was hearing the Sohrabuddin case, in which the prime accused was the Bharatiya Janata Party president Amit Shah.	None
The media reported at the time that Loya had died of a heart attack.	None
But my investigations between November 2016 and November 2017 raised disturbing questions about the circumstances surrounding Loya?s deathincluding questions regarding the condition of his body when it was handed over to his family.	None
Among those I spoke to was one of Loya?s sisters, Anuradha Biyani, a medical doctor based in Dhule, Maharashtra.	None
Biyani made an explosive claim to me Loya, she said, confided to her that Mohit Shah, then the chief justice of the Bombay High Court, had offered him a bribe of Rs 100 crore in return for a favourable judgment.	None
She said Loya had told her this some weeks before he died, when the family gathered for Diwali at their ancestral home in Gategaon.	None
Loya?s father Harkishan also told me that his son had told him he had offers to deliver a favourable judgment in exchange for money and a house in Mumbai.	None
Brijgopal Harkishan Loya was appointed to the special CBI court in June 2014, after his predecessor, JT Utpat, was transferred within weeks of reprimanding Amit Shah for seeking an exemption from appearing in court.	None
According to a February 2015 report in Outlook,?During the CBI court?s hearings that Utpat presided over for this one year, or even after, court records suggest Amit Shah had never turned up even onceincluding on the final day of discharge.	None
Shah?s counsel apparently made oral submissions for exempting him from personal appearance on grounds ranging from him being a diabetic and hence unable to move?	None
to the more blase he is busy in Delhi.??The Outlook report continued?On	None
June 6, 2014, Utpat had made his displeasure known to Shah?s counsel and, while allowing exemption for that day, ordered Shah?s presence on June 20.	None
But he didn?t show up again.	None
According to media reports, Utpat told Shah?s counsel, Every time you are seeking exemption without giving any reason.??Utpat, the story noted,?fixed the next hearing for June 26.	None
But on 25th, he was transferred to Pune.?This was in violation of a September 2012 Supreme Court order, that the Sohrabuddin trial?should be conducted from beginning to end by the same officer.?	None
Loya had at first appeared well disposed towards Shah?s request that he be exempted from personally appearing in court.	None
As Outlook noted,?Utpat?s successor Loya was indulgent, waiving Shah?s personal appearance on each date.?But this apparent indulgence may just have been a matter of procedure.	None
According to the Outlook story,?significantly, one of his last notings stated that Shah was being exempted from personal appearance till the framing of charges.?	None
Loya had clearly not harboured the thought of dropping charges against Shah even when he appeared to be gentle on him.?According to the lawyer Mihir Desai, who represented Sohrabuddin?s brother Rubabuddinthe complainant in the caseLoya was keen onscrutinising the entire chargesheet, which ran to more than 10,000 pages, and on examining the evidence and witnesses carefully.?The case was sensitive and important, and it was going to create and decide the reputation of Mr Loya as a judge,?Desai said.?But the pressure was certainly mounting.?Nupur Balaprasad Biyani, a niece of Loya?s who stayed with his family in Mumbai while studying in the city, told me about the extent of the pressure she witnessed her uncle facing.?When he was coming from the court, he was like, bahut tension hai,??she said.?Stress.	None
It?s a very big case.	None
How to deal with it.	None
Everyone is involved with it.?Nupur said it was a question of?political values.?	None
Desai told me,?The courtroom always used to be extremely tense.	None
The defence lawyers used to insist on discharging Amit Shah of all the charges, while we were demanding for the transcripts of the calls, submitted as evidence by the CBI, to be provided in English.?He pointed out that neither Loya nor the complainant understood Gujarati, the language on the tapes.	None
But the defence lawyers, Desai said, repeatedly brushed aside the demands for transcripts in English, and insisted that Shah?s discharge petition be heard.	None
Desai added that his junior lawyers often noticed unknown, suspiciouslooking people inside the courtroom, whispering and staring at the complainant?s lawyers in an intimidating manner.	None
Desai recounted that during a hearing on 31 October, Loya asked why Shah was absent.	None
His lawyers pointed out that he had been exempted from appearance by Loya himself.	None
Loya remarked that the exemption applied only when Shah was not in the state.	None
That day, he said, Shah was in Mumbai to attend the swearingin of the new BJPled government in Maharashtra, and was only 1.5 kilometres away from the court.	None
He instructed Shah?s counsel to ensure his appearance when he was in the state, and set the next hearing for 15 December.	None
Anuradha Biyani told me that Loya confided in her that Mohit Shah, who served as the chief justice of the Bombay High Court between June 2010 and September 2015, offered Loya a bribe of Rs 100 crore for a favourable judgment.	None
According to her, Mohit Shah?would call him late at night to meet in civil dress and pressure him to issue the judgment as soon as possible and to ensure that it is a positive judgment.?According to Biyani,?My brother was offered a bribe of 100 crore in return for a favourable judgment.	None
Mohit Shah, the chief justice, made the offer himself.?	None
She added that Mohit Shah told her brother that if?the judgment is delivered before 30 December, it won?t be under focus at all because at the same time, there was going to be another explosive story which would ensure that people would not take notice of this.?Loya?s father Harkishan also told me that his son had confided in him about bribe offers.?Yes, he was offered money,?Harkishan said.?Do	None
you want a house in Mumbai, how much land do you want, how much money do you want, he used to tell us this.	None
This was an offer.?But, he added, his son refused to succumb to the offers.?He told me I am going to turn in my resignation or get a transfer,?Harkishan said.?I will move to my village and do farming.?I contacted Mohit Shah and Amit Shah for their responses to the family?s claims.	None
At the time this story was published, they had not responded.	None
The story will be updated if and when they reply.	None
After Loya?s death, MB Gosavi was appointed to the Sohrabuddin case.	None
Gosavi began hearing the case on 15 December 2014.?He heard the defence lawyers argue for three days to discharge Amit Shah of all the charges, while the CBI, the prosecuting agency, argued for 15 minutes,?Mihir Desai said.?He concluded the hearing on 17 December and reserved his order.?On 30 December, around one month after Loya?s death, Gosavi upheld the defence?s argument that the CBI had political motives for implicating the accused.	None
With that, he discharged Amit Shah.	None
The same day, news of MS Dhoni?s retirement from test cricket dominated television screens across the country.	None
As Biyani recounted,?There was just a ticker at the bottom which said, Amit Shah not guilty.	None
Amit Shah not guilty.??	None
Mohit Shah visited the grieving family only around two and half months after Loya?s death.	None
From Loya?s family, I obtained a copy of a letter that they said Anuj, Loya?s son, wrote to his family on the day of the then chief justice?s visit.	None
It is dated 18 February 2015 80 days after Loya?s death.	None
Anuj wrote,?I fear that these politicians can harm any person from my family and I am also not powerful enough to fight with them.?He also wrote, referring to Mohit Shah,?I asked him to set up an enquiry commission for dad?s death.	None
I fear that to stop us from doing anything against them, they can harm anyone of our family members.	None
There is threat to our lives.?Anuj wrote twice in the letter that?if anything happens to me or my family, chief justice Mohit Shah and others involved in the conspiracy will be responsible.?	None
When I met him in November 2016, Loya?s father Harkishan said,?I am 85 and I am not scared of death now.	None
I want justice too, but I am extremely scared for the life of my daughters and grandchildren.?He hadtears in his eyes as he spoke, and his gaze went often to the garlanded photograph of Loya hanging on the wall of the ancestral home.?	None
Petitions Tehseen Poonawalla filed a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution before this Court on 11 December 2017.	Facts
He informs the Court that the proceedings have been initiated?bona fide for the welfare and benefit of the society as a wholewith no ulterior or mala fide motive?.	None
He has averred that the petition was instituted for the?safety and security of the public and that of public servants?who?may not be aware of their legal rights?or possess the means to approach this Court.	Facts
Besides the above writ petition, this Court has before it two other writ petitions under Article 32 on the same issue, one by Jayshri Laxmanrao Patil 1 and another by Bandhuraj Sambhaji Lone 2 .	Facts
Each of these petitioners has made similar averments, stating that the proceedings have been initiated for the?welfare of society?without any personal interest.	Facts
Two writ petitions 3 were filed in the High Court of Judicature at Bombay Bombay Lawyers?	Facts
Association instituted the proceedings on 4 January 2018 and Suryakant (alias Suraj), on 27 November 2017.	Facts
The relief sought in the batch of cases instituted before the Bombay High Court is similar to what is sought before this Court.	Facts
All the petitions are essentially based on the articles which have been published in the Caravan on 20 and 21 November 2017.	Facts
Other media publications, both print and online carried news reports emanating from the Caravan articles.	Facts
Among them are the Indian Express, Quint, Wire and Scroll.	Facts
Procedural directions On 16 January 2018, a two judge Bench of this Court issued the following directions in the Article 32 proceedings?Let the documents be placed on record within seven days and if it is considered appropriate copies be furnished to the petitioners.	Facts
Put up before the appropriate Bench.?In view of the direction to put up the case before the appropriate Bench, proceedings were mentioned before the learned Chief Justice on 19 January 2018 and were directed to be listed on 22 January 2018?before the appropriate Bench as per roster?.	Facts
On 22 January 2018 the State of Maharashtra filed documents in a sealed cover of which copies were made available to counsel for the petitioners.	None
The documents were taken on the record.	Facts
Mr Dushyant Dave and Ms Indira Jaising, learned senior counsel indicated that they would be filing applications for intervention.	Facts
This Court permitted them to do so.	Facts
This Court was informed by counsel for the intervenors that they would be placing on record some documents which may have bearing on the case.	Facts
Mr Harish Salve, learned senior counsel for the State of Maharashtra stated before the Court that there would be no objection to supply any other official documents in a sealed cover of which a list may be submitted by assisting counsel for the parties.	None
This Court was apprised of the pendency of two writ petitions before the Bombay High Court, one at the principal seat and the other at the Nagpur Bench.	Facts
Since the issue raised in the writ petitions before the Bombay High Court had the same subject matter, those petitions were transferred to this Court, to be heard along with the petitions under Article 32.	Facts
Mr Dave, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Bombay Lawyers?	Facts
Association agreed to this course of action.	Facts
The order of this Court dated 22 January 2018 also records the agreement of Ms Jaising to the transfer of the writ petitions from the Bombay High Court.	Facts
Subsequently, Ms Jaising has clarified that since she is appearing for an intervenor and not for the petitioners in any of those writ petitions, her consent should not be recorded.	Facts
We clarify the order dated 22 January 2018 to the effect that it was Mr Dave who has consented to the transfer of proceedings from the Bombay High Court.	Facts
Following the order of transfer, the entire batch of cases together with several applications for intervention have been heard.	Facts
Hearings in this batch of cases have taken place on 2 February 2018, 5 February 2018, 9 February 2018, 12 February 2018, 19 February 2018, 5 March 2018, 8 March 2018, 9 March 2018 and 16 March 2018.	Reasoning
We have heard Mr Dushyant Dave, Ms Indira Jaising, Mr V Giri, Mr Pallav Shishodia, Mr PV Surendranath, learned senior counsel and Mr Kuldip Rai and Mr Prashant Bhushan on behalf of the petitioners and the intervenors.	None
Mr Mukul Rohtagi and Mr Harish Salve, learned senior counsel have appeared for the respondent State.	None
In view of the nature of the issue which has been raised in the proceedings, we have permitted learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners as well as the intervenors to rely upon such documentary material as would enable them to advance their submissions without being bound by technicalities of procedure.	None
In order to analyse the facts as they emerge before the Court, it is necessary to construct the sequence of events from the material before the Court.	None
Sequence of events Shri Brijgopal Harkishan Loya (Judge Loya?) was presiding over the CBI Special Court in Mumbai.	None
The criminal trial arising out of the encounter killings of Sohrabuddin Sheikh was assigned to his court.	Facts
Among the accused in the case was Amit Shah, the?national President of the Bharatiya Janata Party?.	Facts
On 29 November 2014 Judge Loya travelled on an overnight train from Mumbai to Nagpur together with two other judicial officers, Shri Shrikant Kulkarni (?Judge Kulkarni?)	None
and Shri SM Modak (?Judge Modak?) to attend the wedding in the family of another judicial officer, Smt Swapna Joshi who was then a Member Secretary of the Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority.	None
Judge Kulkarni was at the material time working as Registrar (JudicialI) on the Appellate side of the Bombay High Court and Judge Modak was the Principal District Judge at Alibag.	Facts
Judge Loya was a Judge in the City Civil and Sessions Court at Mumbai.	Facts
On 30 November 2014, Judge Loya and his colleagues attended the wedding reception.	Facts
According to his colleagues, all of them stayed at Ravi Bhavan, a government guest house at Nagpur.	Facts
This has been a contentious issue.	Facts
In the early hours of 1 December 2014 Judge Loya is stated to have complained of chest pain.	Facts
He was initially taken to Dande hospital, in close proximity of Ravi Bhavan.	Facts
From there he was referred to a cardiac care facility.	Facts
His colleagues are stated to have accompanied him to Meditrina hospital.	Facts
Judge Loya died before he was admitted to Meditrina, since he was stated to have been brought dead?.	Facts
There was an inquest panchnama followed by a postmortem.	Facts
After the formalities were completed, the body was taken to Gategaon, his village near Latur, nearly 450 kilometres away where the cremation took place.	None
Issues The issue before the Court is whether the death of Judge Loya was due to natural causes, or as alleged by the petitioners (relying on the contents of news items or material which has come before the Court), there are circumstances which raise a reasonable suspicion about an unnatural death, warranting an inquiry or investigation on the directions of this Court.	Issue
Moreover, should the contents of a news article by itself be made the basis to lodge an FIR under Section 154 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973.	None
B The Discreet Enquiry10.	None
Following the publication of the Caravan articles, the Principal Secretary (Special) in the Home Department of the state government directed a discreet inquiry by the Commissioner of the State Intelligence Department.	None
Such an inquiry was initiated by Shri Sanjay Barve, Director General and Commissioner in the State Intelligence Department.	Facts
By a communication dated 23 November 2017 addressed to the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court, he indicated that ?	Facts
2. Following judicial officers had accompanied Mr. Loya to the hospital on 01/12/2014.	Facts
Mr Shrikant Kulkarni, Member Secretary Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority.	Facts
ii.	None
Mr Modak Principal District Judge, Pune iii.	Facts
Mr Barde District Judge, City Civil Court, Mumbai iv.	Facts
Mr R R Rathi District Judge, Baramati.	Facts
Similarly, Hon?ble Justice Bhushan Gawai and Hon?ble Justice SB Shukre has also visited Meditrina Hospital, Nagpur after learning about the sad demise of the aforesaid judicial officer on 01/12/2014. ?	Facts
The Commissioner sought the permission of the Chief Justice?to record the say of the above judicial officers?either in the form of a statement or a letter elaborating the sequence of events and the facts known to them in the matter.	Facts
The Registrar General of the High Court, by a letter dated 23 November 2017, responded to the request and stated that the Chief Justice had granted the permission?to record the say?of the four judicial officers Judge Shrikant Kulkarni, Judge Modak, Judge Barde and Judge RR Rathi.	Facts
The report of the discreet inquiry dated 28 November 2017 was submitted to the Additional Chief Secretary (Home).	None
The contents of the report are summarised below Judge Loya was in Nagpur to attend the wedding in the family of a colleague on 30 November 2014 along with his colleagues, Judge Kulkarni and Judge Modak, both in the rank of Principal District Judges(ii)	None
The three judicial officers stayed at Ravi Bhavan(iii)	None
In the early hours of 1 December 2014 Judge Loya complained of chest pain.	Facts
Judge Shrikant Kulkarni called Judge Barde who was posted at Nagpur.	None
Judge Barde informed Judge RR Rathi, Deputy Registrar of the Bench of the High Court at Nagpur and both of them reached Ravi Bhavan.	None
In the meantime Judge Kulkarni had also intimated another colleague, Judge Waikar about Judge Loya?s ill health between 0400 hours and 0415 hours(iv) Judge Loya was taken to Dande Hospital in the vehicle of Judge Barde.	None
Judge Kulkarni, Judge Modak and Judge Rathi accompanied them to the hospital.	None
After initial examination, he was advised to be taken to a cardiac centre(v) The report in the Caravan article that Judge Loya was taken to Dande hospital in an auto rikshaw is incorrect(vi) The Deputy Registrar Judge RR Rathi in the meantime called his relative, Dr Pankaj Harkut, a cardiologist who advised him to bring the patient to Meditrina hospital.	Reasoning
Following this conversation at about 0500 hours, the accompanying judges took Judge Loya to Meditrina hospital(vii) Judge Loya was shifted to Meditrina hospital, where he was admitted by Judge Shrikant Kulkarni.	None
He was provided emergency treatment at Meditrina hospital but was declared dead at 0615 hours on 1 December 2014 (viii) The progress notes?	None
of the doctor at Meditrina hospital indicate that a postmortem was advised.	None
This sets at rest the doubts raised in the Caravan article about who had recommended the postmortem(ix) Meditrina hospital furnished information of a medicolegal case to Sitabardi police station, of the patient being brought dead.	None
The police station at Sitabardi registered AD 00/2014 under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973.	None
This was subsequently transferred to Sadar police station where AD 44/2014 was registered at 1600 hours, on 1 December 2014.	None
The ADs were registered on the information of one Dr Prashant Rathi(x)	None
Dr Prashant Rathi was informed about Judge Loya?s illness by his relative (Rukmesh Jakhotiya) from Aurangabad who requested him to help in attending to Judge Loya (xi) The Caravan article raised certain doubts about the role of one Ishwar Baheti.	None
In that context, the report of the Commissioner contains the following explanation?3.8	None
Mr Ishwar Govindlal Baheti, who runs a medical pharmacy at Latur was an old friend of Mr Loya for over 35 years.	None
Ishwar Govindlal Baheti?s eldest brother, Dr Hansraj Govindlal Baheti r o Latur got a call in the wee hours of 01 122014 informing him about Mr Loya?s health.	None
On learning about his friend?s condition from his brother Dr Hansraj, Ishwar Govindlal Baheti called up his relative in Aurangabad, Mr Rukmesh Jakhotiya, who in turn requested Dr Prashant Rathi of Nagpur to provide assistance and care to Mr Loya.	None
Mr Ishwar Govindlal Baheti also called up another cousin of Dr Loya, Mr Om Bhutada and got in touch with the Latur based relatives of Mr Loya.	None
During verification, Mr Ishwar Govindlal Baheti claimed that he was a worker and wellwisher ?karyakarta shubhchintak?	None
of late Mr Vilasraoji Deskhmukh and that he was not connected with RSS.	None
Late Mr Brijgopal Loya?s father, Shri Harkishan Ramchandra Loya, confirmed to the undersigned that Ishwar Baheti was a close friend of his son and that he was like a brother?	None
to him.	None
Mr Loya?s son, Anuj, has stated as follows?my uncle, Mr Iswar Baheti had organized a big function in memoriy of my father on his first death anniversary according to panchang on 06122015 at Gategaon, Latur where everyone from my family including my grandfather Harkishanji and my aunty Dr Anuradha were present.?My verification revealed that Loya family held Mr Ishwar Baheti in very high esteem and treated him as a member of the family.3.8.1 Incidentally, another gentleman by name Ishwarprasad Bajranglal Baheti, 60 confirmed during the verification that he used to be active in RSS long ago and that presently, he runs a shop called Radhey Shubhmangal Stores Handicrafts in Latur.	None
He also confirmed that he did not know Mr Loya and that he had not made any calls in connection with Mr Loya?s health to anybody.3.8.2 One more person by name Ishwarlal Jawaharlal Baheti lives in Nilanga, District Latur where he runs a shop called Amrit General Stores.	None
During verification, he also confirmed that he did not know Mr Loya.3.8.3	None
The above details dispel the doubts raised in the Caravan report about the role of Mr Ishwar Baheti.?	None
Judge Barde and Judge Modak informed Judge Loya?s relatives about his illhealth and death.	None
The Principal Secretary to the Chief Justice and other Judges at the Nagpur Bench were also informed.	None
Chief Justice Mohit Shah and Justices Bhushan Gavai, Justice SB Shukre and Justice PR Bora visited Meditrina hospital around 0700 hours on 1 December2014.	None
The Chief Justice directed the officials present there to make necessary administrative arrangements (xiii)	None
The entire sequence of events was narrated in the statements filed by the four judicial officers Judge Kulkarni, Judge Modak, Judge Barde and Judge RR Rathi(xiv)	None
An inquest was conducted between 1000 hours and 1030 hours on 1 December 2014.	None
The postmortem was conducted between 1055 hours and 1155 hours on 1 December 2014.	None
The postmortem report indicates the absence of any bodily injury and notes the cause of death as?coronary artery insufficiency?.	None
The report of the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory indicates that no traces of poison have been found(xv)	None
The factual position indicates that Judge Loya suffered a heart attack in the early hours of 1 December 2014 and died in consequence.	None
His body was sent to village Gategaon in Latur in an ambulance.	None
Two judicial magistrates from Nagpur, Mr Yogesh Rahangdale and Mr Swayam Chopda were deputed by Judge Sonawane, Principal District Judge, Nagpur to accompany the body.	None
The statement in the Caravan article that the body was not accompanied by anyone is incorrect(xvi) Intimation of the death was furnished to the members of the family of Judge Loya and to his colleagues who resided at Haji Ali, Mumbai by Judge Barde and Judge Modak in the early hours of 1 December 2014 (xvii)	None
The claim in the Caravan article that sources in the Government Medical College and Sitabardi police station had seen the body during the course of the night was devoid of substance(xviii)	None
The reference in the Caravan article to bloodstains on the neck of the deceased is contrary to the postmortem report which stated that there were no external injuries on the body(xix)	None
The members of Judge Loya?s family including his son, wife, father and sister have not supported the insinuations in the Caravan article and(xx)	None
The second article in Caravan dated 21 November 2017 contains unfounded insinuations against the former Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court Shri Justice Mohit Shah.	None
They have been levelled on the basis of an array of hearsay versions.	None
The report concludes by stating that the article published in the Caravan?made several unsubstantiated claims and is replete with falsehoods?.	None
The conclusion of the discreet inquiry is that Judge Loya suffered a heart attack in the presence of his colleagues belonging to the judicial fraternity.	Facts
They had made all possible efforts to provide medical assistance to save him.	Facts
Judge Loya died as a result of natural causes.	Facts
C Submissions	None
I	None
The petitioners and intervenors A Mr Dushyant Dave Mr Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Bombay Lawyers?	Arguments of Petitioner
Association has premised his submissions on the foundation that the cause which he represents raises?serious questions of general importance as to (the) independence of judiciary?and the protection of the subordinate judiciary against threats or attacks.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Dave emphasised the role espoused by the petitioners, by adverting to the decision of this Court in Delhi Judicial Service Association, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi v State of Gujarat 4 in which this Court regarded an assault on a judicial officer as something which affected judicial authority as well as the administration of justice in the entire country.	Arguments of Petitioner
An impassioned plea has been made that the Court should have regard to the background of this case, originating in the judgment in Rubabbuddin Sheikh v State of Gujarat 5 .	Arguments of Petitioner
While transferring the investigation to the CBI, this Court observed ?	None
in order to make sure that justice is not only done, but also is seen to be done and considering the involvement of the State police authorities and particularly the high officials of the State of Gujarat, we are compelled even at this stage to direct the CBI Authorities to investigate into the matter.?	None
After this court directed a CBI investigation into the killings of Sohrabuddin and his wife Kauserbi, a chargesheet was submitted against a number of accused including Amit Shah, the then Minister of State for Home in the State of Gujarat.	None
Subsequently, in Narmada Bai v State of Gujarat 6 this Court directed a separate investigation by the CBI into the killing of Tulsiram Prajapai, which, it has been submitted, was a part of the conspiracy to kill Sohrabuddin and Kauserbi.	None
In issuing these directions, this Court held thus ?	None
It is not in dispute that it is the ageold maxim that justice must not only be done but must be seen to be done.	None
The fact that in the case of murder of an associate of Tulsiram Prajapati, senior police officials and a senior politician were accused may shake the confidence of public in investigation conducted by the State police.	None
If the majesty of the rule of law is to be upheld and if it is to be ensured that the guilty are punished in accordance with law notwithstanding their status and authority which they might have enjoyed, it is desirable to entrust the investigation to CBI.?	None
Subsequently, in Central Bureau of Investigation v Amitbhai Anil Chandra Shah 7 , while upholding the grant of bail by the Gujarat High Court, this Court ordered the transfer of the criminal case outside the State of Gujarat to the State of Maharashtra.	None
The following directions were issued ?	None
In another decision in Ravindra Pal Singh v Santosh Kumar Jaiswal 8 , this Court directed for transfer of the case outside the State because some of the accused in a case of fake encounter were policemen.	None
The case in hand has far more stronger reasons for being transferred outside the State.	None
We, accordingly, direct for the transfer of Special Case No.5 of 2010 pending in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, CBI, Courtroom No 2, Mirzapur, Ahmedabad titled CBI v D.G.Vanzara to the Court of CBI, Bombay.	None
The Registrar General of the Gujarat High Court is directed to collect the entire record of the case from the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, CBI, Room	None
No 2, Mirzapur, Ahmedabad and to transmit it to the Registry of the Bombay High Court from where it would be sent to the CBI Court as may be decided by the Administrative Committee of the High Court.	None
The Administrative Committee would assign the case to a court where the trial may be concluded judiciously, in accordance with law, and without any delay.	None
The Administrative Committee would also ensure that the trial should be conducted from beginning to end by the same officer.?	None
Mr Dave submitted that an application for discharge under Section 227 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was moved by Amit Shah in 2013.	None
His application for exemption from personal appearance was declined by Judge JT Utpat who was nominated by the Administrative Committee of the Bombay High Court in pursuance of the directions extracted above.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before the proceedings could be taken up, it was alleged, Judge Utpat was transferred on 25 June 2014 by the Administrative Committee of the Bombay High Court contrary to the directions contained in the judgment of this Court dated 27 September 2012.	Arguments of Petitioner
Following the transfer, Judge Loya was appointed as CBI judge in which assignment he continued until his death on 1 December 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Dave urges that the decision to transfer Judge Utpat, without seeking appropriate orders of this Court?raises serious questions, if not doubts, about the functioning of the Administrative Committee of the High Court?.	Arguments of Petitioner
After Judge Loya died on 1 December 2014, a new appointment of Judge MB Gosavi was initiated.	None
The discharge application was allowed on 30 December 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Dave has categorically stated before the Court that the legality of the order of discharge is not being questioned in the present proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
CBI, it has been submitted, did not assail the order of discharge though it subsequently filed appeals against the discharge of some police officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rubabuddin, the original petitioner also challenged the order of discharge but withdrew the application for condonation of delay thus rendering the criminal revision application as not maintainable before the Bombay High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on this background, Mr Dave has submitted that the respondents should be directed to file?appropriate affidavits?on oath having regard to the fact that the jurisdiction under Article 32 is extraordinary in its nature and scope.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Dave has submitted that the discreet inquiry and report prepared by the Commissioner of the State Intelligence Department is an attempt to stall an independent investigation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, according to him, unusual for the state government to order a discreet inquiry on the basis of a report published in a news periodical.	Arguments of Petitioner
Highlighting the sequence of events, it is urged that on 23 November 2017, the state government directed the Commissioner to conduct a discreet verification and on the same day, a letter was addressed to the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court seeking to record the say of the four judicial officers who had accompanied Judge Loya to the hospital on 1 December 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court of Bombay communicated the approval of the Chief Justice on the same day.	Arguments of Petitioner
The judicial officers submitted their statements within a day.	Arguments of Petitioner
The report was submitted by the Commissioner on 28 November 2017, within five days.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is, in his submission, a sense of alacrity which is not ordinarily found amongst public functionaries.14.	None
The documents and statements which form part of the report of the Commissioner of State Intelligence have been called into question on the basis of the following submissions ?	None
(i)	None
The death investigation report prepared under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code by PSI RK Mundhe of the Sitabardi police station, Nagpur city dated 1 December 2014 records that the body of the deceased was identified by Dr Prashant Rathi and does not refer to the presence of any other individual, including the judicial officers The case papers of Meditrina hospital record that the patient was brought dead to the hospital and was admitted by Judge Shrikant D Kulkarni who disclosed his relationship with the deceased as a friend.	Arguments of Petitioner
The progress notes of the doctor recorded that the accompanying person had indicated that the patient had suffered chest pain.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bill prepared by Meditrina hospital inexplicably contains charges for noninvasive lab, neurosurgery, diet consultation and nonmedical expenses (the total bill being in the amount of Rs 4290)	Arguments of Petitioner
The postmortem report describes the shirt and jeans worn by the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been urged that if Judge Loya had suffered a heart attack in his sleep, it would not be conceivable that he would be sleeping in such clothes.	Arguments of Petitioner
The rigor mortis was found to be slightly present either in the upper limbs but not in the lower limbs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submission is that if the cause of death was due to coronary artery insufficiency, rigor mortis would have set in fully.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, the form under which the dead body was sent for postmortem indicates that rigor mortis was well marked The report of the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory dated 5 February 2015 indicates that the viscera did not reveal any trace of poison.	Arguments of Petitioner
Analysis commenced on 5 January 2015 and was completed on 19 January 2015 in pursuance of AD 44/2014 of PS Sadar under Section 174 of the Cr PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 1 December 2014 Sitabardi police station which was investigating the matter had forwarded the body for postmortem through police constable Pankaj.	Arguments of Petitioner
Doubt has been cast on the histopathologial report of 5 February 2015 on the ground that it refers to PS Sadar instead of Sitabardi.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 10 December 2014, Sadar police station addressed a letter to the Government Medical hospital, Nagpur to correct the name of Judge Loya from Brijmohan Harikishan Loya to Brijgopal Harikishan Loya.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been urged that if Judge Loya was accompanied by his colleagues, his name would not have been furnished incorrectly to the hospital The record indicates that Sadar police station made a fresh accidental death summary almost one and a half years later on 2 February 2016.	Arguments of Petitioner
While doing so, the officer of PS Sadar recorded as follows?Sir, PSI SD Warade was day officer on 01/12/2014, he got AD no 00/14, 174 CrPC from PC PANKAJ b	Arguments of Petitioner
No 6238 from Sitabardi Police Station.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said AD was that of Shri Brijgopal Harikishan Loya, age 48 years, resident of Hajiali Government Colony, Building No 11, Mumbai.	Arguments of Petitioner
On perusing the case diary, I found that the place of occurrence is in jurisdiction of Police Station Sadar, so I registered AD	Arguments of Petitioner
No 44/14, u s 174 Cr PC.?If AD 44/14 was registered in February 2016, it was urged, there is a contradiction in the reference to the above AD in the report of the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory dated 5 February 2015(vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
The statements of the four judicial officers?omitted to say much more than what they have stated?.	None
None of them has furnished the suite number at Ravi Bhavan in which Judge Loya stayed during the night of 30 November 2014.	None
The register of Ravi Bhavan does not contain any entry of Judge Loya having stayed there.	Arguments of Petitioner
The account of Judge Kulkarni that he stayed with Judge Loya and Judge Modak in the same suite at Ravi Bhavan has been called into question.	Arguments of Petitioner
The conduct of the judicial officers at Nagpur is criticized on the ground that none of them claims to have informed the family after the death had occurred.	Arguments of Petitioner
Judge Barde in his statement recorded that he and Judge Kulkarni had met the relatives of the deceased after a few days at Mumbai, which is submitted to be unnatural(vii)	Arguments of Petitioner
If indeed, the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court, the Registrar General, judges of the High Court and judicial officers were present in the hospital, efforts would have been made to ensure that the family of Judge Loya travels to Nagpur by the next available flight(viii)	Arguments of Petitioner
While in 2015 Judge Loya?s son had addressed a letter for the filing of an FIR or for instituting an inquiry into the death, and his father and sister had demanded an inquiry in video recorded interviews with Caravan and alleged that the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court had made an effort to bribe Judge Loya, the subsequent statements of the members of the family have been extracted by the State Intelligence Department and ought not to be relied upon (ix) The security of Judge Loya was withdrawn on 24 November 2014 a week before his death(x) The Commissioner in the State Intelligence Department did not meet any person nor did he visit any place to satisfy himself of the truthfulness of the statements or facts(xi)	Arguments of Petitioner
The statement of Dr Prashant Rathi was recorded on 22 November 2017 by the police at Nagpur though the discreet inquiry was ordered on 23 November 2017(xii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The press interviews given by Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice SB Shukre of the Bombay High Court to the Indian Express on 27 November 2017 contain a repetition of what the four district judges had mentioned in their letters.	Arguments of Petitioner
This raised a grave suspicion as to why the interviews were given to the press in the first place(xiii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Commissioner ought to have examined the statements made by the father, sister and son of Judge Loya to Caravan(xiv)	Arguments of Petitioner
If Judge Loya had suffered a heart attack, his colleagues instead of taking him to Dande hospital ought to have shifted him to a reputed cardiac facility some of which were situated within a distance of five kilometres from Ravi Bhavan.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the judicial officers did not rush their colleague to?the best hospital available?raises doubts about the theory that they had accompanied Judge Loya and(xv)	Arguments of Petitioner
While on one hand Dr Dande claimed that an ECG was taken, Judge Rathi in his statement has recorded that at Dande hospital the ECG machine was not working.?	Arguments of Respondent
On the above grounds, it has been submitted, that the report of the Commissioner of State Intelligence should be rejected.	None
An independent inquiry by a Special Investigating Team has been sought.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has suggested to the Court that this is a fit case for initiating the inhouse procedure against two judges of the Bombay High Court for granting an interview to the media.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Dave has submitted an application that he may be allowed to cross examine the four judicial officers whose statements have been relied upon in the report submitted by the Commissioner of State Intelligence.	None
In support of his application Mr Dave has relied upon the decision of this Court in K.K. Kochunni v State of Madras 9 and on the provisions contained in Order IX of the SC Rules.	None
Crossexamination has been sought of the following persons ?	None
1	None
Mr Sanjeev Barve, Director General Commissioner, State Intelligence Department, Maharashtra, 2 Dr Prashant Bajrang Rathi, Resident of Sai Regency, Ravi Nagar, Nagpur, 3 Mr Niranjan Takle, Reporter of CARAVAN, 4 Shri Shrikant D Kulkarni, Member Secretary, Maharashtra State Legal Service Authority 5	None
Shri SM Modak, Principal District Judge, Pune, 6 Shri Vijay C Barde, Additional Sessions Judge, City Civil and Sessions Court, Greater Bombay 7 Dr Pinak Gangadhar Rao, Dande, Ram Nagar, Nagpur 8 Shri Anuj Brij Gopal Loya, s o late Sh.	None
BH Loya 9 Smt Sharmila Brij Gopal Loya w o Sh.	None
BH Loya 10 Shri Hari Kishan Ramchandra Loya, f o late	None
Sh BH Loya 11 Dr Anuradha Balaprasad Biyani, sister of late Sh.	None
BH Loya.?	None
Mr Dave urged that the State should be directed to file an affidavit controverting the allegations contained in the petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
B Ms Indira Jaising Ms Jaising has appeared on behalf of an intervenor (Admiral Ramdas).	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms Jaising urges that the following circumstances create a suspicion that the death of Judge Loya was not due to natural causes The absence of any entry in the register at Ravi Bhavan recording the name of Judge Loya as an occupant on 30 November and 1 December 2014	Arguments of Petitioner
The improbability of three judicial officers residing in one room of Ravi Bhavan The misspelling of the name of Judge Loya in the records of Dande hospital and Meditrina hospital and in the postmortem report, despite the fact that several judicial officers were alleged to be present Nonproduction of the ECG carried out at Dande hospital and the date of 30 November 2014 contained in the ECG published in the Indian Express on 27 November 2017	Arguments of Petitioner
The statement of judge Rathi that the ECG facility at Dande hospital was not working The failure of the police to involve the Executive Magistrate on 1 December 2014 when an accident report was generated at Sitabardi police station at 8.30 am Contradictions in the postmortem report Correction of the name on 10 January 2015(b)	Arguments of Petitioner
The date of death is shown as 7 December 2014(c)	Arguments of Petitioner
The overwriting of the date of death from 30 November 2014 to 1 December 2014(d)	Arguments of Petitioner
The cause of death as Coronary Artery Insufficiency The failure to prepare a panchnama of the personal belongings of the deceased which assume significance from the statement of the sister of the deceased to Caravan that his cell phone was returned a few days later with all messages deleted The first accidental death report (AD 00/14) under Section 174 Cr PC was recorded at Sitabardi.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second AD 44/2014 was recorded at 1600 hours at Sadar police station without the Executive Magistrate being informed The failure to produce the case diary of PS Sitabardi or Sadar Failure to follow the procedure prescribed by law under Section 174 Cr PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
No inquiry was carried out by the police or by anyone else at the inquest under Section 174 Dr Prashant Rathi was not a relative?	None
within the meaning of Section 176 Cr PC Furnishing of information to the Executive Magistrate in respect of the accidental death summary on 2 February 2016 The grievance of the Judge Loya?s sister to Caravan that the ambulance containing the dead body was not accompanied by any judicial officer The letter dated 18 February 2017 of Anuj Loya requesting the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court to conduct an inquiry.	None
Ms Jaising has urged submissions on the scope of provisions of Section 157 of Cr PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submission is that the expression?reason to suspect the commission of an offence?must receive an appropriate construction since at that stage, the question of technical proof of facts alleged in the first information report does not arise (State of Haryana v Bhajan Lal) 10 .	Arguments of Petitioner
In the present case, it was urged that upon the death of Judge Loya, the police appeared to have treated it as an accidental death and generated AD 00/14 under Section 174 of the Cr PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The police were bound to follow the procedure prescribed by law.	Arguments of Petitioner
As held by this Court in Ashok Kumar Todi v Kishwar Jahan 11 the police may either close the case or register an FIR and investigate into the offence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Neither was an investigation conducted under Section 174 Cr PC, nor was an FIR recorded and(xvi)	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms Jaising adverted to the decision in Zahira Habibullah Sheikh v State of Gujarat 12 in which it was held ?35.	None
This Court has often emphasised that in a criminal case the fate of the proceedings cannot always be left entirely in the hands of the parties, crime being public wrong in breach and violation of public rights and duties, which affects the whole community as a community and is harmful to society in general.	None
The concept of fair trial entails familiar triangulation of interests of the accused, the victim and the society and it is the community that acts through the State and prosecuting agencies.	None
Interest of society is not to be treated completely with disdain and as persona non grata.	None
The courts have always been considered to have an overriding duty to maintain public confidence in the administration of 1justiceoften referred to as the duty to vindicate and uphold the?majesty of the law?Due administration of justice has always been viewed as a continuous process, not confined to determination of the particular case, protecting its ability to function as a court of law in the future as in the case before it.	None
If a criminal court is to be an effective instrument in dispensing justice, the Presiding Judge must cease to be a spectator and a mere recording machine by becoming a participant in the trial evincing intelligence, active interest and elicit all relevant materials necessary for reaching the correct conclusion, to find out the truth, and administer justice with fairness and impartiality both to the parties and to the community it serves.	None
The courts administering criminal justice cannot turn a blind eye to vexatious or oppressive conduct that has occurred in relation to proceedings, even if a fair trial is still possible, except at the risk of undermining the fair name and standing of the judges as impartial and independent adjudicators.?	None
Reliance was also placed on the following observations contained in the decision in Vineet Narain v Union of India 13 ?	None
3.	None
The facts and circumstances of the present case do indicate that it is of utmost public importance that this matter is examined thoroughly by this Court to ensure that all government agencies, entrusted with the duty to discharge their functions and obligations in accordance with law, do so, bearing in mind constantly the concept of equality enshrined in the Constitution and the basic tenet of rule of law?Be	None
you ever so high, the law is above you.?Investigation into every accusation made against each and every person on a reasonable basis, irrespective of the position and status of that person, must be conducted and completed expeditiously.	None
This is imperative to retain public confidence in the impartial working of the government agencies.?	None
In the submission of Ms Jaising, there is a chain of suspicious circumstances which warrants a court monitored investigation.	None
These have been summarised as follows Inconsistencies in the documents produced by the State of Maharashtra(b)	Arguments of Petitioner
Statements made by the family which appeared in the Caravan dated 20 November 2017 and 21 November 2017 and the contradictory statements by the two sitting judges of the High Court in the Indian Express dated 27 November 2017(c)	Arguments of Petitioner
The statements made by the family of the deceased to Niranjan Takle of Caravan that they suspect foul play.	None
(d) Contradiction of those statements by the family in documents produced by the State of Maharashtra (e) Noncompliance with the provisions of Section 174 Cr PC(f)	None
The absence of the family during the postmortem(g) The handing over of the body to Dr Prashant Rathi who was a stranger(h)	Arguments of Petitioner
The misspelling of the name of the deceased in medical documents(i) The absence of the name of Judge Loya in the occupancy register of Ravi Bhavan(j)	Arguments of Petitioner
The transfer of the earlier judge, Judge Utpat a day before the hearing of the Sohrabuddin trial in the teeth of the judgment in CBI v Amitbhai Anil Chandra Shah 14 and(k) The fact that the incoming judicial officer after Judge Loya?s death discharged one of the accused within a month of his assuming charge.	Arguments of Petitioner
C	None
Mr PV Surendranath Mr PV Surendranath, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of All India Lawyers?	Arguments of Petitioner
Union, an intervenor, submitted that the scope of the present hearing is only confined to the death of Judge Loya on 1 December 2014 and does not extend to the?Sohrabuddin fake encounter case trialor its trajectory the transfer of the predecessor officer etc.?Relying on the decision of this Court in Vineet Narain (supra), Mr Surendranath submitted that the setting up of a Special Investigation Team is warranted, having regard to the nature of the crime in the Sohrabuddin case, the status of the accused, circumstances which led to the transfer of the proceedings from Gujarat to Maharashtra the discharge of some of the accused after a new judicial officer took charge upon the death of Judge Loya and the absence of security for Judge Loya at the relevant time.	Arguments of Petitioner
In his submissions, the contradictory versions given by close relatives of the deceased judge is in itself a reason to order a formal investigation under the Cr PC by registering an FIR.D Mr Prashant Bhushan Mr Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Centre for Public Interest Litigation has filed an application for intervention.	Arguments of Petitioner
The affidavit in support of the application has been sworn and verified by Mr Prashant Bhushan.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reiterating the contents of the application, it has been urged that on 11 February 2018 Caravan published a report stating that the postmortem report and histopathology report that accompanied the sample of the viscera were submitted to Dr RK Sharma, a former Head of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology at AIIMS.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Bhushan submitted that the intervenor obtained a copy of the histopathology report and a copy of the ECG.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expert opinion of Dr RK Sharma, it has been submitted, indicates that there was no evidence of myocardial infarction and though changes were observed in the condition of the heart, they are not conclusive to show coronary artery insufficiency.	None
Moreover, emphasis has been placed on the fact that the post mortem report indicated congestion in the dura which would indicate that the possibility of poisoning cannot be ruled out.	None
Mr Prashant Bhushan states that the intervenor submitted a copy of the ECG and histopathology report to Dr Upendra Kaul, a former Professor of Cardiology at AIIMS.	None
Mr Prashant Bhushan addressed an email to Dr Kaul, attaching the ECG and histopathology report and addressed three questions which read as follows ?	None
1.	None
Could this person have suffered a serious heart attack, onetwo hours before this ECG is taken?	None
In other words, is this ECG consistent with the ECG of a person who has had a serious myocardial one to two hours before this ECG is done?	None
Is the histopathology report of his coronary arteries and heart muscle consistent with his death being due to acute myocardial infraction or coronary thrombosis?	None
In addition I would also like to ask you whether a person who has died due to myocardial infraction could show significant congestion of the dura, liver, spleen, kidney, larynx, trachoa and Bronchi, lungs.	None
Is it possible for this congestion of all his organs as mentioned in the post mortem report, to have taken place because of CPR administrated at the time of his death??	None
In reply Dr Kaul has stated thus ?	None
1. Most unlikely, the ECG has no evidence of a recent myocardial infraction.	None
The histopathology of heart muscle says it is normal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The coronary artery block in LAD could be an innocent bystander.	Arguments of Petitioner
Unlikely to be because of a recent MI but could be because of an intensive CPR.	None
Mr Bhushan submitted that he has also spoken to?other reputed cardiologists?who have?also given essentially the same opinion?.	None
Mr Bhushan has submitted that the statements by the four judges which were produced in court have not been filed on affidavit.	None
Besides, the statements of the four judicial officers would only indicate that Judge Loya complained of chest pain following which he died on the way to Meditrina hospital.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the eyewitness accounts would be consistent with other causes of death including poisoning.	Arguments of Petitioner
Virtually at the end of his submissions, Mr Bhushan queried this Court as to whether two members of the Bench (Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice DY Chandrachud) would like to hear the matter since it may be that as judges of the Bombay High Court earlier they may have been acquainted with the four judicial officers and the two judges (Justice Gavai and Justice Shukre).	Arguments of Petitioner
In response to his query we had inquired of Mr Bhushan as to whether he intended to file an application for recusal.	Arguments of Petitioner
No application for recusal has been filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Bhushan has stated that he leaves the matter there.	Arguments of Petitioner
E Mr Pallav Shishodia20.	None
Mr Pallav Shishodia, learned senior counsel, has urged in his submissions that ?	None
These stories have led to a tide of insinuations, questions on integrity of our judicial system and war of recriminations.	None
The present writ proceedings also appear to have found resonance in one eminent press conference as also led to open aspersions cast on the some of the judges of this Hon.	Arguments of Petitioner
Court hearing the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the circumstances, it is submitted that an independent probe cannot be one way traffic in which persons making allegations can just?hit and run?without any responsibility to damages caused to the reputation, prestige and faith in institutions including this Hon?ble Court and judiciary as a whole?	Arguments of Petitioner
F Mr V Giri Mr V Giri, learned senior counsel has independently urged submissions similar to those which have been urged before the court by the other learned senior counsel.	None
Much of what has been argued by earlier counsel has been reiterated.	Arguments of Petitioner
His assisting counsel urged during the course of his rejoinder that the judges who were present with Judge Loya were a party to the conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
II State of Maharashtra A Harish Salve Mr Harish Salve, learned senior counsel submitted that judicial review is a potent weapon to preserve the rule of law.	Arguments of Respondent
Though counsel for the petitioners asserted that the petitions were instituted to preserve the independence of the judiciary, the nature of the allegations and the tenor of the submissions indicate that the effort is to launch a frontal attack on judicial independence.	Arguments of Respondent
Judges of the district judiciary are in a vulnerable position and it was urged that it is all the more necessary in the facts of this case for this Court to assert its authority to protect them from the indiscriminate attacks levelled by counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners.	Arguments of Respondent
B Mr Mukul Rohtagi Mr Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel submitted that though the batch of present cases is styled as petitions filed in the public interest, reality is far away from the principles enunciated by this Court in State of Uttaranchal v Balwant Singh Chaufal 15 .	None
The petitions as well as the submissions urged in support constitute an attempt to scandalise the judiciary and sensationalise the issue.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr Mukul Rohatgi submitted that Judge Loya died on 1 December 2014 at Nagpur and was cremated at Gategaon, near Latur in the presence of his family and friends.	Arguments of Respondent
Three years later, on 20 and 21 November 2017 articles were published in Caravan which was followed by a flurry of writ petitions(ii)	Arguments of Respondent
Ordinarily, this Court would not entertain a petition only on the basis of news reports, because they are hearsay in the nature.	Arguments of Respondent
All the petitions are based entirely on news reports.	Arguments of Respondent
The source of knowledge is the reports which appeared in the print and electronic media(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
Despite the submission in (ii) above, having due regard to the fact that the death of a judge in the state judicial service is in issue, the State of Maharashtra is not pressing for dismissal on grounds of maintainability and urges its submissions on merits to satisfy the conscience of the court(iv) Two colleagues of Judge Loya from the district judiciary Judge Kulkarni and Judge Modak were with him from 29 November 2014 until he died on 1 December 2014.	Arguments of Respondent
They have furnished a clear and cogent account of the events which took place.	Arguments of Respondent
Their statements are corroborated by the statements of two other judicial officers Judge Rathi and Judge Barde(v)	Arguments of Respondent
An inquiry can be ordered by this court only if it finds sufficient justification to reject the eyewitness account of the judges of the district judiciary who accompanied Judge Loya from the night of 29 November 2014 (when they left Mumbai for Nagpur) until the afternoon of 1 December 2014 (when the ambulance left for Gategaon).	Arguments of Respondent
The statements of the judges are an abundant reflection of the truth of the matter.	Arguments of Respondent
After Judge Loya died on 1 December 2014, four judges of the High Court, including the Chief Justice, who were informed of the death reached Meditrina hospital shortly after the death(vi) The issue before the court is whether Judge Loya died a natural death or whether there are circumstances which indicate that the death was unnatural.	Arguments of Respondent
The court is not called upon to evaluate the nature of the care or treatment that was received by him at Dande and Meditrina hospitals(vii)	Arguments of Respondent
The four statements by Judge Kulkarni, Judge Modak, Judge Barde and Judge Rathi are signed by them.	Arguments of Respondent
The statement of Judge Modak states that Judge Loya was in the same room at Ravi Bhavan.	Arguments of Respondent
The statements of the four judges also cover an important stretch of time from 0400 hours to 0630 hours on 1 December 2014.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no reason to cast doubt or suspicion on the statements of the four judges of the district judiciary.	Arguments of Respondent
They have neither an axe to grind nor any motive not to speak the truth.	Arguments of Respondent
Minor contradictions should not result in the statements being discarded since they are not of consequence.	Arguments of Respondent
Minor contradictions are in fact natural when events which took place three years earlier are recalled.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, this court is not hearing a regular criminal appeal after a full fledged trial(viii)	None
The ECG was taken at Dande hospital and was evidently carried to Meditrina hospital.	None
The progress notes of the doctor at Meditrina hospital advert to the nature of the ECG and it also forms a part of the record.	Arguments of Respondent
Significantly Judge Barde has deposed to the fact that an ECG was done though Judge Rathi has stated that at Dande hospital the nodes of the ECG machine were not in order(ix)	Arguments of Respondent
After the death had occurred, an inquest was conducted under Section 174 Cr PC in the mortuary of the Government Medical College at Nagpur Thereafter a postmortem was conducted which indicated that the death was due to coronary artery insufficiency.	Arguments of Respondent
The postmortem was necessitated because Judge Loya was brought dead to Meditrina hospital.	Arguments of Respondent
A request was made to the forensic science laboratory on 1 December 2014 for analysis of the viscera.	Arguments of Respondent
The FSL report and the report dated 5 February 2015 specifically notes that no trace of poison was found(x)	Arguments of Respondent
No credence should be attached to the fact that the name of Judge Loya was recorded as Brijmohan instead of Brijgopal, having due regard to the emergency in which he was initially taken to Dande hospital and later to Meditrina.	Arguments of Respondent
The error was corrected on 10 December 2014(xi)	Arguments of Respondent
The death report was initially recorded at Sitabardi police station Nagpur.	Arguments of Respondent
The death report at police station Sadar was recorded later since Ravi Bhavan falls within the jurisdiction of Sadar police station.	Arguments of Respondent
As the record indicates, the death report at police station Sadar was on the basis of the earlier report lodged at Sitabardi police station(xii)	Arguments of Respondent
Finding that there was no warrant for suspicion in regard to the death, a request for closure was submitted to the Executive Magistrate in February 2016(xiii)	Arguments of Respondent
There was nothing untoward in the conduct of a discreet inquiry by the Commissioner, SID.	Arguments of Respondent
The inquiry was initiated after news reports appeared in Caravan on 20 and 21 November 2017.	Arguments of Respondent
While conducting such inquiries, a parallel is drawn by the State on the basis of the Anticorruption Manual which envisages the procedure to be followed in a discreet inquiry.	Arguments of Respondent
Even independent of the manual, the state government was justified in conducting an inquiry having due regard to the fact that aspersions were cast by a news periodical in regard to the circumstances leading to the death of a judge of the district judiciary(xiv)	Arguments of Respondent
On the initiation of the discreet inquiry, an authorisation was obtained from the Chief Justice for recording the say?	Arguments of Respondent
of the four judicial officers.	Arguments of Respondent
Letters were addressed to them.	Arguments of Respondent
Judge Kulkarni and Judge Barde were posted at Mumbai, Judge Modak was posted at Pune and Judge Rathi was at Baramati.	Arguments of Respondent
The DGP sent a hard copy of the order of authorisation by the Chief Justice to Pune and Baramati.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no reason to entertain any suspicion because the judges submitted their statements immediately upon receipt of the authorisation of the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court(xv)	Arguments of Respondent
Significantly while the petitioners and intervenors have doubted whether the three judges stayed at Ravi Bhavan, the report in Caravan expressly acknowledges that it was at Ravi Bhavan that they had stayed during their visit to Nagpur(xvi) Immediately on the publication of the Caravan report on 11 February 2018 containing a reference to the opinion purportedly given by Dr Sharma, two letters dated 14 February 2018 were addressed to AIIMS with reference to the opinion.	Arguments of Respondent
AIIMS in its reply has specifically clarified that it is not a practice to give such information.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr Sharma has clarified that he was grossly misquoted by Caravan and that the conclusions in the article are imaginary(xvii)	Arguments of Respondent
The police inspector at Nagpur addressed a communication to Dr Harish Pathak, Head of Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology at KEM hospital, Mumbai.	Arguments of Respondent
The report submitted by Dr Pathak specifically mentions that the findings in the postmortem and histopathology reports are indicative of acute coronary insufficiency(xviii)	Arguments of Respondent
The manner in which the petitioners have conducted themselves is evident from the innuendos attaching to the reliance by Mr Dave on an order of the Nagpur bench of the High Court, quashing a criminal prosecution against several petitioners of whom the fourth petitioner was Mr Devendra Fadnavis, Chief Minister of Maharashtra.	Arguments of Respondent
The manner in which reliance has been placed on that order before this court would indicate that these proceedings are not instituted bona fide but constitute a clear attempt to subvert judicial independence and to cast aspersions on the independence of the judiciary and(xix)	Arguments of Respondent
The timing of the publication of the newspaper article was politically motivated, since it coincided with the elections to the Gujarat Assembly.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged that the purpose is to target a political opponent by engaging the process of the Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival submissions would now be analysed.	None
D Analysis Mr Dave submitted that notice be issued formally in the writ proceedings and the State should be called upon to file affidavits in response to the petitions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that once affidavits are filed it would be open to the petitioners to initiate steps for perjury, if a false statement has been made before the court.	None
While dealing with this submission, it is necessary to record that in pursuance of the procedural directions which were issued during the course of the first hearing, the state has filed a compilation of documents on the record.	Reasoning
All contesting parties have appeared and have been heard.	Reasoning
The documentary material which has been filed by the state has been tendered to the court and forms part of the record of judicial proceedings.	Reasoning
No affidavit by a police officer or authority can improve upon the factual situation emerging from the documentary material which is placed before the Court.	Reasoning
Once this is the position, the state and its officers must necessarily take full responsibility for all that has been placed on the record and face any legal consequence which arises from the documentary material which is produced in the proceedings before the court.	Reasoning
The issue before the court is whether an inquiry into the death of Judge Loya is warranted on the directions of this court.	Reasoning
This would depend in substance on the nature of the inquiry which has been conducted.	Reasoning
The latter is a matter of record.	Reasoning
Affidavits cannot improve upon the official record of the state.	Reasoning
Besides, as we have noted earlier, counsel for the State of Maharashtra informed the court that the state government would be willing to produce any further documents which form a part of the official record as are required for inspection by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners and intervenors.	Reasoning
Moreover, Mr Rohatgi urged that the state would willingly accept any directions of the Court, in addition to the material which was filed.	Reasoning
Under the order of this court learned counsel were permitted to provide a list of such documents to counsel for the state, if any additional documents were required to be produced.	Reasoning
We have also scrutinised with the assistance of counsel, the material which has been produced by counsel for the petitioners and intervenors besides the material produced by the state without regard to technicalities of procedure.	Reasoning
This batch of cases has been heard fully.	Reasoning
Hearings have been convened over ten dates of judicial sitting.	Reasoning
We find no justification at this stage to call upon the state to file affidavits since a full and complete opportunity has been granted to all the parties and their counsel to address submissions on every aspect of the case that they desire to address.	Reasoning
The entire record is before the court.	None
Section 174 Cr PC Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 provides thus ?	None
174.	None
Police to enquire and report on suicide, etc.	None
When the officer in charge of a police station or some other police officer specially empowered by the State Government in that behalf receives information that a person has committed suicide, or has been killed by another or by an animal or by machinery or by an accident, or has died under circumstances raising a reasonable suspicion that some other person has committed an offence, he shall immediately give intimation thereof to the nearest Executive Magistrate empowered to hold inquests, and, unless otherwise directed by any rule prescribed by the State Government, or by any general or special order of the District or Sub divisional Magistrate, shall proceed to the place where the body of such deceased person is, and there, in the presence of two or more respectable inhabitants of the neighbourhood, shall make an investigation, and draw up a report of the apparent cause of death, describing such wounds, fractures, bruises, and other marks of injury as may be found on the body, and stating in what manner, or by what weapon or instrument (if any) such marks appear to have been inflicted.	None
The report shall be signed by such police officer and other persons, or by so many of them as concur therein, and shall be forthwith forwarded to the District Magistrate or the Sub divisional Magistrate.	None
(3) 1	None
When the case involves suicide by a woman within seven years of her marriage or the case relates to the death of a woman within seven years of her marriage in any circumstances raising a reasonable suspicion that some other person committed an offence in relation to such woman or the case relates to the death of a woman within seven years of her marriage and any relative of the woman has made a request in this behalf or there is any doubt regarding the cause of death or the police officer for any other reason considers it expedient so to do, he shall.	None
subject to such rules as the State Government may prescribe in this behalf, forward the body, with a view to its being examined, to the nearest Civil Surgeon, or other qualified medical man appointed in this behalf by the State Government, if the state of the weather and the distance admit of its being so forwarded without risk of such putrefaction on the road as would render such examination useless.	None
The following Magistrates are empowered to hold inquests, namely, any District Magistrate or Sub divisional Magistrate and any other Executive Magistrate specially empowered in this behalf by the State Government or the District Magistrate.?	None
Section 174 deals with a situation where information is received by an officer incharge of a police station of a person having committed suicide, or having been killed (i) by another or (ii) by an animal or (iii) by machinery or (iv) by an accident or of having died under circumstances raising a reasonable suspicion that some other person has committed an offence.	None
In any of these situations, the police officer is required to furnish intimation immediately to the nearest Executive Magistrate who is empowered to hold inquests.	None
He is required to proceed to the place where the body is situated and in the presence of two witnesses to make an investigation and draw up a report of the apparent cause of death.	None
The report would describe the wounds including marks of injury which are found on the body and in what manner or by what weapon or instrument if any they appear to have been inflicted.	None
The purpose of holding an inquest is limited.	None
The inquest report does not constitute substantive evidence.	None
Hence matters relating to how the deceased was assaulted or who assaulted him and under what circumstances are beyond the scope of the report.	None
The report of inquest is primarily intended to ascertain the nature of the injuries and the apparent cause of death.	None
On the other hand, it is the doctor who conducts a postmortem examination who examines the body from a medicolegal perspective.	None
Hence it is the postmortem report that is expected to contain the details of the injuries through a scientific examination 16 .	None
The scope of an inquiry under Section 174 of the Cr PC has been considered in several decisions of this court.	None
In Pedda Narayana v State of Andhra Pradesh 17 , this court explained that the limited scope of such an inquiry is to ascertain whether a person has died in suspicious circumstances or an unnatural death	None
and, if this was the case, the apparent cause of death.	None
The court observed ?	None
The proceedings under Section 174 have a very limited scope.	None
The object of the proceedings is merely to ascertain whether a person has died under suspicious circumstances or an unnatural death and if so what is the apparent cause of the death.	None
The question regarding the details as to how the deceased was assaulted or who assaulted him or under what circumstances he was assaulted is foreign to the ambit and scope of the proceedings under Section 174.	None
Neither in practice nor in law was it necessary for the police to mention those details in the inquest report.?	None
This principle was reiterated in Amar Singh v Balwinder Singh (supra) where the court observed thus ?	None
12The requirement of the section is that the police officer shall record the apparent cause of death describing the wounds as may be found on the body and also the weapon or instrument by which they appear to have been inflicted and this has to be done in the presence of two or more respectable inhabitants of the neighbourhood.	None
The section does not contemplate that the manner in which the incident took place or the names of the accused should be mentioned in the inquest report.	None
The basic purpose of holding an inquest is to report regarding the apparent cause of death, namely, whether it is suicidal, homicidal, accidental or by some machinery etc.	None
(Id at page 641)?	None
The view in Pedda Narayana (supra) has been approved by a three judge Bench in Khujji Surendra Tiwari v State of Madhya Pradesh 18 .	None
Hence in Radha Mohan Singh Alias Lal Saheb v State of U.P. 19 , a Bench of three learned judges formulated the principle in the following terms ?	None
Thus, it is well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court that the purpose of holding an inquest is very limited viz.	None
to ascertain as to whether a person has committed suicide or has been killed by another or by an animal or by machinery or by an accident or has died under circumstances raising a reasonable suspicion that some other person has committed an offence.	None
There is absolutely no requirement in law of mentioning the details of the FIR, names of the accused or the names of the eyewitnesses or the gist of their statements, nor is it required to be signed by any eyewitness.?	None
A Bench of two learned judges of this Court in Madhu Alias Madhuranatha v State of Karnataka 20 has observed that an inquest report is not substantive evidence.	None
In Manoj Kumar Sharma v State of Chhattisgarh 21 , a Bench of two learned judges held that the purpose of an inquest?	None
in cases of accidental or suspicious deaths under Sections 174 and 175 is distinct from the investigation?	None
under Section 157 of the Code under which if an officer in charge of a police station has reason to suspect the commission of an offence which he is empowered to investigate, he shall proceed in person to the spot to investigate the facts and circumstances of the case.	None
Reiterating this principle, a two judge Bench in Bimla Devi v Rajesh Singh 22 explained the scope of the provisions of Section 174 in the following observations ?	None
The scope of the section is investigation by the police in cases of unnatural or suspicious death.	None
However, the scope is very limited and aimed at ascertaining the first apparent signs of the death.	None
Apart from this, the police officer has to investigate the place wherefrom the dead body is recovered, describe wounds, fractures, bruises and other marks of injury as may be found on the body, stating in what manner or by what weapon or instrument, such injuries appear to have been inflicted.	None
From the above, it thus becomes clear, that the section aims at preserving the first look at the recovered body and it need not contain every detail.	None
Mere overwriting in the name of the informant would not affect the proceedings.?	None
The same position has been laid down in a more recent decision of a two judge Bench in Yogesh Singh v Mahabeer Singh 23 ?41.	None
Further, the evidentiary value of the inquest report prepared under Section 174 CrPC has also been long settled through a series of judicial pronouncements of this Court.	None
It is well established that inquest report is not a substantive piece of evidence and can only be looked into for testing the veracity of the witnesses of inquest.	None
The object of preparing such report is merely to ascertain the apparent cause of death, namely, whether it is suicidal, homicidal, accidental or caused by animals or machinery, etc. and stating in what manner, or by what weapon or instrument, the injuries on the body appear to have been inflicted.	None
(See Pedda Narayana v. State of A.P.	None
Pedda Narayana v. State of A.P., (1975) 4 SCC 153 1975 SCC (Cri) 427 , Khujji v. State of M.P. Khujji v. State of M.P., (1991) 3 SCC 627 1991 SCC (Cri) 916 , Kuldip Singh v. State of Punjab Kuldip Singh v. State of Punjab, 1992 Supp (3) SCC 1 1992 SCC (Cri) 946 , George v. State of Kerala George v. State of Kerala, (1998) 4 SCC 605 1998 SCC (Cri) 1232 , Suresh Rai v. State of Bihar Suresh Rai v. State of Bihar, (2000) 4 SCC 84 2000 SCC (Cri) 764 , Amar Singh v. Balwinder SinghAmar Singh v. Balwinder Singh, (2003) 2 SCC 518 2003 SCC (Cri) 641 , Radha Mohan Singh v. State of U.P. Radha Mohan Singh v. State of U.P., (2006) 2 SCC 450 (2006) 1 SCC (Cri) 661 and Sambhu Das v. State of Assam Sambhu Das v. State of Assam, (2010) 10 SCC 374 (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 1301 .)?	None
Subsection (3) of Section 174 requires the police officer to forward the body for being examined to the nearest civil surgeon, or as the case may be, to a duly qualified medical person appointed by the state government in this behalf, in the circumstances set out there.	None
Among the circumstances, clause (iv) deals with a situation where there is any doubt regarding the cause of death while clause (v) deals with a case where the police officer considers it expedient to do so.	None
Subsection (4) of Section 174 specifies that the District Magistrate, SubDivisional Magistrate and any other Executive Magistrate especially empowered may hold inquests.	None
Under Section 175, the police officer proceeding under Section 174 is empowered to summon for the purposes of the investigation any person who appears to be acquainted with the facts of the case.	None
Under Section 176, where the case is of the nature specified in clauses (i) or (ii) of subsection (3) of Section 174, the nearest Magistrate empowered to hold an inquest shall hold an inquiry into the cause of death instead of or in addition to the investigation held by the police officer.	None
In any other case mentioned in subsection (1) of Section 174 the Magistrate may hold an inquiry.	None
Sections 175 and 176 provide as follows ?	None
175.	None
Power to summon persons.	None
(1) A police officer proceeding under section 174, may, by order in writing, summon two or more persons as aforesaid for the purpose of the said investigation, and any other person who appears to be acquainted with the facts of the case and every person so summoned shall be bound to attend and to answer truly all questions other than questions the answers to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or to a penalty or forfeiture.	None
(2) If the facts do not disclose a cognizable offence to which section 170 applies, such persons shall not be required by the police officer to attend a Magistrate s Court.	None
Inquiry by Magistrate into cause of death.	None
(1) 2 when the case is of the nature referred to in clause (i) or clause (ii) of sub section (3) of section 174 the nearest Magistrate empowered to hold inquests shall, and in any other case mentioned in sub section (1) of section 174, any Magistrate so empowered may hold an inquiry into the cause of death either instead of, or in addition to, the investigation held by the police officer and if he does so, he shall have all the powers in conducting it which he would have in holding an inquiry into an offence.	None
(1A) Where (a) any person dies or disappears, or (b) rape is alleged to have been committed on any woman, while such person or woman is in the custody of the police or in any other custody authorized by the Magistrate or the Court, under this Code in addition to the inquiry or investigation held by the police, an inquiry shall be held by the Judicial Magistrate or the Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, within whose local jurisdiction the offence has been committed.	None
(2) The Magistrate holding such an inquiry shall record the evidence taken by him in connection therewith in any manner hereinafter prescribed according to the circumstances of the case.	None
(3) Whenever such Magistrate considers it expedient to make an examination of the dead body of any person who has been already interred, in order to discover the cause of his death, the Magistrate may cause the body to be disinterred and examined.	None
(4) Where an inquiry is to be held under this section, the Magistrate shall, wherever practicable, inform the relatives of the deceased whose names and addresses are known, and shall allow them to remain present at the inquiry.	None
(5) The Judicial Magistrate or the Metropolitan Magistrate or Executive Magistrate or police officer holding an inquiry or investigation, as the case may be, under subsection (1A) shall, within twentyfour hours of the death of a person, forward the body with a view to its being examined to the nearest Civil Surgeon or other qualified medical man appointed in this behalf by the State Government, unless it is not possible to do so for reasons to be recorded in writing.	None
Explanation.	None
In this section, expression relative means parents, children, brothers, sisters and spouse.?	None
Documentary material 32 In the context of the above statutory provisions, it is necessary to examine the material on record.	None
We will proceed to initially analyse the documentary material which has been placed before the court by the State of Maharashtra.	None
Since the statements of the judicial officers which were recorded during the course of the discreet inquiry have been the subject of a considerable amount of argument, we will analyse them in a subsequent part of the judgment.	None
33 Judge Loya was brought to Meditrina hospital at Nagpur at 6.15 am on 1 December 2014.	None
Dr NB Gawande of Meditrina addressed a letter to the PSI, Sitabardi police station on the following subject ?	None
MLC information on hospital inpatient death brought dead? .	None
The communication states that the deceased was ?brought with no evidence of life to our hospital?	None
with history of retrosternal chest pain.	None
The patient was reported to have come to Nagpur to attend a function.	None
The person who admitted the patient is recorded as Shrikant D Kulkarni.	None
His relationship with the patient is described as ?friend? .	None
The probable cause of death is stated to be unknown.	None
The name of the consultant is endorsed as Dr Pankaj Harkut.	None
34	None
The Progress notes of the doctor at Meditrina hospital contain a death summary.	None
It records that according to the history given by the accompanying persons, the patient had suffered retrosternal chest pain during the course of the immediately previous night.	None
It states that the patient was taken to Dande hospital where an ECG was done.	None
The ECG (it is recorded) reflected a ?tall T??	None
in the anterior lead and that the patient collapsed while being shifted.	None
The death summary further states that resuscitation was started immediately after reaching the hospital and emergency medication was provided.	None
The steps which were taken to revive the patient are recorded and it has been stated that in spite of resuscitative efforts, the patient could not be revived and was declared dead at 6.15 am on 1 December 2014.	None
The death summary records that a postmortem was advised for ascertaining the cause of death.	None
A death report was accordingly issued on 1 December 2014 by the duty medical officer at Meditrina.	None
The postmortem became necessary because, Judge Loya was brought dead?.	None
35	None
At 8.30 am on 1 December 2014, the police station at Sitabardi (within whose jurisdiction Meditrina hospital is located) recorded the statement of Dr Prashant B Rathi.	None
The statement is to the effect that the deceased was related to his uncle.	None
The deceased had travelled to Nagpur for attending a marriage and was residing at Ravi Bhavan, Civil Lines.	None
When he complained at 0400 hours of chest pain, he was admitted to Meditrina hospital where he was declared as ?brought dead?	None
at 0600 hours.	None
On the basis of the statement of Dr Prashant Rathi, the death report (marg khabri) was drawn up under Section 174 of Cr PC bearing AD 00/14.	None
The statement of Dr Rathi is reproduced in the death report and titled as ?nakal bayan?	None
(this is because the statement is reproduced).	None
The death report contains an endorsement of PSI RK Mundhe, the duty officer from 2100 hours on 30 November 2014 to 0900 hours on 1 December 2014 of the registration of an accidental death report on the basis of the statement of Dr Rathi and of having sent police constable Pankaj for taking care of the dead body.	None
36 Government Medical Hospital, Nagpur received the dead body at 10 am on 1 December 2014 for postmortem.	None
An inquest panchnama commenced at 10 am and ended at 10.30 am in the presence of two panchas.	None
PSI Mundhe attached to Sitabardi police station conducted the inquest.	None
The inquest panchnama notes the condition of the dead body and does not find any mark of injury or assault.	None
The dead body was then sent to the medical officer for conducting the postmortem.	None
There is an advance report dated 1 December 2014 of Dr NK Tumram of the Department of Forensic Medicine at Government Medical College recording that the probable cause of death is ?coronary artery insufficiency? .	None
The postmortem report of 1 December 2014 records that there is no evidence of bodily injury.	None
The dura and brain are found to be congested and edemitous.	None
Lungs are also found to be in a congested condition and edemitous.	None
The heart is found to be congested.	None
The postmortem records that there is evidence of arthrosclerosis in the left coronary and left anterior descending artery with calcification.	None
It records the narrowing of the artery and evidence of hypertrophy of the left ventricle.	None
Evidence is found of plaque in the inner wall of the aorta.	None
The report indicates that samples of the stomach, liver, kidney and blood were preserved for histopathological examination.	None
The probable cause of death is recorded as ?coronary artery insufficiency? .	None
Following the postmortem, the dead body was handed over to Dr Prashant Rathi on 1 December 2014 in token of which a receipt was obtained by Sitabardi police station.	None
On the basis of the death report which was recorded by Sitabardi police station the police station at Sadar recorded an accidental death report (AD 44/14) under Section 174 Cr PC.	Arguments of Respondent
The death report contains a statement that PSI Warpade, the day duty officer on 1 December 2014 had received the case diary of AD 00/14 from police constable Pankaj and that he had registered AD 44/14 under Section 174 Cr PC.	None
The registration of the AD at Sadar police station is at 1600 hours on 1 December 2014.	None
Ravi Bhavan falls within the jurisdiction of Sadar police station.	None
On 1 December 2014, the duty officer at Sadar police station addressed a communication to the Deputy Director of the Forensic Laboratory, Dhantoli, Nagpur, and sought a chemical analysis of the samples of the viscera and of a bottle of blood which had been preserved.	None
Analysis of the samples commenced on 5 January 2015 and ended on 19 January 2015.	None
On 5 February 2015 the Assistant Chemical Analyser in the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory submitted his report stating that ?general and specific chemical testing does not reveal any poison in exhibit nos.(1), (2) and (3).?	None
Exhibits (1), (2) and (3) are respectively samples of the stomach, liver, spleen and kidney and blood.	None
In the records of Meditrina hospital referred to earlier, the name of the deceased was referred to as Brijmohan H Loya.	None
It appears from the post mortem report that the name of the deceased was initially recorded as Brijmohan Harikishan Loya.	None
The records of Meditrina hospital as well as the postmortem contain a reference to the address of the deceased being the official quarters at Haji Ali Government Colony, Building no.11, Mumbai.	None
This, it is undisputed, is where Judge Loya resided.	None
There is hence absolutely no doubt about the identity of the body on which postmortem was performed.	None
On 10 December 2014 the PSI at Sadar police station addressed a letter to Government Medical Hospital seeking a correction in the name of the deceased as Brijgopal Harikishan Loya.	None
The correction was endorsed on 10 December 2014 on the postmortem report.	None
In February 2016, the Sadar police station addressed a communication to the Special Executive Magistrate making a reference to the death summary bearing No.07/16 dated 2 February 2016.	None
The summary records that on 1 December 2014, the police station at Sadar received AD004/14 from the Sitabardi police station.	None
On perusing the case diary, it was noticed that the place of occurrence was within the jurisdiction of Sadar police station.	None
Hence AD 44/14 was recorded under Section 174 Cr PC.	None
An inquest panchnama was prepared by PSI Mundhe in the presence of two panch witnesses.	None
The post mortem was conducted at the Medical College Hospital by Dr NK Tumram of the Forensic Medicine Department.	None
After the postmortem concluded, the body was handed over to Dr Prashant Rathi, a relative of the deceased.	None
During the course of inquiry, it has been noted from the postmortem report that the cause of death was coronary artery insufficiency.	Reasoning
On discussing the matter with Dr Tumram, it was ascertained that the death was due to a heart attack and there was nothing suspicious about the death.	None
During the course of the inquiry the police station at Gategaon, District Latur was contacted when it was intimated that the relatives of the deceased reside in Mumbai.	None
Dr Prashant Rathi had intimated, that the deceased had visited Nagpur to attend a marriage on the date of the incident he developed pain in the chest at 0400 hours and was admitted to Meditrina hospital where he was declared dead.	None
The summary records that Judge Loya died due to a heart attack.	None
No complaint has been lodged by his relatives at the local police station or at PS Sadar of any suspicion in regard to the cause of death and the medical officer has recorded the cause of death as a heart attack in the PM report and there was no evidence of assault.	None
The summary was accordingly submitted to the Special Executive Magistrate, Sadar division, Nagpur.	None
Statements of four judicial officers Now it is in this background, that it would be necessary to advert to the statements of the judicial officers which were recorded during the course of the discreet inquiry in November 2017.	None
A discreet inquiry was ordered on 23 November 2017 by the Home department of the state government following the reports which were published in Caravan on 20 and 21 November 2017.	None
Mr Rohtagi has apprised the court that in ordering the discreet inquiry, the state took recourse to the provisions of its Vigilance Manual.	None
The Manual of Instructions provides for the procedure which is to be followed in conducting discreet inquiries.	None
In the present case, following the news reports published in Caravan, the death being of a judge from the state judicial service, a discreet inquiry was ordered particularly in the context of the innuendos contained in the news reports.	None
Quite apart from the Manual, the state government is not prohibited in law from holding such an enquiry in the exercise of its executive power.	None
The Commissioner of the State Intelligence Department sought the permission of the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court ?to record the say?	None
of Judge Shrikant Kulkarni (Member Secretary, Maharasthra State Legal Service Authority), Judge Modak (Principal District Judge, Pune), Judge Barde (District Judge, City Civil Court, Mumbai) and Judge RR Rathi (District Judge, Baramati).	Facts
By a communication of 23 November 2017, the Registrar General stated that the Chief Justice had granted permission to do so.	None
Following the receipt of permission, the Commissioner, SID wrote to the four judicial officers.	None
They tendered  signed statements.	None
The statement of Judge Kulkarni dated 24 November 2017 is extracted below ?	None
Reference Your letter NoCOI PA Loya DE/2017165.	None
Sir, With reference to your letter, I hereby submit brief sequence say about the unfortunate death of Shri BH Loya at Nagpur.	None
In the month of November December 2014, I was working as Registrar(Judicial I), Appellate Side, High Court, Bombay.	None
Mrs Swapna Joshi was the Member Secretary, Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority at that time and she was my Principal Judge while working in the City Civil Court, Mumbai.	None
She had invited me, my colleague Shri SM Modak and Shri BH Loya who were working in the City Civil Court, Mumbai for the wedding of her son at Nagpur.	None
Accordingly, I along with Shri SM Modak and Shri BH Loya left Mumbai by train in night of 29 th November, 2014 and reached Nagpur in the morning of 30 th November 2014.	None
We went to Ravi Bhavan Government Guest House where V.I.P. Suit was booked.	None
On the night of 30 th November, 2014 we attended reception arranged by Mrs Swapna Joshi on account of wedding of her son and returned to Ravi Bhavan Government Guest House at about 11.30 p.m. to 12.00 midnight.	None
Early morning of 1 st December 2014	None
Shri Loya started complaining of chest pain.	None
I called my another brother Judge from Nagpur Shri Barde by calling on his cell phone and asked him to rush immediately to Ravi Bhavan Government Guest House with his car due to bad health of Shri Loya.	None
Accordingly, Shri Barde with another colleague Shri Rathi rushed to Ravi Bhavan Government Guest House.	None
It was about 4.00 to 4.15 am.	None
Shri Waiker, Judge was also informed about Shri Loya?s bad health.	None
We took Shri Loya to the nearby Dande Hospital by using car of Shri Barde where emergency treatment was given to Shri Loya.	None
Shri Waiker, Judge also joined there by his car.	None
However chest pains continued.	None
As per Doctor?s advice Shri Loya was required to be shifted to Cardiac Hospital.	None
Accordingly, Shri Loya was immediately taken to Meditrina Hospital, Nagpur.	None
We accompanied with him in the car.	None
Shri Rathi who was working as Deputy Registrar called his relative Doctor to rush at Meditrina Hospital.	None
We rushed to Meditrina Hospital, however on the way Shri Loya collapsed.	None
We put him on the stretcher and took to the I.C.U where Doctor started immediate treatment.	None
After giving treatment no response from Shri Loya was seen.	None
Unfortunately, Shri Loya succumbed to death due to massive heart attack on early morning of 1 st December 2014.	None
We communicated this unfortunate incident to the Hon?ble Shri Justice PR Bora as well as Hon?ble Shri Justice BR Gavai.	None
We also informed the said unfortunate incident to Shri Sham Joshi, Principal Secretary to the Hon?ble	None
The Chief Justice whose sitting was at Nagpur that time.	None
Hon?ble Shri B R Gavai, Hon?ble Shri Justice SB Shukre and Hon?ble Shri Justice PR Bora immediately rushed to the Meditrina Hospital within half an hour.	None
Thereafter Hon?ble	None
Shri Mohit Shah, The Chief Justice also arrived there.	None
Thereafter, the dead body of Shri Loya was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital for postmortem examination.	None
After postmortem examination dead body was sent to native place of Shri Loya in one ambulance.	None
Two Magistrates from Nagpur were also sent in another car to accompany dead body.?	None
The statement of Judge SM Modak, Principal District Judge, Pune dated 24 November 2017 reads as follows ?	None
Sub Discreet Verification in the death of Judge Shri Loya.	None
Ref Your letter OW No. COI PA LOYA DE/2017165 Dated 23/11/2017.	None
Respected Sir, I received your above mentioned letter in the morning through the hands of your representative.	None
It accompanies permission letter issued by Hon?ble Registrar General dated 23/11/2017.	None
It is not accompanied by any complaint application any document.	None
You have requested me to give my say in the captioned matter.	None
There is gap of almost three years after the death of our brother Judge Loya.	None
As per my memory I am giving sequence of events as follows a.	None
I accompanied Judge Shri Shrikant Kulkarni and Judge Shri Loya on 29/11/2014 for attending the marriage of son of Ladyship Smt Joshi (then Secretary MHALSA).	None
b.	None
We left by train at the night.	None
Ladyship Smt Joshi, her family members and few other judges were also travelled in the same train but in different compartments.	None
c. We reached Nagpur in the morning of 30/11/2014.	None
Journey was comfortable.	None
It was through AC coach.	None
d.	None
From station we went to Ravi Bhavan e.	None
After bath, myself accompanied Judge Shri Kulkarni to visit the quarters of Lordship Shri Shukre, Lordship Shri Borha.	None
Judge Shri Kulkarni intended to give invitation of his daughter?s marriage to them.	None
Even Judge Shri Loya accompanied us.	None
f.	None
Even we have visited the house of Judge Shri Barde quarter at Ravi Nagar.	None
g.	None
After that and after some marketing, we returned Ravi Bhavan.	None
We have to attend reception in the evening.	None
h.	None
We attended the reception.	None
There number of judges and even Few lordship have attended the function.	None
i.	None
After dinner, we returned Ravi Bhavan almost at about 11.30 pm to 12 midnight.	None
j.	None
During our way back, we stopped at one square.	None
I remember Judge Mahajan was also with us but in different car.	None
He offered us famous pan.	None
He left to his house as he had to catch night train for Mumbai and we returned to Ravi Bhavan.	None
k. We slept in one room.	None
At about early morning probable at 4 am Judge Loya woke up.	None
He was not feeling comfort.	None
Myself and Judge Kulkarni called local judges probably Judge Barde and Judge Rathi.	None
l.	None
I do not exactly remember both of them or single.	None
In a car we took Judge Loya to Dande Hospital.	None
After initial check up, doctor advised him to shift him to another hospital n.	None
We shifted Judge Loya to another hospital.	None
I do not remember the name.	None
We shifted him in a car.	None
I also remember another local Judge Shri Waiker had also come in his car.	None
o.	None
At the hospital doctors have declared him dead.	None
p.	None
We have informed this fact to our judges at Hajiali colony.	None
q.	None
We all were in shock.	None
I do not exactly remember who informed this fact to family members of Loya.	None
r. Few Lordship have also attended the hospital.	None
Further events took place as per their diretcions.	None
s. Dead body was taken to Government Hospital for post mortem.	None
t. Then PDJ Shri Sonavane (now Lordship) had also come to hospital and also for post mortem.	None
u.	None
Then PDJ Shri Sonavane deputed two local judges along with dead body.	None
v. We all were in deep shock.	None
Myself and Judge Kulkarni met the relatives of Judge Loya at Hajiali colony after few days.	None
w. During that period I was posted as P.D.J. at Alibag, Raigad.	None
I have narrated the events as per my memory.	None
You have instructed yesterday on phone to give events today.	None
I am handing over this letter through hands of your representatives Shri Patil.?	None
The statement of Judge VC Barde, dated 24 November, 2017 reads as follows ?	None
SUB Your letter dt.	None
23.11.2017 for my Say, regarding occurrence dt. 1.11.2014 at Nagpur of sad demise of District Judge Shri BH Loya Sir, Dear Sir, With reference to the subject mentioned as above, I state that on the above date, at about 4 A.M. I received a call on my mobile No. 9423406827 from Shri S.D. Kulkarni Sir, Registrar of Hon?ble Bombay High Court that I with my Car and Shri R.R. Rathi, Senior Civil Judge, should come to Ravi Bhavan Govt.	None
Guest House, where he, Shri Modak Sir District Judge, and late Shri Loya Sir were staying having come from Mumbai.	None
He said that Shri Loya Sir was having chest pains.	None
Accordingly, I called Shri Rathi and proceeded to Ravi Bhavan.	None
Immediately, we the above 5 persons in the Car proceeded towards Dande Hospital.	None
In the meanwhile, Shri S.D. Kulkarni Sir also called Shri Waiker Sir, now retired District Judge.	None
The medical officer on duty there checked up Shri Loya by ECG, Blood Pressure etc.	None
as per their procedure.	None
Judge Shri Rathi has his brother in relation by name Dr Shri Pankaj Harkut, M.D. and D.M., as a Doctor at Meditrina Multispecialty Hospital, whom he could contract in the meanwhile, who said that we should come to Meditrina Hospital, where he would also come from his residence.	None
Thereafter, we proceeded to Meditrina Hospital in 2 Cars.	None
However, Shri Loya who himself sat in the Car, after some distance started Snoringlike in sleep, to whom Shri Kulkarni Sir stated to awake.	None
When I took the Car in the porch of Meditrina Hospital, Shri Loya Sir did not awake and was rushed on a stretcher to the ICU of the said Hospital.	None
He was immediately taken in and the doctors started treatment.	None
We stayed outside ICU.	None
However, after sometime the Doctor came out, and told that when Shri Loya Sir was taken in ICU, his pulses were not working, and that they were trying out their best to make him revive.	None
While Shri Loya Sir was in ICU, I tried to contact the friends of Shri Loya Sir at Haji Ali, Govt Colony, where he was residing.	None
Shri O.K. Bhutada, Senior Civil Judge, could be contacted, whom the entire occurrence was told.	None
Shri Modak Sir and Shri Kulkarni Sir also contacted the other friends of Shri Loya Sir at Haji Ali, known to them and told the occurrence to them.	None
Local judges were also called at Hospital.	None
The Hon?ble High Court Judges, and Judges from District Judiciary, and some Court Staff approached to the Hospital, and some were consulting the Doctor.	None
Judge Shri Bhutada from Mumbai, provided my mobile number to the near relatives of Shri Loya Sir, and by making call to me, told that I should inform the happenings at Hospital to such near relatives, if they contact me.	None
Some relatives contacted me, to whom I told the happenings, and that they may come to Nagpur.	None
After about 6.a.m.	None
the Doctor came out of ICU and declared that Shri Loya Sir is no more.	None
Thereafter, the Judges gathered there saw his body.	None
The police also approached the Hospital.	None
Thereafter, at or about 10 p.m. the dead body was taken for postmortem at Govt.	None
Medical College by police.	None
I in my car went there, where the Judges of District Judiciary also gathered.	None
After the post mortem was over, after 11 a.m. the dead body was sent in an ambulance to the native place of Shri Loya.	None
Shri Loya, being my Senior Colleague and residing in neighbouring building No. 11 of Haji Ali.	None
Govt.	None
Colony and I in building No. 13 in the same colony during my posting for 2011 to 2014, I was well acquainted with him, and performed by moral duty to take him in the hospital with other learned officers to provided all the possible help.?	None
The statement of Judge RR Rathi dated 23 November 2017 reads as follows ?	None
Upon request of Shri Sanjay Barve, Commissioner SID, Mumbai and as Hon?ble High Court of Bombay granted permission to give say, I am stating the fact know to me regarding Judge Shri Brijgopal Harikishnan Loya.	None
Myself R R Rathi Adhoc District Judge, Baramati on dated 1.12.2014 was working as 5the Civil Judge Shri V C Barde phoned me on mobile and asked for my help by stating that Judge Loya is not feeling well and is at Ravi Bhavan, so we should help him.	None
Hearing the same and in order to help, being local Judge, I was immediately ready.	None
Mr Barde came to my quarter in his car and we then immediately went to Ravi Bhavan.	None
At Ravi Bhavan Judge Shri Modak and Shri Shrikant Kulkarni were also present.	None
At that time Judge Loya was attending natures call.	None
Thereafter he came down and told that he is having heart burn and having ache in his heart and requested for help.	None
Thereafter we all present there went in the car and Mr Barde.	None
At that time some of them also called for help of Judge Waiker.	None
He also followed us.	None
Then we went to the nearest hospital at Ravi Nagar i.e. Dr Dande Hospital that hospital was on 1 st Floor	None
and so we all climbed stairs and were there.	None
One assistant doctor was present there.	None
Mr Loya complained about severe chest pain.	None
His fact was sweating and he was continuously telling about severe chest pain and heart burn.	None
At that time the doctor tried to do his ECG but the nodes of ECG machine were broken.	None
Doctor tried and wasted sometime but machine was not working.	None
I think he gave 2 injections to Mr Loya.	None
I asked the doctor he said it of antacid and painkiller.	None
Mr Loya was again complaining chest pain.	None
I called my brother (cousin) Dr Pankaj Harkut, who is a cardiologist but his phone ringed but he did not picked my phone.	None
After sometime he called me and I told him all these things.	None
He immediately told me to brought him to Meditrina Hospital at Ramdaspeth Nagpur.	None
It was 5.00 am, approx.	None
that time.	None
Thereafter I sitted in car of Judge Waiker.	None
Mr Loya sitted in the car of Barde and Shri Kulkarni and Modak accompanied the.	None
Thereafter we proceeded to Meditrina Hospital.	None
At Meditrina Hospital when we reached that time Mr Loya was unconscious and was unable to speak.	None
Then he was taken inside hospital for treatment.	None
Thereafter Dr Pankaj Harkut also came there.	None
Mr Loya was treated at that hospital.	None
After sometime we came to know that Mr Loya suffered heart attack.	None
Thereafter we came to know that he died.	None
It was very unfortunate that Mr Loya died and I was very upset to know this.	None
Hence this say.?	None
The submissions analysed A frontal assault has been launched on the statements of the four judicial officers by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners on the ground that the procedure of obtaining the permission of the Chief Justice was completed within one day and the statements were submitted by the four judges on the next day.	Reasoning
Two of the judges (Judge Shrikant Kulkarni and Judge Barde) were based in Mumbai while the other two (Judge Modak and Judge Rathi) were based at Pune and Baramati.	Reasoning
We are unable to subscribe to this line of submissions.	Reasoning
The Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court granted permission to the Commissioner of the State Intelligence Department to record the say of the four judicial officers.	Reasoning
The matter was of importance.	Reasoning
A discreet inquiry had been ordered by the state government in view of the articles which were published in Caravan regarding the death of a judicial officer.	Reasoning
Three of the statements specifically refer to the letter to the Commissioner while the fourth refers to the request which has been made by the Commissioner and the permission which has been granted by the High Court.	Reasoning
There was no reason for the four judicial officers to procrastinate or delay the submission of their statements.	Reasoning
There is no basis whatsoever to make any imputation against the four officers of the state judiciary.	Reasoning
They were present with Judge Loya at Nagpur to attend a wedding in the family of a colleague.	Reasoning
Each of them responded, as judges of the district judiciary, to the permission which was granted by the Chief Justice of the High Court to the Commissioner, SID to record their say.	Reasoning
The judges have spoken about the facts of the case as they could recall, with details.	Reasoning
We have extracted each of the four statements fully, as they stand.	Reasoning
Each of the judges has spoken in detail of the facts and events which were within their personal knowledge.	Reasoning
The statements contain matters of detail which would be known to those who were present with Judge Loya.	Reasoning
They have a ring of truth.	Reasoning
They had nothing to conceal nor an axe to grind.	Reasoning
Three of the statements are dated 24 November 2017 while the fourth submitted by Judge Rathi is dated 23 November 2017 and contains an endorsement of receipt by the Commissioner on 24 November 2017.	Reasoning
The fact that two of the judges were respectively at Pune and Baramati is absolutely no ground to cast doubt.	Reasoning
The statements were submitted with dispatch.	Reasoning
Reading them it is clear that they have been submitted without premeditation.	Reasoning
The four judicial officers acted responsibly.	Reasoning
There was no reason for them either to hasten or to cause a delay in submitting their versions of what they knew.	Reasoning
Each of the four judges has acted with a sense of duty.	Reasoning
This is how they would be expected to conduct themselves, in answering to a call of duty.47.	None
One of the submissions which has been urged by Mr Dave to cast doubt on the statements is that an article was published in the Indian Express in which the statements of two judges of the High Court (Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice SB Shukre) were published.	None
Mr Dave submitted that the statements of the judicial officers cannot be regarded as independent, in view of the fact that two judges of the High Court had taken the same view as elicited in the Indian Express article, that the death of Judge Loya was due to natural causes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Dave submitted that judicial officers in the district judiciary could not be expected to take a plea at variance with what was stated by the two judges of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that disciplinary action should be initiated against the two High Court judges.	Reasoning
This submission is preposterous.	Reasoning
It constitutes an undisguised attempt to malign four senior judicial officers and the judges of the High Court.	Reasoning
What the submission glosses over is that the article in the Indian Express was published on 27 November 2017 and that was when the statements attributed to Justice Gavai and Justice Shukre were published.	Reasoning
The statements of the four judicial officers are dated on 23 and 24 November 2017 and were in fact received by the Commissioner of the SID on 24 November 2017 much before the Indian Express article was published.	Reasoning
We are mentioning this aspect because the line of submissions in this case indicates an unfortunate attempt to use every possible ploy to cast aspersions on members of the district and higher judiciary.	Reasoning
That senior counsel chose with all seriousness to make those submissions without a sense of responsibility, and without verifying the basic facts reveals a disturbing state of affairs.	Reasoning
We must express our disapproval in no uncertain terms.	Reasoning
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners as well as the intervenors have sought to question the course of action which was followed by the judicial officers after Judge Loya complained of chest pain in the early hours of 1 December 2014.	Reasoning
Why, they have queried, was he taken to Dande hospital initially and not to a specialised cardiac care facility when it was available within a radius of 5 kilometres of Ravi Bhavan.	Reasoning
This line of argument is without merit.	Reasoning
Judge Loya, as the statements of Judge Kulkarni and Judge SM Modak indicate, complained of chest pain at about 0400 hours on 1 December 2014.	Reasoning
His colleagues who were with him took a decision in good faith to take him to Dande hospital which is in close proximity to Ravi bhavan.	Reasoning
The issue in the present case is whether Judge Loya died a natural or unnatural death.	Reasoning
To attribute motives to his colleagues who were with him and took immediate steps to shift him to a hospital nearby is absurd, if not motivated.	Reasoning
In hindsight, it is easy to criticise actions which are taken by human beings when faced with an emergency.	Reasoning
It is easy for an observer sitting in an armchair at a distant point in time to assert that wisdom lay in an alternate course of action.	Reasoning
That can never be the test for judging human behaviour.	Reasoning
The conduct of the colleagues of Judge Loya in attending to him is not in question.	Reasoning
They did their best under the circumstances, acting entirely in good faith.	Reasoning
At Dande hospital, the medical advise was that the condition of Judge Loya required him to be shifted to a specialised cardiac hospital.	Reasoning
Judge Rathi who was attached to the Nagpur Bench of the High Court at the material time was with Judge Kulkarni and Judge Modak when he was shifted to the hospital, as was Judge Waikar.	Reasoning
Dr Pankaj Harkut who was a relative of Judge Rathi was a cardiac consultant attached to the Meditrina hospital.	Reasoning
Judge Rathi contacted him on phone and it was at his suggestion that the judges took a decision to shift Judge Loya to Meditrina.	Reasoning
To find fault with the judges for this course of action is unacceptable.	Reasoning
But there is another and more serious aspect of the line of submissions which has been urged.	Reasoning
Though as we have noted earlier, the proceedings have been purportedly instituted to protect the independence of the judiciary, this is one more instance where behaviour in court belies the ostensible position of the petitioners, intervenors and their counsel.	Reasoning
It is as if the judicial officers are in the dock.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation in rejecting that attempt.	Reasoning
Mr Rohtagi submitted before the court that this line of argument of the petitioners and intervenors would postulate that the judicial officers are coconspirators.	Reasoning
In fact, it was so argued by counsel assisting Mr Giri.	Reasoning
This is neither the case in the pleadings of the petitioners nor is there any material on the record which can even remotely suggest such an inference.	Reasoning
We must emphatically reject such attempts on the part of the petitioners and the intervenors to malign judicial officers of the district judiciary.	Reasoning
They acted in good faith to ensure medical treatment to their colleague.	Reasoning
Their conduct cannot be questioned.	None
Similarly, a considerable degree of emphasis has been placed on the statement of Judge Rathi that the nodes of the ECG machine at Dande hospital were not working.	None
Based on this, it has been seriously urged that in fact no ECG was done at Dande hospital.	None
Judge Shrikant Kulkarni in his statement dated 24 November 2017 has stated that ?emergency treatment?	None
was given to Judge Loya at Dande hospital.	None
Judge SM Modak states that after an initial checkup, the doctors at Dande hospital advised shifting the patient to another hospital.	None
Judge Vijay Barde who was present at Dande hospital specifically stated that the medical officer on duty there examined ( ?checkedup? )	None
Judge Loya ?by ECG, blood pressure etc. as per their procedure? .	None
Judge Rathi has stated that at Dande hospital, time was wasted because the nodes of the ECG machine were broken and the machine was not working.	None
This statement of Judge Rathi must, however, be weighed with the doctor?s progress notes at Meditrina hospital.	None
The death summary (extracted earlier) specifically adverts to the fact that the patient was taken to Dande hospital earlier where an ECG was done.	None
Dr Dande has made the same statement.	None
The progress notes also note a ?tall T??	None
in the anterior lead which indicates that the ECG was seen by the doctors attending to Judge Loya at Meditrina hospital.	None
These progress notes are contemporaneous, since they also form part of the communication addressed by Dr NB Gawande at Meditrina to the PSI at Sitabardi on the same day after the judge had been brought dead to the hospital.	None
As a matter of fact, it is this very ECG which forms the subject matter of the submissions which have been urged by one of the intervenors, for whom Mr Prashant Bhushan appears.	None
Having regard to the fact that the ECG has been specifically mentioned in the progress notes of the doctor at Meditrina hospital, we find no reasonable basis to infer that no ECG was done at Dande hospital.50.	None
The statements of the four judges are called into question by Mr Dave, counsel for the petitioners, pointing out certain alleged inconsistencies.	None
It has been urged that the Caravan article states that no car was available at 4 am on 1 December 2014 at Ravi Bhavan and hence Judge Loya was transported by an autorickshaw to Dande hospital.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Dave criticised the conduct of the judicial officers and submitted that it is inconceivable that at a government guest house, a car and driver would not have been available even in the early hours of the morning.	Reasoning
The submission lacks merit.	Reasoning
Judge Kulkarni has stated that Judge Loya was taken in Judge Barde?s car to Dande hospital.	Reasoning
Judge Modak also notes that Judge Loya was shifted by car to Dande hospital and thereafter to Meditrina.	Reasoning
This is confirmed in the statements of Judge Barde and Judge Rathi.	Reasoning
The allegation that Judge Loya was not provided even a car to travel from Ravi Bhavan to Dande hospital and onwards to Meditrina is a redherring.51.	Reasoning
Another submission urged by Mr Dave is that the judicial officers did not meet the family of Judge Loya in Mumbai soon after the death.	None
Judge Modak in his statement observes that he and Judge Kulkarni met the relatives of Judge Loya at his Haji Ali residence after a few days.	Reasoning
The suggestion that this is callous, is unfortunate, besides being incorrect.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that the family of Judge Loya had proceeded to Gategaon for the funeral.	Reasoning
Can the circumstance that Judge Kulkarni and Judge Modak met the family a few days later in Mumbai have a bearing on their sense of humanity, as Mr Dave urged?	Reasoning
The obvious answer is in the negative.	None
Then it was sought to be urged that if Judge Loya had suffered a heart attack around 0400 hours, he would not be wearing a trouser and shirt which the inquest report records.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is another submission which has been urged to cast doubt on the sequence of events as set out in the statements of the four judicial officers.	None
Now a close reading of Judge Rathi?s statement indicates that when he reached Ravi Bhavan and met Judge Modak and Judge Kulkarni, Judge Loya was attending to a call of nature.	Reasoning
It is evident from the statement that Judge Loya, when he left Ravi Bhavan was not unconscious and was complaining of chest pain and heart burn.	Reasoning
To urge that the depiction of the clothes worn by Judge Loya casts doubt on the sequence of events narrated by the judicial officers is hence untenable.53.	None
Another submission is that if the four judges had accompanied Judge Loya to hospital, then as colleagues they would not have indicated his name to be Brijmohan instead of Brijgopal.	None
This is but another attempt to cast doubt on the version of the four judicial officers without a substantive basis or foundation.	Reasoning
Judge Loya was taken to hospital in an emergency.	Reasoning
The normal course of human events would indicate that his four colleagues would be more concerned about getting Judge Loya attended than filling up an admission form.	Reasoning
A mistake did occur in recording his name as Brijmohan instead of Brijgopal.	Reasoning
In our view, this cannot be a ground to discredit the detailed factual narration made by the four judicial officers who were with him.	Reasoning
Two of them Judge Kulkarni and Judge Modak were with Judge Loya from the time that the three officers left Mumbai for the wedding at Nagpur and until Judge Loya died on 1 December 2014.	Reasoning
They have provided a trustworthy account of their schedule since they left Mumbai.	Reasoning
All of them travelled together, stayed together, visited local judges at Nagpur, attended the wedding and remained in the company of each other and their friends in the judicial fraternity.	None
Ms Jaising sought to rely on a photograph of a room in Ravi Bhavan and wondered how three judges would have shared a room.	Reasoning
Judge Kulkarni has referred to the fact that a VIP suite was booked at Ravi Bhavan.	Reasoning
Judge Modak and Judge Barde support the position.	Reasoning
The account provided by the judge cannot be discredited on the basis of surmises.	Reasoning
The occupancy register does show that the room was in the name of Judge Kulkarni.	Reasoning
His account is that his two friends and colleagues (Judge Loya and Judge Modak) shared the accommodation with him.	Reasoning
It is unfair to disbelieve this account of colleagues in the district judiciary.	Reasoning
They were friends, known to each other and had stayed together at Ravi Bhavan during the short trip to Nagpur.	Reasoning
No counsel has suggested that they were not closely acquainted to each other.	Reasoning
The date of the death in the postmortem is not mentioned as 7 December 2014, as submitted by Ms Jaising during the course of her submissions.	Reasoning
The date of death is clearly mentioned as 1 December 2014.	Reasoning
The hospital bill of Rs 4290 at Meditrina is criticised on the ground that it contains, inter alia, neurological charges and charges for diet consultation.	Reasoning
It must be noted that the issue in the present case is not whether the bill which was prepared at Meditrina amounts to negligence.	Reasoning
The charge for dietary consultation is erroneous.	Reasoning
But that cannot be a ground to discredit the fact that Judge Loya was taken to Meditrina.	Reasoning
That he was taken to Meditrina is clear from the documentary material on the record and the consistent statements of all the four judicial officers.56.	None
The handing over of the body to Dr Prashant Rathi cannot be faulted.	None
The family of Judge Loya took a considered decision that they would proceed to his home town, Gategaon, for the funeral ceremonies.	Reasoning
The report of the discreet inquiry contains an elaborate reference to the fact that Dr Prashant Rathi who was stationed at Nagpur was contacted by a relative in Aurangabad, requesting his help on 1 December 2014.	Reasoning
Dr Rathi has in his statement made a factual explanation about how he was contacted by his relative and asked to assist in the formalities for Judge Loya.	Reasoning
The presence of Dr Rathi cannot be doubted, having regard to the contemporaneous documentary material including the accident summary.	None
Similarly, a fair amount of critical comment has been devoted by counsel for the petitioners and intervenors to (i) why the family of Judge Loya was not brought to Nagpur by a flight from Mumbai after the death had occurred and (ii) why, as alleged, in the Caravan article, the body reached Gategon for the funeral rights unaccompanied.	None
It is necessary to emphasise that both these submissions have no bearing on whether the death of Judge Loya was due to natural causes or otherwise, since they relate to events which took place after his death.	None
But it is necessary in the present judgment to discuss the submissions because on a close analysis they are evidently unfounded.	None
That the family of Judge Loya did not travel to Nagpur after they received intimation of his death, is a fact.	None
If the family decided that the funeral should be held at the place to which he belonged namely, Gategon near Latur, this was a decision personal to the family.	None
Judge Loya had died.	Facts
If a considered decision was taken by the members of his family to proceed to Gategon instead of travelling first to Nagpur and then traversing a distance of nearly 450 kilometres by road to the place where the funeral was to be held, such a decision has to be respected.	None
Moreover, the allegation that the body was sent unaccompanied to Gategaon is contrary to what has emerged on the record.	None
Judge Kulkarni in the course of his statement made a reference to the fact that while the body was sent by an ambulance to the place where Judge Loya originally belonged, two judicial officers from Nagpur were also sent in another car to accompany the body.	None
Judge SM Modak in his statement dated 24 November 2017 specifically notes that Shri Sonawane, the Principal District Judge then at Nagpur, deputed two local judges to accompany the dead body.	None
Judge VC Barde has also stated that after the conclusion of the postmortem at about 11 am, the dead body was sent in an ambulance to the native place of Judge Loya and two judges Judge Rahangdale and Judge Chopda accompanied the body.	None
The report of the discreet inquiry by the Commissioner, SID contains the following observation ?	None
4.4 Mr Loyas body was sent to village Gategaon in Latur in an ambulance provided by Mr Pawankumar Bhagat, AmbulanceIncharge of Meditrina Hospital.	None
Two magistrates Mr Yogesh Rahangdale Mr Swayam Chopda) were sent by the then Principal District Judge, Nagpur, Mr Sonawane along with the mortal remains of Mr Loya to Gategaon, Latur.	None
The question sought to be replied vide CARAVAN report as why was his body not accompanied by anyone?	None
is a clear attempt to mislead the readers as the facts are otherwise.	None
There is no reason for this Court to doubt the statements of Judge Kulkarni, and Judge SM Modak.	None
Both of them and Judge Loya stayed at Ravi Bhavan guest house, where a VIP suite was booked.	Reasoning
All the three judicial officers were invited for a wedding in the family of a colleague who in December 2014 was the Member Secretary of Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority.	None
Judge Kulkarni, Judge Modak and Judge Loya travelled together by the same train from Mumbai to Nagpur on 29 November 2014 and arrived in Nagpur on the morning of 30 November 2014.	None
They proceeded to Ravi Bhavan where a suite was reserved.	None
During the course of the day, the three judicial officers visited the residences of two judges of the High Court at Nagpur, Justice SB Shukre and Justice PR Bora.	None
They visited the home of Shri Barde and were together all along.	None
They went to the market, returned to Ravi Bhavan and attended the wedding reception in the evening.	None
After dinner the three judges returned to Ravi Bhavan a little before midnight.	None
Judge Modak is also clear in the details that he offers.	None
All the three judges who were accompanied by Judge Mahajan stopped by at a pan shop before they came back to Ravi Bhavan.	None
The fact that all the three judges stayed together is the consistent account which emerges from the statements of Judge Modak and Judge Kulkarni which is corroborated by the statement of Judge Barde.	None
There is no basis for the court to doubt the veracity of the natural account of the above three judicial officers (Judge Kulkarni, Judge Modak and Judge Barde).	None
The court is requested to do so on the ground that the entry in the register at Ravi Bhavan mentions the name of Judge Kulkarni but does not contain any reference to the occupancy of Judge SM Modak or Judge Loya.	None
Judge Kulkarni has expressly stated that a VIP suite was booked at Ravi Bhavan.	Reasoning
We must lean in favour of the version of the four judicial officers unless strong and indisputable circumstances are shown to doubt their credibility.	None
This would be in the larger public interest, to uphold the independence and integrity of the institution.	None
This is corroborated by a photocopy of the occupancy register which has been produced on record.	None
All the three judicial officers were invited for the same event.	None
If as friends and colleagues, they decided to share one room, that cannot be regarded as an unnatural course of conduct.	None
There is no reason for this court to discard the consistent statements of the three judicial officers by engaging in surmises of the nature which are sought to be drawn by counsel for the petitioners.	None
In fact, though nothing would turn on it, it is a matter of some interest that even the article that was published in the Caravan on 20 November 2017 records Judge Loya having had a conversation with his wife on the night of 30 November 2014 and informing her of the fact that he was staying at Ravi Bhavan together with the judges who had accompanied him to Nagpur.	None
At this stage, we must also make a reference to certain other matters to which a reference has been copiously made on behalf of the petitioners to cast doubt on the circumstances in which Judge Loya had died.	None
The first submission is that contrary to the directions that were issued in the judgment of this Court in its decision in CBI v Amitbhai Anil Chandra Shah (supra), JT Utpat who was nominated by the Administrative Committee of the Bombay High Court to preside over the criminal trial was transferred on 25 June 2014.	None
It has been urged that since the Court had on 27 September 2012 directed that the Administrative Committee would ensure that the trial is conducted from the beginning to the end by the same officer, JT Utpat ought not to have been transferred.	None
We must note at this stage that Mr Dave appearing on behalf of the petitioners has categorically stated that the court should in the present proceedings, confine itself to the issue as to whether Judge Loya had died a natural death or otherwise.	None
The issue as to whether Judge JT Utpat could have been transferred has no bearing on the circumstances in which Judge Loya died.	None
Mr Rohtagi appearing on behalf of the State has urged that the trial was yet to begin and hence the transfer of Judge JT Utpat on his request cannot be faulted.	None
We clarify that it is not necessary to express any opinion on the submission of Mr Rohtagi since we are of the view that the transfer of the earlier judge and the appointment of Judge Loya in June 2014 has no bearing on whether Judge Loya?s death on 1 December 2014 was due to natural causes.60.	None
The petitioners have sought to rely upon the allegations against the then Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court, Shri Justice Mohit Shah made by the father and sister of Judge Loya.	None
Reliance has also been placed on a hand written note dated 18 February 2015 purportedly scribed by Anuj Loya after a meeting with the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court, who had come to visit the family.	None
The video recording of an interview given to Caravan by the father and sister of Judge Loya was also handed over to the court on a pen drive.	None
The members of the family of Judge Loya have disassociated themselves from the statements attributed to them in the Caravan publication.	None
The video recording, which we have seen, contains snippets of an interview.	None
Evidently, only a part of the interview has been produced.	None
The allegations against the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court are hearsay.61.	None
During the course of his submissions in rejoinder, Mr Dave has attempted to discredit the discreet inquiry conducted by the Commissioner of the SID urging that the statement of Dr Prashant Rathi was recorded on 22 November 2017 by the Police Inspector (Crime) police station Sadar, before the state government had ordered a discreet inquiry on 23 November 2017.	None
The submission is based on the hypothesis that the statement of Dr Rathi was recorded as a part of the discreet inquiry.	None
This is seriously disputed by Mr Rohtagi who urged that the statement was recorded by the Sadar police station on 22 November 2017 after the articles in the Caravan had appeared on 20 and 21 November 2017.	None
The discreet enquiry was held by the Commissioner, SID.	None
Be that as it may, the presence of Dr Prashant Rathi is established in the accidental death summary (AD 00/14) dated 1 December 2014, in the inquest report, the receipt executed on 1 December 2014 by Sitabardi police station on handing over the dead body, and in the accidental death summary (AD 44/14) recorded by Sadar police station at 1600 hours on 1 December 2014.	None
In the face of the contemporaneous documentary material, the statement of Dr Rathi recorded on 22 November 2017 cannot be construed as something which casts doubt on the validity of the discreet inquiry.	None
Application for crossexamination 62.	None
During the course of his submissions, Mr Dave moved an application for crossexamination of the following persons whose statements were recorded during the course of the discreet inquiry ?	None
1	None
Mr Sajeev Barve, Director General Commissioner, State Inteeligence Department, Maharashtra, 2 Dr Prashant Bajrang Rathi, Resident of Sai Regency, Ravi Nagar, Nagpur, 3 Mr Niranjan Takle, Reporter of CARAVAN, 4 Shri Srikant D Kulkarni, Member Secretary, Maharashtra State Legal Service Authority, 5 Shri SM Modak, Principal District Judge, Pune, 6 Shri Vijay C Barde, Additional Sessions Judge, City Civil and Sessions Court, Greater Bombay, 7 Dr Pinak Gangadhar Rao Dande, Ram Nagar, Nagpur, 8 Shri Anuj Brij Gopal Loya s o Late Sh.	None
BH Loya, 9 Smt Sharmila Brij Gopal Loya w o	None
Sh BH Loya 10 Shri Hari Kishan Ramchandra Loya,	None
f o	None
Late Sh BH Loya, 11 Dr Anuradha Balaprasad Biyani, sister of Late Sh BH Loya.?	None
Order IX of the Supreme Court Rules 2013 deals with Affidavits.	None
Rules 1 and 2 provide as follows ?	None
1.	None
The Court may at any time, for sufficient reason, order that any particular fact or facts may be proved by affidavit, or that the affidavit of any witness may be read at the hearing, on such conditions as the Court thinks reasonable Provided that where it appears to the Court that either party bona fide desires the production of a witness for cross examination and that such witness can be produced, an order shall not be made authorising the evidence of such witness to be given by affidavit.	None
Upon any application evidence may be given by affidavit but the Court may, at the instance of either party, order the attendance for crossexamination of the deponent, and such attendance shall be in Court, unless the deponent is exempted from personal appearance in Court or the Court otherwise directs.?	None
Rule 1 empowers the court to allow facts to be proved on affidavit for sufficient reason.	None
However, if the court is of the view that the production of a witness for crossexamination has been desired by a party bona fide and that such a witness can be produced, an order shall not be made authorising the evidence of the witness to be given by affidavit.	None
Under rule 2, a discretion is vested in the court to order the attendance for crossexamination of the deponent of an affidavit.	None
Under Order IX, a discretion is vested in the court to allow cross examination of a person who has filled an affidavit.	None
A party to a proceeding before this court particularly a proceeding under Article 32 cannot demand as of right the production of a person, who has filed an affidavit, for cross examination.	None
Whether crossexamination should be allowed has to be determined by the court having regard to the interests of justice.	None
Mr Dave submitted that this court should, in the first place, direct that the above persons should file affidavits before this court and that upon the filing of those affidavits, they should be produced for crossexamination by him.	None
In support of his submissions Mr Dave relied a few decisions of this court.	None
In K.K. Kochunni v State of Madras(supra) this Court held ?	None
12	None
it is possible very often to decide questions of fact on affidavits.	None
If the petition and the affidavits in support thereof are not convincing and the court is not satisfied that the petitioner has established his fundamental right or any breach thereof, the Court may dismiss the petition on the ground that the petitioner has not discharged the onus that lay on him.	None
The court may, in some appropriate cases, be inclined to give an opportunity to the parties to establish their respective cases by filing further affidavits or by issuing a commission or even by setting the application down for trial on evidence, as has often been done on the Original sides of the High Courts of Bombay and Calcutta, or by adopting some other appropriate procedure.	None
Such occasions will be rare indeed and such rare cases should not, in our opinion, be regarded as a cogent reason for refusing to entertain the petition under Article 32 on the ground that it involves disputed questions of fact.?	None
In CS Rowjee v State of AP 24 this Court held ?	None
16.	None
It is, no doubt, true that allegations of mala fides and of improper motives on the part of those in power are frequently made and their frequency has increased in recent times.	None
It is also somewhat unfortunate that allegations of this nature which have no foundation, in fact, are made in several of the cases which have come up before this and other courts and it is found that they have been made merely with a view to cause prejudice or in the hope that whether they have basis in fact or not some of it at least might stick.	None
Consequently it has become the duty of the Court to scrutinise these allegations with care so as to avoid being in any manner influenced by them, in cases where they have no foundation in fact.	None
In this task which is thus cast on the courts it would conduce to a more satisfactory disposal and consideration of them, if those against whom allegations are made came forward to place before the court either their denials or their version of the matter, so that the Court may be in a position to judge as to whether the onus that lies upon those who make allegations of mala fides on the part of authorities of the status of those with which this appeal is concerned, have discharged their burden of proving it.	None
In the absence of such affidavits or of materials placed before the Court by these authorities, the Court is left to judge the veracity of the allegations merely on tests of probability with nothing more substantial by way of answer.	None
This is precisely the situation in which we find ourselves in the present case.?	None
Reliance was placed on the decision in Sher Singh in Re .	None
The submission which has been urged is based on a misappreciation both of the role of the petitioners and on the scope of these proceedings.	None
The petitioners have moved this court in a petition filed in the public interest.	None
Their position is that of a relator who seeks to bring a grievance to the attention of the court for the purpose of seeking a court mandated inquiry.	None
None of the persons whose crossexamination has been sought is a witness in the present proceedings.	None
The court is essentially required to consider to whether a case has been made out on behalf of the petitioners (supported by the intervenors) for directing an inquiry into the circumstances leading to the death of Judge Loya.	None
As part of this process, the court has to decide as to whether the inquiry which has been conducted by the state is vitiated and if circumstances have been brought to the notice of the court which cast a reasonable suspicion about the events leading upto the death of Judge Loya.	None
The petitioners cannot assert as of right that they should be allowed to crossexamine a host of persons including the doctors and judicial officers.	Reasoning
By casting unfounded aspersions on the judicial officers who had accompanied Judge Loya, the petitioners have revealed the real motive of these proceedings which is to bring the judiciary into disrepute on the basis of scurrilous allegations.	Reasoning
We find no basis or justification to allow the request for crossexamination.	Reasoning
The application shall accordingly stand rejected.	None
Intervention by Centre for Public Interest Litigation	None
Mr Prashant Bhushan appeared in these proceedings at the stage of the rejoinder.	None
This was after the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners and intervenors had addressed the court and the court had heard submissions on behalf of the State of Maharashtra.	None
The Centre for Public Interest Litigation which Mr Prashant Bhushan represents as counsel has sought to intervene by an application 26 .	None
The application relies on a report in Caravan published on 11 February 2018 stating that the postmortem and histo pathology reports were sent to a forensic expert, Dr RK Sharma, formerly attached to AIIMS, and that Dr Sharma has ruled out the possibility of the death being due to a heart attack.	None
Moreover, it has been stated that the documents indicate signs of trauma to the brain.	None
Hence, it was urged that poisoning cannot be ruled out.	None
The application for intervention states that the intervenor obtained a set of documents from Caravan, including the histopathology report and a copy of the ECG done at Dande hospital.	None
Mr Prashant Bhushan claims to have forwarded the ECG and histopathology report to Dr Upendra Kaul, a former professor of Cardiology at AIIMS.	None
Mr Prashant Bhushan himself addressed an email to Dr Upendra Kaul seeking his professional opinion on certain queries.	None
Dr Kaul responded that the ECG ?most unlikely has no evidence of a recent myocardial infarction? .	None
Moreover, it has been stated that the histopathology of the heart mostly indicates that it was normal and that the coronary artery block in the LAD ?could be?	None
an innocent bystander.	None
The application for intervention also states that Mr Prashant Bhushan who is a member of the intervenor has spoken to other reputed cardiologists who are of the same opinion.	None
The affidavit in support of the application for intervention has been sworn by Mr Prashant Bhushan personally.	None
Mr Prashant Bhushan appeared on behalf of the intervenor as its counsel during the course of the hearing and not as a party in person.	None
In response, Mr Mukul Rohtagi has placed on the record copies of two letters dated 14 and 16 February 2018 addressed to Dr Sidharth Gupta, Head of the Department of Forensic Medicine at AIIMS by the Senior Police Inspector at PS Sadar, Nagpur.	None
A clarification was specifically sought in regard to the opinion furnished by Dr RK Sharma.	None
In a response dated 3 March 2018, Dr Abhishek Yadav, Assistant Professor and Member Secretary, Departmental Committee, Department of Forensic Medicine, AIIMS has stated that besides constituting a committee of three doctors to examine the issue, AIIMS had addressed a letter seeking a clarification from Dr RK Sharma.	None
The letter extracts the following reply sent by Dr RK Sharma to AIIMS ?	None
Thanks for your mail, I would like to state that I have been grossly misquoted by Caravan magazine regarding death of Judge Loya.	None
The conclusions drawn are imaginary.	None
I had general discussion with the reporter.	None
I do not agree with contents of report published which are ascribed to me.	None
I have not given any report regarding death of Judge Loya.	None
The letter dated 3 March 2018 from AIIMS accordingly contains the following clarification ?	None
In continuation of the previous reply dated 16.2.2018, it is added that no doctor from the Department of Forensic Medicine has given any opinion about the death of Judge Loya in official or individual capacity to the Caravan Magazine or any other media agency.	None
It is further reiterated that AIIMS New Delhi has a fixed protocol to respond only to official written request from the Government agency or Honourable Court with all the Mandatory corroborative investigating documents including Medical Documents for Medicolegal opinion and without the same holistic opinion can?t be formed for the perusal by law.?	None
The clarification issued by AIIMS indicates that Dr Sharma has categorically stated that he was grossly misquoted by Caravan magazine and that he does not agree with the contents of the report ascribed to him.	None
It may also be noted that by a previous reply dated 16 February 2018 Dr Sidharth Gupta of AIIMS had stated thus ?	None
In reference to above, Kindly note that, AIIMS, New Delhi has a fixed protocol to respond only to the official written request from the government investigating agency or Honourable court with all the MANDATORY corroborative investigating documents including medical documents, details of scene investigation along with the interaction with the doctors who conducted the postmortem, for medico legal opinion, since without the same, holistic opinion can?t be formed for the perusal by law.?	None
From the material on the record it is evident that an effort has been made by Mr Prashant Bhushan to collect evidence to somehow bolster the case of the petitioners, acting in his personal capacity.	None
A questionnaire in the form of leading questions was addressed by him to Dr Upendra Kaul, formerly at AIIMS, upon which a reply was obtained.	Reasoning
The court has been apprised of the fact that following this, the senior police inspector at Sadar police station addressed a communication on 11 February 2018 to Dr Harish Pathak, Professor and Head of the Department of Forensic Medicine, KEM Hospital, Mumbai seeking his opinion on the basis of the report of the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, the ECG, MLC papers and Meditrina hospital documents and histopathology report of the Government Medical College.	Reasoning
In response, Dr Pathak by his e mail dated 14 February 2018 sought additional documents.	Reasoning
These were furnished by the Senior Police Inspector, Sadar.	Reasoning
Dr Harish Pathak has in a detailed and considered opinion categorically stated that the conclusion of the postmortem that the death was due to coronary artery insufficiency is valid and is in accordance with medical knowledge on the subject.	Reasoning
The opinion has been supported by references to medical texts.	Reasoning
The opinion of Dr Harish Pathak is extracted below ?	None
I have carefully perused the following documents Autopsy note of Shri Loya ECG report Histopathology report.	None
ADR.	None
Panchnama.	None
C.A. Report.	None
Statement of Dr Rathi, Dr Gavande, Dr Harkut, Dr Ganar.	None
Hospital (Meditrina) reports (Progress notes MLC).	None
Two Articles from the Caravan magazine dated 26/01/18 11/02/18.	None
Based upon all the documents made available to me and the recent medical literature, I would like to state as under As per Doctor?s progress notes of Meditrina Hospital (Annexure, 1 Page 1) and statement given by Dr Pankaj Harkut (Annexure 2, Page 2), On 01 st December 2014, at around 04 am (As per Autopsy notes).	None
When Mr Brijgopal H Loya complained of chest pain and restrosternal pain.	None
(Doctor progress Notes Annexure 1) According to Principles of Internal Medicne, Harrison, (Annexure 3, Page 4) Chest discomfort is among the most common reasons for which patients present for medical attention at either an emergency department or an outpatient clinic.	None
Retrosternal pain is the typical clinical feature of myocardial ischemia (Annexure 3, Table on Page 5).	None
Chest discomfort associated with Myocardial Infraction is typically more severe, is prolonged usually lasting more than 30 minutes and is not relieved by rest (Annexure3, Page6).	None
According to Oxford Dictionaries, (URL https oxforddictionaries.com definition us)	None
Retrosternal Behind the breastbone.	None
(Annexure 4, Page7) (Retrosternal chest pain is pain felt behind the sternum bone a flat bone located in the middle of the chest.	None
This bone may also referred to as the breastbone	None
) Myocardium The muscular tissue of the heart.	None
(Annexure5, Page 8) Ischemia	None
An inadequate blood supply to an organ or part of body, especially heart muscles.	None
(Annexure 6, Page 9) Infraction Obstruction of the blood supply to an organ or region of tissue, typically by thrombus or embolus, causing local death of tissue.	None
(Annexure 7, Page 10)	None
The ECG showed tall?Twaves?	None
in the anterior leads.	None
This is consistent with the history indicative of myocardial ischemia.	None
According to Principles of Internal Medicine, Harrison, Tall, positive hyperacute T waves are the earliest stages of ischemia.	None
(Annexure 8, Page 12) DOCTOR?S PROGRESS NOTES (Annexure 1 Page 1) indicate that Mr Brijgopal H Loya was brought to Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences with cardiac arrest in collapsed condition.	None
In spite of all resuscitative measures, he could not be revived and declared dated at 0615 am on 01/12/2017 at Meditrina Hospital.	None
(Annexure 1, Page 1, Annexure 16 Page 32, Annexure 17, Page 34)	None
According to the statement of Dr Pankaj Harkut, Director of Cardiology centre at Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences, he had reviewed the ECG from Dhande Hospital which in his opinion showed tall TWaves.	None
(Annexure 2, Page 2a)	None
As per, American Journal of Emergency Medicine (2007), Hyperacute T wave, the early sign of myocardial infraction 25, 859.	None
El 859.	None
e7	None
The three main differential diagnoses of HATW (hyper acute T waves) on electrocardiogram are (i) left ventricular hypertrophy, (ii) hyperkalemia and (iii) early repolarization variant.	None
(Annexure 9, Page 13)	None
As per the statement of Dr Ninad D Gavande, MBBS, MD FMT, attached as honorary medicolegal consultant at Meditrina Hospital he had reviewed all relevant documents before the body was forwarded for autopsy examination.	None
(Annexure 16, Page 33)	None
The body was shifted to Government Medical College mortuary and Panchnama was done wherein no external marks of injuries were noted.	None
Autopsy examination was conducted on 01122017 from 1050am to 1155 am at Government Medical College Nagpur, by Dr N K Tumram, who was then working as a lecturer at Forensic Medicine Department, Nagpur.	None
At autopsy examination, no external marks of injuries were found and on internal examination, following significant observations were made.	None
With regard to autopsy notes and observations therein, my opinion on the findings with their medicolegal interpretation and relevance along with authorities which are being attached as annexures.	None
7A ?	None
Dura congested?	None
According to Snell?s Textbook of Anatomy, Dura is a fibrous tissue (Annexure 10, Page 15) It does not have blood supply in order to show the signs of congestion.	None
Autopsy surgeon is expected to see if dura is intact and probably he meant to comment the Meanings, which are the outer coverings of brain and their congestion in normally seen in most of the cases of sudden cardiac deaths.	None
Hence the entire argument in caravan magazine about congestion of Dura and thereby it being the indication of head injury is unscientific, and devoid of any rationale.7B.?Heart congested, weighing 320 grams Evidence of atherosclerosis in left coronary and left anterior descending coronary artery with calcification and luminal narrowing of 100 percent 01 cm distal to its origin and 90 02cm distal to its origin respectively.	None
Evidence of hypertrophy of left ventricle present?.According to Principles of Internal Medicine, Harrison, Myocardial ischemia also can occur if myocardial oxygen demands are markedly increased and particularly when coronary blood flow may be limited, as occurs in severe left ventricular hypertrophy due to aortic stenosis.	None
?	None
an increase in oxygen demand due to left ventricular hypertrophy secondary to hypertension and a reduction in oxygen supply secondary to coronary atherosclerosis and anemia.	None
Abnormal constriction or failure of normal dilation of the coronary resistance vessels also can cause ischemia.?	None
(Annexure 11, Page 17) 7C. ?	None
Large vessels intact, evidence of atherosclerotic changes present in the inner walls of arch of aorta., ascending aorta?	None
No comment is required.7D.?Abdomen All organs were congested and stomach contains 10 ml of yellowish juicy material, with no peculiar odour?	None
No comment required.	None
Routine vescera were preserved for chemical analysis and the report of the same did not reveal any presence of poison.	None
Pieces of brain, lungs, liver, heart, spleen, both kidneys, left descending aorta were preserved for histopathology examination.	None
The result of histopathology examination are not inconsistent with the observations at autopsy examination described and explained as above.	None
As to claims made by Newspaper Article 8.1.	None
No Claim of Myocardial Infraction in the Histopathological report (The Caravan, Annexure 19, Page 46)	None
The earliest signs of Myocardial Infraction which can be detected through naked eyes and histopathological examination appears not before 12 to 24 hours after the survival after acute coronary insufficiency.	None
(Annexure 12, Page 20)	None
Dr Bernard Knight, in his book KNIGHT?S FORENSIC PATHOLOGY writes,?Most sudden deaths from Coronary artery insufficiency do not have Myocardial Infraction, even when the most sophisticated techniques are employed for its detection.	None
Neither do the majority have a coronary thrombosis, though severe coronary stenosis is by definition present.	None
(Annexure 12, Page 23)	None
A narrowing of the lumen to 01mm or lesser at a minimum of one point is required to diagnose of Ischemic Heart Disease.	None
(Annexure 13, Page 25)	None
The lesions associated with atherosclerosis can be graded from Grade I to IV, based on percentage of narrowing of lumen of Coronary artery, where Grade IV signifies thickening and calcification of wall of coronary artery with narrowing of lumen more than 75 .	None
(Annexure 13, Page 26).	None
Significant obstruction of the coronary artery lumen requires 75 narrowing of the lumen (Forensic Pathology, Vincent J DiMaio, Annexure 14, Page 28)	None
In the present case, severe stenosis (Narrowing) in left coronary 100 and left anterior descending 90 was observed and noted at autopsy.	None
The findings are consistent with the cause of death due to acute coronary insufficiency.	None
Hence I do not find any merit in the said argument.	None
8.2	None
Once coronary arteries are calcified, one cannot die due to heart attack (The Caravan, Annexure 19, Page 46)	None
This is highly unscientific interpretation as calcified arteries can be blocked by the dislodges thrombus and I find no merit in it and disagree with this opinion.	None
8.3	None
Once person alive for 30 minutes after symptoms condition of heart will have clear signs, (The Caravan, Annexure 19, Page 47)	None
Nowhere in the medical literature I have come across such observation.	None
In fact, the earliest signs do not appear before 12 hours.	None
(Annexure 12, Page 20)	None
The fact gross changes in the myocardial tissue appears only 1824 hours post ischemia infarction.	None
(Practical Cardio Vascular Pathology, Mary N Sheppard Annexure 15, Page 31 8.4 No conclusive evidence of coronary artery insufficiency.	None
(The Caravan, Annexure 19, Page 47)	None
Following evidences are sufficient to reach to the conclusion of acute coronary insufficiency Initial symptoms narrated by the deceased to the witnesses and the doctors at first hospital.	None
ECG findings.	None
Coronary Artery Blockage seen at autopsy	None
Hence, I find no merit in the argument and disagree with the same.	None
8.5 Blood stains over neck, cloths are indicative of heart injury (The Caravan, Annexure 19, Page 47)	None
According to inquest panchnama and post mortem report, there deceased was wearing Grey Full Sleeve Shirt and blue color jeans pant with black belt.	None
There is no mention of any blood stains.	None
When clothes are put back on the body after autopsy by the mortuary attendants, the precision and neatness of clothing cannot be compared to the way a living person may dress.	None
After autopsy examination is over, the incisions over neck, chest, abdomen and head on the dead body are sutured after putting the dissected organs back in to the cavities.	None
In spite of every precaution being taken to make sure that there is no leakage of post mortem blood from the stitched post mortem wounds, sometimes, minor leakage of blood tinged body fluid can happen.	None
The chances of such leakage become high when bodies are being transported for long distances as it had happened in the present case.	None
8.6	None
Every single item is congested hence possibility of poisoning.	None
(Annexure 19, Page 17)	None
This is absolutely unscientific opinion.	None
In case of sudden cardiac deaths when heart suddenly stops beating, presence of congestions of almost all the organ is an expected finding.	None
In fact, congestion is such a common and nonspecific finding in many cases that one cannot in ordinary course of nature make much significant interpretation of it.	None
8.7 Question about chain of custody.	None
(The Caravan, Annexure 19, Page 47)	None
The bottles containing viscera for chemical analysis are always sealed by medical officer and handed over to the police.	None
If Chemical analyser observes any tempering with the seal, he reports about the same.	None
Since no such report exists, it would be unreasonable and unjustifiable to doubt sanctity of evidence.	None
8.8	None
The Deceased had healthy life style and no family history of heart disease hence could not have died due to sudden cardiac arrest at the young age of 48 years.	None
(Caravan, Annexure 19, Page 48) Family history of cardiac illness only makes a person more prone to the risk of cardiac disease but does not rule out the possibility of the same among the persons without such history.	None
Conclusion On carful perusal of all documents made and relevant medical literature on the subject, it is my opinion that, Late Shri Brijgopal Harikisan Loya died due to acute coronary insufficiency, which was a sudden natural death.	None
There was no evidence to suggest any inconsistencies in the history, clinical findings and autopsy report made available to me.	None
Claims of foul play and suspicions in the articles in The Caravan made are unscientific and incorrect, as explained by me in this report with relevant references.	None
Dr Harish M Pathak Professor Head Forensic Medicine Toxicology Seth GSMC KEM Hospital, Mumbai.?	None
We are not really considering here whether the opinion of Dr Pathak should be preferred to what was opined by Dr Kaul.	None
The point of the matter is that facts have emerged from the record which indicate that a carefully orchestrated attempt has been made during the course of these hearings on behalf of the Centre for Public Interest Litigation to create evidence to cast a doubt on the circumstances leading to the death of Judge Loya.	None
In their practice before this court, Counsel are expected to assist the court with a sense of objectivity in aid of justice.	None
What has happened here is that Mr Prashant Bhushan has adopted a dual mantle, assuming the character of a counsel for the intervenor as well as an individual personally interested on behalf of the intervening organisation of which he is a member.	None
He has gone to the length of personally collecting evidence to somehow bolster the case.	None
The manner in which the opinion of Dr Kaul was obtained on the basis of a laconic questionnaire leaves much to be desired and is a singular reflection on the lack of objectivity which is to be expected from counsel appearing before this Court.	None
This has bordered on an attempt to misrepresent the facts and mislead the court.	None
During the course of his submissions, Mr Dave filed before this Court a compilation, inter alia, consisting of a proceeding instituted under Section 482 of the Cr PC (Criminal Application 824 of 2014) before the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court by five petitioners for quashing a criminal case pending on the file of the Joint Civil Judge, Junior Division and JMFC, Nagpur.	None
The fourth petitioner in the proceeding is Devendra Gangadhar Fadnavis, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra.	None
The case relates to an incident which took place on 7 June 1991 on account of the removal of certain construction in Nagpur.	None
As a result, two crimes came to be registered for offences under Sections 147, 148, 149, 294, 448,324, 336 and 427 of the Penal Code.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court noted, that though the incident was of 1991, not much progress has been made in that case and with the passage of time, the dispute was amicably settled between the parties who are residents of Nagpur localities.	None
The Bench of the Bombay High Court at Nagpur, consisting of BR Gavai and VM Deshpande, JJ, relied upon a decision of this Court in Narinder Singh v State of Punjab 27 and held thus ?	None
The Apex Court in the case of Narinder Singh and Others vs State of Punjab and Others, (2014) 6 SCC 466 has laid down various guidelines to be followed by this Court while exercising its power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for quashing criminal proceedings.	None
One of the guidelines laid down by the Apex Court is that normally this Court would not entertain an application for quashing the proceedings wherein an element of public law is involved.	None
In the present case, perusal of the record would reveal that the proceedings came to be initiated against each other out of a dispute which is purely private and where no element of public law is involved.	None
Another guideline laid down is that if there is no possibility of trial being culminated into conviction, this Court should exercise powers under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to give an end to the criminal proceedings.	None
Since the parties have agreed to give an end to the dispute amongst themselves, there is not even a remote possibility of trial ending into conviction.	None
We, therefore, find that it would be in the interest of justice to accept the settlement between the parties and to give an end to the criminal proceedings so that the parties are in a position to maintain peace and harmony in the area where they reside.?	None
The criminal case was accordingly quashed.	None
Mr Dave has gone to the extent of insinuating that one individual is controlling the entire judiciary in Maharashtra and elsewhere.	None
We are rather surprised at the manner in which an insinuation has been made by producing the above order, which was passed in completely unrelated proceedings.	Reasoning
The insinuation is against the judges of the Bombay High Court at Nagpur for having quashed a criminal case in which the present Chief Minister was involved.	Reasoning
We are not called upon to evaluate the merits of the decision, save and except to note that the High Court in quashing the proceedings placed reliance on a decision of this Court and had noted that the dispute was admittedly private in nature where no element of public law was involved.	Reasoning
The attempt of the petitioners is to create prejudice and to malign the dignity of the judges, particularly of Justice BR Gavai.	Reasoning
Copies of the criminal application and of the order of the Bombay High Court form part of the same compilation in which is also annexed a copy of the article published in the Indian Express of 27 November 2017, referring to the statements of Justice Gavai and Justice Shukre.	Reasoning
This is another instance in the course of the hearing of the present case where a matter extraneous to the subject of the inquiry before the court has been sought to be relied upon to somehow sensationalise the case.	Reasoning
What is worse is the manner in which wholly unfounded aspersions have been cast on the judges of the Bombay High Court following a decision which has been taken in the judicial capacity.	Reasoning
This constitutes a serious attempt to scandalise the court and obstruct the course of justice.	Reasoning
Public Interest Litigation Public Interest Litigation has developed as a powerful tool to espouse the cause of the marginalised and oppressed.	None
Indeed, that was the foundation on which public interest jurisdiction was judicially recognised in situations such as those in Bandhua Mukti Morcha v Union of India 28 .	None
Persons who were unable to seek access to the judicial process by reason of their poverty, ignorance or illiteracy are faced with a deprivation of fundamental human rights.	None
Bonded labour and under trials (among others) belong to that category.	None
The hallmark of a public interest petition is that a citizen may approach the court to ventilate the grievance of a person or class of persons who are unable to pursue their rights.	None
Public interest litigation has been entertained by relaxing the rules of standing.	None
The essential aspect of the procedure is that the person who moves the court has no personal interest in the outcome of the proceedings apart from a general standing as a citizen before the court.	None
This ensures the objectivity of those who pursue the grievance before the court.	None
Environmental jurisprudence has developed around the rubric of public interest petitions.	None
Environmental concerns affect the present generation and the future.	None
Principles such as the polluter pays and the public trust doctrine have evolved during the adjudication of public interest petitions.	None
Over time, public interest litigation has become a powerful instrument to preserve the rule of law and to ensure the accountability of and transparency within structures of governance.	None
Public interest litigation is in that sense a valuable instrument and jurisdictional tool to promote structural due process.	None
Yet over time, it has been realised that this jurisdiction is capable of being and has been brazenly misutilised by persons with a personal agenda.	None
At one end of that spectrum are those cases where public interest petitions are motivated by a desire to seek publicity.	None
At the other end of the spectrum are petitions which have been instituted at the behest of business or political rivals to settle scores behind the facade of a public interest litigation.	None
The true face of the litigant behind the faade is seldom unravelled.	None
These concerns are indeed reflected in the judgment of this court in State of Uttaranchal v Balwant Singh Chaufal 29 .	None
Underlining these concerns, this court held thus ?	None
143.	None
Unfortunately, of late, it has been noticed that such an important jurisdiction which has been carefully carved out, created and nurtured with great care and caution by the courts, is being blatantly abused by filing some petitions with oblique motives.	None
We think time has come when genuine and bona fide public interest litigation must be encouraged whereas frivolous public interest litigation should be discouraged.	None
In our considered opinion, we have to protect and preserve this important jurisdiction in the larger interest of the people of this country but we must take effective steps to prevent and cure its abuse on the basis of monetary and nonmonetary directions by the courts.?	None
The misuse of public interest litigation is a serious matter of concern for the judicial process.	None
Both this court and the High Courts are flooded with litigation and are burdened by arrears.	None
Frivolous or motivated petitions, ostensibly invoking the public interest detract from the time and attention which courts must devote to genuine causes.	None
This court has a long list of pending cases where the personal liberty of citizens is involved.	None
Those who await trial or the resolution of appeals against orders of conviction have a legitimate expectation of early justice.	None
It is a travesty of justice for the resources of the legal system to be consumed by an avalanche of misdirected petitions purportedly filed in the public interest which, upon due scrutiny, are found to promote a personal, business or political agenda.	None
This has spawned an industry of vested interests in litigation.	None
There is a grave danger that if this state of affairs is allowed to continue, it would seriously denude the efficacy of the judicial system by detracting from the ability of the court to devote its time and resources to cases which legitimately require attention.	None
Worse still, such petitions pose a grave danger to the credibility of the judicial process.	None
This has the propensity of endangering the credibility of other institutions and undermining public faith in democracy and the rule of law.	None
This will happen when the agency of the court is utilised to settle extrajudicial scores.	None
Business rivalries have to be resolved in a competitive market for goods and services.	None
Political rivalries have to be resolved in the great hall of democracy when the electorate votes its representatives in and out of office.	None
Courts resolve disputes about legal rights and entitlements.	None
Courts protect the rule of law.	None
There is a danger that the judicial process will be reduced to a charade, if disputes beyond the ken of legal parameters occupy the judicial space.	None
The present case is indeed a case in point.	Reasoning
Repeatedly, counsel for the petitioners and intervenors have attempted to inform the court that they have no personal agenda and that they have instituted these proceedings to protect judicial independence.	Reasoning
An aura of good faith has been sought to be created by submitting that the true purpose of seeking an inquiry into the circumstances relating to the death of Judge Loya is to protect the district judiciary.	Reasoning
But as the submissions have evolved, it has become clear that the petition is a veiled attempt to launch a frontal attack on the independence of the judiciary and to dilute the credibility of judicial institutions.	Reasoning
Judicial review is a potent weapon to preserve the rule of law.	Reasoning
However, here we have been confronted with a spate of scurrilous allegations.	Reasoning
Absent any tittle of proof that they are conspirators in a murder the court must stand by the statements of the judicial officers.	Reasoning
The judges of the district judiciary are vulnerable to wanton attacks on their independence.	Reasoning
This court would be failing in its duty if it were not to stand by them.	None
We must in this context record what we have heard during the course of the submissions.	None
Mr Dave has urged that (i) he wants to crossexamine the judges and (ii) he does not believe the judicial officers.	None
Aspersions have been cast on the Administrative Committee of the Bombay High Court.	None
This court has been called upon to issue a notice of contempt to the judges on the Committee at the relevant time.	None
Ms Jaising has joined the fray by requesting that this court to issue contempt notices to the Administrative Committee of the Bombay High Court.	None
Junior counsel appearing with Mr Giri went to the extent of urging that the judicial officers whose statements were recorded during the discreet inquiry are suspect.	None
Even the judges of this Bench hearing the present proceedings, have not been spared from this vituperative assault on the judiciary.	None
Mr Prashant Bhushan argued that because two of the judges constituting the present Bench (Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice DY Chandrachud) were judges of the Bombay High Court, they may have known the judicial officers who have submitted statements or Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice SB Shukre.	None
If this were to be the test, it is rather ironical that the petitioners had instituted proceedings before the Bombay High Court each of whose judges were expected to be faced with the same situation.	None
We informed Mr Bhushan that a decision as to whether a judge should hear a case is a matter of conscience for the judge.	None
There is absolutely no ground or basis to recuse.	None
Judges of the High Court hear intra court appeals against orders of their own colleagues.	Reasoning
References are made to larger Benches when there are differences of view.	Reasoning
Judges of the Supreme Court hear appeals arising from judgments rendered by judges of the High Courts in which they served, either as judges or on appointments as Chief Justices.	Reasoning
Maintaining institutional civilities between or towards judges is distinct from the fiercely independent role of the judge as adjudicator.	Reasoning
We emphatically clarify that on the wellsettled parameters which hold the field, there is no reason for any member of the present Bench to recuse from the hearing.	Reasoning
While it is simple for a judge faced with these kinds of wanton attacks to withdraw from a case, doing so would amount to an abdication of duty.	Reasoning
There are higher values which guide our conduct.	Reasoning
Though Mr Bhushan ultimately made it clear that he is not filing an application for recusal and none has been filed we have recorded what transpired to express our sense of anguish at the manner in which these proceedings have been conducted.	Reasoning
Serious attacks have been made on the credibility of two judges of the Bombay High Court.	Reasoning
The conduct of the petitioners and the intervenors scandalises the process of the court and prima facie constitutes criminal contempt.	Reasoning
However, on a dispassionate view of the matter, we have chosen not to initiate proceedings by way of criminal contempt if only not to give an impression that the litigants and the lawyers appearing for them have been subjected to an unequal battle with the authority of law.	Reasoning
We rest in the hope that the Bar of the nation is resilient to withstand such attempts on the judiciary.	Reasoning
The judiciary must continue to perform its duty even if it is not to be palatable to some.	Reasoning
The strength of the judicial process lies not in the fear of a coercive law of contempt.	Reasoning
The credibility of the judicial process is based on its moral authority.	Reasoning
It is with that firm belief that we have not invoked the jurisdiction in contempt.	None
Conclusion For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that there is absolutely no merit in the writ petitions.	Reasoning
There is no reason for the court to doubt the clear and consistent statements of the four judicial officers.	Reasoning
The documentary material on the record indicates that the death of Judge Loya was due to natural causes.	Reasoning
There is no ground for the court to hold that there was a reasonable suspicion about the cause or circumstances of death which would merit a further inquiry.	Reasoning
The hearings commenced on 2 February 2018 and ended on 16 March 2018.	Reasoning
The batch of cases was heard on 2 February 2018, 5 February 2018, 9 February 2018, 12 February 2018, 19 February 2018, 5 March 2018, 8 March 2018, 9 March 2018 and 16 March 2018.	Reasoning
Having regard to the large volume of work, we had considered it appropriate to list the hearings at 2 pm on Mondays and Fridays, after the miscellaneous cases had been dealt with.	Reasoning
The conduct of the petitioners and the intervenors is, as we have indicated, lacking in bona fides and reveals a misuse of judicial process.	Reasoning
The petitions shall stand dismissed.	Decision
The transferred cases and pending applications, if any, are also disposed of.	None
Transferred Case (Criminal) No. 2 of 2018	None
This Transferred case was heard together with the accompanying group of cases 30 in which judgment has been delivered today.	None
In so far as the circumstances relating to the death of Judge Loya are concerned, all issues raised in that connection in the present case shall stand governed by the judgment delivered by this Court.	None
Since the case also raises certain other matters (other than the death of Judge Loya), learned counsel requested this Court to remit the proceedings back to enable the petitioner to pursue before the High Court the reliefs sought on matters other than the death of Judge Loya.	None
We find the request to be fair and proper.	None
We accordingly direct that the present case shall be remitted back to the Nagpur Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay.	None
However, we clarify that the circumstances relating to the death of Judge Loya which have been dealt with by this Court in the judgment delivered today stands concluded and the High Court would be at liberty to deal with other issues raised in the petition case.	None
Ordered accordingly.	None
FINAL ORDER Honble Dr.Justice D.Y.Chandrachud pronounced the judgment of the Bench comprising Honble the Chief Justice of India, Honble Mr.Justice A.M.Khanwilkar and His Lordship.	None
W.P(C)No.19/2018, W.P.(C)No.20/2018, W.P.(C)No.73/2018 T.C. (Crl.)No.1/2018 The petitions shall stand dismissed in terms of the signed judgment.	None
The transferred cases and pending applications, if any, are also disposed of.	None
Transferred Case (Criminal) No. 2 of 2018	None
This Transferred case was heard together with the accompanying group of casesWP(C)No.19/2018, W.P.(C)No.20/2018, W.P.(C)No.73/2018 and T.C.(Crl.)No.1/2018 in which judgment has been delivered today.	None
In so far as the circumstances relating to the death of Judge Loya are concerned, all issues raised in that connection in the present case shall stand governed by the judgment delivered by this Court.	None
Since the case also raises certain other matters (other than the death of Judge Loya), learned counsel requested this Court to remit the proceedings back to enable the petitioners to pursue before the High Court the reliefs sought on matters other than the death of Judge Loya.	None
We find the request to be fair and proper.	None
We accordingly direct that the present case shall be remitted back to the Nagpur Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay.	None
However, we clarify that the circumstances relating to the death of Judge Loya which have been dealt with by this Court in the judgment delivered today stands concluded and the High Court would be at liberty to deal with other issues raised in the petition case.	None
Ordered accordingly.	None
