 Shivaraj V. Patil, J. The respondents herein filed writ petitions OJC No. 9368 of 1995 and OJC No. 9218 of 1996 challenging the introduction of EO grade in the executive cadre as promotional avenue for the channel of supervisors inter alia in S3 cadre on the ground that it deprived the employees of their legitimate promotional avenue E1 in executive cadre.	Facts
The respondents also prayed for quashing the circular No. 64 dated 29.6.1995 contending that it was issued without the decision of the Board of Directors as to the introduction of new induction point EO grade in the executive cadre.	Facts
The writ petitions were resisted by the appellants stating that the Recruitment and Promotion Rules for Executives, 1984 (for short the 1984 Rules) were applicable only to executives and not for the employees in the nonexecutive cadres scheme for promotion of the nonexecutives to executive cadre was separate and independent the impugned circular No. 64 noted that over the years, executive cadre was stabilised with consequent reduction in the requirement of E1 level officers.	Facts
Hence, it had become necessary to implement the said circular to provide promotional avenues to the employees working at supervisory level in the S3 grade for selection against the executive posts at EO level subject to fulfillment of conditions prescribed.	Facts
A settlement under Section 18(3) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 was arrived at before the Conciliation Officer between the appellant company and nine different nonexecutive employees unions representing substantial majority of them.	Facts
In the said binding settlement it is specifically stipulated that the employees in the revised grades M6/T6/P6/S3 (corresponding to S3 level) would continue to be eligible for internal selection for posts at EO level according to the prescribed conditions.	Facts
The High Court disposed of the writ petition OJC No. 9368 of 1995 by a short order without dealing with various contentions raised by the appellants directing that the scheme contained in Annexure5 can only remain in force if any part or portion thereof which is at variance with the conditions contained in Annexure1 cannot have any legal effect prejudicing the rights of the petitioner or similarly situated persons in the matter of promotion and other incidental aspects.	Facts
OJC No. 9218 of 1996 was disposed of following the order made in OJC No. 9368 of 1995.	Facts
Hence these two appeals by the appellant company.	Facts
On behalf of the appellants it was urged that the 1984 Rules deal with executive posts in the company and they were not applicable to the nonexecutives including the employees in S3 supervisory cadre separate schemes were framed for promotion of supervisory personnel from nonexecutive to executive cadre since there were no promotional chances from S3 cadre to E1 executive level consequent upon the reduction in the requirement of E1 level, the scheme was issued creating promotional avenues at EO level to the supervisory personnel in S3 grade and on account of the same no prejudice was caused to the respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was drawn to the relevant provisions contained in the Rules, Schemes and the impugned circular.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents submissions were made supporting the impugned orders passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the legitimate expectations of the respondents for promotion from S3 cadre to E1 executive level cadre was denied by virtue of the scheme introduced which were inconsistent with the Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate the respective submissions it is useful to look at the Rules, schemes and the impugned circular to the extent they are relevant for the purposes.	None
In Rule 1.1.2.2 of 1984 Rules it is clearly stated that these rules shall apply to all executive posts up to and including the posts in the scale of Rs. 22502750 (E7) in the company and will not apply to the cases of promotion from nonexecutive posts to executive posts.	None
A separate scheme called Promotion Scheme for nonexecutive to executive level was approved by the CMD on 18.5.1985 to be effective from 25.11.1985, which provides for a system of manning posts in E1 level up to maximum of 50 of available vacancies at that level from amongst and competent employees at S3 level.	None
In the said scheme, it is specifically stated that these norms may be withdrawn, amended, modified or cancelled at any time at the discretion of the CMD without notice.	None
In the impugned circular No. 64 dated 29.6.1995 it is stated that on introduction of EO grade in the executive salary structure, it was decided that the supervisory personnel at S3 level would be considered for selection to EO grade with effect from 1.7.1991 vide circular No. CPD RR/0012.5(B)/951(45)/91 dated 19.3.1991.	None
The said decision was temporarily kept in abeyance view IOM No. CPD RR/002.2/19965/91 dated 20.6.1991.	None
It is further stated that over the years, the executive cadre has established with consequent reduction in the requirement at E1 level.	None
It has, therefore, become necessary to implement EO grade for the purpose of selection of eligible supervisory personnel against the executive posts at EO level subject to fulfillment of given conditions.	None
The said circular also states that the scheme may be amended, modified or withdrawn at any time without notice at the discretion of CMD.	None
It is made clear that the policy to regulate further promotions from EO grade to E1 grade will be issued separately.	None
In para 4.1 of Annexure P5, the Memorandum of Settlement dated 14.12.1995 entered into between the appellant company and nine nonexecutive employees union before the Conciliation Officer it is stated that the revised wage structure of different categories of employees is given at Annexure A. In para 7 of this Annexure it is stated that the employees in the revised grades M6/T6/P6/S3 will continue to be eligible for internal selection for executive posts at EO level according to the prescribed conditions.	None
Looking to these Rules, schemes and the circular including the settlement dated 14.12.1995 the High Court was not correct in passing the impugned orders granting relief to the respondents.	None
As noticed above 1984 Rules do not apply to nonexecutives, the High Court proceeded on the assumption that the said Rules were applicable to the nonexecutives and the impugned circular No. 64 to the extent inconsistent with the said Rules could not be sustained.	None
The submission of the appellants that the decision of the company to operate EO level in the executive cadre was taken in the general interest of career advancement of nonexecutive employees consistent with the employers requirement at executive level due to shrinkage of vacancies at executive level is acceptable, particularly, when nothing was shown as to how creating one more level in the executive cadre to provide promotional avenues to nonexecutive employees was prejudicial.	None
It is not the case of the respondents that the vacancies at E1 executive level were not reduced on account of stabilisation of vacancies over number of years after the starting of the company.	None
In the same impugned circular it is clearly stated that the policy to regulate promotions from EO grade to E1 grade would be issued separately.	None
Thus, the employees working at S3 level will be benefited rather than prejudiced by the impugned circular.	None
If such a scheme for creation or operation of EO level was not there and in the absence of vacancies in E1 executive level the employees in the nonexecutive cadre would have been stagnated.	None
Further, in the settlement (Annexure P5) also it is clearly stated that the employees in the revised grades including S3 will continue to be eligible for internal selection for executive posts at EO level according to the prescribed conditions.	None
To this settlement as many as nine employees unions were parties.	None
If the employees were aggrieved or prejudiced as to creation of EO level as one of the promotional avenues they should not have been parties to such settlement.	None
We are told number of employees from nonexecutive cadre had already been promoted to EO level of executive cadre.	Reasoning
At any rate the respondents were unable to say as to how they were prejudiced by creation of EO level in the executive cadre to provide one more promotional opportunity in the circumstances already stated above.	Reasoning
The appellants also brought to our notice that NALCO Recruitment and Promotion Rules for Executives, 1997 (Annexure P9 filed in this Court) have come into force superseding the 1984 Rules.	Reasoning
Rule 16.1 of the 1997 Rules says that all executive posts in the Company shall be classified in different grades including EO level.	Reasoning
Thus, having regard to all the aspects we find it difficult to sustain the impugned orders passed by the High Court.	Reasoning
In this view the appeals are allowed.	Decision
The impugned orders are set aside.	Decision
Consequently the writ petitions stand dismissed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
Appeals allowed.	None
