 Hegde, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by certificate.	Issue
It is directed against the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a reference under Section 64 (l) of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
The question of law referred to the High Court wasWhether the value of 25 acres of wet land is exempt from levy of estate duty under Section 24 of Estate Duty Act, 1953?2.	Facts
The material facts of the ease, as can be gathered from the case stated, are these3.	None
One Venkataramayya died in April, 1940 leaving behind him his widow and two sons, who constituted a Hindu undivided family.	Facts
One of his Sons, namely, Chandrasekhera Rao died in the year 1941, leaving behind him six minor sons and a widow.	Facts
Subsequently, a partition was effected between the members of the family on 1661943 by a registered partition deed.	Facts
Under that deed Kotamma, the widow of Venkataramayya, who had a right to inherit her husbands share in the nonagricultural properties as well as the right to be maintained from out of the family income, gave up her right both in the nonagricultural properties, except the right to reside in a portion of the family house as well as her right to be maintained out of the family income.	Facts
At the same time the other members of the family allotted to her 25 acres of wet land, which she was to enjoy during her lifetime and the same was to devolve after her death on the other members of the former family as per the stipulations in the partition deed.	Facts
She was not entitled to alienate the property allotted to her share.	Facts
Kotamma died on April 9, 1958.	Facts
The authorities under the Act proceeded to levy estate duty on the value of the property allotted to Kotamma underthe partition deed dated 1661943 under Section 7 of the Act.	Facts
The accountable persons contended that the estate in question is not liable to pay estate duty as it came within the scope of S. 24 of the Act.	Facts
The departmental authorities, including the Tribunal, rejected that contention.	Facts
Thereafter, at the instance of the Revenue, the question set out above was referred to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court has answered that question in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.	Facts
The Revenue has come up in appeal to this Court.	Facts
The only question for consideration is whether the facts of the present case fall within the scope of Section 24 of the Act4.	None
Section 7 (l) of the Act says7.	None
(l) Interests ceasing on death Subject to the provisions of this section, property in which the deceased or any other person had an interest ceasing on the death of the deceased shall be deemed to pass on the deceaseds death to the extent to which a benefit accrues or arises by the cesser of such interest, including, in particular a coparcenary interest in the joint family property of a Hindu family governed by the Mitakshara, Marumakkattayam or Aliyasantana law.	None
The remaining portions of that section are not relevant for our present purposes.5.	None
There is no dispute that when Kotamma died her interest in the wet land ceased and that it passed on to the other members of the former joint family as provided in the partition deed.	None
Hence prima facie the present case comes under Section 7 of the Act.	None
Only question is whether the arrangement made under the partition deed can be considered as disposition within the meaning of that expression in Section 24 of the Act.	None
Now let us turn to Section 24 (1).	None
That section reads24 (l) Property reverting to disponer Where by a disposition of any property an interest is conferred on any person other than the disponer for the life of such person or determinable on his death, the remainder being conferred upon the disponer absolutely, and such person enters into possession of the interest and thence forward retains possession of it, then, on the death of such person, the property shall not be deemed to pass by reason only of its reverter to the disponer in his lifetime.	None
The remaining portion of this section is also not necessary for our present purposes.6.	None
It was urged on behalf of the Revenue by Mr. Sharma, its learned counsel, that Section 24 is wholly inapplicable to the facts of the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that on the facts of this case there was no disposition.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further contended that under the terms of the partition deed me property did not revert wholly to the disponers.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him it partly reverted to the disponers and partly to the widow of Chandrasekhara Rao, who cannot be considered as one of the disponers.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rama Rao, the learned counsel for the assessee, on the other hand, contended that under the partition deed, there was a disposition in favour of Kotamma and on her death the property reverted back to all the disponers.	Arguments of Respondent
As we are in agreement with the contention of Mr. Sharma on the first point, namely, that there was no disposition under the partition deed, we do not think it necessary to go into other contention.8.	None
We are unable to accept the contention of Mr. Rama Rao that under the partition deed there was disposition.	Reasoning
According to him, the true nature of the transactions entered into under the partition deed were that Kotamma gave up all her rights in the family properties, including her right to maintenance unilaterally, but at the same time the other members of the family voluntarily gave her 25 acres of wet land to be enjoyed by her during her lifetime.	Reasoning
For this contention of his he placed reliance on the terms of the partition deed.	Reasoning
In a matter like this we are not merely to look the form in which the deed is drawn up.	Reasoning
We are to find out the true nature of the transaction.	Reasoning
From the facts set out above it is absolutely clear that under the partition deed Kotamma gave up her rights to the extent mentioned earlier and in lieu thereof the other members of the family allotted to her share 25 acres of wet land to be enjoyed by her during her lifetime.	Reasoning
It was an adjustment of rights.	Reasoning
The contention of Mr. Rama Rao that there was disposition under the partition deedthe contention which has appealed to the High Court appears to us to be an erroneous one.	Reasoning
A partition is not a transfer in a strict sense.	Reasoning
It is an adjustment of the rights of the various members of the family.	None
In Commissioner of Incometax, Gujarat v. Keshavlal Lallubhai Patel, 55 1TR 637(AIR 1966 SC 866 ) this Court quoted with the approval a passage from the decision of the Madras High Court in Gutta Radhakrishnayya v. Gutta Sarasamma, ILR (1951)	None
Mad 607 (AIR 1951 Mad 213 ).	None
That passage reads thusPartition is really a process in and by which a joint enjoyment is transformed into an enjoyment in severally.	None
Each one of the sharers had an antecedent title and, therefore, no conveyance is involved in the process, as a conferment on a new title is not necessary.9.	None
This Court had to consider the meaning of the word disposition occurring in Section 2 (xxiv) of the Gift Tax Act.	None
That section defined the expression transfer of property thus2.	None
(xxiv) transfer of property means any disposition, conveyance, assignment, settlement, delivery, payment or other alienation of property and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes(a) the creation of a trust In property(b) the grant or creation of any lease, mortgage, charge, easement, licence, power, partnership or interest in property(c) the exercise of a power of appointment of property vested in any person, not the owner of the property, to determine its disposition in favour of any person other than the donee of the power and(d)	None
Any transaction entered into by any Person with intent thereby to diminish directly or indirectly the value of his own property and to increase the value of the property of any other person.	None
The question for consideration in that case was, inter alia, whether a partition is a disposition.	None
Dealing with this question this Court in Commissioner of GiftTax, Madras v. N. S. Getti Chettiar, 82 ITR 599 at p. 605 (AIR 1971 SC 2410 )	None
observedA reading of this section clearly goes to show that the words disposition, conveyance, assignment settlement, delivery and payment are used as some of the modes of transfer of property.	Reasoning
The dictionary gives various meanings for those words but those meanings do not help us.	Reasoning
We have to understand the meaning of those words in the context in which they are used.	Reasoning
Words in a section of a statute are not to be interpreted by having those words in one hand and the dictionary in the other.	Reasoning
In spe lling out the meaning of the words in a section, one must take into consideration the setting in which those terms are used and the purpose that they are intended to serve.	Reasoning
If so understood, it is clear that the word disposition in the context means giving away or giving up by a person of something which was his own, conveyance means transfer of ownership, assignment means the transfer of the claim, right or property to another, settlement means settling the property, right or claim conveyance or disposition of property for the benefit of another, delivery contemplated therein is the delivery of ones property to another for no consideration and payment implies gift of money by someone to another.	Reasoning
We do not think that a partition in a H.U.F. can be considered either as disposition or conveyance or assignment or settlement or delivery or payment or alienation within the meaning of those words in S. 2 (xxiv).We see no reason why we should not place the same interpretation on the word disposition in Section 24 of the Act10.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned above thus appeal is allowed.	Decision
The answer given by the High Court to the question referred to it is vacated and in its place we answer that question in the negative and in favour of the Revenue.	Decision
The respondent shall pay the costs of the appellant in this Court.11.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
