 B. Sinha, J These appeals under Section 157 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (for short, the said Act) arise out of judgment and order dated 21.02.2003 passed by the Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai (for short, the Tribunal) in Appeal No.114 of 2002.	Issue
BACKGROUND FACTS Colour Chem Ltd. is a target company.	Facts
Its shares are listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange.	Facts
Appellant No. 1 (Clariant) in Civil Appeal No.3183 of 2003 is a Swiss company being subsidiary of another Swiss company, Clariant AG.	Facts
Hoechst is a German company whereas Ebito Chemiebeteiligungen AG (Ebito) is a Swiss company.	Facts
In Ebito Clariant held 49 and Hoechest 51 shares.	Facts
An agreement was entered into by and between Hoechst and Clariant pursuant whereto and in furtherance whereof German Specialty Chemicals business was transferred to the latter by transferring 583708 equity shares of Rs.100/ each of the target company.	Facts
On or about 21.11.1997, with a view to give effect to the said agreement, Clariant sought for an exemption from compliance of the requirements of making open offer to the shareholders of the target company in terms of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 (for short, the Regulations).	Facts
Such exemption, however, was not granted.	Facts
Hoechst in the aforementioned situation decided to sell off the shares held by it in the target company to Ebito, a company which was floated on 19.5.2000 as special purpose vehicle.	Facts
Actual transfer took place on 13.10.2000 Ebito by reason by the aforementioned transfer became a 100 subsidiary of Clariant.3.	Facts
A complaint was received by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (for short, the Board) to the effect that as by reason of the aforementioned arrangement as 50.1 shares voting rights and control in the target company had been made without any public announcement, the provisions of the Regulations had been violated.	Facts
Upon an inquiry made in this behalf the Board came to the conclusion that the acquirer had actually acquired the control over the target company on 21.11.1997.	Facts
By reason of an order dated 16.10.2002, the Board directed 13.1 In view of the findings made above, in exercise of the powers conferred upon me under subsection (3) of Section 4 read with Section 11B SEBI Act 1992 read with regulations 44 and 45 of the said Regulations, I hereby direct the Acquirer to make public announcement as required under Chapter III of the said Regulations in terms of regulations 10 12 taking 21.11.97 as the reference date for calculation of offer price.	Facts
The public announcement shall be made within 45 days of passing of this order.	Facts
13.2 Further, in terms of sub regulation (12) of regulation 22, the payment of consideration to the shareholders of the Target company has to be made within 30 days of the closure of the offer.	Facts
The maximum time period provided in the said Regulations for completing the offer formalities in respect of an open offer, is 120 days from the date of public announcement.	Facts
The public announcement in the instant case ought to have been made taking 21.11.97 as a reference date and thus the entire offer process would have been completed latest by 21.3.98.	Facts
Since no public announcement for acquisition of shares of the Target company has been made, which has adversely affected interest of shareholders of Target Company, it would be just and equitable to direct the Acquirer to pay interest 15 per annum on the offer price, the Acquirer is hereby accordingly directed to pay interest 15 per annum to the shareholders for the loss of interest caused to the shareholders from 22.3.98 till the date of actual payment of consideration for the shares to be tendered in the offer directed to be made by the Acquirer.4.	Facts
An appeal was preferred there against by the acquirer wherein the primal question raised was the rate of interest for the delay involved in making payment to the shareholders who tendered the shares in the public offer required to be made in terms of the Regulations.5.	Facts
It is not in dispute that the value of the share as on 24.2.1998 was Rs.220/ on 22.10.2002 Rs.213/ and on the date of public announcement i.e. on 7.4.2003 the value of the share was Rs.209/, Rs.233/ Rs.203/ and Rs.220/, whereas the offer price was Rs.318/. The submissions of the acquirer before the Tribunal were that (i) the rate of interest is on the higher side (ii) the dividends having been paid in the meantime, the same should be set off from the amount of payable interest and (iii) the interest is payable only to those shareholders who held shares on the triggering date, namely, 24.2.1998.IMPUGNED JUDGMENT7.	Facts
The Tribunal by its impugned judgment while rejecting the first two contentions raised on behalf of the acquirer the third, holding (i) Those persons who were holding shares of the target company on 24.2.1998 and continue to be shareholders on the closure day of public offer to be made in terms of the directions given by the Respondent vide the impugned order alone shall be eligible to receive interest in case the shares which they were holding on 24.2.1998 are tendered in response to public offer made in terms of the impugned order, and accepted by the Appellants.	Facts
(ii) The interest payable by the Appellants shall be at the rate of 15 as directed by the Respondent in its order dated 16.10.2002.	Facts
(iii)	Facts
The dividend paid by the target company to its shareholders not required to be deducted from the interest payable to the shareholders by the Appellants.8.	Facts
The acquirer has preferred Civil Appeal NO.3183 of 2003, whereas the Board had filed Civil Appeal No.3701 of 2003 against the said judgment.	Facts
Civil Appeal Nos. D3952 of 2004 and 3872 of 2003 have been filed by the Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India and by one Umeshkumar G. Mehta respectively.	Facts
Submissions Mr. R.F. Nariman, and Mr. D.A. Dave, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, would submit that the intent and purport of Regulation 44 of the Regulation, being to compensate the shareholders for the loss suffered by them, the rate of interest payable to the shareholders would vary from case to case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The guidelines in this regard having been provided for in the statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Nariman would submit, grant of 9 interest should be held to be just and proper in view the fact that the investment was to be made for a long period, i.e., for about five years.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the said contention, the learned counsel placed reliance on Kaushanuma Begum (Smt.)	Arguments of Petitioner
and Others vs. New India Assurance Co. Ltd and Others (2001) 2 SCC 9 , H.S. Ahammed Hussain and Another vs. Irfan Ahammed and Another (2002) 6 SCC 52 , United India Insurance Co. Ltd. and Others vs. Patricia Jean Mahajan and Others (2002) 6 SCC 281 and DDA and Others vs. Joginder S. Monga and Others (2004) 2 SCC 297 .10.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that those shareholders who had purchased the shares later than the date fixed by the SEBI were not entitled to receive any compensation by way of interest as they were not the shareholders on the said date having regard to the fact their names did not appear in the register of the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regard the findings of the Board that the amount of dividend paid to the shareholders would not be set off against the amount of interest, it was argued that having regard to the fact that actual date of transfer had been fixed on 22.3.1998, by reason of a fiction created, a person must be deemed to be a shareholders as on that date and having regard to the fact that interest was being paid to the shareholders at the offer price from the said date till the actual payment is made, the amount received by the shareholders by way of dividend is liable to be adjusted from the amount to be paid by way of interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention has further been drawn to the fact that pursuant to the order of this Court dated 28.4.2003 a sum of Rs.111.50 crores had been deposited and interested in a nationalized bank.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Kirit Rawal, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Board, would, on the other hand, contend that while fixing the rate of interest, the Board, being an expert body, exercises, a discretionary jurisdiction and, thus, the Tribunal and this Court should not interfere therewith.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel would argue that the rate of interest fixed at 15 p.a. cannot be said to be arbitrary and in support thereof reliance has been placed on Delhi Development Authority vs. M s. Surgical Cooperative Industrial Estate Led. and Others (19930 Supp.	Arguments of Respondent
4 SCC 20.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rawal would contend that from a bare perusal of Regulation 44(i) of the Regulations, it would appear that all those shareholders who had opted to sell their shares pursuant to the public offer are entitled to the payment of interest and, thus, the finding of the Tribunal in this regard is bad in law.12.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that Regulation 44 must be read with Section 11B of the Act so as to put a proper and effective meaning thereto in terms whereof the Board is entitled to issue any direction including those which are specified therein.	Arguments of Respondent
As regard the direction issued by the Tribunal to the effect that only those shareholders who were on the roll of the company and continued to be so on the date of public offer alone are entitled to interest, Mr. Rawal would contend that by reason of such construction of Regulation 44, the free transferability of the shares which is the basic feature of the security market would be interfered with.	None
Mr. K.K. Rai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant in Civil Appeal No.3872 of 2003, would, inter alia, contend that transaction being commercial in nature, interest at the rate of 15 cannot be said to be on a high side.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance in support of the said contention has been placed on State Bank of Patiala and Another vs. Harbans, Singh (1994) 3 SCC 495 and Regional Provident Fund Commissioner vs. Shiv Kumar Joshi (2000) 1 SCC 98 .15.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that as shares were traded on speculation, it may not be possible to identify the shareholders who as per direction of the Tribunal would be entitled to interest as the shares by such time might have changed many hands.	Arguments of Petitioner
Furthermore, the process being a complex one, Regulation 44 should be read in such a manner which may be effectually worked out.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Shrish Kr.	Arguments of Respondent
Misra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India in Civil Appeal NO.D3952 of 2004 would submit that the appellants therein should be held to entitled to grant of interest despite the fact that it was not a shareholder as on 11.3.1998 as would appear from the following A. That the Unit Trust of India was a statutory corporation under the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 and was is the shareholders of the Target company and as on 2421998 holding 1123800 shares.	Arguments of Respondent
B. That Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 has been repealed by the Act of the Parliament i.e. Unit Trust of India (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2002.	Arguments of Respondent
C. That the said Act provides for transfer and vesting of Undertaking (excluding Specified Undertaking) of Unit Trust of India to a Specified Company (being UTI Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd.) to be formed and registered under the Companies Act 1956 as well as for transfer and vesting of Specified Undertaking of Unit Trust of India in the Administrator appointed by the Central Government in the terms of section 7 of Unit Trust of India (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2002.	Arguments of Respondent
D. That as per section 4(1) (b) of the said Act the Specified undertaking of the erstwhile Unit Trust of India being all business, assets, liabilities and properties set out in ScheduleI of the said Act stood transferred to the vested in the Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India on and with effect from the appointed day viz.	Arguments of Respondent
122003.	None
That by virtue of section 4(1)(a) of the said Act, the Undertaking (excluding the Specified Undertaking) of the erstwhile Unit Trust of India being all business, assets, liabilities and properties set out in schedule  II of the said Act stood transferred to and vested in the UTI Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd on and with effect from the appointed day viz. 122003.	Arguments of Respondent
E. That the 1123800 shares (considering face value of Rs. 10/ each) purchased by the erstwhile Unit Trust of India were are from the amount which relates to Schedule I II to the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the shares purchased by the erstwhile Unit Trust of India of M s. Colour Chem Ltd. stands transferred to and vested in the Administrator of the Specified Undertakings go the Unit Trust of India and the Specific Company	Arguments of Respondent
i.e. UTI Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd. by virtue of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
F.	Arguments of Respondent
That out of 1123800 shares the amount invested for 501100 (considering face value of Rs.10/ each as on 2421998) shares is from the schemes which come under scheduleI of the said Act, as such the Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India is the successor in holder of 501100 shares.	Arguments of Respondent
G.	None
That the amount invested by the erstwhile Unit Trust of India for the balance 622700 (considering face value of Rs.10/ each as on 2421998) shares was from the schemes which come under the Schedule  II of the said Act, as such the UTI Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd. is the successor in holder of those 622700 shares.	Arguments of Respondent
H. That as per, Section 5(1) of the said Act all the assets and liabilities including lands, buildings, vehicles, cash balances, deposits, foreign currencies, disclosed and undisclosed reserves, reserves fund, special reserve fund, benevolent reserve fund, any other fund stock, investments, shares, bonds, debentures, security, powers authorities privileges benefits of the erstwhile Unit Trust of India vest in Administrator of the Specified undertaking of the Unit Trust of India and UTI Trustee Company Pvt.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. I.	Arguments of Respondent
That as per section 5(2) of the said Act All contracts, deeds bonds guarantees, power of attorney other instruments (including all units issued and unit schemes formulated by the Trust and working arrangements) subsisting immediately before the appointed day and affecting the Trust shall cease to have effect or to be enforceable against the Trust and shall be in full force and effect against or in favour of the specified company (UTI Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd.) or the Administrator (Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India) as the case may be, in which the undertaking or specified undertaking has vested by virtue of the said Act and enforceable as fully and effectually as if instead of the Unit Trust of India, the specified company (UTI Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd) or the Administrator (Administrator of the Specified undertaking of the Unit Trust of India) had been named therein or had been a party thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
The Relevant Statutory Provisions The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 was enacted to provide for the establishment of a Board to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market and for matter connected therewith or incidental thereto.	None
Section 11 of the Act provides that inter alia the duty of the Board is to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market, by such measures as it thinks fit, which would include in regulation of substantial acquisition of shares and takeover of companies.	None
Section 11B empowers the Board to issue directions, inter alia, in the interest of investors, or orderly development of securities market.	None
Regulation 44 of the 1997 Regulations reads thus 44.	None
Directions by the Board.	None
The Board may, in the interests of the securities market, without prejudice to its right to initiate action including criminal prosecution under section 24 of the Act give such directions as it deems fit including (a) directing the person concerned not to further deal in securities (b) prohibiting the person concerned from disposing of any of the securities acquired in violation of these Regulations (c) directing the person concerned to sell the shares acquired in violation of the provisions of these Regulations (d) taking action against the person concerned.	None
In terms of the said regulation, there was no express power to issue any direction as regard grant of interest.	None
Regulation 44 of 1997 Regulations was substituted in the year 2002 with effect from 9.9.2002, the relevant portion of which reads thus 44.	None
Directions by the Board.	None
Without prejudice to its right to initiate action under Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act, the Board may, in the interest of securities market or for protection of interest of investors, issue such directions as it deems fit including (i) directing the person concerned, who has failed to make a public offer or delayed the making of a public offer in terms of these Regulations, to pay to the shareholder, whose shares have been accepted in the public offer made after the delay, the consideration amount along with interest at the rate not less than the applicable rate of interest payable by banks on fixed deposits.	None
As the impugned order of the Tribunal had been passed on 21.2.2003, it is not disputed that Regulation 44 as amended in 2002 shall be attracted in the instant case.	None
Shareholder has neither been defined in the Act nor in the Regulations whereas shares has been defined to mean shares in the share capital of a company carrying voting rights and includes any security which would entitle the holder to receive shares with voting rights but shall not include preference shares In terms of subsection (2) of Section 2 of the said Act, the words and expressions used and not defined in the Act but defined in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Depositors Act, 1996 (22 of 1996) shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.	None
Clause (2) of Regulation 2 provides that all other expressions unless defined therein shall have the same meaning as have been assigned to them under the Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, or the Companies Act, 1956, or any statutory modification or reenactment thereto, as the case may be.	None
As shareholder has not been defined.	None
With a view to bring a shareholder within the provisions of the said Regulations, we have no option but to refer to the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
Section 41 of the Companies Act defines member, subsections (1) and (2) whereof are as under 41.	None
(1) The subscribers of the memorandum of a company shall be deemed to have agreed to become members of the company, and on its registration, shall be entered as members in its register of members.	None
(2) Every other person who agrees in writing to become a member of a company and whose name is entered in its register of members, shall be a member of the company.	None
Rate of interest Section 11 of the Act provides that it shall be the duty of the Board to protect the interest of investors in securities.	None
Regulation 44 of 1997, however, empowered the Board to issue directions only in the interest of the securities market.	None
The expression in the interest of the investors did not occur therein.	None
Regulation 44 of 2002 Regulations, thus, confers a wider power upon the Board.	None
The said power is without prejudice to its right to initiate action under Chapter VIA and Section 24 of the Act which deals with offences.	None
Regulation 44 of 2002 Regulations, furthermore, empowers the Board of issue directions both in the interest of the securities market as well as for protection of interest of investors.	None
Such directions may be issued in its discretion.	None
It, however, in its discretion may or may not issue such directions.	None
Regulation 44 (i) of Regulations, therefore, confers a power upon the Board to issue directions also in the interest of the investors which would include a direction to pay interest.	None
A direction in terms of Regulation 44 which was in the interest of securities market indisputably would have caused civil or evil consequences on the defaulters.	Reasoning
Clause (i) of Regulation 44, however, does not provide for any penal consequence.	Reasoning
It provides for only a civil consequence.	Reasoning
By reason of the said provision, the power of the Board to issue directions is sought to be restricted to pay the amount consideration together with interest at the rate not less than the interest payable by banks on fixed deposits.	Reasoning
Both the Board and the Tribunal have proceeded on the basis that the interest is to be paid with a view to recompense the shareholders and not by way of penalty or damages.	Reasoning
Such a direction, therefore, was for the purpose of protecting the interest of investors and not in the interest of the securities market.	Reasoning
The transactions in the market are not thereby affected one way or the other.	Reasoning
The Board, as noticed hereinbefore, has a discretion in the matter and, thus, it may or may not issue such a direction.	Reasoning
The shareholders do not have any say in the matter.	Reasoning
As a necessary concomitant, they have no legal right.26.	Reasoning
The Board further having a discretionary jurisdiction must exercise the same strictly in accordance with law and judiciously.	Reasoning
Such discretion must be a sound exercise in law.	Reasoning
The discretionary jurisdiction, it is wellknown, although may be of wide amplitude as the expressions as it deems fit has been used but in view of the fact that civil consequence would ensue by reason thereof, the same must be exercised fairly and bona fide.	Reasoning
The discretion so exercised is subject to appeal as also judicial review, and, thus, must also answer the test of reasonableness.	Reasoning
In Kruger and Others vs. Commonwealth of Australia, reported in 1997 (146) Australian Law Reports, page 126, it is stated Moreover, when a discretionary power is statutorily conferred on a repository, the power must be exercised reasonably, for the legislature is taken to intend that the discretion be so exercised.	None
Reasonableness can be determined only by reference to the community standards at the time of the exercise of the discretion and that must be taken to be the legislative intention 28	None
The discretionary jurisdiction has to be exercised keeping in view the purpose for which it is conferred, the object sought to be achieved and the reasons for granting such wide discretion.	Reasoning
(See Narendra Singh vs. Chhotey, Singh and Another, (1983) 4 SCC 131	None
A discretionary jurisdiction, furthermore, must be exercised within the fourcorners of the statute.	None
See Dr. Akshaibar Lal and Others vs. The ViceChancellor, Banaras Hindu University and Others, (1961) 3	None
SCR 386 and also para 9022 of De Smith, Woolf and Jowells Judicial Review of Administrative Action 5th Edition page 445 Interest can be awarded in terms of an agreement or statutory provisions.	None
It cane also be awarded by reason of usage or trade having the force of law or on equitable considerations.	None
Interest cannot be awarded by way of damages except in cases where money due is wrongfully withheld and there are equitable grounds therefor, for which a written demand is mandatory.	None
In absence of any agreement or statutory provision or a merchantile usage, interest payable can be only at the market rate.	None
Such interest is payable upon establishment of totality of circumstances justifying exercise of such equitable jurisdiction, See Municipal Corporation of Delhi vs. Sushila Devi (Smt.)	None
and Others (1999) 4 SCC 317  Para 16.	None
In Executive Engineer, Dhenkanal, Minor Irrigation Division, Orissa and Others vs. N.C.	None
Budharaj (Deceased) by Lrs.	None
And Others (2001) 2 SCC 721 , Raju J. speaking for the majority held that a person deprived of the use of money to which he is legitimately entitled has a right to be compensated for the deprivation by whatever name it may be called, namely, interest, compensation or damages.	None
In Blacks Law Dictionary, the word compensation has been defined as under money given to compensate loss or injury.	None
In a given case where the liability arises during pendency of a litigation, doctrine of restitution can be invoked.	None
In South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. vs. State of M.P. and Others (2003) 8 SCC 648 , it was observed In law, the term restitution is used in three senses (i) return or restoration of some specific thing to its rightful owner or status (ii) compensation for benefits derived from a wrong done to another and (iii) compensation or reparation for the loss caused to another (See Blacks Law Dictionary, 7th Edn., p. 1315).	None
The Law of Contracts by John D. Calamari Joseph M. Perillo has been quoted by Black to say that restitution is an ambiguous term, sometimes, referring to the disgorging of something which has been taken and at times referring to compensation for injury done Often, the result either meaning of the term would be the sameUnjust impoverishment as well as unjust enrichment is a ground for restitution.	None
If the defendant is guilty of an nontortious misrepresentation, the measure of recovery is not rigid but, as in other cases of restitution, such factors as relative fault, the agreedupon risks, and the fairness of alternative risk allocations not agreed upon and not attributable to the fault of either party need to be weighed.	None
When a benchmark is fixed by a statute, the question as to whether a discretion has been judicially or properly exercised or not will have to be determined in the context of the facts of the particular case.	None
See Irrigation Department vs. G. C. Roy, 1992)	None
1 SCC 508 .	None
When a benchmark is fixed or the court grants interest at the agreed rate, it may not be necessary to give reasons but where interest is granted at a higher or lessor rate, some reasons are required to be assigned.	None
By reason of Regulation 44, as substituted in 2002, the discretionary jurisdiction of the Board is curtailed.	None
It in terms of Regulations 1997 could award interest by way of damages but by reason of Regulation 2002, its power is limited to grant interest to compensate the shareholders for the loss suffered by them arising out of the delay in making the public offer.	None
The courts of law can take judicial notice of both inflation as also fall in bank rate of interest.	None
The bank rate of interest both for commercial purpose and other purposes had been the subjectmatter of statutory provisions as also the judgemade laws.	None
Even in cases of victims of motor vehicles accidents, the courts have upon taking note of the fall in the rate of interest held that 9 interest to be reasonable.	None
See Kaushnuma Begum (supra), and H.S. Ahammed Hussain (supra) and Patricia Jean Mahajan (supra)	None
The statutory changes brought about must be noticed by the court keeping in view the fact that the nature of jurisdiction by the board has been changed.	Reasoning
The mischief rule also in this case should be applied.	Reasoning
Furthermore while construing such provisions, the courts must take into consideration the provisions of the law as had been interpreted by courts prior thereto.	None
By way of an example we may notice that the proviso appended to subsections (1) and (2) of Section 34 of Code of Civil Procedure provides for the grant of rate at which moneys are lent or advanced by nationalized banks in relation to commercial transactions.	None
In DDA vs. M s. Surgical Cooperative Industrial Estate Ltd. and Others (1993)	None
Supp.	None
4 SCC 20 whereupon Mr. Rawal has placed reliance, 15 interest was directed to be paid only in favour of those members who had already been allotted plots and made some payments, on a suggestion made by the court, as would appear from the following At the rate of 15 interest the amount would be considerably less yet we suggested to the learned counsel for these members to ascertain from their clients if they would be willing to purchase the plots at 50 of the price realised in the last auction.	None
They conveyed their willingness to pay that price i.e. 50 of Rs.10,756 per square metre.	None
Mr. Arun Jaitley, the learned counsel for the Delhi Development Authority submitted that although he had no instructions from his clients in the matter his clients would abide by any just, reasonable and fair order that this Court would make in the facts and circumstances of the case The said decision, therefore, has no application to the fact of the present matter.	None
We also do not agree with the contention that the payment of interest for delay in making the public offer is a commercial transaction.	None
While determining the cases of commercial transaction also, fall in rate of interest has been taken note of this Court in Citibank N.A. etc vs. Standard Chartered Bank and Others etc.	None
(2004) 1 SCC 12, Para 62 and Citibank N.A. vs. Standard Chartered Bank etc (2004) 6 SCC 1, para 54.	None
It is at this stage relevant to note that the rate of interest at the rate of 15 as directed by the Board has been affirmed by the Tribunal stating Even on applying the said test, it does not appear to me that the 15 interest directed to be paid to the shareholders as compensation for the delay involved in making the payment in the Appellants case is unjust.	None
In this context it is to be noted that the payment was to be made, in case the offer had been made according to the provisions of the Takeover Regulations, by 22.3.1998 and the amount to be so paid remains unpaid till date.	None
Therefore, in my view the interest rate applicable should be that rate which was prevailing on 22.3.1998 and not the one prevailing on the date of the impugned order.	None
According to the information furnished by the Appellants the rate of interest payable on deposits for a period of 3 years and above by nationalized banks was around 12 at that point of time.	None
In this context one should not fail to note that the interest is directed to be paid to the shareholders to compensate the loss.	None
Had the shareholder received the money on due date, in the normal course what return he would have received by effectively investing that money has to be taken into consideration.	None
The amount was due on 22.3. 1998.	None
The then existing rate of 12, if calculated on quarterly rest basis, at the end of 2002 works out to more than 15 and therefore, even if the interest is worked out in relation to the rate of interest payable on deposit by nationalized banks, the rate of interest payable by the Appellants fixed at 15 p.a.	None
by the Respondent in the instant case cannot be considered unjust, and the same is also not contrary to the view held by the Honble Supreme Court in Kaushnuma Begums case or against the provisions of regulation 44(1)	None
The observation of the Tribunal was on a wrong premise as the rate of interest in a case of fixed deposit in a nationalized bank was not to be calculated on quarterly rest basis.	None
Furthermore, the bank rate of interest which was prevailing in 1998 has also fallen down.	None
The rate of interest at the relevant time as was payable by Syndicate Bank, a nationalized bank, is as under FIXED DEPOSIT INTEREST RATES FOR THREE YEARS AND ABOVE FROM SYNDICATE BANK Sl.	None
No.	None
From To Percentage 1. 2.7.1996 30.4.1997 13 2. 1.5.1997 31.8.1997 12 3. 1.9.1997 31.10.1997 11 4. 1.11.1997 21.12.1997 10 5. 22.12.1997 14.1.1998 11 6. 15.1.1998 21.1.1998 11.5 7. 9.2.1998 11.10.1998 12 8.	None
12.10.1998 14.3.1999 11.5 9.	None
15.03.1999 4.4.1999 11.25 10.	None
5.4.1999 30.4.1999 11 11.	None
1.5.1999 22.08.1999 10.5 12.	None
23.8.1999 11.11.1999 10.25 13.	None
12.11.1999 9.4.2000 9.75 14.	None
10.4.2000 31.8.2000 9 15.	None
1.9.2000 15.10.2000 9.5 16.	None
16.10.2000 31.12.2000 10 17.	None
1.1.2001 11.2.2001 9.75 18.	None
12.2.2001 14.3.2001 10 19.	None
15.3.2001 9.7.2001 9.5 20.	None
10.7.2001 14.9.2001 9.25 21.	None
15.9.2001 15.12.2001 8.75 22.	None
16.12.2001 20.1.2002 8.50 23.	None
21.1.2002 7.4.2002 8.25 24.	None
8.4.2002 6.8.2002 7.75 25.	None
7.8.2002 27.10.2002 7.50	None
While awarding interest, it is required to bear in mind that interest would be payable on the maximum price of the share which was Rs.318 and not on Rs.220/ which was not the prevailing price in 1998, as a result whereof not only a shareholder would be getting a higher price but would also be getting interest thereupon.	None
So far as the contention regarding the applicability of dynamics of the market or its being a volatile one is concerned, the same, in our opinion, has nothing to do with rate of interest inasmuch both the Board and the Tribunal proceeded on the basis that the shareholders are to be compensated by way of interest for delayed payment.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter, the relevance of rate of interest payable for the period it is payable and the persons who are entitled to be compensated were required to be determined.	Reasoning
Rate of interest should be a reasonable one as the same became payable for the delay in making the payment, subject of course to the statutory provision contained in the Regulations.	Reasoning
As noticed hereinbefore, the discretion of the Board visavis Tribunal had been curtailed.	None
There is a change even in relation to the nature of discretion of the Board.	Reasoning
The Board and the Tribunal, thus, failed to apply the correct principles of law in determining the rate of interest payable in this case.	Reasoning
To whom interest is payable It is not in dispute that the acquirer contravened Regulation 12 while acquiring the control of the target company.	None
Regulation 14(3) provides that a public announcement referred to in Regulation 12 is required to be made by the merchant banker not later than four working days after any such change or changes are decided to be made as would result in the acquisition of control over the target company by the acquirer.	None
Clause 4 of Regulation 15 provides that the offer under these Regulations shall be deemed to have been made on the date on which the public announcement appeared in any of the newspapers referred to in clause (1).	None
The announcement of offer in terms of Regulation 16(xi) is to contain that date by which individual letters of offer would be posted to each of the shareholders.	None
Regulation 20 provides for the minimum offer price.	None
In terms of clause (1) of Regulation 21, the public offer is required to be made by the acquirer to the shareholders of the target company to acquire from them an aggregate minimum 20 of the voting capital of the company.	None
The Board arrived at an inference that the acquirer had acquired the control of the target company as the special vehicle company on 19.5.2000.	None
The liability of the acquirer to pay interest should be judged in the aforementioned context.	None
Shareholder To become a shareholder, a person has to fulfill two conditions, namely, he must agree in writing to become a member of a company and whose name should be entered in its register of members.	Reasoning
The members holding equity share capital of company and whose names are entered as beneficial owner in the records of the depository shall be deemed to be the members of the concerned company.	Reasoning
In Palmers Company Law, 23rd Edn.	None
at page 154, para 1207, it is stated 1207 Subscribers as members  	None
The subscribers of the memorandum are deemed to have agreed to become members of the company, and on its registration shall be entered as members in its register of members (1948 Act, s. 26(1).	None
It is further stated 49.04 Other members  In the case of members other than the subscribers to the memorandum two essential conditions have to be satisfied to constitute a person a member (1) an agreement to become a member and (2) entry on the register These two conditions are cumulative unless they are both satisfied, the person in question has not acquired the status of member.	None
Thus, an agreement to become a member alone does not create the status of membership it is a condition precedent to the acquisition of such status that the shareholders name should be entered on the register.	None
Conversely, the company is not entitled to place a persons name on the register without his having agreed without his assent is not bound thereby and may have his name removed from the register.	None
In M s. Howrah Trading Co., Ltd. vs. The Commissioner of Income Tax, Calcutta (1959) Supp.	None
(2) SCR 448, the law is stated thus The question that falls for consideration is whether the meaning given to the expression shareholder used in section 18(5) of the Act by these cases is correct.	None
No valid reason exists why shareholder as used in section 18(5) should mean a person other than the one denoted by the same expression in the Indian Companies Act, 1913.	None
In In re Wala Wynaad Indian Gold Mining Company Chitty, J., observed I use now myself the term which is common in the courts, a shareholder, that means the holder of the shares.	None
It is the common term used, and only means the person who holds the shares by having his name on the register.	None
See also Balkrishan Gupta and Others vs. Swadeshi Polytex Ltd. and Another (1985) 2 SCC 167 The rights of a shareholder are purely contractual and would be such which are granted to him by Companys Memorandum or Articles of Association together with the statutory rights conferred on him by the Companies Act.	None
A shareholder having regard to the direction issued by the Tribunal must be one who a shareholder on the triggering date.	None
Purpose and object of creating a legal fiction is wellknown.	None
Once a fiction is created upon imagining a certain sate of affairs, the imagination cannot be permitted to be boggled when it comes to the inevitable corollaries thereof.	None
See Dipak Chandra Ruhidas vs. Chandan Kumar Sarkar (20030 7 SCC 66, ITW Signode India Ltd. vs, CCF, (2004) 3 SCC 48 , and Ashok Leyland Ltd. vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (2004) 3 SCC 1 .	None
Directions by the Board are required to be issued for the purpose of protecting the interest of the investors which would imply that such protection be extended to the persons who are entitled thereto and not any other shareholder who would get the same by windfall.	None
The shareholders contemplated under clause (i) of Regulation 44 must be those shareholders whose shares have been accepted upon public announcement of offer and who have suffered loss owing to blockage of amount by not being able to sell the shares held by them.	None
The object of the said provision is to protect the interest of such shareholders who had suffered a loss for delay in making the public announcement and, thus, may have to be compensated.	None
The very fact that the benchmark as regard the rate of interest has been fixed is also a pointer to the fact that the interest is to be paid to such investors who had suffered some loss.	None
While compensating a person, the court should see that he is not unjustly enriched.	None
Interest is directed to be paid on the default of the acquirer occasioning loss suffered by an investor of his money.	None
The question of pay interest by way of compensation to persons who had not suffered any loss, thus, would not arise.	None
Interest was, therefore, payable only to such persons who were shareholders of target as on the triggering date.	None
Deposits made by the Appellants in this Court  Effect It is not in dispute that the appellants pursuant to an order of this Court dated 28th April, 2003 have deposited a sum of Rs.111.50 crores which has been calculated on the following basis The estimated number of shares available as per order of the Tribunal as on 25.4.2003 would be about 60 of the total shareholders, who would be benefitted.	None
We have hereinbefore noticed that the offer price of Rs.318/per equity share would be payable as on 24.2.1998 although the market price thereof at the relevant time was only Rs.220/.	None
We may notice the difference on monetary terms on the amount payable to the investors on public announcement of offer, as would appear from the following chart The difference of amount calculated on the basis of interest at the rate of 10 and 15 would be about Rs.85 per equity share.	None
If shareholders are to be compensated owing to the act of delay on the part of the acquirer in making the public announcement, in a case of this nature, an attempt should be made to strike a delicate balance.	None
The bank rate of interest payable by the nationalized banks on a fixed deposit for the period from 1998 to 2003 was around 9.	None
This fact has been accepted by the Tribunal.	None
It has also been accepted by the Tribunal that the decisions of this Court relating to rate of interest payable by nationalized banks on fixed deposits and on the compensation amount fixed under the Motor Vehicles Act would be 9 p.a.	None
The Tribunal has applied the said test but, as discussed hereinbefore, committed two apparent errors, namely, it did not think fit to calculate the mean of the rate of interest payable by the banks and it thought that quarterly rests is payable on the deposits made by an investor in a bank.	None
Quarterly rests are only payable in commercial transactions when a bank grants loans.	None
When any criteria is fixed by a statute or by a policy, an attempt should be made by the authority making the delegated legislation to follow the policy formulation broadly and substantially and in conformity thereof.	None
See Secretary, Ministry of Chemicals Fertilizers, Government of India vs. Cipla Ltd. and Others  (2003) 7 SCC 1  para 4.2	None
The rate of interest fixed by the Board and the Tribunal, thus, in our opinion, was not correct.	None
Effect of Board being an expert body The modern sociological condition as also the needs of the time have necessitated growth of administrative law and administrative tribunal.	None
Executive functions of the State calls for exercise of discretion.	None
The executive also, thus, performs quasi judicial legislative functions and, in this view of the matter, the administrative adjudication has become an indispensable part of the modern state activity.	None
Administrative Tribunals may be called a specialized court of law, although it does not fulfil the criteria of a law court as is ordinarily understood inasmuch as it cannot like an ordinary court of law entertain suits on various matters, including the matter relating to the vires of legislation.	None
However, such a Tribunal like ordinary law courts are bound by the rules of evidence and procedure as laid down under the law and are required to determine the lis brought before it strictly in accordance with the law.	None
O. Hood Phillips in his Constitutional and Administrative Law, Eight Edition, at pate 686 under the Chapter Tribunals has stated as follows These are independent statutory tribunals whose function is judicial.	None
The tribunals are so varied in composition, method of appointment, functions and procedure, and in their relation to Ministers on the one hand and the ordinary on the other, that a satisfactory formal classification is impossible.	None
Reasons for creating special tribunals, according to the learned author, are (i) Expert knowledge (ii) Cheapness (iii) Speed (iv) Flexibility (v) Informality At para 30021 at page 692 of the treatise, it is stated Appeals from tribunals A party to proceedings before most statutory tribunals, who is dissatisfied with the tribunals decision on a point of law, may either appeal to the High Court or require the tribunal to state a case for the opinion of the High Court.	None
Appeal lies by leave of the High Court or of the Court of Appeal to the Court of Appeal, and thence of the House of Lords (section 11).	None
In Environmental Enforcement The Need for a Specialist Court by Robert Carnwath published in (1992) Journal of Planning and Environment Law at page 799, the requirements of having an environment court in place of the ordinary courts were highlighted.	None
The author had submitted a report known as Enforcing Planning Control and on referring thereto, it was noticed Most of the reports substantive recommendations for reform of the planning enforcement system were adopted by the Government and incorporated in the Planning and Compensation Act 1991.	None
There was no formal response to the suggestions for a unified court system.	None
This was hardly surprising, since reform of the court system is not within the remit of the Department of the Environment.	None
Last year, however, the idea was given a new impetus from an unexpected quarter.	None
Sir Harry woolf gave his Garner lecture of U.K.E.L.A. on the theme Are the Judiciary Environmentally Myopic?	None
He commented on the problems of increasing specialization in environmental law and on the difficulty of the Courts, in their present form, moving beyond their traditional role of detached Wednesbury review.	None
He went on to discuss the benefits of having a Tribunal with a general responsibility for overseeing and enforcing the safeguards provided for the protection of the environmentThe tribunal could be granted a wider discretion to determine its procedure so that it was able to bring to bear its specialist experience of environmental issues in the most effective way.	None
A key feature of this Tribunal would be flexibility.	None
Possible innovations would be the involvement of expertise from other professions (architects, surveyors, etc.)	None
multi disciplined adjudicating panels broad discretion over rights of appearance power to instruct independent counsel on behalf of the Tribunal or members of the public resources for direct investigation by the Tribunal itself and incorporation into the Tribunal of the existing inspectorate to deal with cases of a lesser dimension.	None
The Board is indisputably an expert body.	None
But when it exercises its quasi judicial functions its decisions are subject to appeal.	None
The Appellate Tribunal is also an expert Tribunal.	None
Only such persons who have the requisite qualifications are to be appointed as members thereof as would appear from Subsection 2 of Section 15M of the said Act which reads thus 15.M Qualification for appointment as Presiding Officer or Member of the Securities Appellate Tribunal.	None
(2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as Member of a Securities Appellate Tribunal unless he is a person of ability, integrity and standing who has shown capacity in dealing with problems relating to securities market and has qualification and experience of corporate law, securities laws, finance, economics or accountancy Provided that a member of the Board or any person holding a post at senior management level equivalent to Executive Director in the Board shall not be appointed as Presiding Officer or Member or a Securities Appellate Tribunal during his service or tenure as such with the Board or within two years from the date on which he ceases to hold office as such in the Board	None
The conflict of jurisdiction between an expert tribunal visavis the courts in the context to the doctrine of separation of powers poses a problem even in other countries.	None
For a detailed discussion see the Article Powers of the Takeovers Panel and their Effect upon ASIC and the Court by Barbara Mescher  2002 (76) Australian Law Journal, p.119.	None
In Australia, the takeover Panel has also a function of identifying and notifying the third parties who are affected by a decision.	None
Takeover panel created under the Corporate Law Economic Reform Programme Act, 1999, as amended by the Corporation Act, 2001, is also an expert panel.	None
Throughout the world, specialized adjudicators are performing numerous roles.	None
There are diverse specialized tribunals in America as also in the Commonwealth countries.	None
In certain States, statutes have been enacted authorizing appeals to the Administrative Division which jurisdiction used to be exercised by the High Court alone.	None
The appeals range from questions of law to selected questions of fact, to full rehearing of all issues.	None
See Stephen Legomskys Specialized Justice.	None
Had the intention of the Parliament been to limit the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, it could say so explicitly as it has been done in terms of Section 157 of the Act whereby the jurisdiction of this Court to hear the appeal is limited to the question of law.	None
The jurisdiction of the appellate authority under the Act is not in any way fettered by the statute and, thus, it exercises all the jurisdiction as that of the Board.	None
It can exercise its discretionary jurisdiction in the same manner as the Board.	None
The SEBI Act confers a wide jurisdiction upon the Board.	None
Its duties and functions thereunder, run counter to the doctrine of separation of powers.	None
Integration of power by vesting legislative, executive and judicial powers in the same body, in future, may raise a several public law concerns as the principle of control of one body over the other was the central theme underlying the doctrine of separation of powers.	None
Our Constitution although does not incorporate the doctrine of separation of powers in its full rigour but it does make horizontal division of powers between the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary.	None
See Rai Sahib Ram Jawava Kapur and Others vs. The State of Punjab AIR 1955 SC 549 .	None
The Board exercises its legislative power by making regulations, executive power by administering the regulations framed by it and taking action against any entity violating these regulations and judicial power by adjudicating disputes in the implementation thereof.	None
The only check upon exercise of such wide ranging power is that it must comply with the Constitution and the Act.	None
In that view of the matter, where an expert Tribunal has been constituted, the scrutiny at its end must by held to be of wide import.	None
The Tribunal, another expert body, must, thus, be allowed to exercise its own jurisdiction conferred on it by the statute without any limitation.	None
In Cellular Operators Association of India and Others vs. Union of India and Others (2003) 3 SCC 186 , this Court observed TDSAT was required to exercise its jurisdiction in terms of Section 14A of the Act.	None
TDSAT itself is an expert body and its jurisdiction is wide having regard to subsection (7) of Section 14A thereof.	None
Its jurisdiction extends to examining the legality, propriety or correctness of a direction order or decision of the authority in terms of subsection (2) of Section 14 as also the dispute made in an application under subsection (1) thereof.	None
The approach of the learned TDSAT, being on the premise that its jurisdiction is limited or akin to the power of judicial review is, therefore, wholly unsustainable.	None
The extent of jurisdiction of a court or a Tribunal depends upon the relevant statute.	None
TDSAT is a creature of a statute.	None
Its jurisdiction is also conferred by a statute.	None
The purpose of creation of TDSAT has expressly been stated by the Parliament in the Amending Act of 2000.	None
TDSAT, thus, failed to take into consideration the amplitude of its jurisdiction and thus misdirected itself in law.	None
The court noticed the celebrate book on Judicial Reviewe of Administrative Law by H.W.R. Wade and C.F. Forsyth and held The rule as regard deference to expert bodies applies only in respect of a reviewing court and not to an expert tribunal.	None
It may not be the function of a court exercising power of judicial review to act as a supermodel as has been stated in Administrative Law by Bernard Schwartz, 3rd edition in para 10.1 at page 625 but the same would not be a case where an expert tribunal has been constituted only with a view to determine the correctness of an order passed by another expert body.	None
The remedy under Section 14 of the Act is not a supervisory one.	None
TDSATs jurisdiction is not akin to a court issuing a writ of certiorari.	None
The tribunal although is not a court, it has all the trappings of a Court.	None
Its functions are judicial.	None
In Jurisdiction and Illegality by Amnon Rubinstein a judicial power in contrast to the reviewing power is stated thus A judicial power, on the other hand, denotes a process in which ascertainable legal rules are applied and which, therefore, is subject to an objectively correct solution.	None
But that, as will be seen, does not mean that the repository of such a power is under an enforceable duty to arrive at that solution.	None
The legal rules applied are capable of various interpretations and the repository of power, using his own reasoning faculties, may deviate from that solution which the law regards as the objectively correct one.	None
The regulatory bodies exercise wide jurisdiction.	None
They lay down the law.	None
They may prosecute.	None
They may punish.	None
Intrinsically, they act like an internal audit.	None
They may fix the price, they may fix the area of operation and so on and so forth.	None
While doing so, they may, as in the present case, interfere with the existing rights of the licensees.	None
In West Bengal Regulatory Commission vs. CESC Ltd. (2002) 8 SCC 715 , a Bench of this Court, (in which one of us Santosh Hegde, J. was a member), observed From s.4 of the 1998 Act, we notice that the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission which has a judicial member as also a number of other members having varied qualifications, is better equipped to appreciate the technical and factual questions involved in the appeals arising from the orders of the Commission.	None
Without meaning any disrespect to the judges of the High Court, we think neither the High Court nor the Supreme Court would in reality be appropriate appellate forums in dealing with this type of factual and technical matters.	None
Therefore, we recommend that the appellate power against an order of the state commission under the 1998 Act should be conferred either on the Central Electricity Regulation Commission or on a similar body.	None
We notice that under the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act 1997 in chapter IV, a similar provision is made for an appeal to a special appellate tribunal and thereafter a further appeal to the Supreme Court on questions of law only.	None
We think a similar appellate provisions may be considered to make the relief of appeal more effective.	None
The provisions of the 1992 Act and the Regulations framed thereunder squarely apply to the observations made by this Court in West Bengal Electricity Regulation Commission (supra).	None
We may furthermore notice that in Part XI of the Electricity Act, 2003, an expert appellate tribunal for electricity in the light of the observations made by this Court has been constituted.	None
Dividend Effect of In view of our findings aforementioned, we are of the opinion that while calculating the amount of interest, the amount of dividend paid to the shareholders should be excluded.	Reasoning
The shareholders who by reason of default on the part of acquirer have been deprived of interest payable on the difference of the offer price and market price would be entitled to interest as discretion to pay interest being not penal in nature, they cannot make double gains.	Reasoning
The Tribunal, in our opinion, has committed an error in holding that the dividend being a participatory benefit available to a shareholder and being distinct from interest, the same should not be taken into consideration.	Reasoning
The regulation fixes a benchmark as regard rate of interest.	Reasoning
If any amount has been received by the shareholders by keeping the shares till a public offer was made, the amounts so received by him by way of dividend should be set off.	Reasoning
We would reiterate that the shareholders did not have any right to get interest and in effect and substance they were only to be compensated for the loss of interest and nothing more.	Reasoning
On the same analogy, if they had received some gains by holding the shares fairly for a long period of five years, the amount of dividend cannot be permitted to be retained by them.	Reasoning
The amount of dividend should, thus, be adjusted towards the interest payable to them.	Reasoning
Conclusion We, therefore, direct, having regard to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, that the interest of justice would be shallserved, if the rate of interest is directed to be paid 10 per annum from March 1998 till 2003.88.	Decision
The interest at the rate of 10 per annum is directed in stead and place of normal 9 having regard to the fact that the Appellants themselves in their Memorandum of Appeal filed before the Tribunal had contended that the Board should have granted interest at the rate of 10 per annum instead of 15.89.	Decision
If any dividend was paid during the said period, the same shall be adjusted with the amount of interest.90.	Decision
The appellants had deposited a total amount of 111.50 crores which sums have been invested.	Decision
The interest accruing thereupon shall enure to the benefit of those shareholders who were entitled to the payment of interest for the period during which the said amount remained invested in terms of the order of this Court.91.	Decision
We uphold that part of the decision of the Tribunal whereby it was held that those persons who were the shareholders till 24.2.1998 and continued to be shareholders on the closure day of public offer alone would be entitled to interest.92.	Decision
The case of the Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India, however, stands on a different footing.	Decision
The facts of the matter, as noticed hereinbefore, clearly go to show that in effect and substance, the Appellants are the successors of the U.T.I. They being the statutory beneficiary are entitled to interest irrespective of the fact that it came into being after 1998.93.	Decision
For the reasons aforementioned, Civil Appeal Nos. 3183 of 2003, tiled by the Acquirer and D3952 of 2004 filed by the Administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India, are allowed whereas Civil Appeal No.3701 of 2003 filed by SEBI and Civil Appeal No.3872 of 2003 filed by Umeshkumar G. Mehta are dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
