 	None
S. Singhvi, J.Leave granted.	None
The National Highways Act, 1956 (for short, the 1956 Act) was enacted by Parliament to provide for the declaration of certain highways as national highways and for matters connected therewith.	Facts
Sections 3A to 31 of the 1956 Act contains a comprehensive scheme for the acquisition of land for the building, maintenance, management or operation of a national highway or part thereof and determination of amount payable as compensation and other related issues.	Facts
In exercise of the power vested in it u s 3A(1) of the 1956 Act, the Central Government issued notification dated 10.8.2005 for the acquisition of land in 18 villages of the Mangalore Taluk of the State of Karnataka for widening of National Highway No. 17 from Km.358/000 to Km.375/300, National Highway No. 48 from Km.328/000 to Km.345/ 000 and National Highway No. 13 from Km.743/900 to Km.745/000.	Facts
The notification contained names of the concerned villages, the survey number including its particular parcel number, nature, type and area of land proposed to be acquired.	Facts
In the notification it was clearly mentioned that land plans and other details of the land are available and can be inspected at the office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board, Baikampady, Mangalore (hereinafter referred to as the Competent Authority).	Facts
It was also mentioned that any person interested in the lands may file objection before the Competent Authority within 21 days from the date of publication of the notification in the official Gazette.	Facts
The notification was published in the official Gazette dated 10.8.2005.	Facts
Simultaneously, the substance of the notification was published in two newspapers, namely, Deccan Herald and Udayavani.	Facts
In response to the aforementioned notification, a number of land owners filed objections dated 26.9.2005.	Facts
Majority of them claimed higher compensation by asserting that after the acquisition, his her remaining land will become useless and he she will not carry out any improvement.	Facts
However, none made a grievance that there was any deficiency or defect in the description of land given in the notification and, on that account, he was prevented from effectively exercising his right to file objections.	Facts
The Competent Authority issued notice dated 28.9.2005 to the land owners u s 3C(2) so as to enable them to appear for personal hearing.	Facts
Thereupon, some of the land owners filed further objections and pleaded that their land property may not be acquired and parambok land (government land) lying just opposite the land proposed to be acquired may be used for widening the National Highways.	Facts
Some others claimed that they had constructed shops etc.	Facts
and the same can be saved if alignment of the highway was slightly changed.	Facts
After hearing the objectors, the Competent Authority passed order dated 11.10.2005 whereby it rejected the objections of the land owners.	Facts
That order reads as under The Persons noted in Serial Nos. 1 to 73 have submitted their written objection against the publication of the notification under Subsection (1) of Section 3A of the National Highways Act, 1956.	Facts
The notification was published in Udayavani and Deccan Herald daily news paper on 07.09.2005 mentioning the lands which are required for the extension of existing N.Hs into four lanes in villages of Mangalore and Bantwal Taluks.	Facts
Proper notice have been issued to the objectors of Padavu village to appear either in person or through the advocates on 01.10.2005 at 11 a.m. before the Special Land Acquisition Officer and Competent Authority National Highways, Baikampady, Mangalore.	Facts
On the appointed date they have been heard individually.	Facts
The persons in Serial No. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 24, 26, 28, 31, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 50, 54, 55, 57, 58, 59, 60, 65, 66, 68 and 70 have stated that their commercial buildings and shop are situated in the proposed land for acquisition.	Facts
The persons in Serial No. 3, 4, 5, 6, 16, 21, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29, 30, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 71, 72, 73 have stated that their residential buildings are situated in the acquired land and also they lose their livelihood.	Facts
Therefore, these lands should be exempted from the proposed land acquisition.	Facts
I heard their objections.	Facts
It is true that some of them will have serious hardship of their livelihood.	Facts
However, they will be compensated.	Facts
But in Padavu Village in most of the places where the lands proposed for acquisition for widening the existing N.H. into Four lanes, the existing N.H. land is very narrow and widening this road is highly essential.	Facts
The lands which are proposed for widening the existing N.H. into four lanes are very much essential and of National important.	Facts
Here without the land acquisition the four lanes cannot be laid.	Facts
Since it is National important project connected with the development, hence all the objections are hereby overruled and rejected u s 3C of the National Highway Act, 1956.	Facts
Date 11.10.2005 Place Mangalore Sd  Special Land Acquisition Officer Competent Authority, NHAI Baikampady, Mangalore.	None
The Central Government accepted the report submitted by the Competent Authority and issued notification dated 8.8.2006 u s 3D(1)of the 1956 Act.	Facts
In the meanwhile, Shri Arun Kumar Shetty and 11 others filed Writ Petition No. 8780 of 2006 with the prayer that the Respondents therein may be directed to consider their objections dated 4.10.2005 and representations dated 21.11.2005 and 15.5.2006 within a fixed period.	Facts
Their grievance was that the objections and representations made by them against the proposed acquisition of their land have not been decided by the Competent Authority.	Facts
By order dated 10.7.2006, the learned Single Judge of the Karnataka High Court disposed of the writ petition with a direction to the Competent Authority to pass necessary order in accordance with law if such orders have already not been passed on the objections of the Petitioners.	Facts
Paragraphs 4 and 6 of that order read as under Their main grievance is in spite of such representations given by them and also the communication between second Respondent and first Respondent of Annexure M dated 26.11.2005, no decision or order u s 3(C) of the National Highways Act came to be passed.	Facts
The Petitioners are here before this Court as they are not in a position to proceed as they are not definite what the authorities would say ultimately in the matter.	Facts
Until the first Respondentauthority passes the order on the objections of the Petitioners, the future course of action is not possible for them.	Facts
Therefore, they have approached this Court.	Facts
In the light of the discussions the Respondents are directed to look into the representations of the Petitioners and the first Respondentauthority is directed to pass necessary orders in accordance with law if such orders are not yet passed by him.	Facts
In case decision is taken on the objections of the Petitioners already, the same be communicated to third Respondent or second Respondent who in turn shall communicate the same to the Petitioners, within the three months from the date of receipt of copy of the order.	Facts
Since the Competent Authority had already decided the objections of the writ Petitioners, copies of the order were made available to them vide endorsement dated 18.8.2006, the relevant portion of which is extracted below ENDORSEMENT Sub.	Facts
Regarding formation of Four Lane Highway (Widening) of National Highway between Surthkal to B.C. Road Objections of Villagers of Padavu Ref.	Facts
Order of High Court of Karnataka dated 10.07.2006 in Writ Petition No. 8780/2006 (G.M.) Objectors of Padavu Village.	Facts
The enquiry of Objections of the Objectors was conducted on 01.10.2005 in the forenoon by hearing their objections.	Facts
The main objections of the objectors is that the residential and commercial buildings at Padavu Village are owned by them are being acquired and thereby they would be suffered loss and their maintenance would be jeopardized.	Facts
They contended that the vacant land as well as old buildings are situated in the other side of the road and as such equal distance has to be measured from the center line of the existing highway and they requested to exclude their properties from acquisition proceedings.	Facts
The National Highway between Nantur to Kaikamba area of Padavu Village is narrow.	Facts
The subject land now notified for acquisition is essentially required for the proposed four lane highway (widening) and construction of fly over.	Facts
The land subjected for acquisition is required for national development as well as public purpose and as such all the objections raised by the objectors is hereby rejected.	Facts
Compensation will be paid as per rules.	Facts
This endorsement is issued to the Applicant as per order dated 10.07.2006 in W.P. No. 8780/2006.	Facts
Sd  Special Land Acquisition Officer and Competent Authority, National Highway Baikampady, Mangalore Although order dated 10.7.2006 passed by the learned Single Judge stood complied with, some of the land owners of Padavu Village made further representations dated 16.10.2006 in which they, for the first time, claimed that notification dated 10.8.2005 was vague inasmuch as the extent of land sought to be acquired from their property had not been indicated.	Facts
This appears to have been done on the advice given by some lawyer in the light of the judgment of this Court in Competent Authority Vs.	Facts
Barangore Jute Factory and Others, They also claimed higher compensation at the rate of Rs. 3 lac per cent.	Facts
Soon after making fresh representations, the land owners filed Writ Petitions Nos. 16272/2006, 13413/2006 and 1342/2007 for quashing notification dated 10.8.2005 and endorsement dated 18.8.2006.	Facts
They pleaded that the acquisition proceedings were ultra vires the provisions of the Act and rules of natural justice and were also vitiated due to mala fides and arbitrary exercise of power.	Facts
In Writ Petition No. 13413/2006, it was also averred that alignment of the highway had been manipulated to save the properties of the persons who were related to politicians and those who could manipulate the things at the level of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).	Facts
The writ Petitioners also pleaded that the vacant parambok land could be utilized for widening the National Highways and there was no justification for the acquisition of their land.	Facts
In paragraphs 5 and 6 of Writ Petition No. 13413/2006, Mr. S. Arun Kumar Shetty and 9 Ors. v. Union of India and Ors.	Facts
the Petitioners made the following averments In furtherance of the said publication the 1st Petitioner on behalf of himself and the other Petitioners filed joint objections dated 16.09.2005 copy of which is produced hereto as AnnexureD. As per the objections filed, the Petitioners pointed out that in order to benefit certain influential persons and to protect their establishments, the Respondents have, instead of widening the Highways on both the sides equally and providing a straight road, have proposed acquisition on only one side of the road, thereby providing a road with a bend adversely affecting the interest of the Petitioners and other who have their properties located on that side of the road.	Facts
The Petitioners also pointed out that the existing National Highways No. 13 is almost in a straight road, have proposed acquisition on only one side of the road, thereby providing a road with a bend adversely affecting the interest of the Petitioners and Ors.	Facts
who have their properties located on that side of the road.	Facts
The Petitioners also pointed out that the existing National Highway No. 13 is almost in a straight line and the boundaries of private lands adjacent to the road were also in a straight line.	Facts
That an unnecessary dent had been given in the proposed Highways, only to save properties belonging to politically influential person on the other side of the road.	Facts
It was also pointed out that in order to have a straight road, it would be necessary to proportionally acquire land on the both sides of the road calculated from the existing centre point and not by acquiring land only one side of the road and giving an unnecessary dent to the road.	Facts
The Petitioners also pointed out that some portion of the other side of the road belongs to the 1st Respondent and that the said side also has lesser number of building and would thereby facilitate not only less financial burden on the exchequer but will also result in having a straight highway rather than a dented road.	Facts
The Petitioners have also urged other grounds for dropping the acquisition proceedings.	Facts
The 10th Petitioner also filed a separate objection dated 16.9.2005, copy of which is produced proposed widening had a strange deviation in it.	Facts
The Petitioner pointed out that the Respondents had not taken into the existing BITMAC roads and existing Road Corridors Centre line as a deciding factor for the new Highway Central Median, so that equal distance could have been maintained between two existing Building Lines and also could have had enough width without much disturbing, the existing building from survey Nos.	Facts
126/1 to Survey No. 127/2.	Facts
It was also pointed out that because of this strange proposal of the Respondents, many of the newly constructed two to five storeyed buildings with necessary Civil Authorities permissions may have to be partially demolished, making it worthless for the purpose presently used.	Facts
Similar objections were also submitted by the 10th Petitioner (Dated 15.09.2005), 7th Petitioner (Dated 23.09.2005) 6th Petitioner (Dated 26.09.2005), copies of which are produced hereto as ANNEXURESF, G H. Thereafter the 2nd Respondent in accordance with Section 3C(2), issued individual notices dated 28.9.2005 to the Petitioners, calling for written objections to the proposed acquisition.	Facts
Copy of one such notice is produced hereto as AnnexureJ. In furtherance of the notices, the Petitioners went to the office of the 2nd Respondent and after informing about written objections already filed as per ANNEXURESD H, inspected the sketch of the proposed widening of the Highway.	Facts
The Petitioners were shocked to note that there was an unnecessary dent given to the Highway so as to enable acquisition only one side of the road.	Facts
This dent was given by changing the centerline of the existing Highway.	Facts
It was apparent to the naked eye that the dent was given in the Highway only to favor certain influential persons on the other side of the road.	Facts
In site No. 128/2 a triangular land is left out of acquisition, which gives a dent to the road only in order to save a service station belonging to relative of politically influential person.	Facts
Similarly a Bar and Restaurant which is within 10 mtrs from the centre of the existing road is not sought to be touched under the acquisition proceedings for the above stated reason.	Facts
Although as per the former plan the road was designed in such a way that most of the land proposed to be acquired was on the Southern side of the road where plenty of Government land.	Facts
However subsequently it was decided to acquire equal portion from both sides of the road.	Facts
But now in order to safeguard property belonging to politically influential people, most of the land sought for acquisition is on the northern side of the road where the schedule lands are located.	Facts
The Petitioner thereafter met the 2nd Respondent on 30.09.2005 and pointed out about the unnecessary dent in the Highway and put forward their objections.	Facts
The 2nd Respondent however in violation of Section 3C of the Act, has failed to hear the objections of the Petitioners and has also failed to give satisfactory explanation for the flaw in the sketch.	Facts
The 2nd Respondent also pointed that other than the sketch and the details of the lands to be acquired, they have no further details.	Facts
The Petitioners were also given to understand that the 3rd Respondent is the deciding authority on the objections of the Petitioners.	Facts
In the written statement filed on behalf of the NHAI, it was specifically averred that land plans and other details of the land proposed to be acquired were available in the office of the Competent Authority for inspection.	Facts
It was further averred that the objections filed by the land owners were rejected by the Competent Authority after giving them opportunity of personal hearing.	Facts
This is evinced from paragraphs 7 and 8 of the counter filed in Writ Petition No. 13413/2006, which are extracted below With reference to the para 5 of the Writ Petition it is submitted that, the averments of the Petitioners are baseless.	Facts
This Respondent is a statutory authority known as National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) constituted under the Act No. 68 of 1988 of Parliament, namely National Highways Authority of India Act, 1988.	Facts
The main object for which this authority is constituted is the development and maintenance of the National Highways entrusted to it.	Facts
It is submitted that, it is a professionally managed statutory body having high degrees of expertise in the field of highway development and maintenance.	Facts
NHAI prepares and implements its plans after thorough study by experts in the field and strictly adheres to professional standards of high order.	Facts
Therefore, the allegation made by the Petitioner against the plan in question adopted by this Respondent for widening of National Highways between Surathkal and B.C. Road in the State of Karnataka and in specific in respect of Nantoor Maroli Flyover designed to cater the heavy traffic plying in this stretch is untenable and baseless in the eves of the law.	Facts
Hence the writ petition is liable to be rejected.	Facts
It is submitted that, the project in question has been designed based on the detailed studies done by Detailed Project Report (DPR) consultant, keeping in view the various relevant factors including intensity of heavy vehicular traffic and public interest at large.	Facts
The ministry as well as this Respondent have high degree of expertise in the field and they are using the best technical know how for implementation of the projects.	Facts
Hence the allegations made against the Respondent are baseless and unfounded and uncalled for.	Facts
As per the approved alignment, a portion of the Petitioners property along with some other properties is required for the construction of the flyovers and widening of the road.	Facts
Therefore, the said property of the Petitioners along with some other properties is coming under the approved alignment of the four lining work.	Facts
The acquisition has been proposed to the extent of requirement of four lining work and construction of flyovers.	Facts
The allegation of the Petitioners denied as false.	Facts
With reference to the Para 6 of the Writ Petition it is submitted that the averments of the Petitioners are baseless.	Facts
The Special Land Acquisition Officer and Competent Authority has informed that after publication of the notification under Subsection (1) of Section 3A of National Highways Act, 1956, notices were issued to the Petitioners and objections were heard on 1st October, 2005 and overruled and rejected the Objections of the Petitioner as per Subsection (2) of Section 3C of the said Act because the land proposed for acquisition is for public purpose i.e. formation of four lane (widening) and undertaken only after technical survey and as per the alignments only.	Facts
It is further submitted that as per the approved alignment a portion of the Petitioners property along with some other properties is required for the construction of the flyovers and widening of the road.	Facts
Therefore, the said property of the Petitioners along with some other properties is coming under the approved alignment of the four lining work.	Facts
The acquisition has been proposed to the extent of requirement of four lining work and construction of flyovers.	Facts
The land acquisition is for public purpose namely for the formation of four lane (widening) of the National Highway and construction of flyovers and hence the Writ petition is liable to be dismissed.	Facts
The required procedure as per the National Highways Act 1956 (48 of 1956) has been followed by this Respondent.	Facts
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The learned Single Judge dismissed all the writ petitions by common order dated 23.1.2009.	Facts
He held that objections filed by the writ Petitioners were rejected by the Competent Authority after giving them opportunity of hearing and the mere fact that they would suffer some hardship due to the acquisition of their land cannot be a ground for nullifying notifications dated 10.8.2005 and 8.8.2006.	Facts
On the issue of change of alignment, the learned Single Judge referred to judgment of this Court in Girias Investment Pvt. Ltd. and Another Vs. State of Karnataka and Others, and held that the Court cannot sit over the judgment of the authorities entrusted with the task of planning and executing the project relating to widening of the National Highways.	Facts
The Division Bench allowed the appeals filed against the order of learned Single Judge primarily on the ground that notification u s 3D of the 1956 Act could not have been issued before communication of the decision taken on the objections representations made by the land owners.	Issue
In the opinion of the Division Bench, the rejection of objections should have preceded consideration of the report submitted by the Competent Authority and issue of notification u s 3D of the 1956 Act and violation of this requirement has the effect of vitiating the acquisition.	Issue
However, the Division Bench declined to quash the acquisition in its entirety by observing that such of the objectors who have already received compensation are not entitled to any relief.	Issue
Shri Vivek Tankha, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for NHAI, referred to the scheme of Sections 3A to 31 of the 1956 Act and order dated 11.10.2005 passed by the Competent Authority and argued that the Division Bench committed serious error by partially quashing the acquisition proceedings only on the ground that the order passed on the objections filed by some of the land owners had not been communicated to them before issue of notification u s	Arguments of Petitioner
3D.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Tankha emphasized that the objections filed by the land owners were duly considered and rejected by the Competent Authority and the mere fact that the order of rejection was communicated to some of them after the issue of notification dated 8.8.2006 did not justify a conclusion that the acquisition proceedings were ultra vires the provisions of the 1956 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the High Court should not have partially quashed notifications dated 10.8.2005 and 8.8.2006 by ignoring the fact that majority of the land owners have already received compensation and the acquired land had been utilized for the purpose specified in notification dated 10.8.2005.	Arguments of Petitioner
16. Learned Counsel for the Respondents argued that the Division Bench of the High Court did not commit any error by quashing the acquisition proceedings because the Competent Authority had submitted report without deciding the objections filed by the Respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel further argued that the acquisition of the Respondents land vitiated due to mala fides because the original alignment of the proposed widening of the National Highways was changed to benefit those who have political connections and those who could otherwise pull strings in the power corridors.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his arguments, Learned Counsel invited our attention to site plans, annexure R6 and R7 filed with the counter affidavit before this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel submitted that compliance of provision contained in Section 3C(2) of the 1956 Act is not an empty formality and the Competent Authority is required to objectively consider the objections filed by the land owners and decide the same by passing a speaking order.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel then assailed the rejection of the objections filed by the land owners on the ground that the Competent Authority had not recorded cogent reasons for refusing to entertain their plea that the proposed extension of the highways can be effectively done by using the parambok land.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the respective submissions.	None
Sections 3A, 3C and 3D, which have bearing on this case, read as under 3A. Power to acquire land, etc.(1) Where the Central Government is satisfied that for a public purpose any land is required for the building, maintenance, management or operation of a national highway or part thereof, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare its intention to acquire such land.	Reasoning
Every notification under Subsection (1) shall give a brief description of the land.	None
The competent authority shall cause the substance of the notification to be published in two local newspapers, one of which will be in a vernacular language.	Reasoning
3C. Hearing of objection.(1)	None
Any person interested in the land may, within twenty one days from the date of publication of the notification under Subsection (1) of Section 3A, object to the use of the land for the purpose or purposes mentioned in that Subsection.	None
Every objection under Subsection (1) shall be made to the competent authority in writing and shall set out the grounds thereof and the competent authority shall give the objector an opportunity of being heard, either in person or by a legal practitioner, and may, after hearing all such objections and after making such further enquiry, if any, as the competent authority thinks necessary, by order, either allow or disallow the objections.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this Subsection, legal practitioner has the same meaning as in Clause (i) of Subsection (1) of Section 2 of the Advocates Act, 1961 (25 of 1961).	None
Any order made by the competent authority under Subsection (2) shall be final.	None
3D. Declaration of acquisition.(1) Where no objection under Subsection (1) of Section 3C has been made to the competent authority within the period specified therein or where the competent authority has disallowed the objection under Subsection (2) of that section, the competent authority shall, as soon as may be, submit a report accordingly to the Central Government and on receipt of such report, the Central Government shall declare, by notification in the Official Gazette, that the land should be acquired for the purpose or purposes mentioned in Subsection (1) of Section 3A. On the publication of the declaration under Subsection (1), the land shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.	None
Where in respect of any land a notification has been published under Subsection (1) of Section 3A for its acquisition but no declaration under Subsection (1) has been published within a period of one year from the date of publication of that notification, the said notification shall cease to have any effect Provided that in computing the said period of one year, the period or periods during which any action or proceedings to be taken in pursuance of the notification issued under Subsection (1) of Section 3A is stayed by an order of a Court shall be excluded.	None
A declaration made by the Central Government under Subsection (1) shall not be called in question in any Court or by any other authority.	None
The scheme of acquisition enshrined in the above reproduced provisions makes it clear that once the Central Government is satisfied that any land is required for the building, maintenance, management or operation of a national highway or part thereof, then, it shall declare its intention to acquire such land by issuing a notification in the official Gazette giving brief description of the land.	Reasoning
The substance of the notification is also required to be published in two local newspapers of which one has to be in a vernacular language.	Reasoning
Any person interested in the land can file objection within 21 days from the date of publication of the notification in the official Gazette.	Reasoning
Such objection is required to be made to the Competent Authority in writing.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the Competent Authority is required to give the objector an opportunity of hearing either in person or through a legal practitioner.	Reasoning
This exercise is to be followed by an order of the Competent Authority either allowing or rejecting the objections.	Reasoning
Where no objection is made to the Competent Authority in terms of Section 3C(1) or where the objections made by the interested persons have been disallowed, the Competent Authority is required to submit a report to the Central Government, which shall then issue a notification in the official Gazette that the land should be acquired for the purpose or purposes mentioned in Section 3A(1).	Reasoning
On publication of declaration u s 3D(1), the land vests absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.	Reasoning
Subsection (3) of Section 3D provides that where no declaration under Subsection (1) is published within a period of one year from the date of publication of notification u s 3A(1), the said notification shall cease to have any effect.	Reasoning
By virtue of proviso to Section 3D(3), the period during which any action or proceeding taken in pursuance of notification issued u s 3A(1) remains stayed by a Court shall be excluded while computing the period of one year specified in Section 3D(3).	Reasoning
In this case, notification dated 10.8.2005, which was published in the official Gazette of the same date and of which substance was published in two local newspapers, contained full description of the land proposed to be acquired for widening three National Highways.	Reasoning
The names of the villages in which the land proposed to be acquired was situated, the survey numbers including subsurvey numbers, the nature, type and area of the land were also given in the schedule appended to the notification.	Reasoning
Not only this, it was clearly mentioned that land plans and other details of the land are available in the office of the Competent Authority.	Reasoning
This is the reason why none of the land owners (including the Respondents) made any grievance that the notification issued u s 3A(1) of the 1956 Act was vague or that due to lack of particulars details, they were prevented from effectively exercising their right to file objections in terms of Section 3C(1).	Reasoning
of course, a grievance of this score was made in the objections dated 16.10.2006 filed by some of the land owners of Padavu Village, but that was clearly an afterthought and, in any case, the same did not require consideration because of no adherence to the time schedule specified in Section 3C(1) of the 1956 Act.	Reasoning
The only reason assigned by the Division Bench of the High Court for upsetting the well considered order passed by the learned Single Judge negating the Respondents challenge to the acquisition was that declaration u s 3D(1) was published even before communication of the decision taken by the Competent Authority in terms of Section 3C(2).	Reasoning
The process of reasoning adopted by the Division Bench for recording its conclusion appears to have been influenced by an assumption that the objections filed by the land owners had not been decided till the issue of declaration u s 3D(1).	Reasoning
However, the fact of the matter is that the Competent Authority had, after giving opportunity of personal hearing to the objectors, passed order dated 11.10.2005 and rejected the objections.	Reasoning
Though, that order was not crafted like a judicial order which is passed by a legally trained mind, the rejection of the representations made by the Respondents cannot be faulted only on that ground.	Reasoning
The Competent Authority did advert to the substance of objections	Reasoning
, the details of which have been incorporated in Annexure P3 filed before this Court.	Reasoning
The concerned officer rejected the same by observing that the land proposed for acquisition is necessary for widening the existing National Highways into four lanes.	Reasoning
If the consideration made by the Competent Authority is judged in the backdrop of the fact that a Special Purpose Vehicle was incorporated with the name New Mangalore Port Road Company Limited for implementation of the project known as New Mangalore Port Road Connectivity Project from Surathkal to Nantoor and B.C. Road to Padil along with bypass from Nantoor to Padil, it is not possible to castigate the proved reasons recorded by the Competent Authority for rejecting the objections.	Reasoning
The plea of the Respondents that alignment of the proposed widening of National Highways was manipulated to suit the vested interests sounds attractive but lacks substance and merits rejection because except making a bald assertion, the Respondents have neither given particulars of the persons sought to be favored nor placed any material to prima facie prove that the execution of the project of widening the National Highways is actuated by mala fides and, in the absence of proper pleadings and material, neither the High Court could nor this Court can make a roving enquiry to fish out some material and draw a dubious conclusion that the decision and actions of the Appellants are tainted by mala fides.	Reasoning
A somewhat similar question was considered in Girias Investment Private Ltd. v. State of Karnataka (supra).	Reasoning
In that case, the acquisition of the land under the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Act, 1966 was challenged on various grounds including the one that the acquisition was vitiated due to mala fides.	Reasoning
While rejecting the plea of mala fides, the Court referred to Smt.	Reasoning
S.R. Venkataraman Vs. Union of India (UOI) and Another, State of Punjab and Another Vs.	Reasoning
Gurdial Singh and Others, and Collector (District Magistrate) Allahabad and Another Vs.	Reasoning
Raja Ram Jaiswal, and observed It is obvious from a reading of the pleadings quoted above that only vague allegations of mala fides have been leveled and that too without any basis.	Reasoning
There can be two ways by which a case of mala fides can be made out one that the action which is impugned has been taken with the specific object of damaging the interest of the party and, secondly, such action is aimed at helping some party which results in damage to the party alleging mala fides.	Reasoning
It would be seen that there is no allegation whatsoever in the pleadings that the case falls within the first category but an inference of mala fides has been sought to be drawn in the course of a vague pleading that the change had been made to help certain important persons who would have lost their land under the original acquisition.	Reasoning
These allegations have been replied to in the paragraph quoted above and reveal that the land which had been denotified belonged to those who had absolutely no position or power.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, the judgments cited by Mr. Dave have absolutely no bearing on the facts of the case.	Reasoning
We may also refer to the Constitution Bench judgment in E.P. Royappa Vs.	None
State of Tamil Nadu and Another, .	None
In that case, the Petitioner, who was transferred from the post of Chief Secretary and posted as Officer on Special Duty, challenged the action of government on various grounds including the one that the decision of the government was vitiated due to mala fides of the Chief Minister.	None
This Court rejected the plea of mala fides by making the following observations 90The Petitioner set out in the petition various incidents in the course of administration where he crossed the path of the second Respondent and incurred his wrath by inconvenient and uncompromising acts and nothings and contended that the second Respondent, therefore, nursed hostility and mauls animus against the Petitioner and it was for this reason and not on account of exigencies of administration that the Petitioner was transferred from the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The incidents referred to by the Petitioner, if true, constituted gross acts of maladministration and the charge leveled against the second Respondent was that because the Petitioner in the course of his duties obstructed and thwarted the second Respondent in these acts of maladministration, that the second Respondent was annoyed with him and it was with a view to putting him out of the way and at the same time deflating him that the second Respondent transferred him from the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The transfer of the Petitioner was, therefore, in mala fide exercise of power and accordingly invalid.	None
Now, when we examine this contention we must bear in mind two important considerations.	None
In the first place, we must make it clear, despite a very strenuous argument to the contrary, that we are not called upon to investigate into acts of maladministration by the political Government headed by the second Respondent.	None
It is not within our province to embark on a farflung inquiry into acts of commission and omission charged against the second Respondent in the administration of the affairs of Tamil Nadu.	None
That is not the scope of the inquiry before us and we must decline to enter upon any such inquiry.	None
It is one thing to say that the second Respondent was guilty of misrule and another to say that he had mauls animus against the Petitioner which was the operative cause of the displacement of the Petitioner from the post of Chief Secretary.	None
We are concerned only with the latter limited issue, not with the former popular issue.	None
We cannot permit the Petitioner to side track the issue and escape the burden of establishing hostility and mauls animus on the part of the second Respondent by diverting our attention to incidents of suspicious exercise of executive power.	None
That would be nothing short of drawing a red herring across the trail.	None
The only question before us is whether the action taken by the Respondents includes any component of mala fides whether hostility and mauls animus against the Petitioner were the operational cause of the transfer of the Petitioner from the post of Chief Secretary.	None
Secondly, we must not also overlook that the burden of establishing mala fides is very heavy on the person who alleges it.	None
The allegations of mala fides are often more easily made than proved, and the very seriousness of such allegations demands proof of a high order of credibility.	None
Here the Petitioner, who was himself once the Chief Secretary, has flung a series of charges of oblique conduct against the Chief Minister.	None
That is in itself a rather extraordinary and unusual occurrence and if these charges are true, they are bound to shake the confidence of the people in the political custodians of power in the State, and therefore, the anxiety of the Court should be all the greater to insist on a high degree of proof.	None
In this context it may be noted that top administrators are often required to do acts which affect others adversely but which are necessary in the execution of their duties.	None
These acts may lend themselves to misconstruction and suspicion as to the bona fides of their author when the full facts and surrounding circumstances are not known.	None
The Court would, therefore, be slow to draw dubious inferences from incomplete facts placed before it by a party, particularly when the imputations are grave and they are made against the holder of an office which has a high responsibility in the administration.	None
Such is the judicial perspective in evaluating charge of unworthy conduct against ministers and other high authorities, not because of any special status which they are supposed to enjoy, nor because they are highly placed in social life or administrative set up these considerations are wholly irrelevant, in judicial approach but because otherwise, functioning effectively would become difficult in a democracy.	None
It is from this standpoint that we must assess the merits of the allegations of mala fides made by the Petitioner against the second Respondent.	None
Here, it will be apposite to mention that NHAI is a professionally managed statutory body having expertise in the field of development and maintenance of National Highways.	Reasoning
The projects involving construction of new highways and widening and development of the existing highways, which are vital for development of infrastructure in the country, are entrusted to experts in the field of highways.	Reasoning
It comprises of persons having vast knowledge and expertise in the field of highway development and maintenance.	Reasoning
NHAI prepares and implements projects relating to development and maintenance of National Highways after thorough study by experts in different fields.	Reasoning
Detailed project reports are prepared keeping in view the relative factors including intensity of heavy vehicular traffic and larger public interest.	Reasoning
The Courts are not at all equipped to decide upon the viability and feasibility of the particular project and whether the particular alignment would subserve the larger public interest.	Reasoning
In such matters, the scope of judicial review is very limited.	Reasoning
The Court can nullify the acquisition of land and, in rarest of rare cases, the particular project, if it is found to be exfacie contrary to the mandate of law or tainted due to mala fides.	Reasoning
In the case in hand, neither any violation of mandate of the 1956 Act has been established nor the charge of malice in fact has been proved.	Reasoning
Therefore, the order under challenge cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeals are allowed, the impugned judgment is set aside and the order passed by the learned Single Judge dismissing the objections filed by the Respondents is restored.	Decision
