 V. RAMANA, J .	None
These appeals by special leave petitions, are preferred by two accused persons, namely Sobhat Singh and Suresh, against the conviction imposed by the High Court and the consequential acquittal of other persons, namely Dharampal and Umed Singh, sons of Beg Raj and Dharambir, passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in Crl.	Issue
Appeal No. 157DB of 2002, 273DB of 2002, 920SB of 2002, 751DBA of 2002 and Crl.	None
Revision No. 907 of 2004.	Issue
Facts being connected and issues being similar, we would like to deal with these appeals by a common judgment.	Issue
Few facts which are necessary for the disposal of these cases are that a panchayat election was held on 15.12.1994, in the village Sundawas, where there were two major contestants namely Maha Singh and Dharampal son of Beg Raj.	Facts
Deceased Chander Bhan was an election agent for the losing candidate Maha Singh.	Facts
It is necessary to note that there was a quarrel including gun shots being fired at around 11 A.M, on the day of election between both factions, as a result of which supporters of Dharampal son of Beg Raj (winning candidate) sustained injuries.	Facts
In this context, a FIR No. 733 of 1994 was registered against Maha Singh (losing candidate) and one Darya under Sections 307 read with 34 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 hereinafter referred as IPC for brevity and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act, 1959.	None
Later, during the intervening night of 15th and 16th December of 1994, Dharampal alias Dharam son of Nanak Ram accused A1, Sobhat Singh accused A2, both being supporters of losing candidate Maha Singh, came to the house of Chander Bhan, on 2 the pretext that since Maha Singh had lost the election and was involved in a criminal case, they should falsely implicate Dharampal son of Beg Raj also, by registering a counter case against him.	Facts
On this pretext, they accompanied Chander Bhan to Hisar.	Facts
On their way, one Suresh accused A3 is supposed to have joined them.	Facts
One Umed Singh son of Mahi Ram PW14, while waiting near Borstal Jail, Hisar for a conveyance at 400 A.M on 16.12.1994 (morning) had seen A1, A2, Chander Bhan and A3 going in an auto rickshaw.	Facts
It is the prosecutions version that all of them went to an abandoned house in Adarsh Nagar at Hisar, wherein Chander Bhan (deceased) was shot by the aforesaid accused.	Facts
Thereafter, A1 and A2 took injured Chander Bhan to the City Civil Hospital, Hisar for treatment.	None
It is alleged that in the meanwhile A3 tried to hide the gun.	None
It is born from the record that Chander Bhan succumbed to his injuries 20 minutes after he was admitted to the aforesaid Hospital on 16.12.1994.	Facts
Thereafter, accused A2 went to the Police Station, Sadar Hisar, for registration of a complaint against Umed Singh son of Beg Raj, Dharam Pal son of Beg Raj Sarpanch and Dharambir for the death of Chander Bhan.	None
Accordingly, FIR was filed before the police being FIR No. 736/ 1994, dated 16.12.1994, based on the accused A2.	None
As per the narration of accused A2, on 16.12.1994, at about 430 A.M, the Chander Bhan (deceased), A2 and A1 were going to Chandigarh on foot.	None
On reaching a few kilometers ahead of the village Sundawas, they spotted a jeep coming towards them.	Facts
One of the occupants Umed Singh son of Beg Raj, raised lalkara that enemies were going and they should be taught a lesson for helping Maha Singh in the elections.	Facts
Dharampal and Umed Singh sons of Beg Raj and Dharambir alighted from the jeep and Dharam Pal son of Beg Raj, who was armed with a pistol, shot Chander Bhan in his stomach and ran away.	Facts
It is alleged that A1 and A2, who escaped the firing, rushed Chander Bhan to the City Civil Hospital, Hisar, where he succumbed to his injuries.	Facts
The case was investigated by I.O. Bhim Singh PW15, who reached the spot of the alleged occurrence as per the narration of accused A2.	Facts
However, he could not trace any incriminating material as alleged.	None
Being suspicious of the version of accused A2, the investigating police, started to investigate from different angles.	Facts
On 25.12.1994, all the accused appellants contacted one Zile Singh PW16 and confessed their guilt before him.	Facts
To put the gist of their extrajudicial confessions, it may be noted that the accused stated to Zile Singh (PW16) that having the motive to file a counter case against Dharampal son of Beg Raj, the Sarpanch, the accused appellants along with Chander Bhan reached an abandoned house in Adarsh Nagar, Hisar and Suresh A3 fired a shot at Chander Bhan in the house at Adarsh Nagar.	Facts
Thereupon accused A3 fled away with the gun.	None
Later, accused A1 and A2 took Chander Bhan to the hospital and registered a false complaint against Dharampal son of Beg Raj, Dharambir and Umed Singh son of Beg Raj under Section 302, IPC.	Facts
It may be noted that Zile Singh produced all the accused before the Police and thereafter the accused identified the place of occurrence.	None
By virtue of such disclosure statements made by the individual accused persons, the police are alleged to have recovered a licensed gun, cartridges, pellets, some concrete material from the khurli found in the house at Adarsh Nagar, Hisar.	Facts
Based on the aforesaid complaint, Bhim Singh, S.I to the P.S Sadar, Hisar, registered a case under Sections 25, 30, 54 and 59 of Arms Act, being FIR No. 743 Ex. PZ/1, against Lachman Singh A4 and A3.	Facts
After the completion of the investigation, chargesheets came to be filed in the Court against the accused A1, A2 and A3 for offences under Section 302 read with Section 34 of IPC and accordingly, were summoned by the Addl.	Facts
Sessions Judge on 10.10.1995 in Criminal Case No. 7610802 of 1995 (Sessions Case No. 60 of 1995 in Sessions Trial No. 22 of 1995).	Facts
In a connected case of FIR No. 743, the accused A3 and Lachman (A4) were being tried for usage of fire arms, which was consolidated 6 with the main case, by order dated 19.09.1999 and both the cases were tried together.	Facts
During the trial, the Prosecution examined 17 witnesses and the Defense examined 4 witnesses in the Sessions Case No. 60 of 1995.	Facts
It may be noted here that the accused examined themselves as defense witnesses under Section 315 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 herein after referred as CrPC for brevity.	Facts
The Trial Court in Sessions Case No. 60 of 1995 in Sessions Trial No. 22 of 1995, by order dated 12.02.2002, found the accused guilty of committing the crime and convicted them for the offences punishable as under ACCUSED CHARGES CONVICTION	Facts
Sobhat Singh A2 S. 302/34 IPC RI for Life and fine of Rs 5,000.	Facts
In default, to suffer RI for 6 months Suresh A3 1 S. 302/34 IPC 2 S. 25 Arms Act 1 RI for Life and fine of Rs 5,000.	None
In default, to suffer RI for 6 months.	Facts
2 RI for 1 year and fine of Rs 500, In default, to undergo RI for 15 days.	Facts
Sentence to run concurrently.	None
Lachman A4 S. 30, Arms Act Fine of Rs 1,000.	None
In default, to suffer RI for 15 days.	Facts
It may be noted, that during the trial, accused A1 died and the trial against him got abated.	None
The Trial Court, held the accused guilty, and reasoned as under The motive is proved, wherein the crime was staged so as to falsely implicate Sarpanch Dharampal belonging to opposite political faction.	Facts
That the accused portrayed a fake story and filed a FIR against Dharampal, Umed Singh sons of Beg Raj and Dharambir alleging that they have murdered Chander Bhan.	Facts
However, no evidence was found against Dharampal, Umed and Dharambir at the place of occurrence as described by accused A2.	Facts
There was no motive for Dharampal, Umed Singh and Dharambir to murder Chander Bhan.	Facts
Rather, a motive exists on the part of the accused, since their candidate had lost the election.	None
Inference was drawn that the probability of causing injuries to Chander Bhan by A1 and A2 was relatively higher.	None
That PW14, Umed Singh son of Mahi Ram, had seen the accused with the deceased early in the morning when they had a small conversation and that the Umed Singh (PW14) had noticed that Suresh was holding a single barrel gun.	None
That the version of accused A2 was not tenable due to many contradicting circumstances.	None
That the accused had confessed their crime before Zile Singh (PW16), who later produced the accused before the Police on 25.12.1994.	None
That the disclosure statements made by the accused appellants herein, before the police, led to the recovery of the licensed gun and pellets.	None
The FSL Report concludes that the pellets which were recovered from the Khurli as per such disclosure were similar to those found in the dead body.	Facts
The Postmortem report confirms the death to have been caused due to hemorrhage and shock due to gunshot injuries.	None
Aggrieved by the fact that the complainant was himself shown as an accused by the investigating authority, A2 filed a complaint before the Magistrate against the Dharambir, Umed Singh son of Beg Raj and Dharam Pal son of Beg Raj, on the facts as revealed by accused A2 in FIR No. 736 dated 16.12.1994.	Facts
Accordingly, the Magistrate separately took cognizance and committed the case to the Sessions Court against Dharambir, Umed Singh son of Beg Raj and Dharam Pal son of Beg Raj, on 25.01.1997 in Complaint Case No. 951 of 1995 (Sessions case No. 62 of 1997 under Sections 302 read with 34 of IPC.	Facts
Further by order dated 05.03.1997, the Sessions Judge ordered the trial of all the cases to take place simultaneously.	Facts
All the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.	Facts
In Sessions case No. 62 of 1997, the Sessions Court by order, dated 12.02.2002, acquitted Dharampal son of Beg Raj, Umed Singh son of Beg Raj and Dharambir on the following reasons That prosecution failed to establish motive on the part of accused Dharampal son of Beg Raj, as he has already won the election.	None
That accused persons came at midnight 15.12.1994 16.12.1994, called the deceased and told him that they had to shoot somebody so as to falsely implicate Sarpanch Dharampal son of Beg Raj in a case as corroborated by the evidence of DW1 (Kamla).	None
That the story of the prosecution that the deceased was shot on the road at a distance of 11/ 2 K.M. from village by the accused Dharampal son of Beg Raj is uncorroborated in the absence of any incriminating evidence in the said crime scene, as supported by the evidence of DW5 Bhim Singh.	None
That DW2 Umed Singh corroborated that on 16.12.1994 at about 430 A.M. while waiting for conveyance to go to his village he had seen Sobhat Singh, Dharampal son of Nanak Ram and the Suresh who was carrying a single barrel gun along with the deceased in an autorickshaw.	Facts
The complainant had taken deceased to the Hospital at 6 30 AM.	None
In crossexamination Sobhat Singh (PW4/ A2) and Dharampal (PW5/ A1) could not explain when the deceased received injuries or why did they not take the deceased to the nearby hospital.	None
That complainants further failed to explain in their crossexamination how the threewheeler appeared merely within fiveminutes to take them to the Hospital at Hisar.	None
The evidence of PW5Dharampal son of Nanak Ram, is contradictory to PW4 (Shobat Singh A2) as to how they took the deceased to the hospital.	None
That the complainants failed to state the number of vehicle, driver of the vehicle in their crossexamination.	None
They have also failed to explain why they did not immediately report the matter in the village and to the family members of the deceased when they were just at a distance of 11/ 2 km from the village.	None
That extrajudicial confession was made before DW3 (Zile Singh).	None
That the gun recovered in the instant case was the gun belonging to complainant Suresh A3 and FSL report available on record proves that the pellets found in the body of the deceased were similar to those fired from that gun.	None
Therefore, the prosecution failed to prove a case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused.	None
So, all the accused were acquitted of the charge against them.	Facts
Aggrieved by the judgments of the Trial Court, in Session Case No. 60, accused A2, A3 and A4 filed Criminal Appeal No. 273DB, 157DB, 920SB respectively before the High Court.	None
On the other hand, accused A2 filed a Criminal Appeal No. 751DBA of 2002, against the acquittal, of Dharampal son of Beg Raj, Umed Singh son of Beg Raj and Dharambir, passed by the Sessions Court in Sessions Case No. 62 of 1997.	None
It may be noted that the High Court clubbed all the appeals and dismissed them through a common impugned judgment dated 03.01.2012.	None
The High Court had further directed accused A2 and A3 to pay a sum of 11 Rs.	None
One Lac as damages to Smt.	None
Kamla and her two children.	None
The High Court while upholding the conviction emphasized following grounds That it was admitted by accused A2 and A1 that they had called for Chander Bhan at his house, in the presence of his wife, on 16.12.1994.	None
That the evidence produced by the I.O indicates that the accused took Chander Bhan to a room in Adarsh Nagar, Hisar, where he was shot by accused A3 using his single barrel gun.	None
The accused appellants had confessed to their crime, which led to the recovery of certain incriminating articles.	None
Sufficient evidence is on record like recovery of pellets, gun and some concrete material etc. to prove that Chander Bhan was shot inside that Kotha (Room) by the accused and not by the other gang, as alleged.	None
There was a crystalclear motive on the part of the accused A2 to commit such crime so as to implicate Dharampal son of Beg Raj (Sarpanch) in a false case.	None
Apart from the testimony of wife Kamla and the recovery of the incriminating materials, the evidence of PW 14 (Umed Singh), who deposed that he had seen the accused along with Chander Bhan (deceased) earlier that morning with Suresh was also a major circumstance going against the accused.	None
Lastly, the extra judicial confession made before Zile Singh (PW16), is found to be true and voluntary and since PW16 is an independent witness, his evidence cannot be doubted.	None
The chain of circumstances are complete so as to bring home the guilt of the accused.	None
Further, the gun used was a licensed gun which belonged to Lachman, father of A3, who had allowed the gun to be taken from his custody and misused by his son.	None
Hence, the conviction under Arms Act was also justified.	None
Aggrieved by the judgment and order of conviction passed by the High Court, accused A2 and A3 have preferred Criminal Appeal No (s).	None
14451446 of 2012 (arising out of SLP (Crl.)	None
No (s).	None
28682869 of 2012) in Sessions Case No. 60 of 1995 in Sessions Trial No. 22 of 1995.	Facts
Further accused A2 preferred a Criminal Appeal, being Criminal Appeal No. 1458 of 2012 (arising from SLP (Crl.)	None
No. 2926 of 2012), against the acquittal of Dharampal son of Beg Raj, Umed Singh son of Beg Raj and Dharambir in Sessions Case	None
No. 62 of 1997 in Sessions Trial No. 97 of 1997.	None
Learned senior counsel, Ms. Anjana Prakash, appearing on behalf of the appellant accused has mainly contended as under That the case involves no direct evidence and the chain of circumstantial evidence is not complete therefore, the conviction of the appellants on the basis of unfounded evidence should not be sustained.	None
That PW13 (wife of the deceased), when materially confronted, denied the statement that she had stated to the police that accused A1 and appellant accused A2 had told the deceased that they had to fire a shot at somebody to implicate Sarpanch Dharampal son of Beg Raj.	None
That PW14 presence at spot is doubtful.	None
He made out an illogical story that while waiting for conveyance to go to his village at 400 AM, he had seen the appellant and Dharampal with the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
But in Cross examination he was not able to explain why he was waiting for the conveyance 31/2 hours 13 early, especially when the first bus for his village leaves at 730 AM.	None
That PW14 has also admitted that he did not tell PW13 that he had seen accused persons carrying gun along with the deceased in the said autorickshaw.	None
PW14 inter alia has also admitted that he and PW16 had injured the deceased at an earlier point of time and denied the fact that brother of PW16 had fired upon the deceased.	None
That alleged extrajudicial confession made on 25.12.94 before PW16 is not admissible on the ground that it was made under suspicious circumstances.	None
PW16 interalia, also admitted that Maha Singh had defeated him previously in the Sarpanch election therefore, election rivalry is evident against accused persons.	None
That if the accused persons were arrested on 18.12.94, then the question of alleged extrajudicial confession made on 25.12.94 before PW16 casts doubt in the prosecution story.	None
That the FIR was lodged by the appellants and it is also an admitted fact that it was the appellant accused who had brought the injured at the hospital for treatment.	None
That the gun recovered in the instant case is the licensed gun of the father of the accused Suresh and there is no forensic evidence available on record to prove that pellets found in the body of the deceased was fired from that gun.	None
That the motive plays an important role in a case of circumstantial evidence.	None
In the present case there is no strong motive that can be inferred on the part of accused person on the ground of election rivalry.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the role of investigating officer is doubtful in this case as there are contradictions in respect of the date of arrest of the accused persons.	None
As the IO stated that he had found evidence against appellants within two days of occurrence but denied arresting them then.	None
However, from the materials on record it is evident that date of arrest of accused persons is on 14 18.12.1994.	None
That it can be said that IO is exonerating the actual accused and falsely implicating the appellants.	None
On the Other hand, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State, Dr. Monika Gusain, while supporting the judgment of the lower courts, has drawn our attention to the fact that the accused, were hard core criminals, who would not stop short of killing their own for political rivalry.	Arguments of Respondent
She has also contended that the recovery at the place in Adarsh Nagar bolsters the case of the prosecution.	Arguments of Respondent
She argues that if for a moment, the version of accused A1 is taken into consideration, then there was no question of taking the deceased to a Hospital 24 KM away in Hisar, while there was a Hospital near the vicinity of the alleged crime scene.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the Learned counsel for either side and given our anxious consideration to the facts and circumstances of the case on hand, at the outset, it would be apt to observe certain statements of prosecution witnesses, on whose evidence the courts below have excessively placed reliance.	None
For this purpose, it would be necessary for us to deal with the two cases separately.	None
First, we would like to take up the Criminal Appeal 15 NO. 14451446 OF 2012 and thereafter consider Criminal Appeal No. 1458 of 2012.	None
PW1( Dr. Bishnoi), SMO General Hospital, Tohana, deposed that he was the person, who conducted the postmortem of the deceased.	None
Regarding the nature of the injury, he states thatMultiple rounded and oval shaped wounds of the size of 1/3 cm into 1/3 cm present on the front of trunk and pelvic area along with upper part of the front of both thighs numbering about (50).	None
Majority of these wounds were present on the left side of front part of the body.	None
These were covered with clotted blood with inverted margins with lacerations.	None
No blackening or tattooing were present.	None
All structures in the pelvic and in the lower abdomen including small and large intestine and vessels were injured.	None
Abdominal cavity was full of red colored blood.	None
Further he has deposed that the death of Chander Bhan (deceased) resulted because of hemorrhage, and shock due to gunshot injuries.	None
All injuries were opined to have been antemortem in nature and sufficient in the usual course to cause death.	None
PW2 (Dr. Surinder Singh), Medical Officer, who treated the Chander Bhan (deceased) at the Hospital.	None
He avers that from the perusal of the bedhead ticket, the Chander Bhan (deceased) was 16 brought to the Hospital at Hisar, by accused A1 and A2.	None
It is important to note that the deceased was brought in a semiconscious state to the Hospital.	None
PW13 Smt.	None
Kamla, widow of deceased Chander Bhan states that on 15.12.1994, an election was held in the village of Sundawas, wherein the deceased Chander Bhan, was an election agent for Maha Singh.	None
She deposed that persons in support of Maha Singh, supposedly fired gun shots and the supporters of Dharampal son of Beg Raj, allegedly had received injuries in the aforesaid firing.	None
In the intervening night of 1516th, A1 and A2, came to meet the deceased Chander Bhan.	None
She states that her husband had enquired with the aforesaid accused, who had revealed to him that they had to go to Hisar and had to shoot somebody so as to involve Dharampal son of Beg Raj in a false case.	None
In that pretext she states that all the three accused (A1, A2 and A3) and Chander Bhan (deceased) left for Hisar.	None
It may be of some significance to note that, during her cross examination, she states as underI had told in my statement to the police that accused Dharma and Sobhat has told my husband that somebody was to be fired at.	None
I had told the police in my statement that accused Dharma and Sobhat had told my husband that they would fire shots at their own brother in order to involve Dharampal Sarpanch.	None
Appellantaccused has extensively placed reliance on the aforesaid statement, to point that the statement of PW13 was ridden with improvements, which questions the reliability and credibility of her statements.	None
The consequence of the same, will be discussed at a later stage.	None
PW14 (Umed Singh son of Mahi Ram), states that he belongs to the village of Sundawas.	None
On 15.12.1994, after casting his vote, he returned to Hisar in the evening for purchase of seed and fertilizers.	None
Following morning, at about 4 AM, while he was standing near the Borstal Jail, Hisar, waiting for a bus to go back to his village Sundawas.	None
Around that time, one auto rickshaw came from the side of Hisar City and stopped near him.	None
The occupants of the autorickshaw were accused A1, A2, A3 and Chander Bhan.	None
He states that accused A3 was holding a single barrel gun in his hand.	None
When the occupants enquired about him, he replied to them that he was waiting for the conveyance to go 18 back to his village and the occupants of the auto supposedly told him that they were going for some urgent work.	None
PW15Bhim Singh, the Investigating Officer has deposed that accused A2 had registered a complaint against Umed Singh, Dharampal sons of Beg Raj and Dharambir on the grounds that they have shot the deceased Chander Bhan on account of prior rivalry.	None
He further deposed that in furtherance of the enquiry, on reaching the alleged scene of the crime, he did not find any tyre marks of the jeep or any incriminating marks whatsoever.	None
It may be noted that his evidence is a crucial link to portray that the case of false prosecution against the winning candidate Dharampal son of Beg Raj was given full effect by misleading the police authority as to the scene of the incident.	None
He further recorded the statement of PW13Smt.	None
Kamla and found out that on 16.12.1994 the accused A2 and A1 came to the house of the deceased at around midnight and took Chander Bhan on the pretext that since Maha Singh had lost the election and was involved in a criminal case, hence they should falsely implicate 19 Sarpanch Dharampal son of Beg Raj, by registering a counter case against him.	Facts
PW15 further deposed that PW14 informed that while Umed Singh (PW14) was waiting at Borstal Jail, Hisar for conveyance at 400 A.M on 16.12.1994, he had seen that accused A1, A2, deceased Chander Bhan and A3 were going for some urgent work and that he had also noticed A3 holding a single barrel gun.	None
Furthermore, PW15 had also deposed that later, on 25.12.1994, PW16, Zile Singh had produced the accused before him where he recorded the statement of Zile Singh with regard to the extra judicial confession made to him by the accused.	Reasoning
It may be relevant to note PW15 in the examinationinchief states that the Zile Singh (PW16), left the Police Station and did not wait till the completion of the interrogation.	Reasoning
Whereas, in the crossexamination he contradicts himself that Zile Singh (PW16) was present during the interrogation of the appellantaccused.	None
PW15 also deposed that by virtue of the disclosure statements made by the individual accused persons, the recovery of the gun, cartridges, pellets and some concrete material from room and the khurli of the Adarsh Nagar House were made.	None
PW16 (Zile Singh), deposes that on 25.12.1994, when he had come to the village Sundawas, accused A1, A2 and A3 had confessed before him by detailing the modus operandi of the crime and subsequent coverup of the incident.	None
Thereafter, he states that he handed over the accused to the police for interrogation and the interrogation was conducted in his presence.	None
At the appropriate stage, we will examine the relevance of the aforesaid confession made before Zile Singh (PW16) and its impact on the prosecutions case.	None
As regards to the evidence of other witnesses who supported the prosecution case, PW17, Mewa Singh, is the panch witness for the seizures made by the police from crime scene.	None
He deposed that on 25.12.1994, he went to the police station along with one Sant Lal on getting the information that the real culprits in Chander Bhans murder case have been arrested.	None
He further deposed that I.O. Bhim Singh interrogated the accused in his presence.	None
That during such interrogation, accused A1 and A3 pointed out that they will be able to show the scene of the crime as well as the hidden gun.	None
He had further deposed that he and Sant Lal were witnesses to the subsequent recoveries made by the investigating officer.	None
After having appreciated the evidence of certain crucial witnesses, we would like to clarify at the outset that this is a case of circumstantial evidence.	None
Jurisprudentially the meaning of circumstantial evidence has never been settled.	None
Although we may not require a detailed analysis of the jurisprudential dichotomy which exists as to what amounts to circumstantial evidence, we may indicate certain precedents and legal literature have given a definite shape for the aforesaid term.	None
In Thomas Starkie, A Practical treatise on the law of evidence, and digest of proofs, in civil and criminal proceedings (vol.	None
I, 4th Eds., 1876), it is said that In criminal cases, proof that the party accused was influenced by a strong motive of interest to commit the offence proved to have been committed, although exceedingly weak and inconclusive in itself, and although it be a circumstance which ought never to operate in proof of the corpus delicti, yet when that has once been established aliunde, it is a circumstance to be considered in conjunction with others which plainly tend to implicate the accused.	None
Sir Fitz James Stephen, while writing his Introduction to Indian Evidence Act, 1872, writes as underFacts relevant to the issue are facts from the existence of which inferences as to the existence of the facts in issue may be drawn.	None
A fact is relevant to another fact when the existence of the one can be shown to be the cause or one of the causes, or the effect or one of the effects, of existence of the other, or when the existence of the one, either alone or together with other facts, renders the existence of the other highly probable, or improbable, according to the common course of events.	None
Whartons Criminal Evidence (1955)	None
In prosecutions for homicide, as in criminal prosecutions generally, evidence to show motive is competent and considerable latitude is allowed in its introduction.	None
When proof has been made of the corpus delicti, all facts and circumstances that tend to show motive on the part of the accused are relevant.	None
Peacock v. The King, 13 CLR 619, expounded the circumstantial evidence to mean Whether the fact, or that body of facts which is called the case is capable of bearing a particular inference, is for the Court, and unless it is so capable, the Courts duty is to withhold it from the jury, as a single fact or as a case.	None
But when the case is undoubtedly capable of the inference of guilt, albeit some other inference or theory be possible, it is for the jury, properly directed, and for them alone, to say not merely whether it carries a strong probability of guilt, but whether the inference exists actually and clearly, and so completely overcomes all other inferences or hypotheses, as to leave no reasonable doubt of guilt in their minds.	None
In Anant Chintaman Lagu v. State of Bombay, AIR 1960 SC 500 , this court defined circumstantial evidenceCircumstantial evidence in this context means, a combination of facts creating a network through which there is no escape for the accused, because the facts taken as a whole do not admit of any inference but of his guilt.	None
In line with the aforesaid definition, this Court in catena of cases has expounded the test of complete chain link theory for the prosecution to prove a case beyond reasonable doubt based on the circumstantial evidence.	None
In Hanumant and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1952 SC 343 hereinafter referred as Hanumant Case for brevity, this Court explained one of the possible ways to prove a case based on circumstantial evidence, in the following manner in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established, and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.	None
Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.	None
It was for the first time that this Court formulated a test concerning circumstantial evidence.	None
Subsequently, the aforesaid test was applied on multiple occasions by this Court in Deonandan Mishra v. State of Bihar, AIR 1955 SC 801 , Govinda Reddy v. State of Mysore, AIR 1960 SC 29 .	None
In Charan Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1967 SC 520 , this Court expounded the proposition laid down in Hanumant Case (supra), and observed as underIt is well established that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should, in the first instance, be fully established, and the circumstances so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused person that is, the circumstances should be of such a nature as to reasonably exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.	None
To put it in other words, the chain of evidence must be so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused person.	None
We may note that this Court for the first time explained the general test applicable for evaluating circumstantial evidence and brought in the concept of completion of chain of evidence.	None
In Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1984 SC 1622 .	None
Therein, while dealing with circumstantial evidence, it has been held that the onus was on the prosecution to prove that the chain is complete and the infirmity or lacuna in the prosecution cannot be cured by a false defense or plea.	None
The conditions precedent in the words of this Court, before conviction could be based on circumstantial evidence, must be fully established.	None
They are (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.	None
The circumstances concerned must or should and not merely may be established (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	None
The aforesaid tests are aptly referred as Panchsheel of proof in Circumstantial Cases refer Prakash v. State of Rajasthan, AIR 2013 SC 1474 .	None
The expectation is that the prosecutions case should reflect careful portrayal of the factual circumstances and inferences thereof and their compatibility with a singular hypothesis wherein all the intermediate facts and the case itself are proved beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Circumstantial evidence are those facts, which the court may infer further.	None
There is a stark contrast between direct evidence and circumstantial evidence.	None
In cases of circumstantial evidence, the courts are called upon to make inferences from the available evidences, which may lead to the accuseds guilt.	None
In majority of cases, the inference of guilt is usually drawn by establishing the case from its initiation to the point of commission wherein each factual link is ultimately based on evidence of a fact or an inference thereof.	None
Therefore, the courts have to identify the facts in the first place so as to fit the case within the parameters of chain link theory and then see whether the case is made out beyond reasonable doubt.	None
In India we have for a long time followed the chain link theory since Hanumant Case (supra), which of course needs to be followed herein also.	None
We need to consider five aspects and their impact on the case at hand, before we put forth our analysis.	Reasoning
It is well settled that motive is an important aspect in circumstantial evidence case.	Reasoning
In Shivaji Genu Mohite v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1973 SC 55	None
In case the prosecution is not able to discover an impelling motive, that could not reflect upon the credibility of a witness proved to be a reliable eyewitness.	None
Evidence as to motive would, no doubt, go a long way in cases wholly dependent on circumstantial evidence.	None
Such evidence would form one of the links in the chain of circumstantial evidence in such a case.	None
But that would not be so in cases where there are eyewitnesses of credibility, though even in such cases if a motive is properly proved, such proof would strengthen the prosecution case and fortify the court in its ultimate conclusion.	None
But that does not mean that if motive is not established, the evidence of an eyewitness is rendered untrustworthy.	None
In this case the motive has an important role as this case is based on circumstantial evidence, motive herein forms one of the intermediate fact circumstances.	Reasoning
In this case, the motive of killing Chander Bhan (deceased) was to foist a false case on Dharampal son of Beg Raj.	Reasoning
If the motive was to foist a false case, then it is quite strange to believe that the accused went to the extent of killing their own (supporter of Maha Singh) to avenge the loss in the elections.	Reasoning
Even if the motive is taken to be proved, then this too only forms one of the circumstances for adducing the guilt of the accused.	Reasoning
The credibility of the witnesses, which the prosecution mainly relies on to prove the case on the basis of the circumstantial evidence is an important aspect.	Reasoning
In this case the evidence of PW13 (wife of the deceased) is crucial.	Reasoning
Her statements should be carefully appreciated.	Reasoning
The statements, as indicated above, clearly portray that there were material improvements in the statements, which makes her statement unreliable and doubtful.	Reasoning
The vindictive statements which were made during the cross examination, clearly bars us from taking her testimony into consideration.	Reasoning
There is no dispute that there was prior enmity between the wife and the accused appellants, which makes her statements unreliable.	Reasoning
It is revealed from her evidence that, even though she knew that her husband was taken for shooting somebody, she kept quiet and did not stop her husband from accompanying the accused.	Reasoning
Such behavior would be suspicious as it does not fit with the natural human behavior to inspire any confidence.	Reasoning
Although this Court, on number of occasions, reiterated that mere relationship with the deceased will not be sufficient to discredit a witness, in the present circumstances, it is apparent that the wife was an interested witness due to earlier enmity between the accused.	Reasoning
Hence, we are of the considered opinion that the aforesaid witness does not inspire confidence for us to rely on the same.	Reasoning
Coming to the testimony of the PW14 (Umed Singh), the defense has tried to expos the aforesaid witness on certain contradictions and improvements, which needs our consideration.	None
At the outset, they question the presence of the aforesaid witness at Hisar, as the veracity of him being a chance witness is questionable.	None
Learned senior counsel for the accused appellant, has strenuously contended that PW14 is a chance witness, and contends that not much reliance may be placed on his statement.	None
Generally, the chance witness, who reasonably explains his presence in the named location at the relevant time, may be taken into consideration and should be given due regard, if his version inspires confidence and the same is supported by surrounding circumstances.	None
Nonetheless, the evidence of a chance witness requires a very cautious and close scrutiny.	None
A chance witness must adequately explain his presence at the place of occurrence refer Satbir v. Surat Singh, (1997) 4 SCC 192 Harjinder Singh v. State of Punjab, (2004) 11 SCC 253 .	None
Deposition of a chance witness whose presence at the place of 31 incident remains doubtful should be discarded refer Shankarlal v. State of Rajasthan, (2004) 10 SCC 632 .	None
The behavior of the chance witness, subsequent to the incident may also be taken into consideration particularly as to whether he has informed anyone else in the village about the incident.	None
refer Thangaiya v. State of Tamil Nadu, (2005) 9 SCC 650 .	None
It may be noted that the (PW14) has not explained as to why he was standing near the Bristol Prison so early at 400 AM in the morning of a peak winter day, when the first bus to the village was at 700 AM.	Reasoning
Moreover, it is doubtful that A3 would have brandished a gun, while travelling in the autorickshaw.	None
It is suspicious that even after getting to know that Chander Bhan was killed at Hisar, PW14 did not reveal to anybody that he saw the deceased in the company of the accused appellant in the morning travelling towards Hisar.	None
Indeed, it is quite unbelievable that a man, during peak of north Indian winter, would wait at 4 A.M for a bus, which is scheduled to leave at 700 AM morning.	Reasoning
These suspicious circumstances impugn the general 32 trustworthiness of PW14.	None
Therefore, this Court cannot accept the evidence of this witness as being credible.	Reasoning
Now coming to the evidence of Zile Singh (PW16).	None
He narrates that the three accused met him in the bus stop on the morning of 25.12.1993, when they confessed to their crime individually.	Reasoning
We may note that his statements are ridden with following unclarified doubts That the Zile Singh (PW16) accompanied the accused, after they confessed, from the bus stand to the police station.	None
Not taking the accused to the Police personnel present in the Bus stand.	Reasoning
That his presence in the police station itself is suspicious as the I.O. Bhim Singh (PW15) has contradicted Zile Singh (PW16) on this aspect.	Reasoning
That there is no signature of Zile Singh (PW16) on any of the documents in the Police Station.	Reasoning
In light of these circumstances, we need to be cautious in considering the statements of this witness.	Reasoning
Now we need to concentrate on the relevance of the alleged confessions of the coaccused made before Zile Singh (PW16).	None
In Re Periyaswami Moopan, AIR 1931 Mad. 177, Reilly J. 33 observed where there is evidence against the coaccused sufficient, if believed, to support his conviction, then the kind of confession described in Section 30 may be thrown into the scale as an additional reason for believing that evidence.	None
Therefore, the aforesaid extrajudicial confession against the coaccused needs to be taken into consideration if at all it is one, only if other independent evidence on record have established the basic premise of the prosecution.	None
The confession of the coaccused cannot be solely utilized to convict a person, when the surrounding circumstances are improbable and creates suspicion.	None
refer Haricharan Kurmi v. State of Bihar, AIR 1964 SC 1184 .	None
As the confession of a coaccused is weak piece of evidence, we need to consider whether other circumstances prove the prosecutions case.	None
On the aspect of recovery of pellets from a house at Adarsh Nagar, Hisar, it is an argument of the learned senior counsel, appearing on behalf of the appellant accused, that the FSL Report indicating the possibility of pellets being fired from the gun recovered from the confession of accused A3, should not be considered as the person, who made the report was not examinedis of some relevance.	Reasoning
The FSL report forms part of the evidence, which is shown to point out that the crime had taken place in the house at Adarsh Nagar, Hisar and gun of 0.15 bore belonging to A3 was used for the same.	Reasoning
The prosecution was expected to examine the author of the report, and nonexamination of the same is a fatal error in the case at hand.	None
Moreover, at the scene of occurrence, there was no blood or foot marks found, which is apparent from the evidence of PW8.	None
The last circumstance, pointed out by the learned senior counsel for appellant is that, if the intention of the accused appellant was indeed to murder the deceased, then, why would they take him to the Hospital.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereby, she extends this argument, to portray that the accused, never had an intention to kill the deceased.	Reasoning
It has not been explained by the prosecution, as to why such action would be undertaken by the accused and risk taking an alive person, who was shot, to the hospital.	Reasoning
The contention of the State that this was a diabolic act of perverted criminals, may not fit the evidence available on record.	Reasoning
In line with the aforesaid discussion on various circumstances, we may now identify the intermediate circumstances, which we are called upon to infer guilt from 1.)	None
On 15.12.1994, there was a local election, wherein main candidates were Maha Singh and Dharampal son of Beg Raj.	None
2.)	None
Chander Bhan (deceased) was the election agent as well as the supporter of Maha Singh.	Facts
3.)	None
On the day of the election, there was a fight between two factions, in which Maha Singh and one Darya were charged for firing gun shots at the supporters of Dharampal son of Beg Raj.	None
4.)	None
Maha Singh lost the elections, which was known to the accused party as well as deceased.	None
5.)	None
That Sobhat Singh A2, Dharampal son of Nanak Ram A1 and Chander Bhan (deceased), met on 15th16th mid night.	None
6.)	None
Near Hisar, the Chander Bhan was seen going with the accused around the time of the incident.	None
of doubtful veracity 7.)	None
Injured Chander Bhan was alive when he was brought to Hospital in Hisar by Sobhat Singh A1 and Dharampal A2.	None
8.)	None
Chander Bhans body was found to have sustained more than fifty ante mortem gun shot wounds.	None
9.)	None
Gun and pellets were recovered from an abandoned house in Adarsh Nagar.	None
10.)	None
Extrajudicial confession recorded before Zile Singh on 25.12.1994.	None
From the aforesaid circumstances, we may note that the hypothesis canvassed by the prosecution cannot be said to have been proved beyond reasonable doubt as there exist apparent gaps in the prosecution story, which are left incomplete or insufficiently proved.	Reasoning
In Latesh v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 2018 SC 659 , this court had observed the When you consider the facts, you have a reasonable doubt as to whether the matter is proved or whether it is not a reasonable doubt in this sense.	Reasoning
The reasonableness of a doubt must be a practical one and not on an abstract theoretical hypothesis.	Reasoning
Reasonableness is a virtue that forms as a mean between excessive caution and excessive indifference to a doubt.	None
In view of this proposition, we accept that there is no direct evidence which led the prosecution to clearly prove that deceased was shot at Adarsh Nagar in Hisar.	None
Even the circumstantial evidence which is led, has gaps in between.	Reasoning
In the narration above, there is a big hiatus between the time the accused left the village and the accused appellants were seen in the Hospital, at Hisar.	Reasoning
Neither the intermediate facts are established with certainty, nor the case as a whole is established beyond reasonable doubt.	Reasoning
We may note that every acquittal in a criminal case has to be taken with some seriousness by the investigating and prosecuting authorities, when a case of this nature is concerned.	Reasoning
We are aware of the fact that there has been a death of a person in this incident and there is no finality to the aforesaid episode as it ends with various unanswered questions, which point fingers at the lack of disciplined investigation and prosecution.	Reasoning
Although Courts cannot give benefit of doubt to the accused for small errors committed during the investigation, we cannot however, turn a blind eye towards the investigative deficiencies which goes to the root of the matter.	Reasoning
Now, coming to the case foisted against Dharambir, Umed Singh and Dharampal (sarpanch) sons of Beg Raj, in Criminal Appeal No. 1458 of 2012 (Sessions Case No. 62 of 1997 in Sessions Trial No. 97 of 1997).	None
The prosecution had examined PW1 (Dr. R.S. Bishnoi), PW2 (Dr. Surendra Singh), PW3 (ASIJagbir Singh), PW4 (Sobhat Singh A1) and PW5 (Dharampal son of Nanak Ram A2).	None
While the defense had led DW1 (Kamla), DW2 38 (Umed Singh), DW3 (Zile Singh), DW4 (Mewa Singh) and DW5 (Bhim Singh).	None
We have considered the reasoning of the court below in this case, which we accept.	Reasoning
Although this case was foisted to be a case of direct evidence, there is no credibility in the statements of the accused appellant as the surrounding circumstances have shown, as already indicated in the earlier parts of the judgment, to be against them.	Reasoning
We may note the golden rule of evidence that men may tell a lie, but the circumstances do not, which is squarely applicable in this case at hand.	Reasoning
Therefore, we cannot also accept the narrative of the accused appellant in the other appeals, as a gospel of truth.	Reasoning
In view of the discussion above, we allow the Criminal Appeal No(s).	None
14451446 of 2012, before us and simultaneously set aside the conviction and punishment as provided by the Trial Court in Sessions Case No. 60 of 1995 in Sessions Trial No. 22 of 1995, and dismiss the Criminal Appeal No. 1458 of 2012.	Decision
Further the concerned authorities are directed to release the appellants accused, if not required in any other case.	None
