 Chandrachud, C.J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave arises out of the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Lucknow, U.P. dated November 28, 1969.	Issue
On September 7, 1968 the Government of U.P. referred the following dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal under S.4(k) of the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act, 28 of 1947 Whether the action of the employers in deducting half wage corresponding to the sickness benefit to which workmen are entitled under the E.S.I. Act in the event of the workmen not availing the services of the E.S.I. is legal and or justified ?	Issue
If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled and with what details ?	None
2.	None
The respondentworkmen contended that the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (hereinafter called the E.S.I. Act) was adopted by the appellant, M s. Bareilly Electricity Supply Co. Ltd., in 1957, that the workmen used to enjoy, prior to 1957, 15 days sick leave with full wages every year in accordance with the terms of an award given by the State Tribunal, Allahabad, in adjudication case No. 33 of 1952, that under that award, the workmen were entitled to sick leave on full wages as a condition of their service, that they also became entitled to sickness benefit under the Employees State Insurance Scheme and that the appellant was not justified in reducing the wages to the extent of a halfdays wages in respect of employees availing of sick leave.3.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant contested the demand of the workmen on the grounds inter alia, that its action in deducing half wages corresponding to the sickness benefit to which the workmen were entitled under the Act in regard to the sick leave was in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 97 of the Employees State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950, that if any individual employee chose not to avail to of the benefit due to him from the E.S.I. Corporation on account of his sickness, a deduction of half the wages corresponding to the sickness benefit could be made by the employer and that the sickness benefit provided under the E.S.I. Act and the Scheme was in substitution of the benefits provided by the employer and not in addition thereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant raised an objection to the maintainability of the reference on the ground that the dispute referred by the State Government to the Tribunal was not an industrial dispute and contended further that the subjectmatter of the dispute fell within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Employees State Insurance Court set up under S.74 of the E.S.I. Act, as a result of which the Industrial Tribunal had no jurisdiction to deal with the dispute.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The objection to the maintainability of the reference and to the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunal to deal with it not having been pressed by the appellants counsel, the only question which we have to consider it whether the appellant can deduct halfdays wages corresponding to the sickness benefit to which the workmen are entitled under the E.S.I. Act, in the event of their not availing themselves of the benefits under the E.S.I. Scheme.5.	Facts
Before dealing with this question, it may be mentioned that the appellant has no objection to paying full wages for two days of sick leave to the workmen and in fact, it has been paying full wages for two days out of 15 days sick leave due to the workmen.	Reasoning
The reason for this course seems to be that the workmen do not get cash benefit for the first two days of the waiting period of sickness by reason of the provisions of S.49 of the E.S.I. Act.	Reasoning
The dispute in this appeal is, therefore, confined to a period of 13 days of sick leave only, for which the workmen are being paid half wages by the appellant.6.	Reasoning
To justify the deduction of half wages from 13 days of sick leave, the appellant relies on the provisions of S.72 of the E.S.I. Act and Regulation 97 framed under S.97(1) of the E.S.I. Act.	None
Section 72 reads thus Employer not to reduce the wages.	None
No employer by reason only of his liability for any contributions payable under this Act shall directly or indirectly reduce the wages of any employee, or except as provided by the regulations, discontinue or reduce benefits payable to him under the conditions of his service which are similar to the benefits conferred by the Act.	None
The relevant part of Regulation 97 is as follows Discontinuance or reduction of benefit.	None
An employer may discontinue or reduce the benefits payable to his employees under conditions of their service, which are similar to the benefits conferred by the Act to the extent specified below, namely (a) from the date of commencement of the first benefit period following the appointed day for his factory or establishment (i) sick leave on halfpay to the full extent(ii) such proportion of any combined general purposes and sick leave on halfpay as may be assigned as sick leave but in any case not exceeding 50 per cent of such combined leave(b) Provided that where an employee avails himself of any leave from the employer for sickness, maternity or temporary disablement, the employer shall be entitled to deduct from the leave salary of the employee the amount of benefit to which he may be entitled under the Act for the corresponding period.7.	None
The general purpose and effect of S. 72 is to deny to the employers the right or power to reduce or discontinue the benefit payable to the workmen under their conditions of service on the ground that the benefits available under the conditions of service and under the E.S.I. Act being similar, the workmen would not be entitled to a double benefit.	None
Section 72 provides in terms that the mere circumstances that an employer is liable to make a contribution under the E.S.I. Act will not entitle him, directly or indirectly, to reduce the wages of an employee or, in so far as the Regulations permits, discontinue or reduce the benefit payable to him under the conditions of his service even if those benefits are similar to the benefits conferred by the E.S.I. Act.	None
The case of the appellant before the Industrial Tribunal was that it was making a contribution to the E.S.I. Corporation for the benefit of its employees and if any individual employee chose not to avail of the benefits due to him from the Corporation on account of the sickness benefit, it is he who ought to suffer and there would be no justification for obliging the employer to spend for his sickness benefit twice over.	None
It is precisely this type of argument and attitude that the Legislature anticipated and guarded against by incorporating the particular provisions in S. 72.	None
The purpose of that provision is evidently to discourage employers from using the benefit provided under the E.S.I. Act as an excuse or justification for reducing or discontinuing the benefits available to the workmen under their conditions of service on the ground of similarly between the two types of benefits.8.	None
That leads to the question as to whether Regulation 97 can justify the deduction made by the appellant.	None
Regulation 97 provides that an employer may discontinue or reduce the benefits payable to his employees under the conditions of their service which are similar to the benefits conferred by the E.S.I. Act but only to the extent specified in cls.	Reasoning
(a) and (b) of the Regulation.	Reasoning
We are not concerned with cl.	Reasoning
(b) and subcls.	None
(i) and (ii) of cl.	Reasoning
(a) have no application in the instant case.9.	Reasoning
The appellant relies strongly on the proviso to Regulation 97 under which, where an employee avails himself of any leave from the employer for sickness, the employer shall be entitled to deduct from his leave salary the amount of benefit to which he may be entitled under the Act for the corresponding period.	Reasoning
The case of the appellant is that it is enough for justifying the deduction from wages due to the workmen for sick leave that the employee is covered by the E.S.I. Act or the E.S.I. Scheme.	Reasoning
It is not possible to accept this submission.	Reasoning
In the first place S.46 of the E.S.I. Act would show that employees who are covered by the E.S.I. Act are entitled to certain benefits subject to the provisions of the E.S.I. Act.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, not as if the workmen are entitled to the benefits absolutely and without compliance with the conditions laid down by the Act or the Regulations.	Reasoning
Secondly, the proviso to Regulation 97 days says that the employer shall be entitled to deduct from the leave salary of the employee, the amount of benefit to which he may be entitled under the E.S.I. Act for the corresponding period of his sickness.	Reasoning
A workman does not become entitled to the amount payable to him by way of sickness benefit unless, in the first instance, he chooses to avail himself of the sickness benefit.	Reasoning
That benefit cannot be forced on him.	Reasoning
This would show that the employers right to make a deduction from the employees sick leave wages can only be exercised in respect of those days of sickness leave for which the workman has actually availed of the sickness benefit.	Reasoning
Benefits which are available under the E.S.I. Act are not intended as substitutes for benefits to which the workmen are entitled under the conditions of their service.	Reasoning
As states earlier, a workmen becomes entitled to sickness benefit only if he is qualified for it and he gets a cash benefit only if he avails himself of the sickness benefit.	Reasoning
Thus, it is only when a workman, in fact obtains or receives a cash benefit that the employer can exercise his right to make a deduction from wages due to him by way of leave salary.10.	Reasoning
The decision of this Court in Hindustan Times Ltd. v. Their Workmen, 1963I L.L.J. 108 (1964) 1 S.C.R. 234, is not directly in point but it can be cited in support of our reasoning to the extent which it holds that in providing for periodical payments to an insured worker in case of sickness the Legislature did not intend to substitute any of those benefits for the workmens right to get leave on full pay on the grounds of sickness.11.	Reasoning
For these reasons, we confirm the award of the Industrial Tribunal and dismiss the appeal with costs.	Decision
