Uday Umesh Lalit, J. These appeals by special leave challenge the judgment and order dated 15.02.2008 passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana.	None
Criminal Appeal Nos.10411042 of 2008 are by Ashwani Kumar Ashu and Joginder Singh, Criminal Appeal No.1043 of 2008 is by Anil Kumar while Criminal Appeal No.1814 of 2009 is by Darshan Singh.	None
The appellants stand convicted under Sections 364/302/307 read with Section 120B IPC.	None
Since these appeals arise from the same judgment, they are being dealt with and disposed by this common judgment.	None
Initially eleven persons were sent for trial while two absconding accused were marked as proclaimed offenders.	None
The trial court convicted seven out of those eleven accused and acquitted four accused.	None
In the appeals by the convicted accused, the High Court acquitted three more accused, confirming the conviction and sentence of the present appellants.	Issue
Since the acquittal of others has attained finality, the facts narrated hereafter are confined to the appellants herein.	None
One Jaswinder Kaur Jassi, normally residing with her parents in Canada, married PW15 Sukhwinder Singh resident of village Kaoka Khosa, District Sangroor, Punjab on 15.04.1999.	Facts
It was a court marriage and against the wishes of her parents and her maternal uncle.	Facts
Jassi thereafter went to Canada on 02.05.1999 and while she was there, on the basis of a fax message (Ext.PAO) allegedly under her signature, FIR No.38 dated 23.02.2000 was registered with Police Station Sadar Jagraon against PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh under Sections 342, 467, 468, 471 and 506 of the IPC.	Facts
When Jassi got to know about this, she came back to India and appeared before the police.	Facts
Her statement was recorded that she had married PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh out of her free will, that the alleged signature on the fax message was not hers and that the marriage was not to the liking of her parents and maternal uncle.	Facts
Her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was also recorded and thereafter closure in respect of said crime was ordered.	Facts
Jassi then started living with her husband in the house of PW 20 Sukhdev Singh, maternal uncle of her husband, in village Narike.3.	Facts
On 08.06.2000 PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh and Jassi were coming back on a scooter from Malerkotla to their village and when they had reached village Sykhe at about 9.30 PM, four persons armed with hockey sticks and swords got down from a white Maruti car and attacked them.	Facts
PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh received number of injuries.	Facts
Leaving him in injured condition, those persons forcibly took away Jassi in that car.	Facts
PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh somehow managed to reach the house of PW 20 Sukhdev Singh who got him admitted in the Civil Hospital, Malerkotla, where PW1 Dr. Amit Modi found him to have suffered the following injuries 1. 2 X 1cm incised wound over left side of face 2 cm below ear pinna.2.	Facts
Swelling and tenderness over left side of mandible.3.	Facts
10 X .5 cm wound over left side of scalp 8 cm over left pinna.4.	Facts
4X .5 cm incised wound over left side of scalp in temporal area 2 cm above ear pinna.5. 3 X .5cm incised wound over left side of scalp 3 cm above ear pinna in temporal area 2 cm from injury No. 4.6.	Facts
4.5 X .5cm incised wound over left side of scalp 6 cm above ear pinna 1cm away from injury No. 4 and 2cm away from injury No. 57.	Facts
4 X 3cm lacerated wound with this much of it hanging and attached to remaining scalp by superficial layer of skin only 1cm from injury No.6.	Facts
For injuries No. 1 to 7 Xray was advised.8.	Facts
8 X 4cm incised wound from web space between middle and ring finger proximally towards wrist jointcutting all structures from skin to skin from dorsal to ventral aspect of hand, cutting, skin, nerves, tenden and bone.9.	Facts
2 x .5cm incised wound over right little finger proximal phalanx over the dorsal aspect.10.	Facts
Right ring finger amputated obliquely at middle phalanx.	Facts
Wound margins sharp clean cut.	Facts
For injuries No. 8 to 10 Xray was advised.	Facts
In all the injuries except injury No. 2 fresh bleeding was present.	Facts
Injuries No. 1 to 8 were kept under observation, whereas injuries No. 9 and 10 were grievous.	Facts
Probable duration of injuries was within six hours.	Facts
The kind of weapon used for injuries No. 1,3,4,5,6,8,9 and 10 was sharp, whereas for injuries No. 2 and 7 was blunt.	Facts
PW1 Dr. Amit Modi sent intimation or ruqa Ext.PB to the police who recorded the statement of PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh, in which it was stated as under .I was coming back alongwith my wife Jaswinder Kaur on scooter from Malerkotla to Village Narike and when we reached the Village of Syhke, a white Maruti car was parked near the bridge of the drain and when we reached nearby, then 4 persons came out of said Maruti car who were armed with hockeys and swords and attacked us.	Facts
I received many injuries and I was thrown and my wife was forcibly kidnapped with intention to kill her.	Facts
I, on my scooter in staggering condition, reached the house of my maternal parents.	Facts
Sukhdev Singh, my maternal uncle got me admitted in the Civil Hospital, Malerkotla.	Facts
You have written my statement and it is correct.	Facts
I have doubts against Hardev Singh Mintu etc. s	Facts
o	Facts
Darbara Singh, Village Kaonke Khosa who have done this.	Facts
I can identify others when brought before me.	Facts
FIR No. 48 was accordingly registered with police station Amargarh under Sections 307, 364 and 34 IPC at about 1.50 AM on 09.06.2000.	Facts
PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh was then referred and taken to Christian Medical College, Ludhiana for further treatment where he was attended to by PW 2 Dr. Deepak Bansal and PW 4 Dr. Subhasish Das.	Facts
On 09.06.2000 at about 10.00 AM one Bahadur Singh of Village Bolara while going to his agricultural field found dead body of a young lady aged about 2223 years lying in water on the edge of minor canal.	Facts
He reported the matter to the police, pursuant to which FIR No.197 dated 09.06.2000 under Section 302 IPC was registered with the police station Sadar Ludhiana.	Facts
The body was identified to be that of Jassi.	Facts
In the post mortem conducted by a Board of three doctors on 10.06.2000 at about 4.00 PM, following injuries were noticed on the body of Jassi An incised wound 7 inch x 2 inch into muscle deep in front of the neck.b.	Facts
An incised wound just below the chin 4 inch x 2 inch was cutting the skin, sub coetaneous tissue and muscles.c.	Facts
An incised wound 6 x x skin deep on the front of chest placed horizontally.	None
The post mortem further indicated The cause of death in this case in our opinion was due to shock and hemorrhage as a result of injury to the vital organs, which were sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.	None
All the injuries were antemortem in nature.	Facts
On 09.06.2000 itself a supplementary statement of PW15 Sukhwinder Singh was recorded in which he gave the number of said Maruti car as DNJ 4862 and also stated his firm belief that the occurrence had been committed in connivance with Hardev Singh Mintu, Surjeet Singh, Malkiat Singh, Darshan Singh and Gurnek Singh Bhatti.	Facts
It appears that despite such clear assertions no arrests were effected.	Facts
The matter was being investigated by PW 38 SubInspector Hardeep Singh who had gone to the spot on 09.06.2000 and prepared the site plan and was able to recover one sandal, a handle of cricket bat and upper portion of a hockey stick.	Facts
Under the orders of the Special Superintendent of Police, investigation was taken up by PW 40 Inspector Swarn Singh on 20.06.2000.	Facts
Hardev Singh whose name was mentioned in the FIR as well as supplementary statement was arrested on 21.06.2000 while Darshan Singh was arrested on 22.06.2000.	Facts
On 28.06.2000 Anil Kumar was arrested, while six others including Ashwani Kumar Ashu were arrested on 30.06.2000.7.	Facts
While he was in custody, statement of Anil Kumar was recorded which led to the discovery of a pistol, three live cartridges and one Maruti car bearing no.	Facts
DNJ 4862 from which a mobile having No.9814011272 and an additional SIM having No.9814038404 were recovered.	Facts
Blood stained portion of back seat of the car was cut and seized.	Facts
The statement of Ashwani Kumar led to the discovery of a kirpan and a photograph of Jassi (Ext.P38) from a farm named Bolara Farm.	Facts
On the back side of the photograph, in Gurumukhi was written her name, physical description including complexion and the clothes that she would normally wear.	Facts
The description was meant to enable a stranger to identify with clarity the person in the photograph.	Facts
It was a full photograph taken out from the collection of someone known to her or the family.	Facts
From the house of Ashwani Kumar mobiles were seized with numbers 9814014562 and 9316053404.8.	Facts
On 05.07.2000 statement of PW 5 Jagdeep Singh was recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C to the effect that about one and a half months before, one Gurwinder Singh and Ashwani Kumar had taken him and PW6 Harjeet Singh to the dhaba of one pahlwan in a tempo.	Facts
They were told to give beating to PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh as he had contracted marriage with a girl related to Ashwani Kumar without the consent of her family.	Facts
Said PW 5 Jagdeep Singh and PW 6 Harjeet Singh not having agreed to, they left the dhaba.	Facts
Later in the newspaper he saw the photograph of PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh and his wife and therefore had appeared before the Investigating Officer to get the statement recorded before the Magistrate.	Facts
To the similar effect was the statement of PW 6 Harjeet Singh which was also recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. on 05.07.2000.9.	Facts
On 12.07.2000 a request was made to PW 23 Shri B.S. Deol, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Malerkotla to conduct Test Identification Parade in respect of accused Anil Kumar, Ashwani Kumar and other named accused.	Facts
However, he received letters (Ext. PO, Ext. PO5 and Ext.PO6) from the concerned Jail Superintendent that the accused were not willing to subject themselves to the such test.10.	Facts
On 18.07.2000 statement of PW7 Jasbir Singh under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded that Anil Kumar, Ashwani Kumar, Ginder and Tony were his friends and they would often assemble on the farm of Anil Kumar for drinks and meals.	Facts
It was further stated that on 16.06.2000 when they had so assembled, Anil Kumar asked him if he had read the newspaper of the day and upon his answering in the negative Anil Kumar stated that news regarding the murder of Jassi had appeared in the newspaper of that day which murder was committed by them.	Facts
Anil Kumar further stated that Joginder Singh Thanedar was with them and the parents of the girl had given them money through Joginder Singh, Thanedar for the said murder.	Facts
On 22.07.2000 PW8 Bhagwan Singh produced one tempo bearing No.PB10/9719 before the police.	Facts
This was the tempo stated to have been used by Ashwani Kumar and Gurwinder Singh for taking PW5 Jagdeep Singh and PW6 Harjeet Singh to the dhaba of pahlwan.11.	Facts
On 26.07.2000 Joginder Singh, serving police officer was arrested but was released on bail, the same day.	Facts
He was later rearrested on 19.01.2001 after his bail was cancelled.	Facts
On 29.08.2000 an application was moved by the police for taking specimen handwriting of Ashwani Kumar who was then confined in District Jail, Sangroor to compare with the writing found on the back side of the photograph of Jassi (Ext.P38).	Facts
PW23 Shri B.S. Deol, Judicial Magistrate asked the Superintendent of Jail to take the specimen handwriting of Ashwani Kumar.	Facts
However, Ashwani Kumar vide Ext. DK dated 05.09.2000 refused to submit his specimen handwriting.12.	Facts
After completion of investigation chargesheet was filed against eleven persons while Surjeet Singh, maternal uncle and Malkiat Kaur, mother of Jassi were declared proclaimed offenders.	Facts
It was the case of the prosecution that the accused had hatched the conspiracy to commit the murder of Jassi and had caused injuries to PW15 Sukhwinder Singh and thus committed the offences with which they were charged.	Facts
It was alleged that the marriage of Jassi with PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh, who was simply a three wheeler driver, was not to the liking of the mother and the maternal uncle of Jassi.	Facts
The prosecution in support of its case examined 45 witnesses and produced number of documents on record while 42 witnesses were examined in defence.	Facts
The gist of the testimony of the witnesses examined by the prosecution, inter alia, was as under PW3 Dr. Jasbir Singh who was one of the doctors conducting the postmortem on the body of Jassi, stated about her injuries and the cause of death and that kirpan	Facts
Ext.P12 recovered pursuant to disclosure statement could have caused those injuries.ii) PW1 Dr. Amit Modi, PW2 Dr. Deepak Bansal and PW4 Dr. Subhasis Das deposed about the injuries of PW15 Sukhwinder Singh and the treatment given to him by them.iii)	Facts
PW5 Jagdeep Singh and PW6 Harjeet Singh stated about their meeting with Ashwani Kumar and Gurwinder at the dhaba of a pahlwan and that they did not agree to the proposal of beating PW15 Sukhwinder Singh.	Facts
They identified the tempo and stated about having given statements under Section 164 Cr.P.C.iv)	Facts
PW7 Jasbir Singh deposed that Ashwani Kumar, Anil Kumar, Ginder and Tony were his friends, that they had met at a farm on 16.06.2000 when Anil Kumar had asked him whether he had read newspaper of the day.	Facts
He further deposed that Anil Kumar stated that they had committed the murder of Jassi, that Joginder Singh Thanedar was with them and that the money was paid through said Joginder Singh.	Facts
He stated about having given a statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.v) PW8 Bhagwant Singh deposed that his tempo PB10/9719 was impounded by CIA staff of which Joginder Singh was incharge and that the tempo was released on 07.06.2000 after he had paid money as demanded.	Facts
This version was corroborated by PW9 Jagir Singh.vi) PW14 Barjinder Singh stated that on 08.06.2000 he saw a car of white colour with four persons standing close by.	Facts
Later he heard the voice of a woman asking for help and that those persons had forcibly taken her away.	Facts
Though he failed to identify the persons, his version supported the case as regards the location and the time of incident.vii) PW15 Sukhwinder Singh deposed that he was married with Jassi on15.03.1999, that it was against the wishes of her parents, that Malkiat Kaur and Surjeet Singh viz.	Facts
mother and maternal uncle of Jassi, used to give him threats and stated how the incident occurred on 08.06.2000.	Facts
He had shown his willingness and capacity to identify the assailants and did identify Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar in court.viii)	Facts
PW20 Sukhdev Singh, uncle of PW15 Sukhwinder Singh who had taken him to the hospital, supported the version of PW15 Sukhwinder Singh.ix)	Facts
PW23 B.S. Deol, Judicial Magistrate spoke about the refusal on part of Anil Kumar and Ashwani Kumar to participate in test identification parade and refusal by Ashwani Kumar to give his specimen handwriting.x)	Facts
PW24 constable Bikkar Singh deposed about the recoveries effected from Bolara Farm pursuant to the disclosure statement of the accused.xi)	Facts
PW27 Charan Preet Singh stated that he knew Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar and that they used to call from their telephone numbers.xi) PW32 Jaswinder Singh deposed that at the request of ADGP, Punjab, Intelligence his company had supplied copies of print outs of telephone Nos.9814014562, 9814031374, 9814011272, 9814090919, 9814075614 and 9814036765.	Facts
PW34 Ved Prakash Julka produced the record pertaining to telephone No.605219 installed in the name of Joginder Singh.xii) PW37 SI Harjinder Singh deposed about the FIR No.38 dated 23.02.2000 which was registered pursuant to fax message Ext.PAO and that he had recorded the statement of Jassi.	Facts
He further stated about the statement of Jassi under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and that he had recommended cancellation after having found the case to be false.xiii)	Facts
PW38 SI Hardeep Singh spoke about the registration of FIR in the present case and the investigation conducted by him till it was handed over to PW41 Inspector Swaran Singh who in turn deposed about various stages of investigation including the arrests of the accused, disclosure statements made by the accused and the recoveries made pursuant thereto and various other aspects.	Facts
The trial court after considering the material on record and hearing rival submissions, vide its judgment dated 21.10.2005 found that the prosecution had successfully proved its case against seven accused persons including the appellants.	Facts
It found them guilty under Section 302/364/307 read with Section 120B IPC.	Facts
Accused Anil Kumar, Ashwani Kumar Ashu, Gurwinder Singh Ginder and Gursharan Singh Tony were sentenced under Section 302 IPC to undergo life imprisonment, under Section 364 IPC to undergo RI for 10 years and under Section 307 IPC to undergo RI for seven years with separate sentences of fine and sentences in default.	Facts
Three other accused, namely, Joginder Singh, Hardev Singh and Darshan Singh were convicted with the aid of Section 120B IPC and sentenced to suffer similar imprisonment on the aforesaid three counts.	Facts
However benefit of doubt was given to other four accused, namely, Jaswant Singh Soni, Ravinder Singh Lilu, Kamaljeet Singh Komal and Gurnek Singh Bhatti and they were acquitted of all the charges.	Facts
All seven convicted accused filed Criminal Appeal Nos.836DB/2005 and 921DB/2005 before the High Court, which gave benefit of doubt to Hardev Singh, Gurwinder Singh and Gursharan Singh Tony and acquitted them, while it confirmed the conviction and sentence of the present appellants, which judgment is now under challenge in the present appeals.14.	Facts
As regards appellants Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar, the trial court as well as the High Court have principally relied upon the evidence regarding assault on PW15 Sukhwinder Singh as stated by him and the fact that he identified them to be part of the group of assailants.	Facts
The extra judicial confession, as stated by PW7 Jasbir Singh and the recoveries effected pursuant to the disclosure statements were relied upon.	Facts
The testimony of PW5 Jagdeep Singh and PW6 Harjeet Singh as well as the communications between the accused soon before and after the incident of assault on PW15 Sukhwinder Singh and kidnapping of Jassi were also relied upon.	Facts
The other two appellants were found guilty with the aid of Section 120B IPC as conspirators.	Facts
The telephonic communications between them and Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar were relied upon as against Joginder Singh and Darshan Singh.	Facts
Appearing for Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar, Mr. R.K. Kapoor, learned Advocate submitted that identification by PW15 Sukhwinder Singh for the first time in court could not be taken as conclusive evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence in the form of extra judicial confession was also not conclusive inasmuch as certain other accused, though named in such confession were acquitted by the courts below.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri K.T.S. Tulsi, learned senior Advocate appearing for Joginder Singh submitted that in a subsequent trial initiated against Joginder Singh on the allegation of demand of bribe for releasing the same tempo bearing No.	Arguments of Petitioner
PB10/9719, he was honourably acquitted and as such said judgment would operate as issue estoppel.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Ratnakar K. Dash learned senior Advocate appearing for Darshan Singh submitted that the landline telephone number in question stated to be that of Darshan Singh was actually in the name of his brother installed at the residence of said brother and there was no evidence to suggest that it was exclusively under the control of Darshan Singh.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any case daughter of Darshan Singh was married to the son of Surjeet Singh, maternal uncle of Jassi and as such calls from the said landline number to the number in Canada were completely justified and no inference could be drawn that said Darshan Singh was one of the conspirators.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appearing for State of Punjab Shri Jayant K. Sud, Additional Advocate General assisted by Ms. Jasleen Chahal, Assistant Advocate General took us through the entire record.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the offence in the present case was an act of conspiracy which was clear from the fact that fax message Ext.PAO had originated from the same number in Canada with which the accused Ashwani Kumar Ashu and Anil Kumar were constantly in touch, that the backside of the photograph (Ext.P38) and the conversations deposed to by PW5 Jagdeep Singh and PW6 Harjeet Singh lend complete corroboration, that identification by PW15 Sukhwinder Singh was completely trustworthy and fully reliable, that the record of telephonic conversations show all the four appellants were in touch with each other as well as with the number in Canada soon before and immediately after the occurrence, that the recoveries of kirpan, bloodstained seat cover and photograph (Ext.P38) corroborated the prosecution case and that the extra judicial confession as stated by PW7 Jasbir Singh further clinched the issue.	Arguments of Respondent
The evidence of PW15 Sukhwinder Singh regarding the occurrence that took place on 08.06.2000 is fully supported by the medical evidence on record.	None
He was immediately taken for medical attention and found to have suffered 10 injuries, some of which were by sharp cutting weapon.	None
His assertion regarding the place of incident and the manner in which the occurrence took place is also supported by another witness PW14 Berjinder Singh.	None
Though said witness failed to identify the assailants as he had watched the incident from a distance, he lends complete support to PW15 as regards other material particulars.	None
Considering the nature of injuries suffered by him and the fact that Jassi was forcibly taken by the assailants the entire incident could certainly have afforded sufficient time and opportunity to PW15 to recollect and identify the assailants.	None
The law on the point is wellsettled that if the witness is trustworthy and reliable, the mere fact that no test identification parade was conducted would not be a reason to discard the evidence of the witness.	None
It was observed by this Court in Ashok Debbarma Vs.	None
State of Tripura (2014) 4 SCC 747 )as under 21 The abovementioned decisions would indicate that while the evidence of identification of an accused at a trial is admissible as substantive piece of evidence, it would depend on the facts of a given case as to whether or not such a piece of evidence can be relied upon as the sole basis of conviction of an accused.	None
In Malkhansingh V. State of M.P., this Court clarified that the test identification parade is not a substantive piece of evidence and to hold the test identification parade is not even the rule of law but a rule of prudence so that the identification of accused inside the courtroom at the trial can be safely relied upon.	None
We are of the view that if the witnesses are trustworthy and reliable, the mere fact that no test identification parade was conducted, itself, would not be a reason for discarding the evidence of those witnesses.	None
The prosecution had made the witness available for test identification but the concerned accused had refused to participate in the test.	None
Though there was no reason for such refusal and adverse inference could be drawn against the accused, we still looked for other corroborating material which is available in the form of extra judicial confession as deposed to by PW7 Jasbir Singh and the incident which had happened at the dhaba of pahlwan as spoken by PW5 Jagdeep Singh and PW6 Harjeet Singh.	Reasoning
The fact that a photograph of Jassi (Ext.P38) was recovered pursuant to disclosure statement by Ashwani Kumar is another circumstance.	None
That photograph (Ext.P38) was recovered from Bolara Farm which was under the control of Anil Kumar.	None
The description of Jassi in Gurumukhi on the back side of the photograph is crucial.	None
Refusal on part of Ashwani Kumar to give his specimen hand writing must lead to adverse inference against him.	None
The recovery of weapon, namely, kirpan which according to the doctor could have resulted in the injuries suffered by PW15 Sukhwinder Singh and Jassi and the bloodstained seat cover are other circumstances lending complete corroboration.	Reasoning
The communication by Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar with the number in Canada which itself was the source for the faxmessage Ext.PAO is another circumstance.	Reasoning
All these circumstances stand proved and clearly point in the direction of the guilt of Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar and additionally lend complete support to the testimony of and identification by PW 15 Sukhwinder Singh.	Reasoning
The courts below were therefore perfectly justified in finding Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar guilty of the offences under Sections 364/307 and 302 IPC.	None
We now deal with the case of the other appellants.	None
The submission advanced by Shri Tulsi that the subsequent judgment will operate as issue estoppel is not correct.	None
First and foremost the offences are different and distinct.	None
The rule regarding issue estoppel relates to admissibility of evidence in subsequent proceedings which is designed to upset a finding of fact recorded on the previous occasion and mandates that the finding so rendered on earlier occasion must operate as issue estoppel in subsequent proceedings.	None
It makes it impermissible to lead any such evidence at a subsequent stage or occasion.	Reasoning
The attempt on part of Mr. Tulsi is just the opposite.	None
He seeks to rely on the finding at a subsequent stage to upset a finding of fact recorded on a previous occasion.	None
The law on the point was succinctly stated by this Court in Sangeetaben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Gujarat (2012) 7 SCC 621 )in following words This Court has time and again explained the principle of issue estoppel in a criminal trial observing that where an issue of fact has been tried by a competent court on an earlier occasion and a finding has been recorded in favour of the accused, such a finding would constitute an estoppel or res judicata against the prosecution, not as a bar to the trial and conviction of the accused for a different or distinct offence, but as precluding the acceptance reception of evidence to disturb the finding of fact when the accused is tried subsequently for a different offence.	None
This rule is distinct from the doctrine of double jeopardy as it does not prevent the trial of any offence but only precludes the evidence being led to prove a fact in issue as regards which evidence has already been led and a specific finding has been recorded at an earlier criminal trial.	None
Thus, the rule relates only to the admissibility of evidence which is designed to upset a finding of fact recorded by a competent court in a previous trial on a factual issue We therefore reject the submission.	None
As per deposition of PW8 Bhagwan Singh and other material on record, the tempo in question bearing No.PB10/9719 was under the control of Joginder Singh.	Reasoning
It was this tempo which was used by Ashwani Kumar as stated by PW5 Jagdeep Singh and PW 6 Harjeet Singh.	Reasoning
The telephonic conversations between Joginder Singh, a serving police officer and Ashwani Kumar and Anil Kumar just before and soon after the incident are extremely crucial.	Reasoning
No explanation has been offered on part of Joginder Singh.	Reasoning
The record further indicates that Joginder Singh was also in touch with the same number from Canada, in respect of which again there is no explanation.	Reasoning
In the extra judicial confession deposed to by PW7, there is clear assertion that parents of Jassi had given money through Joginder Singh.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we fully agree with the assessment made by the courts below in finding Joginder Singh guilty of the offences under Sections 364, 302 and 367 IPC with the aid of Section 120B IPC.	Reasoning
His conviction and sentence, in our considered view, is completely justified.21.	Reasoning
However, as regards Darshan Singh all that the prosecution has produced is the record of telephonic conversations.	Reasoning
No doubt that there have been communications with Ashwani Kumar, Anil Kumar, Joginder Singh and the number from Canada but such communications are from a landline number which stands in the name of the brother of Darshan Singh.	Reasoning
There is no evidence on record that the said landline number was under the exclusive control of Darshan Singh.	Reasoning
Secondly, given the fact that his daughter is married with the son of Surjeet Singh from Canada, the conversations with the number in Canada are explainable.	Reasoning
It is true that suspicion against Darshan Singh was expressly stated in the first statement of PW15 Sukhwinder Singh itself.	Reasoning
However, apart from telephonic conversations nothing has been placed on record by the prosecution.	Reasoning
We, therefore, give benefit of doubt to Darshan Singh and acquit him of the charges leveled against him.	Reasoning
In the circumstances Criminal Appeal Nos.10411042 of 2008 preferred by Ashwani Kumar Ashu and Joginder Singh and Criminal Appeal No.1043 of 2008 by Anil Kumar are dismissed affirming the orders of conviction and sentence recorded against them.	Decision
The appeal of Darshan Singh, namely, Crl.	Decision
Appeal No.1814 of 2009 is allowed and he is acquitted of all the charges.	Decision
The bail bonds furnished by him stand cancelled.	Decision
Ashwani Kumar Ashu, Anil Kumar and Joginder Singh who were not granted bail, must undergo the sentences awarded.	Decision
