 Jagdish Singh Khehar, J. Leave granted in Special Leave Petition (C) Nos. 74907491 of 2014.	None
Two company petitions, i.e., Company Petition Nos. 170 of 1995 and 35 of 1997 were filed by Videocon International Ltd. and Tapti Machines Pvt. Ltd., for winding up of Deve Sugars Ltd. before the High Court of Judicature at Madras.	Facts
Deve Sugars Ltd. was running a sugar factory in the State of Karnataka.	Facts
Deve Sugars Ltd. was ordered to be wound up on 16.4.1999.	Facts
An Official Liquidator was accordingly directed to take possession of the properties of the company  Deve Sugars Ltd	Facts
The Official Liquidator took possession of the assets of the company situate at Harige (in District Shimoga, in the State of Karnataka), on 28.9.1999.	Facts
The State Bank of Mysore had also extended some loans to Deve Sugars Ltd When Deve Sugars Ltd. defaulted in the repayment of the loans, the State Bank of Mysore filed Original Application Nos. 440 of 1997 and 1300 of 1997, before the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Bangalore, (hereinafter referred to as, the DRT, Bangalore) for the recovery of Rs. 22,31,78,558.55.	Facts
During the course of the instant proceedings, the DRT, Bangalore issued a recovery certificate in the sum of Rs. 8.40 crores.	Facts
It would be relevant to mention, that the State Bank of Mysore also filed Company Application Nos.12511253 of 1999, in the pending Company Petition No.170 of 1995, before the High Court at Madras, seeking leave to proceed with the recovery proceedings before the DRT, Bangalore, under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as, the RDB Act).	Facts
The Company Court in the High Court at Madras, while granting leave to the State Bank of Mysore, passed the following order on 10.3.2000 (while disposing of Company Application Nos. 12511253 of 1999)	Facts
This company application praying this Court to grant leave to the applicant Bank to proceed and prosecute further O.A. No.1300 of 1997 filed by them against the respondent Company in the Debt Recovery Tribunal at Bangalore.	Facts
Company Applications coming on this day before this Court for hearing in the presence of Mr. R. Varichandran advocate for the applicant, herein and the official liquidator, High Court, Madras, the respondent, appearing in person, and upon reading the Judges Summons and affidavit and report of the Official Liquidator filed herein, the Court made the following orders Leave is granted subject to the condition that official liquidator is impleaded and no coercive steps are taken against the assets of the company during or after the conclusion of the proceedings before the Tribunal.	Facts
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
A perusal of the above order reveals, that leave was granted, subject to the condition that the Official Liquidator, was impleaded before the DRT, Bangalore, and further, that no coercive steps would be taken against the assets of the company  Deve Sugars Ltd., during or after the conclusion of proceedings before the DRT, Bangalore.	Facts
On 1.8.2001, the workers union of Deve Sugars Ltd. was granted the responsibility to overlook security arrangements of the establishment of Deve Sugars Ltd Immediately after the DRT, Bangalore, issued the recovery certificate, the State Bank of Mysore moved DCP No.1912 in Original Application No.440 of 1997, seeking the disposal of the assets of the company in liquidation, at the hands of the Recovery Officer of the DRT, Bangalore (hereinafter referred to as, the Recovery Officer).	Facts
Simultaneously, the State Bank of Mysore being conscious of the order passed by the High Court at Madras on 10.3.2000, filed Company Application No.1300 of 2003, with a prayer that it be permitted to seek execution of the recovery certificate dated 15.5.2002 (for recovering the amounts due to it, from out of the assets of Deve Sugars Ltd.).	Reasoning
It is relevant to mention, that the aforesaid Company Application No.1300 of 2003 was not entertained by the Registry of the High Court at Madras.	None
While declining to entertain Company Application No.1300 of 2003, the Registry of the High Court at Madras, relied upon a judgment rendered by this Court in Civil Appeal No. 2536 of 2000 (reported as Allahabad Bank v. Canara Bank, (2000) 4 SCC 406 ).	None
While not entertaining Company Application No.1300 of 2003, the Registry of the High Court recorded the following endorsement ORDER As per order in Civil Appeal no.2536/00 as reported in 2000	None
(3) SCC 205.	None
Leave is not necessary.	None
Consequent upon the return of Company Application No.1300 of 2003, it came to be assumed by the State Bank of Mysore, that leave of the High Court, was not required for the sale of the assets of Deve Sugars Ltd Accordingly, the State Bank of Mysore approached the Recovery Officer, for the disposal of the assets of Deve Sugars Ltd., in continuation of the recovery certificate issued by the DRT dated 15.5.2002.	Facts
On the above prayer of the State Bank of Mysore, the Recovery Officer issued a proclamation of sale in Form13, by following the procedure prescribed under the RDB Act.	Facts
The auction of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd., in the first instance, was fixed for 1.10.2014.	Facts
At the instant juncture, the workers union (Tungabadra Sugar Works Mazdoor Sangh), of Deve Sugars Ltd., approached the High Court of Karnataka, by filing Writ Petition No.37991 of 2004.	Facts
Through the above writ petition, the workers union assailed the recovery proceedings initiated by the State Bank of Mysore, before the Recovery Officer.	Facts
The workers union also sought an interim direction from the High Court of Karnataka, to restrain the continuation of the sale proceedings, at the hands of the Recovery Officer, because their salary and provident fund dues, were still payable by Deve Sugars Ltd The aforesaid prayer was made by asserting, that the workers union had a preferential claim, as against the claim of the State Bank of Mysore, under the provisions of the Companies Act.	Facts
A learned single Judge of the High Court of Karnataka, while issuing notice, directed that the sale made by the Recovery Officer would be subject to the final outcome of the writ petition.	Facts
It would also be relevant to reiterate, that the Official Liquidator was authorized by the High Court at Madras, to take over possession of the properties of the company under liquidation.	Facts
The Official Liquidator had accordingly taken over possession of the said properties on 28.9.1999.	Facts
While permitting the State Bank of Mysore to pursue the recovery proceedings against Deve Sugars Ltd. before the DRT, the High Court at Madras, had directed that the Official Liquidator be impleaded as a respondent before the DRT.	Facts
The Official Liquidator, had also raised objections to the purported sale by the Recovery Officer (in continuation of the recovery certificate dated 15.5.2002, issued by the DRT).	Facts
The Official Liquidator sought deferment of the sale proceedings at the hands of the Recovery Officer, under Section 529A of the Companies Act.	Facts
It would be relevant to mention, that the objections raised by the workers union and the Official Liquidator, were overruled by the Recovery Officer.	Facts
It is also pertinent to mention, that the auction scheduled by the Recovery Officer for 1.10.2004, could not be conducted.	Facts
Accordingly, a fresh proclamation was issued, for the auction of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd., fixing 11.8.2005 as the date for holding the auction.	Facts
The rival parties were also permitted to bring their buyers, if there was anyone interested.	Facts
The reserve price was fixed at Rs. 10 crores.	Facts
The auction was actually conducted on 11.8.2005.	Facts
The highest bid was made by Anita International, the appellant before this Court.	Facts
The bid of Anita International of Rs. 10.25 crores was accepted.	Facts
The bidder deposited the bid amount, within the stipulated period.	Facts
No challenge was raised against the auction conducted on 11.8.2005, within the postulated period of 30 days, as is permissible in terms of the Rules framed under the RDB Act.	Facts
The Recovery Officer ordered the confirmation of the sale of the auctioned property, after the expiry of statutory period, expressed in Rules 60, 61, and 62 of the Second Schedule of the Income Tax Act (as is applicable to proceedings, before Debts Recovery Tribunals), on 12.9.2005.	Facts
On 20.9.2005, the Recovery Officer appointed a Receiver, to take possession of the property, sold at the auction.	Facts
The Court Commissioner allegedly took over possession of some of the properties, and handed over the same to the auction purchaser  Anita International.	Facts
At the instant juncture, the appellant  Anita International, filed Company Application No.1811 of 2005 before the High Court at Madras for removal of the security agency.	Facts
At the said juncture, Videocon International Ltd. and Tapti Machines Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. filed Writ Petition No.26564 of 2005 before the High Court of Karnataka.	Facts
The above writ petition, and Writ Petition No.37991 of 2004 (filed by the workers union) were heard by a learned single Judge, wherein the auction purchaser  Anita International, raised a preliminary objection.	Facts
It was submitted, that the petitioners before the High Court had an efficacious alternative remedy, under the RDB Act.	Facts
It was accordingly prayed, that the petitioners be relegated to their alternative remedy.	Facts
Company Application No.854 of 2006 was filed before the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, wherein a challenge was raised to the sale of the assets of Deve Sugars Ltd., at the hands of the Recovery Officer.	Facts
It would be relevant to mention, that the above two writ petitions were disposed of by the High Court of Karnataka, by a common order dated 27.10.2006.	Facts
The petitioners before the Karnataka High Court were allowed to avail of their alternative remedy before the DRT, Bangalore.	Facts
The above common order dated 27.10.2006 was challenged, by filing Writ Appeal Nos.2050 and 2051 of 2006.	Facts
Both the above writ appeals were dismissed on 23.2.2007.	Facts
Liberty was, however, reserved with appellants, by permitting them to approach the DRT, Bangalore, by filing appeals.	Facts
As a matter of abundant caution, the appellate Court ordered, that the DRT, Bangalore, would deal with the controversy, uninfluenced by the orders passed by the High Court.	Facts
In compliance with, and in continuation of the outcome before the High Court of Karnataka, the workers union preferred AOR No.15 of 2006 and Videocon International Ltd. preferred AOR No.1 of 2007.	Facts
In the above appeals, a challenge was raised to the order dated 12.9.2005 passed by the Recovery Officer, whereby the sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. conducted on 11.8.2005, in favour of Anita International was confirmed.	Facts
Simultaneously, one N. Ponnusamy, an exDirector of Deve Sugars Ltd., filed Company Application Nos.27402742 of 2007 before the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, and sought the setting aside of the auction sale dated 11.8.2005, as well as, the confirmation order dated 12.9.2005, after the payment of the consideration amount.	Facts
The challenge raised by N. Ponnusamy was primarily on the ground that the reserve price of Rs. 10 crore was too low.	Facts
N. Ponnusamy, also sought transfer of the recovery proceedings, from the DRT, Bangalore, to the High Court at Madras.	Facts
While entertaining the proceedings initiated by N. Ponnusamy, the High Court by its order dated 24.10.2007, passed an ex parte interim order of stay.	Facts
Anita International and State Bank of Mysore, filed detailed objections, to the applications filed by the Official Liquidator, as well as, by the aforementioned N. Ponnusamy.	Facts
All the applications filed in C.A. No.1811 of 2005 were taken up for consideration, collectively.	Facts
By a common order dated 3.3.2009, the application filed by the Official Liquidator was dismissed, by holding that the Official Liquidator was a party before the Karnataka High Court (in the proceedings which were disposed of by a common order dated 27.10.2006), and in consonance with the above order, the Official Liquidator was obliged to file an appeal, to challenge the auction sale (dated 11.8.2005), as well as, the order of confirmation (dated 12.9.2005) passed by the Recovery Officer.	Facts
Likewise, the proceedings initiated by N. Ponnusamy, also did not yield any result.	Facts
His claim was also rejected on the ground, that he too could have availed of the remedy of filing an appeal, to assail the orders passed by the Recovery Officer.	Facts
The other applications, which came up for hearing jointly were likewise dismissed, as the said applicants, had already availed of the appellate remedy, before the DRT, Bangalore.	Facts
As against the above, the application filed by Anita International for possession of the property purchased by way of auction at the hands of the Recovery Officer, was allowed.	Facts
Dissatisfied with the order passed by the Company Court, the applicants raised a challenge to the order dated 3.3.2009 (passed in C.A. Nos.1811 of 2005, 854 of 2006 and 27402742 of 2007  in Company Petition No.170 of 1995) by filing O.S.A. Nos. 5963, 76, 77 and 82 of 2009.	Facts
The impugned order in the present appeals dated 17.9.2009, was passed by a Division Bench of the Company Court in the High Court at Madras.	Facts
In arriving at its conclusions, the High Court took into consideration inter alia the following factors Firstly, the Official Liquidator had raised objections before the Recovery Officer, in respect of the sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd There was nothing to indicate, that the said objections were ever considered by the Recovery Officer.	Facts
Conversely, the High Court also arrived at the conclusion, that the Official Liquidator who was the custodian of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. (consequent upon the Official Liquidator having taken possession of the assets of the company on 28.9.1999), had failed to effectively protect the property of the company.	None
Secondly, no material had been placed before the High Court to indicate, that the valuation report (dated 24.3.2002) and the inventory (dated 25.11.2004) were prepared after giving notice to the Official Liquidator, who was undoubtedly in exclusive custody of the properties (which were subject matter of auction).	None
Thirdly, even after the workers union had raised objections before the Recovery Officer, no material was placed before the High Court, that there was proper application of mind at the hands of the Recovery Officer, leading to the inference, that the objections were rejected in a casual and lackadaisical manner.	None
Fourthly, the inspection of the properties of the company under winding up, by the intending purchasers (for the auction sale scheduled on 11.8.2005) was permitted only on the day preceding the date of auction (namely, on 10.8.2005), leading to the inference, that the entire process of auction was a mere formality.	None
Fifthly, on the advertised date fixed for the auction (on 11.8.2005)	None
the Recovery Officer received only two bids.	None
Despite the above, he closed the bid on 11.8.2005 itself.	Facts
Insofar as the above two bids are concerned, it was felt, that there was for all intents and purposes only a singular bid.	Facts
One of the bidders was Anita International  the appellant herein, and the other bid was by Synergy Steel Ltd.  a sister company of the appellant  Anita International.	Facts
In sum and substance therefore, the Recovery Officer closed the bid, after receiving a singular bid.	None
Sixthly, after holding the auction on 11.8.2005, the Recovery Officer confirmed the sale in favour of Anita International on 12.9.2005.	Facts
This could not have been done, in view of the order dated 10.3.2000 passed by the High Court at Madras, wherein it was directed, that no coercive steps would be taken against the assets of the company under liquidation, during or after the conclusion of the proceedings before the DRT, Bangalore.	Facts
And as such, the State Bank of Mysore could not have proceeded with, the sale of the assets of Deve Sugars Ltd.	Facts
While dealing with the proposition of law declared by this Court in the Allahabad Bank case, (2000) 4 SCC 406 , wherein this Court had unambiguously concluded, that the provisions of the RDB Act required, Debts Recovery Tribunals alone, to decide applications for recovery of debts due to banks and financial institutions.	Facts
And wherein, it was also held, that the aforesaid responsibility included, the adjudication of the liability of the debtor to banks and financial institutions, as well as, the execution of the recovery certificate by the Recovery Officer.	Facts
In spite of the above, it was submitted, that the High Court by relying on the judgment in M.V. Janardhan Reddy v. Vijaya Bank, (2008) 7 SCC 738 , and after taking note of the fact, that the State Bank of Mysore had applied to the Company Court of the High Court at Madras, for liberty to recover its dues from Deve Sugars Ltd., by filing Company Application Nos.12511253 of 1999 (in pending Company Petition No.170 of 1995), and having obtained an order from the High Court dated 10.3.2000, was bound by the same.	Facts
The High Court also concluded, that the above order dated 10.3.2000 was binding, on the Recovery Officer of the DRT, Bangalore.	Facts
The High Court also expressed the view, that the order dated 10.3.2000 had unambiguously directed, that no coercive steps would be taken against the assets of the company under winding up.	Facts
Accordingly, the High Court held, that the State Bank of Mysore could not take advantage of the sale of the assets of the company, or the confirmation thereof at the hands of the Recovery Officer, as the same were in clear violation, of the order (dated 10.3.2000) of the Company Court in the High Court at Madras.	Facts
Relying on the decision of this Court in the M.V. Janardhan Reddy case, (2008) 7 SCC 738 the High Court while referring to the findings recorded in paragraph 28 of the above judgment concluded, that since the assets of the company under winding up were under the physical charge of the Official Liquidator, the Official Liquidator ought to have been associated with the auction proceedings, conducted by the Recovery Officer.	Facts
Since the facts and circumstances of the present case reveal, that the Official Liquidator was not allowed to be associated with the auction proceedings, and even the valuation of the assets, was taken without the knowledge of the Official Liquidator, and further, the objections raised by the Official Liquidator were rejected without due consideration, the Company Court in the High Court at Madras concluded, that the sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. by the Recovery Officer on 11.8.2005, was liable to be set aside.	Facts
So also, the confirmation of the sale, by the Recovery Officer on 12.9.2015.	Facts
Having concluded as above, the High Court vide the impugned order dated 17.9.2009, directed as under Hence the following judgment is made (i)	None
The auction sale in question is set aside (ii) The auction purchaser is entitled to refund of the monies paid by him towards the auction sale which is now set aside (iii) In the interest of all the creditors and also the workers union, a fresh sale is ordered to be made by the Recovery Officer after following the procedural formalities and after preparation of a fresh valuation done by the panel of valuers appointed by the Company Court with the association of the Official Liquidator and on acceptance of the same by the Company Court in order to ensure a proper price is fetched for the assets of the company in liquidation.	None
While assailing the impugned order passed by the High Court dated 17.9.2009, it was the vehement contention of learned counsel for the appellant, that the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, had no jurisdiction in respect of the proceedings which fell within the legitimate domain of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
To canvass the above proposition, learned counsel placed reliance on a number of judgments of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submissions advanced in this behalf, are being narrated hereunder Reliance was first placed on the Allahabad Bank case (2000) 4 SCC 406.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out, that the above judgment was rendered on 10.4.2000.	Arguments of Petitioner
And in the above view of the matter, the declared position of law was clear and explicit well before the controversy in hand was determined by the High Court at Madras.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the cited judgment, learned counsel for the appellant placed reliance on the following observations In our opinion, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal in regard to adjudication is exclusive.	None
The RDB Act requires the Tribunal alone to decide applications for recovery of debts due to banks or financial institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Once the Tribunal passes an order that the debt is due, the Tribunal has to issue a certificate under Section 19(22) formerly under Section 19(7) to the Recovery Officer for recovery of the debt specified in the certificate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question arises as to the meaning of the word recovery in Section 17 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears to us that basically the Tribunal is to adjudicate the liability of the defendant and then it has to issue a certificate under Section 19(22).	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Section 18, the jurisdiction of any other court or authority which would otherwise have had jurisdiction but for the provisions of the Act, is ousted and the power to adjudicate upon the liability is exclusively vested in the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
(This exclusion does not however apply to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court or of a High Court exercising power under Articles 226 or 227 of the Constitution.)	Arguments of Petitioner
This is the effect of Sections 17 and 18 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
22.	Arguments of Petitioner
We hold that the provisions of Sections 17 and 18 of the RDB Act are exclusive so far as the question of adjudication of the liability of the defendant to the appellant Bank is concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) Execution of certificate by Recovery Officer is his jurisdiction exclusive 23.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even in regard to execution , the jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer is exclusive.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now a procedure has been laid down in the Act for recovery of the debt as per the certificate issued by the Tribunal and this procedure is contained in Chapter V of the Act and is covered by Sections 25 to 30.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not the intendment of the Act that while the basic liability of the defendant is to be decided by the Tribunal under Section 17, the banks financial institutions should go to the civil court or the Company Court or some other authority outside the Act for the actual realisation of the amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
The certificate granted under Section 19(22) has, in our opinion, to be executed only by the Recovery Officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
No dual jurisdictions at different stages are contemplated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, Section 34 of the Act gives overriding effect to the provisions of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisions of Section 34(1) clearly state that the RDB Act overrides other laws to the extent of inconsistency.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, the prescription of an exclusive Tribunal both for adjudication and execution is a procedure clearly inconsistent with realisation of these debts in any other manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
24.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is one more reason as to why it must be held that the jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer is exclusive.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Tiwari Committee which recommended the constitution of a Special Tribunal in 1981 for recovery of debts due to banks and financial institutions stated in its report that the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribunal must relate not only in regard to the adjudication of the liability but also in regard to the execution proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It stated in Annexure XI of its report that all execution proceedings must be taken up only by the Special Tribunal under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, in view of the special procedure for recovery prescribed in Chapter V of the Act, and Section 34, execution of the certificate is also within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx xxx Question of leave and control by the Company Court 30.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Attorney General has, in this connection, relied upon Damji Valji Shah v. LIC of India (1965)	Arguments of Petitioner
3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 665 to contend that for initiating and continuing proceedings under the RDB Act, no leave of the Company Court is necessary under Section 446.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, a Tribunal was constituted under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956.	Arguments of Petitioner
Question was whether under Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956, the said proceedings could be stayed and later be transferred to the Company Court and adjudicated in that Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was held that the said proceedings could not be transferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 15 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956  which we may say, roughly corresponds to Section 17 of the RDB Act  enabled Life Insurance Corporation of India to file a case before a Special Tribunal and recover various amounts from the erstwhile life insurance companies in certain respects.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 41 of the LIC Act conferred exclusive jurisdiction on the said Tribunal just like Section 18 of the RDB Act, 1993.	Arguments of Petitioner
There the Company was ordered to be wound up by an order of the Company Court passed under Section 446(1) on 911959.	Arguments of Petitioner
The claim was filed by LIC against the Company and its Directors before the Tribunal in 1962.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents before the Tribunal contended that the claim could not have been filed in the Tribunal without the leave of the Company Court under Section 446(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court rejected the said contention and held that though the purpose of Section 446 was to enable the Company Court to transfer proceedings to itself and to dispose of the suit or proceedings so transferred, unless the Company Court had jurisdiction to decide the questions which were raised before the LIC Tribunal, there was no purpose of requiring leave of the Company Court or permitting transfer.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx 31.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may also be noticed that in the LIC Act of 1956, there was no provision like Section 34 of the RDB Act giving overriding effect to the provisions of the LIC Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Still this Court upheld the exclusive jurisdiction of the LIC Tribunal xxx xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx 71.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the point here is that the occasion for such a claim by a secured creditor (here Canara Bank) against realisations by other creditors (like Allahabad Bank) under Section 529A read with proviso ( c ) to Section 529(1) can arise before the Tribunal only if Canara Bank has stood outside windingup and realised amounts and if it shows that out of the amounts privately realised by it, some portion has been rateably taken away by the liquidator under clauses ( a ) and ( b ) of the proviso to Section 529(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only then that it can claim that it is to be reimbursed at the same level as a secured creditor with priority over the realisations of other creditors lying in the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
None of these conditions is satisfied by Canara Bank.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, Canara Bank does not belong to the class of secured creditors covered by Section 529A(1)(b).	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 73.	Arguments of Petitioner
If none of the conditions required for applying Section 19(19) and Section 529A is, therefore, satisfied, then the claim of Canara Bank before the Tribunal can only be on the basis of principles underlying Section 73 CPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
There being no decree in its favour from any court or from any Tribunal, and the other conditions of Section 73 not having been satisfied, no dividend can be claimed out of monies realised at the instance of Allahabad Bank, even if Allahabad Bank is an unsecured creditor.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 76.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next question is whether the amounts realised under the RDB Act at the instance of the appellant can be straight away released in its favour.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now, even if Section 19(19) read with Section 529A of the Companies Act does not help the respondent Canara Bank, the said provisions can still have an impact on the appellant Allahabad Bank which has no doubt a decree in its favour passed by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Its dues are unsecured.	Arguments of Petitioner
The workmens dues have priority over all other creditors, secured and unsecured because of Section 529A(1)	Arguments of Petitioner
( a ).	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no material before us to hold that the workmens dues of the defendant Company have all been paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the general principles laid down in National Textile Workers Union v. P.R. Ramakrishnan (1983) 1 SCC 228 there is an obligation resting on this Court to see that no secured or unsecured creditors including banks or financial institutions, are paid before the workmens dues are paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are, therefore, unable to release any amounts in favour of the appellant Bank straight away.	None
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on the above decision, it was the contention of learned counsel for the appellant, that the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, had neither the jurisdiction to grant liberty to the State Bank of Mysore to recover its dues from Deve Sugars Ltd. by initiating proceedings under the RDB Act, nor the jurisdiction to interfere with the recovery proceedings by directing that no coercive steps would be taken against Deve Sugars Ltd., during or after the conclusion of the proceedings before the DRT, Bangalore.	Arguments of Petitioner
Stated simply, learned counsel for the appellant was emphatic, that the order passed by the Company Court in the High Court at Madras (dated 10.3.2000), was jurisdictionally and legally impermissible, and as such, was liable to be ignored.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) Reliance was also placed on Andhra Bank v. Official Liquidator, (2005) 5 SCC 75.	Arguments of Petitioner
The instant judgment was relied upon to support the conclusions drawn by learned counsel, while placing reliance on the Allahabad Bank case, (2000) 4 SCC 406.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel invited our attention to the position expressed in paragraph 19 of the cited judgment, which is extracted hereunder As regards Point (6), however, this Court at para 76 of the judgment held0The next question is whether the amounts realised under the RDB Act at the instance of the appellant can be straight away released in its favour.	None
Now, even if Section 19(19) read with Section 529A of the Companies Act does not help the respondent Canara Bank, the said provisions can still have an impact on the appellant Allahabad Bank which has no doubt a decree in its favour passed by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Its dues are unsecured.	Arguments of Petitioner
The workmens dues have priority over all other creditors, secured and unsecured because of Section 529A(1)(a).	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no material before us to hold that the workmens dues of the defendant Company have all been paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the general principles laid down in National Textile Workers Union v. P.R. Ramakrishnan (1983) 1 SCC 228 there is an obligation resting on this Court to see that no secured or unsecured creditors including banks or financial institutions, are paid before the workmens dues are paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are, therefore, unable to release any amounts in favour of the appellant Bank straight away.	None
(emphasis supplied) (iii) In chronological order, learned counsel next relied upon the judgment in Rajasthan State Financial Corporation v. Official Liquidator, (2005) 8 SCC 190 , and drew the Courts attention to the following In A.P. State Financial Corpn.	None
v. Official Liquidator (2000) 7 SCC 291 this Court held that the Company Judge, while permitting the financial corporation to stay outside the liquidation proceedings, rightly imposed conditions to ensure that the Corporation would (i) discharge its liability due to workers under Section 529A of the Companies Act, (ii) inform the Official Liquidator in advance about the proposed sale of properties of the indebted companies, and (iii) would obtain the Courts permission before finalising the tenders.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court specifically overruled the view taken by the High Court that it was not necessary for the financial corporations to seek permission of the Company Court to stay outside the windingup proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was held that Sections 529(1) and 529A of the Companies Act had overriding effect and the 1985 amendment being later in point of time, the non obstante clause therein would prevail over the non obstante clause contained in Section 46B of the SFC Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
In International Coach Builders Ltd. v. Karnataka State Financial Corpn (2003) 10 SCC 482	Arguments of Petitioner
this Court considered the correctness of the views expressed by the Karnataka High Court and the Gujarat High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court held that a right is available to a financial corporation under Section 29 of the SFC Act against a debtor, if a company, only so long as there is no order of winding up.	Arguments of Petitioner
When the debtor is a company in winding up, the rights of financial corporations are affected by the provisions in Sections 529 and 529A of the Companies Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also held that the proviso to Section 529 of the Companies Act creates a pari passu charge in favour of the workmen to the extent of their dues and makes the Liquidator the representative of the workmen to enforce such a charge.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of the Bombay High Court in Maharashtra State Financial Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Official Liquidator was approved.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reference to a larger Bench was occasioned by the fact that the decision in Allahabad Bank v. Canara Bank was not adverted to in this decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
This decision recognises that, whether a creditor is standing outside the winding up or not, the distribution of the proceeds has to be in terms of Section 529 of the Companies Act read with Section 529A of that Act in a case where the debtor is a companyinliquidation.	Arguments of Petitioner
As far as we can see, there is no conflict on the question of the applicability of Section 529A read with Section 529 of the Companies Act to cases where the debtor is a company and is in liquidation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The conflict, if any, is in the view that the Debts Recovery Tribunal could sell the properties of the company in terms of the Recovery of Debts Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This view was taken in Allahabad Bank v. Canara Bank in view of the Recovery of Debts Act being a subsequent legislation and being a special law which would prevail over the general law, the Companies Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument is not available as far as the SFC Act is concerned, since Section 529A was introduced by Act 35 of 1985 and the overriding provision therein would prevail over the SFC Act of 1951 as amended in 1956 and notwithstanding Section 46B of the SFC Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards distribution of assets, there is no conflict.	Arguments of Petitioner
It seems to us that whether the assets are realised by a secured creditor even if it be by proceeding under the SFC Act or under the Recovery of Debts Act, the distribution of the assets could only be in terms of Section 529A of the Act and by recognising the right of the Liquidator to calculate the workmens dues and collect it for distribution among them pari passu with the secured creditors.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Official Liquidator representing a ranked secured creditor working under the control of the Company Court cannot, therefore, be kept out of the process.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, on the authorities what emerges is that once a windingup proceeding has commenced and the Liquidator is put in charge of the assets of the company being wound up, the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of the assets held at the instance of the financial institutions coming under the Recovery of Debts Act or of financial corporations coming under the SFC Act, can only be with the association of the Official Liquidator and under the supervision of the Company Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The right of a financial institution or of the Recovery Tribunal or that of a financial corporation or the court which has been approached under Section 31 of the SFC Act to sell the assets may not be taken away, but the same stands restricted by the requirement of the Official Liquidator being associated with it, giving the Company Court the right to ensure that the distribution of the assets in terms of Section 529A of the Companies Act takes place.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case on hand, admittedly, the appellants have not set in motion any proceeding under the SFC Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
What we have is only a liquidation proceeding pending and the secured creditors, the financial corporations approaching the Company Court for permission to stand outside the winding up and to sell the properties of the companyinliquidation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Company Court has rightly directed that the sale be held in association with the Official Liquidator representing the workmen and that the proceeds will be held by the Official Liquidator until they are distributed in terms of Section 529A of the Companies Act under its supervision.	Arguments of Petitioner
The directions thus, made, clearly are consistent with the provisions of the relevant Acts and the views expressed by this Court in the decisions referred to above.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this situation, we find no reason to interfere with the decision of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
We clarify that there is no inconsistency between the decisions in Allahabad Bank v. Canara Bank and in International Coach Builders Ltd. v. Karnataka State Financial Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
in respect of the applicability of Sections 529 and 529A of the Companies Act in the matter of distribution among the creditors.	Arguments of Petitioner
The right to sell under the SFC Act or under the Recovery of Debts Act by a creditor coming within those Acts and standing outside the winding up, is different from the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of the security.	Arguments of Petitioner
The distribution in a case where the debtor is a company in the process of being wound up, can only be in terms of Section 529A read with Section 529 of the Companies Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
After all, the Liquidator represents the entire body of creditors and also holds a right on behalf of the workers to have a distribution pari passu with the secured creditors and the duty for further distribution of the proceeds on the basis of the preferences contained in Section 530 of the Companies Act under the directions of the Company Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the distribution of the sale proceeds under the direction of the Company Court is his responsibility.	Arguments of Petitioner
To ensure the proper working out of the scheme of distribution, it is necessary to associate the Official Liquidator with the process of sale so that he can ensure, in the light of the directions of the Company Court, that a proper price is fetched for the assets of the companyinliquidation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was in that context that the rights of the Official Liquidator were discussed in International Coach Builders Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Debts Recovery Tribunal and the District Court entertaining an application under Section 31 of the SFC Act should issue notice to the Liquidator and hear him before ordering a sale, as the representative of the creditors in general.	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the light of the discussion as above, we think it proper to sum up the legal position thus (i) A Debts Recovery Tribunal acting under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 would be entitled to order the sale and to sell the properties of the debtor, even if a companyinliquidation, through its Recovery Officer but only after notice to the Official Liquidator or the Liquidator appointed by the Company Court and after hearing him.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) A District Court entertaining an application under Section 31 of the SFC Act will have the power to order sale of the assets of a borrower companyinliquidation, but only after notice to the Official Liquidator or the Liquidator appointed by the Company Court and after hearing him.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iii) If a financial corporation acting under Section 29 of the SFC Act seeks to sell or otherwise transfer the assets of a debtor companyinliquidation, the said power could be exercised by it only after obtaining the appropriate permission from the Company Court and acting in terms of the directions issued by that court as regards associating the Official Liquidator with the sale, the fixing of the upset price or the reserve price, confirmation of the sale, holding of the sale proceeds and the distribution thereof among the creditors in terms of Section 529A and Section 529 of the Companies Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iv) In a case where proceedings under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 or the SFC Act are not set in motion, the creditor concerned is to approach the Company Court for appropriate directions regarding the realisation of its securities consistent with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act regarding distribution of the assets of the companyinliquidation.	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied) Relying on the above judgment, learned counsel for the appellant emphatically pointed out, that the sale of the properties of a company in liquidation, should not be confused with the distribution of the sale proceeds of the company in liquidation amongst its creditors.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted, that there could be no interference with the right of the Recovery Officer, to sell the assets of the company in liquidation, under the provisions of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
But, that had nothing to do with the distribution of the proceeds of the sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
The distribution of the sale proceeds ought to be in consonance with the provisions of the Companies Act, wherein the debtor was a company in liquidation.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iv) Learned counsel then placed reliance on the M.V. Janardhan Reddy case, (2008) 7 SCC 738.	Arguments of Petitioner
He invited the Courts attention to the following 18.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as the order passed by the learned Company Judge is concerned, it specifically and unequivocally stated that permission of the court should be obtained before sale is confirmed or finalised.	Arguments of Petitioner
That order was passed as early as on 1381999.	Arguments of Petitioner
In an order dated 2532005 also it was expressly mentioned that the sale was subject to confirmation of the court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was an express condition imposed by the Company Court and as such it was not open to the Recovery Officer to confirm the sale and such order, which was having no authority of law, was rightly set aside by the Company Judge and no grievance could be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 22.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention has been invited by the learned counsel to the relevant orders passed by the Company Court from time to time.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as the order dated 1381999 is concerned, permission to sell the property was granted on certain terms and conditions.	Arguments of Petitioner
They read as under (A) The Official Liquidator shall be allowed to have inspection of the properties and assets of the company in liquidation and to take inventory as and when required.	Arguments of Petitioner
(B) Certified copy of the judgment and decree passed by the Subordinate Judge, Bhongir in OS No. 57 of 1989 dated 2471993 shall be made available to the Official Liquidator without delay.	Arguments of Petitioner
(C)	Arguments of Petitioner
The certified copy of the order that would be passed by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Bangalore shall be made available to the Official Liquidator without avoidable delay.	Arguments of Petitioner
(D)	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner Bank shall file the valuers report in the court before the properties covered under the mortgage deed are put to sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
(E) Permission of this Court shall be obtained before the sale of the properties movable or immovable, is confirmed or finalised.	Arguments of Petitioner
(F) The petitioner Bank shall undertake to deposit and shall deposit the workmens dues with the Official Liquidator as and when quantified by him as per the provisions of Section 529A of the Companies Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
(G)	Arguments of Petitioner
Whatever surplus remains after the sale and realisation of the dues of the secured creditors and the workmen, as per law, the balance sale proceeds shall be made available to the Official Liquidator for being dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and the Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 23.	Arguments of Petitioner
An order dated 2832005 in Company Application No. 187 of 2005 was equally clear.	Arguments of Petitioner
It reads as under This is an application filed by the nationalised bank seeking permission of this court to receive the valuation report and also to permit the Bank to effect sale of the properties of the Company under liquidation through the Recovery Officer of the Debts Recovery Tribunal, in terms of the conditions of auctionsale notice dated 222005.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also stated that though sale notice was ordered, no sale was conducted as no permission was obtained from this court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Official Liquidator also filed a report reporting that there is no objection as to the proposed auction and also the valuation report as filed by the applicant Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the above circumstances, the applicant Company is permitted to go ahead with the proposed sale of the assets of the Company under liquidation through public auction.	Arguments of Petitioner
But, however, the said sale, if any effected, shall be subject to the confirmation of this court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The applicant is accordingly granted permission to effect the sale, but the sale shall be required to be confirmed by this court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The application is accordingly disposed of.	Arguments of Petitioner
The above orders leave no room of doubt that the Bank was permitted to go ahead with the proposed sale of the assets of the Company under liquidation by way of auction but such sale was subject to confirmation by the Company Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, clear that all parties were aware about the condition as to confirmation of sale by the Company Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, not open to the Recovery Officer to confirm sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
The order passed and action taken by the Recovery Officer was in clear violation of and inconsistent with the specific condition imposed by the Company Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our considered opinion, therefore, the appellant cannot take any advantage of confirmation of sale by the Recovery Officer who did not possess the power to confirm sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 27.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that when the Company Judge set aside the sale on 1732006, the order was reversed by the Division Bench of the High Court since it was in breach of natural justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
That does not, however, mean that the Company Court could not pass fresh order after affording opportunity of hearing to the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, the Company Court was right in passing fresh order after hearing the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the Recovery Officer could not have confirmed the sale, obviously all actions taken in pursuance of confirmation of sale, such as, issuance of sale certificate, registration of documents, etc. would be of no consequence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the Company was in liquidation and Official Liquidator was in charge of the assets of the Company, he ought to have been associated with the auction proceedings, which was not done.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is also clear from the report submitted by the Official Liquidator and on that ground also, the auctionsale was liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on the conclusions drawn in the above judgment, it was submitted, that there can be no doubt, that in a matter where the Company Court had passed an order restraining the Recovery Officer confirming the sale, the sale made by the Recovery Officer in execution of the recovery certificate could only have been confirmed with the permission of the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Here again, learned counsel has drawn a fine distinction.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was asserted, that even in the above judgment, this Court had not disputed nor disturbed the exclusive jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer in executing a recovery certificate.	Arguments of Petitioner
(v) Last of all learned counsel placed reliance on Official Liquidator, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand v. Allahabad Bank, (2013) 4 SCC 381 , and drew our attention to the following conclusions recorded therein 23.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the aforesaid verdict, it is vivid that the larger Bench in Rajasthan State Financial Corpn. case approved the law laid down in Allahabad Bank.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, it is noticeable that the larger Bench has observed that in Allahabad Bank case, a view has been taken that the RDB Act being a subsequent legislation and being a special law would prevail over the general law, the 1956 Act, but the said argument is not available as far as the SFC Act is concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 24.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the aforesaid authorities, it clearly emerges that the sale has to be conducted by DRT with the association of the Official Liquidator.	Arguments of Petitioner
We may hasten to clarify that as the present controversy only relates to the sale, we are not going to say anything with regard to the distribution.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, it is noticeable that under Section 19(19) of the RDB Act, the legislature has clearly stated that distribution has to be done in accordance with Section 529A of the 1956 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The purpose of stating so is that it is a complete code in itself and the Tribunal has the exclusive jurisdiction for the purpose of sale of the properties for realisation of the dues of the banks and financial institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 31.	Arguments of Petitioner
The aforesaid analysis makes it luculent that DRT has exclusive jurisdiction to sell the properties in a proceeding instituted by the banks or financial institutions, but at the time of auction and sale, it is required to associate the Official Liquidator.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said principle has also been reiterated in Pravin Gada v. Central Bank of India (2013) 2 SCC 101.	Arguments of Petitioner
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
Once the Official Liquidator is associated, needless to say, he has a role to see that there is no irregularity in conducting the auction and appropriate price is obtained by holding an auction in a fair, transparent and nonarbitrary manner in consonance with the Rules framed under the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx 34.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have referred to the said passage from Delhi High Court Bar Assn. case, for the purpose of highlighting that an appeal lies to DRT challenging the action of the Recovery Officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case at hand, the Official Liquidator was not satisfied with the manner in which the auction was conducted and he thought it apposite to report to the learned Company Judge who set aside the auction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Needless to emphasise, the Official Liquidator has a role under the 1956 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He protects the interests of the workmen and the creditors and, hence, his association at the time of auction and sale has been thought appropriate by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
To put it differently, he has been conferred locus to put forth his stand in the said matters.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, anyone who is aggrieved by any act done by the Recovery Officer can prefer an appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a statutory mode is provided under the RDB Act, which is a special enactment.	Arguments of Petitioner
DRT has the powers under the RDB Act to make an enquiry as it deems fit and confirm, modify or set aside the order made by the Recovery Officer in exercise of powers under Sections 25 to 28 (both inclusive) of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the auction, sale and challenge are completely codified under the RDB Act, regard being had to the special nature of the legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied) 16.	None
In addition to the aforesaid submissions, Mr. S. Ganesh, Senior Advocate also assisted us in the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
He supported the above contentions, but sought a little intervention by requiring us to also examine the scope of the controversy under consideration, by placing reliance on the judgment of this Court in Sadashiv Prasad Singh v. Harendar Singh, (2015) 5 SCC 574.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel invited our attention to the scope of interference with reference to a public auction, wherein third party rights have emerged, especially when the third parties are independent of the disputants, and also, with reference to seeking recourse to a statutory remedy available to a party against the impugned order.	Arguments of Petitioner
The conclusions recorded by this Court in the Sadashiv Prasad Singh case, (2015) 5 SCC 574 as were pointedly brought to our notice, are being extracted hereunder At the time of hearing, we were thinking of remanding the matter to the Recovery Officer to investigate into the objection of Harender Singh under Rule 11 of the Second Schedule to the Income Tax Act, 1961.	None
But considering the delay such a remand may cause, we have ourselves examined the objections of Harender Singh and rejected the objections for a variety of reasons 23.1.	Arguments of Petitioner
Firstly, the contention raised at the hands of the respondents before the High Court, that the facts narrated by Harender Singh the appellant in Special Leave Petition (C) No. 26550 of 2010 were a total sham, as he was actually the brother of one of the judgmentdebtors, namely, Jagmohan Singh.	Arguments of Petitioner
And that Harender Singh had created an unbelievable story with the connivance and help of his brother, so as to save the property in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
The claim of Harender Singh in his objection petition was based on an unregistered agreement to sell dated 1011991.	Arguments of Petitioner
Not only that such an agreement to sell would not vest any legal right in his favour, it is apparent that it may not have been difficult for him to have had the aforesaid agreement to sell notarised in connivance with his brother, for the purpose sought to be achieved.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, it is apparent from the factual position depicted in the foregoing paragraphs that Harender Singh, despite his having filed objections before the Recovery Officer, had abandoned the contest raised by him by not appearing (and by not being represented) before the Recovery Officer after 26102005, whereas, the Recovery Officer had passed the order of sale of the property by way of public auction more than two years thereafter, only on 552008.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having abandoned his claim before the Recovery Officer, it was not open to him to have reagitated the same by filing a writ petition before the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly, a remedy of appeal was available to Harender Singh in respect of the order of the Recovery Officer assailed by him before the High Court under Section 30, which is being extracted herein to assail the order dated 552008 30.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appeal against the order of Recovery Officer.  	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 29, any person aggrieved by an order of the Recovery Officer made under this Act may, within thirty days from the date on which a copy of the order is issued to him, prefer an appeal to the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) On receipt of an appeal under subsection (1), the Tribunal may, after giving an opportunity to the appellant to be heard, and after making such inquiry as it deems fit, confirm, modify or set aside the order made by the Recovery Officer in exercise of his powers under Sections 25 to 28 (both inclusive).	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court ought not to have interfered with in the matter agitated by Harender Singh in exercise of its writ jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the learned Single Judge rightfully dismissed the writ petition filed by Harender Singh.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fourthly, Harender Singh could not be allowed to raise a challenge to the public auction held on 2882008 because he had not raised any objection to the attachment of the property in question or the proclamations and notices issued in newspapers in connection with the auction thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
All these facts cumulatively lead to the conclusion that after 26102005, Harender Singh had lost all interest in the property in question and had therefore, remained a silent spectator to various orders which came to be passed from time to time.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had, therefore, no equitable	Arguments of Petitioner
right in his favour to assail the auctionpurchase made by Sadashiv Prasad Sinha on 2882008.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally, the public auction under reference was held on 2882008.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter the same was confirmed on 2292008.	Arguments of Petitioner
Possession of the property was handed over to the auctionpurchaser Sadashiv Prasad Sinha on 1132009.	Arguments of Petitioner
The auctionpurchaser initiated mutation proceedings in respect of the property in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
Harender Singh did not raise any objections in the said mutation proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said mutation proceedings were also finalised in favour of Sadashiv Prasad Sinha.	Arguments of Petitioner
Harender Singh approached the High Court through CWJC No. 16485 of 2009 only on 27112009.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are of the view that the challenged raised by Harender Singh ought to have been rejected on the grounds of delay and laches, especially because thirdparty rights had emerged in the meantime.	Arguments of Petitioner
More so, because the auctionpurchaser was a bona fide purchaser for consideration, having purchased the property in furtherance of a duly publicised public auction, interference by the High Court even on the ground of equity was clearly uncalled for.	Arguments of Petitioner
24.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the reasons recorded hereinabove, we are of the view that the impugned order dated 1752010 passed by the High Court allowing Letters Patent Appeal No. 844 of 2010 deserves to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same is accordingly set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
The right of the appellant Sadashiv Prasad Sinha in Plot No. 2722, Exhibition Road, PS Gandhi Maidan, Patna, measuring 1289 sq ft is hereby confirmed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the above view of the matter, while the appeal preferred by Sadashiv Prasad Sinha stands allowed, the one filed by Harender Singh is hereby dismissed.	None
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on the conclusions recorded in the above judgment, it was contended, that the DRT, Bangalore, issued the recovery certificate on 15.5.2002, thereupon the auction sale was conducted on 11.8.2005, and there having been no objection to the same, the auction sale was confirmed by the Recovery Officer on 12.9.2005.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted, that after a lapse of more than a decade after all payments were made (and the sale was confirmed), there was no equitable justification to interfere with the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Insofar as the submission pertaining to the availability of a statutory remedy against the impugned order is concerned, learned senior counsel referred to the directions issued by the High Court of Karnataka, while disposing of Writ Petition No.26564 of 2005 (GMDRT) preferred by Videocon International Ltd. and Tapti Machines Pvt. Ltd. and Writ Petition No.37991 of 2004 (GMDRT) preferred by Tungbhadra Sugar Works Mazdoor Sangh  the workers union (referred to in the narration of facts hereinabove), and drew our attention to the observations of the High Court in its order dated 27.10.2006, which are being extracted hereunder In the circumstances, I am of the view that there is an alternate and efficacious remedy by way of an appeal under the Debts Recovery Act R w Procedure for recovery of tax.	None
The petitioner shall avail the alternate remedy within a period of six weeks from today.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is needless to say that the matter shall not be precipitated until the appeal filed by the petitioners is disposed of.	Arguments of Petitioner
All the contentions are left upon.	None
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on the above, it was contended, that it was not open to the appellants to raise a challenge with reference to a third party sale, especially when the same was in the nature of a public auction conducted by a Recovery Officer, while giving effect to an order passed by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, strictly within the jurisdiction of the provisions of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
And also, the determination of this Court not to interfere lightly with the rights which came to be vested in such auction purchasers.	Arguments of Petitioner
Insofar as the appellate remedy of the contesting parties is concerned, reliance was placed on Section 30 of the RDB Act, which is extracted hereunder Appeal against the order of Recovery Officer.  	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 29, any person aggrieved by an order of the Recovery Officer made under this Act may, within thirty days from the date on which a copy of the order is issued to him, prefer an appeal to the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) On receipt of an appeal under subsection (1), the Tribunal may, after giving an opportunity to the appellant to be heard, and after making such inquiry as it deems fit, confirm, modify or set aside the order made by the Recovery Officer in exercise of his powers under Sections 25 to 28 (both inclusive).	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on the above provision, it was the submission of learned senior counsel, that the wrong, if any, caused to the contesting respondents could have been set right only under Section 18 of the RDB Act.	None
Mr. C.A. Sundaram, Senior Advocate, endeavoured to repudiate the submissions advanced at the hands of learned counsel for the appellants, by advancing three contentions.	Arguments of Respondent
Firstly, an order passed by a Court with jurisdiction having attained finality, was binding between the concerned parties, and was liable to be complied with under all circumstances.	Arguments of Respondent
In reference to the instant submission, the assertion of learned counsel was, that the order dated 10.3.2000 passed by the High Court at Madras had been passed by a Court having jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
The said order had attained finality.	Arguments of Respondent
And accordingly, there was no justification at the hands of any other party concerned, to wriggle out of the same.	Arguments of Respondent
Secondly, even if an order is passed by a Court which has no jurisdiction with reference to a controversy, and as such, could be termed as a void order, the order of the Court would continue to remain enforceable in law, till the same is set aside and or vacated by a subsequent order.	Arguments of Respondent
Insofar as the instant aspect of the matter is concerned, it was submitted, that the order dated 10.3.2000 having attained finality and having not been varied or vacated, was binding between the parties, and as such, its compliance was mandatory.	Arguments of Respondent
Thirdly, any sale made within the teeth of an injunction, was liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Respondent
An injunction order, according to learned senior counsel, as in the instant case (the order dated 10.3.2000), which mandated that no coercive steps would be taken against the assets of Deve Sugars Ltd. during or after the conclusion of the proceedings before the Tribunal , namely the DRT, Bangalore, was binding.	Arguments of Respondent
The auction sale conducted on 11.8.2005, and its subsequent confirmation on 12.9.2015, according to learned senior counsel, were not only beyond the jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer, but also beyond the jurisdiction of the Debts Recovery Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
In the instant view of the matter, it was contended, that the impugned order dated 27.9.2009, passed by the High Court at Madras, ought not to be interfered with.	Arguments of Respondent
While substantiating the first contention noticed in the foregoing paragraph, it was asserted, that for recovery of a debt due to a bank, it can file a winding up petition before a Company Court under the Companies Act, or alternatively, it can file a recovery petition before the jurisdictional Debts Recovery Tribunal, under the provisions of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, it was pointed out, that a recovery suit could be withdrawn to a Company Court, and the recovery of the debt sought by the bank, could be agitated before the Company Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It was however pointed out, that the inverse was not permissible, inasmuch as, a winding up petition filed before the Company Court under the Companies Act, could not be withdrawn to a Debts Recovery Tribunal, under the provisions of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was therefore the contention of learned counsel for the respondents, that since the State Bank of Mysore could seek recourse to the DRT, as well as the Company Court, as may be considered suitable or appropriate, the proceedings filed by the State Bank of Mysore, namely, Company Application Nos. 12501253 of 1999 in pending Company Petition No.170 of 1995 (and Company Petition No.35 of 1997) had been filed by the State Bank of Mysore, before a Court having jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
And therefore, a Court having jurisdiction in the matter, at the instance of the State Bank of Mysore, had passed the order dated 10.3.2000.	Arguments of Respondent
By the order dated 10.3.2000, the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, allowed the prayer made by the State Bank of Mysore, to continue to proceed with the recovery proceedings initiated by it before the DRT, Bangalore.	Arguments of Respondent
But while granting the above leave imposed two conditions, firstly, the Official Liquidator would be impleaded before the DRT, and secondly, no coercive steps would be taken against the assets of the Company (Deve Sugars Ltd.) during or after the proceedings before the DRT.	Arguments of Respondent
The said order was neither varied nor vacated.	Arguments of Respondent
The same, according to learned counsel, was binding between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
And therefore, it was contended, that the same could not have been ignored or overlooked.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted, that even if the above order dated 10.3.2000, was without jurisdiction and or void, the same would be equally binding, till it was varied or set aside by a Court having competent jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
Based on the factual position noticed above, it was asserted, that the sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd., was clearly in the teeth of the injunction order passed by the Company Court on 10.3.2000, and as such, was liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to repudiate the submissions advanced at the hands of learned counsel for the appellant, based on the judgment rendered by this Court in the Allahabad Bank case, (2000) 4 SCC 406 reliance was placed on Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd. v. Srinivas Agencies, (1996) 4 SCC 165 , and the Courts attention was drawn to the factual and legal position expressed therein The extent of right of secured creditors to realise their debts from the assets of a company which is under winding up or has been wound up, by approaching fora other than the company court, is required to be spelt out in these appeals.	Arguments of Respondent
We have also been called upon to decide as to when a pending suit or proceeding relating to realization of the debts by such a creditor should be transferred to itself by a company court seized with the windingup proceeding.	None
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx 4.	None
A combined reading of the aforesaid provisions leads to the following results (i) A windingup court has jurisdiction, inter alia, to entertain or dispose of any suit or proceeding by or against the company, even if such suit or proceeding had been instituted before an order for winding up had been made.	None
This apart, the windingup court has jurisdiction to transfer such a suit or proceeding to itself and dispose of the same.	None
These follow from subsections (2) and (3) of Section 446.	None
(ii) When a windingup order has been made or the official liquidator has been appointed as provisional liquidator, no suit or other legal proceeding, even if pending at the date of the windingup order, can proceed against the company, except by leave of the company court vide subsection (1) of Section 446.	Arguments of Respondent
(iii) Any sale held, even without the leave of the windingup court pursuant to order of a civil court on it being approached by a secured creditor to realise its debt will not ipso facto be void, in view of the holding in Ranganathan case that Section 537, dealing with voidness of sale, operates when the sale is pursuant to attachment of company court.	None
This, however, would be the position where a company has not been wound up, but is in the process of being wound up.	None
5. None of the parties has assailed the aforesaid propositions of law as well.	None
The real bone of contention is as to when (i) leave of the windingup court should be granted to a secured creditor to proceed with the suit after an order of winding up has been made and (ii) when should a windingup court transfer to itself any suit or proceeding by or against the company during the pendency of the windingup proceeding.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
The aforesaid questions arise because a secured creditor who has initiated a suit or proceeding in a civil court is interested in realisation of his debt only, whereas the company court looks after the interest of all the creditors so too, the workmens dues, which rank pari passu with debts due to secured creditors.	Arguments of Respondent
This is brought home not only by Section 529A, which was inserted by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1985, but also by the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 529 inserted by the same Amendment Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The windingup court does these acts through a liquidator, who has been given wide powers by Section 457 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
As against this, a receiver appointed by a civil court on being approached by secured creditor would basically look after the interest of that creditor, whose interest may in many cases be in conflict with that of the liquidator, as was acknowledged in Karamelli Barnett Ltd., In re.	Arguments of Respondent
We feel no difficulty in stating that in case of such conflict, the interest of liquidator has to receive precedence over that of the receiver inasmuch as the former looks after the interest of a large segment of creditors along with that of workmen, whereas the latter confines his concern to the interest of the secured creditor on whose approach the receiver has been appointed.	Arguments of Respondent
This view cannot also be, and has indeed not been, contested by the learned counsel appearing for the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 9.	None
Shri Salves entire submission had been that a working principle may be got evolved which would, on the one hand, protect the substantive right of a secured creditor, specially in view of large sums of money being advanced of late of such creditors and, on the other hand, not jeopardise the interest of other secured creditors.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, these twin objects can be achieved if the company court were to grant leave wherever required as a rule, subject to reasonable conditions.	Arguments of Respondent
This would preserve the integrity of the substantive right of the secured creditor.	Arguments of Respondent
The terms to be imposed should facilitate, rather than obstruct, the realisation of security.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, wherever a receiver has been appointed prior to the commencement of the windingup proceedings, he should be permitted to continue in general run of cases.	Arguments of Respondent
As to the suits to be filed after the windingup proceeding has commenced, the learned counsel urged that such a permission should normally be granted by the windingup court.	Arguments of Respondent
On this being done, when the question of appointment of receiver would arise, the civil court would do so if a case for same were to be made out after hearing the liquidator, who would be a defendant in the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards transfer of the pending suit by the company court, the submission was that convenience may not be the guiding factor the preservation of integrity of the substantive right of the creditor should be the main consideration.	Arguments of Respondent
10.	Arguments of Petitioner
To buttress his submission, Shri Salve has referred us to the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993, which was recently enacted because of the considerable difficulty being experienced by financial institutions in recovering loans and enforcement securities charged with them.	Arguments of Respondent
Earlier, recovery procedure used to block a significant portion of their funds in unproductive assets, the value of which deteriorates with the passage of time.	Arguments of Respondent
An urgent need was, therefore, felt for successful implementation of the financial sector reforms, to work out a suitable mechanism through which dues to these institutions could be realised without delay.	Arguments of Respondent
To achieve this purpose, the aforesaid Act visualises establishment of the Debts Recovery Tribunal(s) by the Central Government, with its own procedure which is speedy in nature.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 18 of this Act has barred jurisdiction of other courts, except the writ power of the higher courts, in relation to the matters specified in Section 17  the same being recovery of debts due to such institutions.	Arguments of Respondent
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 13.	None
We are, therefore, of the view that the approach to be adopted in this regard by the company court does not deserve to be put in a straitjacket formula.	Arguments of Respondent
The discretion to be exercised in this regard has to depend on the facts and circumstances of each case.	Arguments of Respondent
While exercising this power we have no doubt that the company court would also bear in mind the rationale behind the enactment of Recovery of Debts Due to the Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993, to which reference has been made above.	Arguments of Respondent
We make the same observation regarding the terms which a company court should like to impose while granting leave.	Arguments of Respondent
It need not be stated that the terms to be imposed have to be reasonable, which would, of course, vary from case to case.	Arguments of Respondent
According to us, such an approach, would maintain the integrity of that secured creditor who had approached the civil court or desires to do so, and would take care of the interest of other secured creditors as well which the company court is dutybound to do.	Arguments of Respondent
The company court shall also apprise itself about the fact whether dues of workmen are outstanding if so, extent of the same.	Arguments of Respondent
It would be seen whether after the assets of the company are allowed to be used to satisfy the debt of the secured creditor, it would be possible to satisfy the workmens dues pari passu.	Arguments of Respondent
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
On the jurisdictional aspect, learned senior counsel for the respondents placed reliance on clauses (1) and (2) of Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956.	Arguments of Respondent
The same are reproduced below Suits stayed on winding up order.  	None
(1) When a winding up order has been made or the Official Liquidator has been appointed as provisional liquidator, no suit or other legal proceeding shall be commenced, or if pending at the date of the winding up order, shall be proceeded with, against the company, except by leave of the (Tribunal) and subject to such terms as the (Tribunal) may impose.	Arguments of Respondent
(2) (Tribunal) shall, notwithstanding anything, contained in any other law for the time being in force, have jurisdiction to entertain, or dispose of  (a) any suit or proceeding by or against the company (b) any claim made by or against the company (including claims by or against any of its branches in India) (c) any application made under section 391 by or in respect of the company (d) any question of priorities or any other question whatsoever, whether of law or fact, which may relate to or rise in course of the winding up of the company, whether such suit or proceeding has been instituted or is instituted or such claim or question has arisen or arises or such application has been made or is made before or after the order for the winding up of the company, or before or after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 With reference to the judgment rendered in the Allahabad Bank case, (2000) 4 SCC 406 it was asserted, that this Court had merely concluded, that it was not necessary for a bank or a financial institution to seek leave of Company Court before initiating proceedings against a debtor under the provisions of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was therefore pointed out, that there was no dissimilarity of the conclusions drawn by this Court in the Allahabad Bank case, (2000) 4 SCC 406 and the Srinivas Agencies case, (1996) 4 SCC 165 .	Arguments of Respondent
In addition to the above, learned senior counsel for the respondents, placed reliance on Krishnadevi Malchand Kamathia v. Bombay Environmental Action Group, (2011) 3 SCC 363 , and placed reliance on the following conclusions drawn therein It is a settled legal proposition that even if an order is void, it requires to be so declared by a competent forum and it is not permissible for any person to ignore the same merely because in his opinion the order is void.	None
In State of Kerala v. M.K. Kunhikannan Nambiar Manjeri Manikoth Naduvil, Tayabbhai M. Bagasarwalla v. Hind Rubber Industries (P) Ltd., M. Meenakshi v. Metadin Agarwal and Sneh Gupta v. Devi Sarup, this Court held that whether an order is valid or void, cannot be determined by the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
For setting aside such an order, even if void, the party has to approach the appropriate forum.	Arguments of Respondent
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
In State of Punjab v. Gurdev Singh this Court held that a party aggrieved by the invalidity of an order has to approach the court for relief of declaration that the order against him is inoperative and therefore, not binding upon him.	Arguments of Respondent
While deciding the said case, this Court placed reliance upon the judgment in Smith v. East Elloe RDC, wherein Lord Radcliffe observed (AC pp. 76970)	Arguments of Respondent
An order, even if not made in good faith, is still an act capable of legal consequences.	Arguments of Respondent
It bears no brand of invalidity on its forehead.	Arguments of Respondent
Unless the necessary proceedings are taken at law to establish the cause of invalidity and to get it quashed or otherwise upset, it will remain as effective for its ostensible purpose as the most impeccable of orders.	Arguments of Respondent
18.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Sultan Sadik v. Sanjay Raj Subba AIR 2004 SC 1377 , this Court took a similar view observing that once an order is declared non est by the court only then the judgment of nullity would operate erga omnes i.e. for and against everyone concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a declaration is permissible if the court comes to the conclusion that the author of the order lacks inherent jurisdiction competence and therefore, it comes to the conclusion that the order suffers from patent and latent invalidity.	Arguments of Respondent
19.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, from the above it emerges that even if the order notification is void voidable, the party aggrieved by the same cannot decide that the said order notification is not binding upon it.	Arguments of Respondent
It has to approach the court for seeking such declaration.	Arguments of Respondent
The order may be hypothetically a nullity and even if its invalidity is challenged before the court in a given circumstance, the court may refuse to quash the same on various grounds including the standing of the petitioner or on the ground of delay or on the doctrine of waiver or any other legal reason.	Arguments of Respondent
The order may be void for one purpose or for one person, it may not be so for another purpose or another person.	Arguments of Respondent
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
In addition to the above, reliance was placed on Order XXI Rule 58 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which is extracted below Adjudication of claims to, or objections to attachment of, property.  	Arguments of Respondent
(1) Where any claims preferred to, or any objection is made to the attachment of, any property attached in execution of a decree on the ground that such property is not liable to such attachment, the Court shall proceed to adjudicate upon the claim or objection in accordance with the provisions herein contained Provided that no such claim or objection shall be entertained  (a) where, before the claim is preferred or objection is made, the property attached has already been sold or (b) where the Court considers that the claim or objection was designedly or unnecessarily delayed.	Arguments of Respondent
(2) All questions (including questions relating to right, title or interest in the property attached) arising between the parties to a proceeding or their representatives under this rule and relevant to the adjudication of the claim or objection, shall be determined by the Court dealing with the claim or objection and not by a separate suit.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) Upon the determination of the questions referred to in subrule (2), the Court shall, in accordance with such determination,  (a) allow the claim or objection and release the property from attachment either wholly or to such extent as it thinks fit or (b) disallow the claim or objection or (c) continue the attachment subject to any mortgage, charge of other interest in favour of any person or (d) pass such order as in the circumstances of the case it deems fit.	Arguments of Respondent
(4) Where any claim or objection has been adjudicated upon under this rule, the order made thereon shall have the same force and be subject to the same conditions as to appeal or otherwise as if it were a decree.	None
(5) Where a claim or an objection is preferred and the Court, under the proviso to subrule (1), refuses to entertain it, the party against whom such order is made may institute a suit to establish the right which he claims to the property in dispute but, subject to the result of such suit, if any, an order so refusing to entertain the claim or objection shall be conclusive.	None
Based on the above provision, it was submitted, that a declaration of illegality could only be prospective.	Arguments of Respondent
And therefore, what had to be decided was, whether the sale proceedings conducted on 11.8.2005 and the confirmation thereof on 12.9.2005, were valid?	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted, that even if, for arguments sake, the order dated 10.3.2000 passed by the Company Court of the High Court at Madras was now to be set aside, the same would not validate the aforementioned illegality and unauthorized actions of the Recovery Officer, for giving effect to the recovery certificate issued by the DRT.	Arguments of Respondent
To support the aforementioned proposition, learned senior counsel placed reliance on the Official Liquidator, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand case, (2013) 4 SCC 381 and drew the attention of this Court to the factual position recorded in paragraphs 2 and 3 thereof, which are reproduced hereunder Regard being had to the controversy involved which is in the realm of pure question of law, it is not necessary to exposit the facts in detail.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, the necessitous facts are adumbrated herein.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent, Allahabad Bank, a secured creditor with whom certain properties were mortgaged, filed Original Application No. 153 of 1999 under Section 9 of the RDB Act for recovery of a sum of Rs. 39,93,47,701 with interest from the Company, namely, M s Rajindra Pipes Ltd., which was decreed by the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Jabalpur (DRT) vide its order dated 732000.	Arguments of Respondent
The debt recovery certificate being DRC No. 164 of 2000 was issued for recovery of the aforesaid amount which was subsequently transferred to DRT at Allahabad.	Arguments of Respondent
Be it noted, Company Petition No. 113 of 1997 was filed before the learned Company Judge in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad who, vide order dated 2672000, had passed an order for winding up of the Company, as a consequence of which the Official Liquidator had taken over the possession of the assets of the Company on 2472002.	Arguments of Respondent
After receipt of the recovery certificate, the Recovery Officer attached the immovable properties of the woundup company by order dated 2982002.	Arguments of Respondent
The movable properties of the company were attached as per order dated 23122003.	Arguments of Respondent
At this juncture, Allahabad Bank filed an application before the Company Court for impleading it as a necessary party and protect its rights getting it out of the windingup proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
A prayer was made before the Company Court to grant permission to proceed with the sale of the attached properties by the Recovery Officer, Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT).	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Company Judge, on 1322004, granted permission for proceeding with the attachment and sale of the assets for recovery of the dues under the RDB Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is worth stating here that no condition was imposed.	Arguments of Respondent
3.	Arguments of Petitioner
After auction and confirmation of sale by DRT, the auctionpurchaser filed an application before the learned Company Judge for issuance of a direction to the Official Liquidator to give physical possession.	Arguments of Respondent
The Company Court, by order dated 442007, set aside the sale certificate on the ground that the Official Liquidator was neither heard in the matter nor was he given an opportunity to represent before the Recovery Officer for the purposes of representing the workmens dues and a portion of the workmens liability under Section 529A of the 1956 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
A direction was issued to the Recovery Officer to proceed to sell the assets only after associating the Official Liquidator and after giving him hearing to represent the claims of the workmen.	Arguments of Respondent
The aforementioned controversy was adjudicated and disposed of by this Court, after making a reference to the judgment in the Allahabad Bank case, (2000) 4 SCC 406 by concluding as under It has been submitted by Mr Banerji, learned Senior Counsel, that if the Company Court as well as DRT can exercise jurisdiction in respect of the same auction or sale after adjudication by DRT, there would be duality of exercise of jurisdiction which the RDB Act does not envisage.	Arguments of Respondent
By way of an example, the learned Senior Counsel has submitted that there are some categories of persons who can go before DRT challenging the sale and if the Official Liquidator approaches the Company Court, then such a situation would only bring anarchy in the realm of adjudication.	Arguments of Respondent
The aforesaid submission of the learned Senior Counsel commends acceptance as the intendment of the legislature is that the dues of the banks and financial institutions are realised in promptitude.	Arguments of Respondent
It is to be noted that when there is inflation in the economy, the value of the mortgaged property assets depreciates with the efflux of time.	Arguments of Respondent
If more time is consumed, it would be really difficult on the part of the banks and financial institutions to realise their dues.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, this Court in Allahabad Bank case has opined that it is DRT which would have the exclusive jurisdiction when a matter is agitated before DRT.	Arguments of Respondent
The dictum in the said case has been approved by the threeJudge Bench in Rajasthan State Financial Corpn .	Arguments of Respondent
It is not a situation where the Official Liquidator can have a choice either to approach DRT or the Company Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The language of the RDB Act, being clear, provides that any person aggrieved can prefer an appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
The Official Liquidator whose association is mandatorily required can indubitably be regarded as a person aggrieved relating to the action taken by the Recovery Officer which would include the manner in which the auction is conducted or the sale is confirmed.	Arguments of Respondent
Under these circumstances, the Official Liquidator cannot even take recourse to the doctrine of election.	Arguments of Respondent
It is difficult to conceive that there are two remedies.	Arguments of Respondent
It is well settled in law that if there is only one remedy, the doctrine of election does not apply and we are disposed to think that the Official Liquidator has only one remedy i.e. to challenge the order passed by the Recovery Officer before DRT.	Arguments of Respondent
Be it noted, an order passed under Section 30 of the RDB Act by DRT is appealable.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, we are inclined to conclude and hold that the Official Liquidator can only take recourse to the mode of appeal and further appeal under the RDB Act and not approach the Company Court to set aside the auction or confirmation of sale when a sale has been confirmed by the Recovery Officer under the RDB Act.	Arguments of Respondent
36.	Arguments of Petitioner
We will be failing in our duty if we do not take notice of the decision in M.V. Janardhan Reddy wherein the sale was set aside by the Company Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be stated here that the Company Court had imposed a condition that the permission of the Company Court shall be obtained before the sale of the properties, immovable or movable, is confirmed or finalised.	Arguments of Respondent
On the aforesaid basis, this Court opined that when the bank was permitted to go ahead with the proposed sale of the assets of the company under liquidation by way of auction but such sale was subject to confirmation by the Company Court and all the parties were aware about the condition as to confirmation of sale by the Company Court, it was not open to the Recovery Officer to confirm the sale and, therefore, the sale was set aside by the Company Court, being in violation of the order.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, we find that the facts in the said case were absolutely different and further this Court did not deal with the jurisdiction of the Company Court visavis DRT as the said issue really did not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, it is not an authority for the proposition that the Official Liquidator can approach the Company Court to set aside the auction or sale conducted by the Recovery Officer of DRT.	Arguments of Respondent
37.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the aforesaid analysis, we concur with the view expressed by the Division Bench and hold that the Official Liquidator can prefer an appeal before DRT.	Arguments of Respondent
As he was prosecuting the lis in all genuineness before the Company Court and defending the order before the Division Bench, we grant him four weeks time to file an appeal after following the due procedure.	Arguments of Respondent
On such an appeal being preferred, DRT shall deal with the appeal in accordance with law.	Arguments of Respondent
DRT is directed to decide the appeal within a period of two months after offering an opportunity of hearing to all concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
Till the appeal is disposed of, the interim order passed by this Court shall remain in force.	Arguments of Respondent
We hasten to clarify that we have not expressed anything on the merits of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was then placed on Order XXI Rule 54 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which is extracted hereunder Attachment of immovable property.	Arguments of Respondent
(1) Where the property is immovable, the attachment shall be made by an Order prohibiting the judgment debtor from transferring or charging the property in any way, and all persons from taking any benefit from such transfer or charge.	Arguments of Respondent
(1)A	None
The Order shall also require the judgment debtor to attend court on a specified date to take notice of the date to be fixed for settling the terms of the proclamation of sale.	Arguments of Respondent
(2) The Order shall be proclaimed at some place on or adjacent to such property by beat of drum or other customary mode, and a copy of the Order shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of the property and then upon a conspicuous part of the court house, and also, where the property is land paying revenue to the government, in the office of the Collector of the District in which the land is situate and, where the property is land situate in village, also in the office of the Gram Panchayat, if any, having jurisdiction over that village.	Arguments of Respondent
To support the contention advanced at the hands of learned senior counsel representing the respondents, reliance was placed on Jehal Tanti v. Nageshwar Singh, (2013) 14 SCC 689.	Arguments of Respondent
The following observations recorded therein, are of relevance The nature and effect of an alienation made in violation of an order of injunction was considered in Tayabbhai M. Bagasarwalla v. Hind Rubber Industries (P) Ltd. and the following propositions were laid down 16.	Arguments of Respondent
According to this section, if an objection is raised to the jurisdiction of the court at the hearing of an application for grant of, or for vacating, interim relief, the court should determine that issue in the first instance as a preliminary issue before granting or setting aside the relief already granted.	Arguments of Respondent
An application raising objection to the jurisdiction to the court is directed to be heard with all expedition.	Arguments of Respondent
Subrule (2), however, says that the command in subrule (1) does not preclude the court from granting such interim relief as it may consider necessary pending the decision on the question of jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the provision merely states the obvious.	Arguments of Respondent
It makes explicit what is implicit in law.	Arguments of Respondent
Just because an objection to the jurisdiction is raised, the court does not become helpless forthwith  nor does it become incompetent to grant the interim relief.	Arguments of Respondent
It can.	Arguments of Respondent
At the same time, it should also decide the objection to jurisdiction at the earliest possible moment.	Arguments of Respondent
This is the general principle and this is what Section 9A reiterates.	Arguments of Respondent
Take this very case.	Arguments of Respondent
The plaintiff asked for temporary injunction.	Arguments of Respondent
An ad interim injunction was granted.	Arguments of Respondent
Then the defendants came forward objecting to the grant of injunction and also raising an objection to the jurisdiction of the court.	Arguments of Respondent
The court overruled the objection as to jurisdiction and made the interim injunction absolute.	Arguments of Respondent
The defendants filed an appeal against the decision on the question of jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
While that appeal was pending, several other interim orders were passed both by the civil court as well as by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Ultimately, no doubt, the High Court has found that the civil court had no jurisdiction to entertain the suit but all this took about six years.	Arguments of Respondent
Can it be said that orders passed by the civil court and the High Court during this period of six years were all non est and that it is open to the defendants to flout them merrily, without fear of any consequence.	Arguments of Respondent
Admittedly, this could not be done until the High Courts decision on the question of jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
The question is whether the said decision of the High Court means that no person can be punished for flouting or disobeying the interim interlocutory orders while they were in force i.e. for violations and disobedience committed prior to the decision of the High Court on the question of jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
Holding that by virtue of the said decision of the High Court (on the question of jurisdiction), no one can be punished thereafter for disobedience or violation of the interim orders committed prior to the said decision of the High Court, would indeed be subversive of the rule of law and would seriously erode the dignity and the authority of the courts.	Arguments of Respondent
We must repeat that this is not even a case where a suit was filed in the wrong court knowingly or only with a view to snatch an interim order.	Arguments of Respondent
As pointed out hereinabove, the suit was filed in the civil court bona fide.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of the opinion that in such a case the defendants cannot escape the consequences of their disobedience and violation of the interim injunction committed by hem prior to the High Courts decision on the question of jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
The correct principle, therefore, is the one recognised and reiterated in Section 9A  to wit, where an objection to jurisdiction of a civil court is raised to entertain a suit and to pass any interim orders therein, the Court should decide the question of jurisdiction in the first instance but that does not mean that pending the decision on the question of jurisdiction, the Court has no jurisdiction to pass interim orders as may be called for in the facts and circumstances of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
A mere objection to jurisdiction does not instantly disable the court from passing any interim orders.	Arguments of Respondent
It can yet pass appropriate orders.	Arguments of Respondent
At the same time, it should also decide the question of jurisdiction at the earliest possible time.	Arguments of Respondent
The interim orders so passed are orders within jurisdiction when passed and effective till the court decides that it has no jurisdiction to entertain the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
These interim orders undoubtedly come to an end with the decision that this Court had no jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
It is open to the court to modify these orders while holding that it has no jurisdiction to try the suit (emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Respondent
It was the emphatic contention of learned counsel for the respondents, that the sole purpose for requiring the Official Liquidator to participate in the proceedings before the DRT, was to keep the interest of the creditors before the Company Court (where winding up proceedings had been initiated by other creditors), secure.	Arguments of Respondent
The interest of the creditors before the Company Court could be secure, only if the sale of the properties of the company under winding up was made by conforming to the crystalised practices in getting the best price.	Arguments of Respondent
Referring to the conclusions drawn in the impugned order, it was submitted, that the auction sale conducted by the Recovery Officer was farcical, as it was, with the sole object of extending benefits to the appellant  Anita International.	Arguments of Respondent
It was therefore asserted, that the Division Bench of the High Court was fully justified in setting aside the order passed by the learned Single Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. P. Chidambaram, learned senior counsel in rejoinder and in response to the three contentions advanced at the hands of the respondents, invited this Courts attention to Sections 18, 19 and 34 of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same are extracted hereunder Bar of Jurisdiction.  	None
On and from the appointed day, no court or other authority shall have, or be entitled to exercise, any jurisdiction, powers or authority (except the Supreme Court, and a High Court exercising jurisdiction under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution) in relation to the matters specified in section 17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Provided that any proceedings in relation to the recovery of debts due to any multiState cooperative bank pending before the date of commencement of the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2012 under the MultiState Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 (39 of 2002) shall be continued and nothing contained in this section shall, after such commencement, apply to such proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
19. Application to the Tribunal.  	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) Where a bank or a financial institution has to recover any debt from any person, it may make an application to the Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction (a) the defendant, or each of the defendants where there are more than one, at the time of making the application, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on business, or personally works for gain orb) any of the defendants, where there are more than one, at the time of making the application, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on business, or personally works for gain or (c) the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises Provided that the bank or financial institution may, with the permission of the Debts Recovery Tribunal, on an application made by it, withdraw the application, whether made before or after the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 for the purpose of taking action under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002), if no such action had been taken earlier under that Act Provided further that any application made under the first proviso for seeking permission from the Debts Recovery Tribunal to withdraw the application made under subsection (1) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and disposed of within thirty days from the date of such application Provided also that in case the Debts Recovery Tribunal refuses to grant permission for withdrawal of the application filed under this subsection, it shall pass such orders after recording the reasons therefor.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1A)	Arguments of Petitioner
Every bank being, multiState cooperative bank referred to in subclause (vi) of clause (d) of section 2, may, at its option, opt to initiate proceedings under the MultiState Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 (39 of 2002) to recover debts, whether due before or after the date of commencement of the Enforcement of the Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2012 from any person instead of making an application under this Chapter.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1B)	Arguments of Petitioner
In case, a bank being, multiState cooperative bank referred to in subclause (vi) of clause (d) of section 2 has filed an application under this Chapter and subsequently opts to withdraw the application for the purpose of initiating proceeding under the MultiState Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 (39 of 2002) to recover debts, it may do so with the permission of the Tribunal and every such application seeking permission from the Tribunal to withdraw the application made under subsection (1A) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and disposed of within thirty days from the date of such application Provided that in case the Tribunal refuses to grant permission for withdrawal of the application filed under this subsection, it shall pass such orders after recording the reasons therefor.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) Where a bank or a financial institution, which has to recover its debt from any person, has filed an application to the Tribunal under subsection (1) and against the same person another bank or financial institution also has a claim to recover its debt, then, the later bank or financial institution may join the applicant bank or financial institution at any stage of the proceedings, before the final order is passed, by making an application to that Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) Every application under subsection (1) or subsection (2) shall be in such form and accompanied by such documents or other evidence and by such fee as may be prescribed Provided that the fee may be prescribed having regard to the amount of debt to be recovered Provided further that nothing contained in this subsection relating to fee shall apply to cases transferred to the Tribunal under subsection (1) of section 31.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3A)	Arguments of Petitioner
If any application filed before the Tribunal for recovery of any debt is settled prior to the commencement of the hearing before that Tribunal or at any stage of the proceedings before the final order is passed, the applicant may be granted refund of the fees paid by him at such rates as may be prescribed.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) On receipt of the application under subsection (1) or subsection (2), the Tribunal shall issue summons requiring the defendant to show cause within thirty days of the service of summons as to why the relief prayed for should not be granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) The defendant shall, within a period of thirty days from the date of service of summons, present a written statement of this defence Provided that where the defendant fails to file the written statement within the said period of thirty days, the Presiding Officer may, in exceptional cases and in special circumstances to be recorded in writing, allow not more than two extensions to the defendant to file the written statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5A)	Arguments of Petitioner
After hearing of the application has commenced, it shall be continued from daytoday until the hearing is concluded Provided that the Tribunal may grant adjournments if sufficient cause is shown, but no such adjournment shall be granted more than three times to a party and where there are three or more parties, the total number of such adjournments shall not exceed sixided further that, the Presiding Officer may grant such adjournments on imposing such costs as may be considered necessary.	Arguments of Petitioner
(6) Where the defendant claims to setoff against the applicants demand any ascertained sum of money legally recoverable by him from such applicant, the defendant may, at the first hearing of the application, but not afterwards unless permitted by the Tribunal, present a written statement containing the particulars of the debt sought to be setoff.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7) The written statement shall have the same effect as a plaint in a crosssuit so as to enable the Tribunal to pass a final order in respect both of the original claim and of the setoff.	Arguments of Petitioner
(8) A defendant in an application may, in addition to his right of pleading a setoff under subsection (6), set up, by way of counterclaim against the claim of the applicant, any right or claim in respect of a cause of action accruing to the defendant against the applicant either before or after the filing of the application but before the defendant has delivered his defence or before the time limited for delivering his defence has expired, whether such counterclaim is in the nature of a claim for damages or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
(9) A counterclaim under subsection (8) shall have the same effect as a crosssuit so as to enable the Tribunal to pass a final order on the same application, both on the original claim and on the counterclaim.	Arguments of Petitioner
(10) The applicant shall be at liberty to file a written statement in answer to the counterclaim of the defendant within such period as may be fixed by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
(11) Where the defendant sets up a counterclaim and the applicant contends that the claim thereby raised ought not to be disposed of by way of counterclaim but in an independent action, the applicant may, at any time before issues are settled in relation to the counterclaim, apply to the Tribunal for an order that such counterclaim may be excluded, and the Tribunal may, on the hearing of such application, make such order as it thinks fit.	Arguments of Petitioner
(12) The Tribunal may make an interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or attachment) against the defendant to debar him from transferring, alienating or otherwise dealing with, or disposing of, any property and assets belonging to him without the prior permission of the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
(13)(A) Where, at any stage of the proceedings, the Tribunal is satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise, that the defendant, with intent to obstruct or delay or frustrate the execution of any order for the recovery of debt that may be passed against him,  (i) is about to dispose of the whole or any part of his property or (ii) is about to remove the whole or any part of his property from the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Tribunal or (iii) is likely to cause any damage or mischief to the property or affect its value by misuse or creating third party interest, the Tribunal may direct the defendant, within a time to be fixed by it, either to furnish security, in such sum as may be specified in the order, to produce and place at the disposal of the Tribunal, when required, the said property or the value of the same, or such portion thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the certificate for the recovery of debt, or to appear and show cause why he should not furnish security.	Arguments of Petitioner
(B) Where the defendant fails to show cause why he should not furnish security, or fails to furnish the security required, within the time fixed by the Tribunal, the Tribunal may order the attachment of the whole or such portion of the properties claimed by the applicant as the properties secured in his favor or otherwise owned by the defendant as appears sufficient to satisfy any certificate for the recovery of debt.	Arguments of Petitioner
(14) The applicant shall, unless the Tribunal otherwise directs, specify the property required to be attached and the estimated value thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
(15) The Tribunal may also in the order direct the conditional attachment of the whole or any portion of the property specified under subsection (14).	Arguments of Petitioner
(16) If an order of attachment is made without complying with the provisions of subsection (13), such attachment shall be void.	Arguments of Petitioner
(17) In the case of disobedience of an order made by the Tribunal under subsections (12), (13) and (18) or breach of any of the terms on which the order was made, the Tribunal may order the properties of the person guilty of such disobedience or breach to be attached and may also order such person to be detained in the civil prison for a term not exceeding three months, unless in the meantime the Tribunal directs his release.	Arguments of Petitioner
(18) Where it appears to the Tribunal to be just and convenient, the Tribunal may, by order, (a) appoint a receiver of any property, whether before or after grant of certificate for recovery of debt (b) remove any person from the possession or custody of the property (c) commit the same to the possession, custody or management of the receiver (d) confer upon the receiver all such powers, as to bringing and defending suits in the courts or filing and defending application before the Tribunal and for the realization, management, protection, preservation and improvement of the property, the collection of the rents and profits thereof, the application and disposal of such rents and profits, and the execution of documents as the owner himself has, or such of those powers as the Tribunal thinks fit and (e) appoint a Commissioner for preparation of an inventory of the properties of the defendant or for the sale thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
(19) Where a certificate of recovery is issued against a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)	Arguments of Petitioner
the Tribunal may order the sale proceeds of such company to be distributed among its secured creditors in accordance with the provisions of section 529A of the Companies Act, 1956 and to pay the surplus, if any, to the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
(20) The Tribunal may, after giving the applicant and the defendant an opportunity of being heard, pass such interim or final order, including the order for payment of interest from the date on or before which payment of the amount is found due up to the date of realization or actual payment, on the application as it thinks fit to meet the ends of justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
(20A) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Tribunal that the claim of the applicant has been adjusted wholly or in part by any lawful agreement or compromise in writing and signed by the parties or where the defendant has repaid or agreed to repay the claim of the applicant, the Tribunal shall pass orders recording such agreement, compromise or satisfaction of the claim.	Arguments of Petitioner
(21)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Tribunal shall send a copy of every order passed by it to the applicant and the defendant.	Arguments of Petitioner
(22)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Presiding Officer shall issue a certificate under his signature on the basis of the order of the Tribunal to the Recovery Officer for recovery of the amount of debt specified in the certificate.	Arguments of Petitioner
(23) Where the Tribunal, which has issued a certificate of recovery, is satisfied that the property is situated within the local limits of the jurisdiction of two or more Tribunals, it may send the copies of the certificate of recovery for execution to such other Tribunals where the property is situated Provided that in a case where the Tribunal to which the certificate of recovery is sent for execution finds that it has no jurisdiction to comply with the certificate of recovery, it shall return the same to the Tribunal which has issued it.	Arguments of Petitioner
(24) The application made to the Tribunal under subsection (1) or subsection (2) shall be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavor shall be made by it to dispose of the application finally within one hundred and eighty days from the date of receipt of the application.	Arguments of Petitioner
(25) The Tribunal may make such orders and give such directions as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to its orders or to prevent abuse of its process or to secure the ends of justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx 34.	Arguments of Petitioner
Act to have overriding effect.  	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) Save as provided under subsection (2), the provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) The provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 1948), the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951), the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963), the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984 (62 of 1984), the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986) and the Small Industries Development Bank of India Act, 1989 (39 of 1989).	None
Based on the aforesaid provisions, it was asserted, that the provisions of the RDB Act envisaged a complete ouster of the Company Court, and that neither the Company Court nor any other Court, could have exercised jurisdiction vested in the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted, that the Official Liquidator has no participatory role under the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Official Liquidator has jurisdictional control, over the assets of a company under winding up, under the Companies Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this behalf, learned senior counsel for the appellant, placed reliance on Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan, 1955 (1) SCR 117 , and pointed out to the following observations recorded therein The answer to these contentions must depend on what the position in law is when a court entertains a suit or an appeal over which it has no jurisdiction, and what the effect of Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act is on that position.	None
It is a fundamental principle well established that a decree passed by a court without jurisdiction is a nullity, and that its invalidity could be set up whenever and wherever it is sought to be enforced or relied upon, even at the stage of execution and even in collateral proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
A defect of jurisdiction, whether it is pecuniary or territorial, or whether it is in respect of the subjectmatter of the action, strikes at the very authority of the court to pass any decree, and such a defect cannot be cured even by consent of parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the question now under consideration fell to be determined only on the application of general principles governing the matter, there can be no doubt that the District Court of Monghyr was coram non judice, and that its judgment and decree would be nullities.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question is what is the effect of Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act on this position.	None
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed on Dhurandhar Prasad Singh v. Jai Prakash University, (2001) 6 SCC 534 , and the Courts attention was drawn to the following observations 20.	None
de Smith, Woolf and Jowell in their treatise Judicial Review of Administrative Action, 5th Edn., para 5044, have summarised the concept of void and voidable as follows Behind the simple dichotomy of void and voidable acts (invalid and valid until declared to be invalid) lurk terminological and conceptual problems of excruciating complexity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The problems arose from the premise that if an act, order or decision is ultra vires in the sense of outside jurisdiction, it was said to be invalid, or null and void.	Arguments of Petitioner
If it is intra vires it was, of course, valid.	Arguments of Petitioner
If it is flawed by an error perpetrated within the area of authority or jurisdiction, it was usually said to be voidable that is, valid till set aside on appeal or in the past quashed by certiorari for error of law on the face of the record.	Arguments of Petitioner
21.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clive Lewis in his work Judicial Remedies in Public Law at p. 131 has explained the expressions void and voidable as follows A challenge to the validity of an act may be by direct action or by way of collateral or indirect challenge.	Arguments of Petitioner
A direct action is one where the principal purpose of the action is to establish the invalidity.	Arguments of Petitioner
This will usually be by way of an application for judicial review or by use of any statutory mechanism for appeal or review.	Arguments of Petitioner
Collateral challenges arise when the invalidity is raised in the course of some other proceedings, the purpose of which is not to establish invalidity but where questions of validity become relevant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereupon, reference was made to Jagmittar Sain Bhagat v. Director, Health Services, Haryana, (2013) 10 SCC 136.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to canvass the proposition, that jurisdiction of courts forums cannot be conferred by consent of parties, or acquiescence or waiver.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance in this behalf was placed on the following conclusions drawn by this Court 9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Indisputably, it is a settled legal proposition that conferment of jurisdiction is a legislative function and it can neither be conferred with the consent of the parties nor by a superior court, and if the court passes a decree having no jurisdiction over the matter, it would amount to nullity as the matter goes to the root of the cause.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such an issue can be raised at any stage of the proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
The finding of a court or tribunal becomes irrelevant and unenforceable inexecutable once the forum is found to have no jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, if a court tribunal inherently lacks jurisdiction, acquiescence of party equally should not be permitted to perpetrate and perpetuate defeating of the legislative animation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The court cannot derive jurisdiction apart from the statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such eventuality the doctrine of waiver also does not apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
(Vide United Commercial Bank Ltd. v. Workmen AIR 1951 SC 230 Nai Bahu v. Lala Ramnarayan AIR 1978 SC 22 Natraj Studios (P) Ltd. v. Navrang Studios (1981) 1 SCC 523 and Kondiba Dagadu Kadam v. Savitribai Sopan Gujar (1999) 3 SCC 722.)	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Sushil Kumar Mehta v. Gobind Ram Bohra (1990) 1 SCC 193 , this Court, after placing reliance on a large number of its earlier judgments particularly in Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Kamlekar Shantaram Wadke (1976) 1 SCC 496 Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan AIR 1954 SC 340 and Chandrika Misir v. Bhaiya Lal AIR 1973 SC 2391 held, that a decree without jurisdiction is a nullity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is a coram non judice when a special statute gives a right and also provides for a forum for adjudication of rights, remedy has to be sought only under the provisions of that Act and the common law court has no jurisdiction where an Act creates an obligation and enforces the performance in specified manner, performance cannot be forced in any other manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	Arguments of Petitioner
The law does not permit any court tribunal authority forum to usurp jurisdiction on any ground whatsoever, in case, such an authority does not have jurisdiction on the subjectmatter.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the reason that it is not an objection as to the place of suing it is an objection going to the nullity of the order on the ground of want of jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, for assumption of jurisdiction by a court or a tribunal, existence of jurisdictional fact is a condition precedent.	Arguments of Petitioner
But once such jurisdictional fact is found to exist, the court or tribunal has power to decide on the adjudicatory facts or facts in issue.	Arguments of Petitioner
(Vide Setrucherla Ramabhadraraju v. Maharaja of Jeypore AIR 1919 PC 150 State of Gujarat v. Rajesh Kumar Chimanlal Barot AIR 1996 SC 2664 Harshad Chiman Lal Modi v. D.L.F. Universal Ltd. AIR 2005 SC 4446 and Carona Ltd. v. Parvathy Swaminathan Sons AIR 2008 SC 187 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied) 28.	None
Whilst supplementing the above contentions, Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel pointed out, that in the present controversy, the State Bank of Mysore had preferred an application before the Company Court under Section 446(1) of the Companies Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was asserted, that the order passed by the High Court was an order in personam, and as such, the aforesaid order dated 10.3.2000 could not be considered as binding on the DRT, or for that matter, on the Recovery Officer of the DRT.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the above proposition, learned senior counsel placed reliance on the Andhra Bank case, (2005) 5 SCC 75 and drew the attention of this Court to the following conclusions recorded therein Section 446 of the Companies Act indisputably confers a wide power upon the Company Judge, but such a power can be exercised only upon consideration of the respective contentions of the parties raised in a suit or a proceeding or any claim made by or against the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
A question of determining the priorities would also fall for consideration if the parties claiming the same are before the court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 446 of the Companies Act ipso facto confers no power upon the court to pass interlocutory orders.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question as to whether the courts have inherent power to pass such orders, in our opinion, does not arise for consideration in this proceeding.	Arguments of Petitioner
Assuming such a power exists, it was imperative that the same should have been exercised on consideration of the factors laid down by this Court in Morgan Stanley Mutual Fund v. Kartick Das (1994) 4 SCC 225.	Arguments of Petitioner
An unreasoned order does not subserve the doctrine of fair play.	Arguments of Petitioner
(See Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works v. CIT (2005) 2 SCC 329 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied) 29.	None
In order to make the final thrust, learned senior counsel representing the appellant submitted, that an auction sale of the nature, which is subject matter of consideration in the present controversy, was not liable to be set aside, merely on account of some trivial infirmities in the procedure adopted for the sale of the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the submission of learned counsel, that only a material irregularity would persuade a Court to interfere with such sale proceedings conducted in furtherance of statutory power conferred upon such authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
To support the above contention, reliance was placed by learned senior counsel firstly on the following observations in the decision rendered by this Court in Radhy Shyam v. Shyam Behari Singh, AIR 1971 SC 2337 .	Arguments of Petitioner
There can be no doubt that an application under O. XXI, Rule 90 to set aside an auctionsale concerns the rights of a person declared to be the purchaser.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the application is allowed, the sale is set aside and the purchaser is deprived of his right to have the sale confirmed by the Court under Rule 92.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a right is a valuable right, in that, upon such confirmation the sale becomes absolute and the rights of ownership in the property so sold become vested in him.	Arguments of Petitioner
A decision in such a proceeding, therefore, must be said to be one determining the right of the auctionpurchaser to have the sale confirmed and made absolute and of the judgmentdebtor conferred by Rule 90 to have it set aside and a resale ordered.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view an order in a proceeding under Order XXI, Rule 90, is a judgment inasmuch as such a proceeding raises a controversy between the parties therein affecting their valuable rights and the order allowing the application certainly deprives the purchaser of rights accrued to him as a result of the auctionsale.	Arguments of Petitioner
We, therefore, agree with the High Court that a letters patent appeal lay against the order of the learned single Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
8. Rule 90 of O. XXI of the Code, as amended by the Allahabad High Court, inter alia provides that no sale shall be set aside on the ground of irregularity or even fraud unless upon the facts proved the Court is satisfied that the applicant has sustained injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mere proof of a material irregularity such as the one under Rule 69 and inadequacy of price realised in such a sale, in other words injury, is, therefore, not sufficient.	Arguments of Petitioner
What has to be established is that there was not only inadequacy of the price but that that inadequacy was caused by reason of the material irregularity or fraud.	Arguments of Petitioner
A connection has thus to be established between the inadequacy of the price and the material irregularity.	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
Additionally, reliance was placed on Navalkha and Sons v. Sri Ramanya Das, (1969) 3 SCC 537.	Arguments of Petitioner
And the Courts attention was drawn to the following observations In the present case the Division Bench has come to the conclusion that publicity was not as wide as originally proposed by the Commissioners in their affidavit.	Arguments of Petitioner
The publication was made in four dailies namely The Hindu, Indian Express, the Hindustan Times and The Statesman.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no publication in the Times of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further out of the four newspapers in which publication was made only in two there were two insertions and in the remaining two there was only one insertion.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was contrary to what the Commissioners have promised in their affidavit dated July 8, 1964.	Arguments of Petitioner
No doubt, other efforts were made for giving publicity but these efforts were not sufficient to attract more than one offer.	Arguments of Petitioner
When the case came for confirmation on December 24, 1964 there was an application by Babu Khan that the property was of much higher value and that fresh offers must be invited again with wider publicity.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is also the affidavit of the State Government dated August 29, 1963 in which the value of the property was shown as Rs. 13,40,000/.	Arguments of Petitioner
Besides, on that very day, one Gopaldas Darak had come before the Court with a higher offer showing his bona fides and earnestness by depositing more than one lakh of rupees.	Arguments of Petitioner
He came with the complaint that there was not sufficient publicity as to attract people from the north and that as soon as he came to know he gave his offer.	Arguments of Petitioner
In these circumstances the learned Single Judge was right in expressing his reluctance to confirm the offer of Navalkha Sons.	Arguments of Petitioner
He therefore decided to have an open bid as between the appellant and Darak in the Court itself on that very day.	Arguments of Petitioner
The complaint of Padam Chand Agarwal is that the second step taken by the Single Judge of holding an auction without giving wide publicity was not justified in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 273 of the Companies (Court) Rules provides that all sales shall be made by public auction or by inviting sealed tenders or in such manner as the Judge may direct.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears that on April 17, 1964 at the instance of the Official Liquidator and at the instance of a contributory the Court had approved of the terms and conditions of sale which provide calling of sealed tenders.	Arguments of Petitioner
On December 24, 1964 the learned Judge realised the inefficacy of this Course and decided to abandon the original procedure and put the properties to auction.	Arguments of Petitioner
But having made up his mind to resort to auction the learned Judge confined the auction to only two persons namely the previous tenderer and the fresh tenderer.	Arguments of Petitioner
The auction in question no doubt was conducted in a public place but it was not a public auction because it was not open to the general public but was confined to two named persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly it was not held after due publicity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was held immediately after it was decided upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, obvious that the sale in question was not a public sale which implies sale after giving notice to the public wherein every member of the public is at liberty to participate.	Arguments of Petitioner
No doubt, the device resorted to considerably raised the previous bid yet it was not an adequate price having regard to the market value of the property to which reference has already been made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The denial of opportunity to purchase the property by persons who would have taken part in the auction bid but for want of notice is a serious matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion the learned Judge having decided on December 24, 1964 that the property should be put to auction should have directed auction by public sale instead of confining it to two persons alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since there was want of publicity and there was lack of opportunity to the public to take part in the auction the acceptance of the highest bid by the learned Judge was not a sound exercise of discretion.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended on behalf of the appellant that confirmation was discretionary with the Court and the Division Bench ought not to have interfered with the discretion exercised by the Company Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that the discretion exercised by the Judge ought not to be interfered with unless the Judge has gone wrong on principle.	Arguments of Petitioner
As already pointed out the learned Company Judge having decided to put the property to auction went wrong in not holding the auction as a public auction after due publicity and this has resulted in prejudice to the Company and the creditors in that the auction did not fetch adequate price.	Arguments of Petitioner
The prejudice was inherent in the method adopted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petition of Padam Chand Agarwal also suggests that want of publicity had resulted in prejudice.	Arguments of Petitioner
In these circumstances the Company Judge ought not to have confirmed the bid of the appellant in the auction held on December 24, 1964.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are accordingly of opinion that the Division Bench was right in holding that the order of the Company Judge dated February 19, 1965 should be set aside and there should be fresh sale of the property either by calling sealed tenders or by auction in accordance with law.	Arguments of Petitioner
The tender will be called or the auction will take place with the minimum offer or with the starting bid of ten lakh rupees.	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied)	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on the legal position declared by this Court in the above judgments, it was asserted, that the validity of the auction sale held on 11.8.2005 and the confirmation thereof on 12.9.2005 was natural and normal in the facts and circumstances of this case.	None
In order to restore the aforestated validity, it was submitted, that the impugned order passed by the High Court deserved to be set aside.	None
We have given our thoughtful consideration to the complicated sequence of facts projected before us, as also, the legal submissions advanced at the hands of learned counsel for the rival parties.	Reasoning
We shall now endeavour to record our conclusions, with reference to the issues canvassed.	Reasoning
In our considered view, the controversy projected for our consideration falls in a narrow compass.	Reasoning
It is apposite, to crystalise the dimensions of the dispute.	Reasoning
Deve Sugars Ltd. was ordered to be wound up on 16.4.1999 (in Company Petition No.170 of 1995).	Reasoning
The Official Liquidator took possession of the assets of Deve Sugars Ltd. situated at Harige on 28.9.1999.	Reasoning
The State Bank of Mysore filed Company Application Nos. 12511253 of 1999, in the then pending Company Petition No.170 of 1995.	Reasoning
Through the above applications, the State Bank of Mysore sought leave of the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, to pursue the recovery proceedings before the DRT, Bangalore.	None
On 10.3.2000, the Company Court granted leave subject to the condition that no coercive steps are taken against the assets of the company during or after the conclusion of the proceedings before the Tribunal After the DRT, Bangalore issued the recovery certificate dated 15.5.2002, the State Bank of Mysore filed Company Application No. 1300 of 2003, with a prayer that the bank be permitted to seek execution of the recovery certificate.	Reasoning
It is not a matter of dispute, that the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, neither heard nor passed any order on the above application.	Reasoning
The admitted position is, that the Registry of the High Court, at its own, returned the above Company Application No.1300 of 003, by recording an endorsement, that leave of the High Court was not necessary.	Reasoning
The Recovery Officer thereafter proceeded with the sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. Tungabadra Sugar Works Mazdoor Sangha, the workers union of Deve Sugars Ltd., objected to the execution of the recovery certificate by the Recovery Officer.	None
The Official Liquidator, who was ordered to be impleaded in the recovery proceedings initiated by the State Bank of Mysore, vide order dated 10.3.2000 (passed by the Company Court in the High Court at Madras), also filed objections.	None
All the above objections were overruled by the Recovery Officer.	None
The workers union, then assailed the recovery proceedings, before the High Court of Karnataka, by filing Writ Petition No.37991 of 2004.	Reasoning
Videocon International Ltd. and Tapti Machines Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. also filed Writ Petition No.26564 of 2005, before the High Court of Karnataka.	Reasoning
In the above writ petitions, the petitioners assailed the sale proceedings before the Recovery Officer.	Reasoning
Based on a preliminary objection raised by the appellant Anita International, the High Court of Karnataka relegated the petitioners to their remedy under the RDB Act, by a common order dated 27.10.2006.	None
The above order was challenged through Writ Appeal Nos. 2050 and 2051 of 2006 before the High Court of Karnataka.	None
The writ appeals were dismissed on 23.2.2007.	Facts
The workers union thereafter preferred AOR No.15 of 2006 and Videocon International Ltd. filed AOR No.1 of 2007.	Facts
In both the above matters, a challenge was raised to the order passed by the Recovery Officer dated 12.9.2005, whereby the sale of properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. to Anita International, was confirmed.	Facts
It would be relevant to mention, that as against the reserve price of Rs. 10 crores, Anita International  the appellant herein, made a bid of Rs. 10.25 crores.	Reasoning
The same was accepted by the Recovery Officer on 11.8.2005, and confirmed on 12.9.2005.	Reasoning
One N. Ponnusamy filed Company Application Nos. 27402742 of 2007, before the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, wherein he assailed the sale and confirmation orders dated 11.8.2005 and 12.9.2005.	None
In the above applications, it was inter alia asserted, that the reserve price of Rs. 10 crores was too low.	None
The above company applications were dismissed on 3.3.2009.	None
A challenge raised against the same, was also dismissed by the High Court at Madras.	None
The applications filed by the Official Liquidator and others were considered collectively (with Company Application Nos. 27402742 of 2007) and were rejected by a common order dated 3.3.2009, whereby all the applicants were relegated to their remedy of appeal under the RDB Act.	Reasoning
A challenge raised to the above order dated 3.3.2009, by way of an intracourt appeal, was allowed by the High Court, on 17.9.2009.	Reasoning
It is this order, which is subject matter of challenge before this Court.	Reasoning
Stated concisely, the High Court expressed the view, that the proceedings before the Recovery Officer, including the sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. on 11.8.2005 and the confirmation thereof on 12.9.2005, had been conducted in disregard of the order of the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, dated 10.3.2000 (in Company Application Nos. 12511253 of 1999).	Reasoning
The sale and confirmation of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. in favour of Anita International were accordingly set aside.	None
The principal debate raised before this Court, revolves around the cause and effect of the order dated 10.3.2000, passed by the Company Court in the High Court at Madras.	None
According to learned counsel for the appellants, the above order dated 10.3.2000 being wholly void and non est could not have any bearing on the proceedings conducted by the Recovery Officer, including the sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. on 11.8.2005, and also, the confirmation thereof by the Recovery Officer on 12.9.2005.	None
According to the respondents, who support the impugned order dated 17.9.2009, the order dated 10.3.2000 was valid, and had a binding effect.	None
And because, the proceedings conducted by the Recovery Officer were in total disregard of the order dated 10.3.2000, it was submitted, that the impugned order was well founded.	None
In order to support their claim, it was submitted on behalf of the appellants, that jurisdiction in matters of recovery agitated by banks and financial institutions under the RDB Act, has been repeatedly expounded by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The concerned Debts Recovery Tribunals, before whom recovery proceedings are initiated, have exclusive jurisdiction in the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also pointed out, that this Court has clearly declared, that even the jurisdiction of Recovery Officers, in matters of execution of recovery certificates, was likewise exclusive.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the pointed contention of learned counsel for the appellants, that in matters wherein banks and financial institutions approach a Debts Recovery Tribunal, which on due consideration issues a recovery certificate, the same can be executed only through a Recovery Officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted, that a Company Court has no jurisdiction, in the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the appellants, substantiated the above assertion on the basis of the decisions rendered by this Court in the Allahabad Bank1, the M.V. Janardhan Reddy2, the Andhra Bank3, the Rajasthan State Financial Corporation4, and the Official Liquidator, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand5 cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
41.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel for the appellants, it was apparent, that the action of a Recovery Officer in conducting sale proceedings and ordering the confirmation thereof for executing a recovery certificate fell squarely within his jurisdiction under the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
And his jurisdiction being exclusive, as declared by this Court could not be interfered with or set aside.	Reasoning
It is in the above context, that it was also the pointed assertion of learned counsel representing the appellant, that the order passed by the Company Court in the High Court at Madras dated 10.3.2000 was without jurisdiction.	Reasoning
Learned counsel representing the appellant however cautioned this Court, not to confuse the power of the Recovery Officer in executing recovery certificates (through sale of the debtors properties), with the apportionment of the sale proceeds.	Reasoning
It was urged, that the concern of the appellant  Anita International, was limited to the sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd., which it had purchased on 11.8.2005, which was confirmed by the Recovery Officer on 12.9.2005.	Reasoning
It was submitted, that the appellant  Anita International has no concern with the distribution of the sale proceeds, and as such, the issue of distribution of the sale proceeds should not fall within the consideration of the present determination.	None
It is not possible for us to accept the contentions advanced on behalf of the appellants.	None
In this behalf, it would be relevant to mention, that in the M.V. Janardhan Reddy case, (2008) 7 SCC 738 the Company Court by an order dated 13.8.1999 required that its permission should be obtained before the Recovery Officer finalized the sale.	None
Thereafter, the Company Court by an order dated 25.3.2005, directed that sale by the Recovery Officer, was subject to confirmation by the Company Court.	None
In the above sequence of facts, this Court clearly held, that the condition imposed by the Company Court could not be violated by the Recovery Officer.	None
It was concluded, that the sale made by the Recovery Officer in violation of the orders passed by the Company Court, was without the authority of law, the same was accordingly set aside.	None
The explanation tendered by learned senior counsel representing the appellants was, that even in the above judgment, this Court had not disturbed the exclusive jurisdiction of a Recovery Officer, in executing the recovery certificate.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our considered view, the above contention is immaterial to the issue under consideration.	None
The issue under consideration is, whether or not, an order passed by the Company Court (in the present case, the order dated 10.3.2000) was binding on the Recovery Officer?	None
And, whether the proceedings conducted by the Recovery Officer, in violation of the above order, were sustainable in law?	None
We have no hesitation in concluding, that in the M.V. Janardhan Reddy case, (2008) 7 SCC 738 an order passed by the Company Court was held to be binding on the Recovery Officer.	None
Based on exactly the same consideration, we are of the view, that the acceptance of the bid of Anita International by the Recovery Officer on 11.8.2005, and the confirmation of the sale in its favour on 12.9.2005, were clearly impermissible, and therefore, deserve to be set aside.	None
In addition to the above, reference may be made to the judgment rendered by this Court in the Official Liquidator, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand case, (2013) 4 SCC 381.	None
In paragraph 36 of the above judgment (extracted in paragraph xxx 24 xxx hereinabove), this Court has taken due notice of the proposition, with reference to a case where an order, had been passed by the Company Court.	None
The proposition dealt with was in a situation where, the Company Court had imposed a condition on the Recovery Officer, that permission of the Company Court would be obtained, before the Recovery Officer conducted the sale and confirmation of the movable or immovable properties, of the debtor.	None
It was held, that the order passed by the Company Court, was binding on the Recovery Officer.	None
In the above judgment it was concluded, that it was not open to the Recovery Officer to confirm the sale of the properties at his own, and such a sale and confirmation of movable or immovable properties made by the Recovery Officer, without the permission of the Company Court, were liable to be set aside.	None
This Court while recording its above conclusion, also expressed, that the above issue had nothing to do with the proposition, whether an Official Liquidator can approach a Company Court, to seek the setting aside of the auction and the sale conduced by the Recovery Officer.	None
It would be relevant to mention, that the judgments relied upon by learned counsel for the appellants, were duly taken into consideration in the Official Liquidator, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand case, (2013) 4 SCC 381.	None
In view of the above, we are of the considered view, that the pointed issue canvassed before us, at the hands of learned counsel for the appellants, stands answered against the appellant in paragraph 36 of the above judgment.	None
We endorse, and are obliged to follow, the view expressed by this Court, as noticed above.	None
Accordingly, we find no merit in the first contention advanced at the hands of learned counsel for the appellants.	None
Despite our above conclusion, it is imperative for us to notice, that for recovery of a debt due to a bank or a financial institution, the concerned bank or financial institution, can legitimately initiate proceedings, by filing a winding up petition before the jurisdictional Company Court, or alternatively, intervene in a pending winding up petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Since there is no bar restraining a bank or a financial institution from approaching a Company Court, by filing a winding up petition, it is not possible to conclude, that the jurisdictional Company Court, is not possessed with the determinative authority competence to entertain a claim raised by such bank or financial institution.	None
In view of the above, it is not possible for us to accept, as was suggested on behalf of the appellants, that the order passed by the Company Court in the High Court at Madras dated 10.3.2000, lacked the jurisdictional authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since we have concluded that the Company Court which passed the order dated 10.3.2000 did not lack jurisdiction, we hereby hold, that in the facts of this case, the above order dated 10.3.2000 was neither invalid nor void.	None
We are also of the considered view, as held by the Court in the Krishnadevi Malchand Kamathia case, (2011) 3 SCC 363 that it is not open either to parties to a lis or to any third parties, to determine at their own, that an order passed by a Court is valid or void.	None
A party to the lis or a third party, who considers an order passed by a Court as void or non est, must approach a Court of competent jurisdiction, to have the said order set aside, on such grounds as may be available in law.	None
However, till an order passed by a competent Court is set aside, as was also held by this Court in the Official Liquidator, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand5 and the Jehal Tanti9 cases, the same would have the force of law, and any act action carried out in violation thereof, would be liable to be set aside.	None
We endorse the opinion expressed by this Court in the Jehal Tanti case, (2013) 14 SCC 689.	None
In the above case, an earlier order of a Court was found to be without jurisdiction after six years.	None
In other words, an order passed by a Court having no jurisdiction, had subsisted for six years.	None
This Court held, that the said order could not have been violated while it subsisted.	None
And further, that the violation of the order, before it is set aside, is liable to entail punishment, for its disobedience.	None
For us to conclude otherwise, may have disastrous consequences.	None
In the above situation, every cantankerous and quarrelsome litigant would be entitled to canvass, that in his wisdom, the judicial order detrimental to his interests, was void, voidable, or patently erroneous.	None
And based on such plea, to avoid or disregard or even disobey the same.	None
This course can never be permitted.	None
To be fair to learned counsel for the appellants, it needs to be noticed, that reliance was also placed on behalf of the appellants on the Kiran Singh, the Sadashiv Prasad Singh, and the Jagmittar Sain Bhagat cases, to contend, that a decree passed by a Court without jurisdiction was a nullity, and that, its invalidity could not be corrected, even by the consent of the concerned parties.	None
We are of the considered view, that the proposition debated and concluded in the judgments relied upon by learned counsel for the appellants (referred to above) are of no relevance, to the conclusions drawn in the foregoing paragraph.	None
In our determination hereinabove, we have not held, that a void order can be legitimized.	None
What we have concluded in the foregoing paragraph is, that while an order passed by a Court subsists, the same is liable to be complied with, till it is set aside.	None
The submission canvassed at the hands of learned counsel for the appellants, that the impugned sale dated 11.8.2005, and its confirmation on 12.9.2005, should not be interfered with on the ground of equity, as the appellant had made the entire payment in 2005, and the Recovery Officer had ordered confirmation of the sale, as no objection had been raised against the same.	Reasoning
We find it difficult to persuade ourselves to accept the above contention.	Reasoning
In this behalf, one cannot lose sight of the fact that the Official Liquidator, as well as, the workers union had raised objections before the Recovery Officer at the very initial stage.	Reasoning
Even a former Director of Deve Sugars Ltd.  N. Ponnusamy raised a challenge to the proceedings before the Recovery Officer by asserting, that the reserve price of Rs. 10 crores fixed for the property being put to auction, was too low.	Reasoning
The fact, that in the process of sale of the properties of Deve Sugars Ltd. only two bids were received, has not been disputed.	Reasoning
It is also not disputed, that whilst one of the bidders was the appellant  Anita International, the other bidder was Synergy Steel Ltd.  a sister company of the appellant.	Facts
In sum and substance therefore, there was only one bidder.	None
For the above reasons, in addition to those recorded by the High Court (noticed in paragraph xxx 12 xxx, hereinabove), it is not possible for us to accept the claim of the appellant on the ground of equity.	None
Reliance placed by learned counsel on the judgments rendered by this Court, in support of the instant contention, is also unacceptable, as the factual position in the judgments relied upon, are inapplicable to the facts and circumstances of this case.	None
In view of the above, we find no merit in the contention advanced.	None
It was also submitted on behalf of the appellants, that the sale conducted by the Recovery Officer on 11.8.2005, and the order of confirmation thereof passed by the Recovery Officer on 12.9.2005, ought to have been assailed only in proceedings under Section 30 of the RDB Act.	Reasoning
It was submitted, that since an efficacious alternative remedy was available to the parties, which had approached the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, the interference at the hands of the High Court was neither just nor proper.	Reasoning
The instant submission is wholly devoid of substance and deserves to be rejected.	None
We are of the considered view, that there was sufficient justification for the parties to have approached the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, for the reason that they were seeking the enforcement of the order dated 10.3.2000, passed by the Company Court itself.	None
The sale made by the Recovery Officer on 11.8.2005, and its confirmation on 12.9.2005, were in utter violation of the order dated 10.3.2000, and therefore, the concerned parties were justified in approaching the High Court at Madras.	None
In the above view of the matter, we find no merit in the instant contention as well.	Reasoning
Last of all, we may advert to the contention, that the order dated 10.3.2000 passed by the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, while disposing of Company Application Nos. 12511253 of 1999, filed by the State Bank of Mysore, was not binding on the appellant.	Reasoning
Insofar as the instant contention is concerned, it was submitted, that the said order passed by the High Court was an order in personam, and as such, the aforesaid order could not be considered as an order binding on the appellant before this Court.	Reasoning
We find no merit in the instant contention, as well.	Reasoning
In this behalf, it would be relevant to mention, that in the application filed by the State Bank of Mysore, the prayer made was, that the State Bank of Mysore be permitted, leave to proceed with recovery proceedings before the DRT, Bangalore.	Reasoning
By the order dated 10.3.2000, the Company Court in the High Court at Madras, while granting leave, imposed two conditions.	Reasoning
Firstly, the Official Liquidator would have to be impleaded by the bank in the recovery proceedings before the DRT, Bangalore.	Reasoning
And secondly, no coercive steps would be taken against the assets of the company during or after the conclusion of the proceedings before the Tribunal.	Reasoning
It is not possible for us to accept, that the aforesaid order passed by the High Court was an order in personam.	Reasoning
We are of the view, that the above order had a clear and binding effect on the proceedings permitted to be initiated before the DRT, Bangalore, and further, that it was equally binding on the Recovery Officer.	Reasoning
And accordingly, in our view, the same would also be binding on those claiming through sale proceedings conducted by the Recovery Officer.	Reasoning
In the above view of the matter, there can be no doubt, that the order dated 10.3.2000 was also binding on the appellant before this Court.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, we find no merit even in the last contention advanced by learned counsel for the appellants.	Reasoning
For all the reasons recorded hereinabove, we find no merit in the instant appeals.	Decision
The same are accordingly dismissed.	Decision
While affirming the impugned order passed by the High Court, we confirm the setting aside of the sale made by the Recovery Officer in favour of the appellant  Anita International on 11.8.2005, and the confirmation thereof by the order of the Recovery Officer dated 12.9.2005.	Decision
