 Ahmadi, J. Mohinder Kaur set herself and her three children ablaze on the afternoon of 7th June, 1983, at the residence of her husband Iqbal Singh.	Facts
The marriage had taken place seven or eight years before the incident.	Facts
She had given birth to two daughters and a son.	Facts
The deceased was working as a teacher while her husband was a clerk in the Punjab State Electricity Board office at Amritsar.	Facts
Soon after the marriage there were disputes between them on the question of dowry.	Facts
The demand for extra dowry strained the relations between them and the husband began to illtreat the deceased wife.	Facts
It appears that in course of time there was further deterioration in their relationship as a result whereof the deceased had written a letter to the Deputy Superintendent of Police on 12th October, 1977 complaining about the illtreatment meted out to her and apprehending danger to her life and the life of her children.	Facts
She had, therefore, sought police protection.	Facts
However, by the time the police came to inquire into the matter there was some understanding as a result of which she had informed the police that no further action be taken for the present but her application may be kept pending.	Facts
Then on 31st December, 1977 a divorce deed Exh.	Facts
D2 was executed but was not acted upon.	Facts
It seems that the situation did not improve and as a result she took the extreme step of putting an end to her life as well as the lives of her three children since she apprehended that their fate would be worse after her death.	Facts
However, before putting an end to her life she wrote a letter that very morning which has been reproduced in extenso in paragraph 13 of the judgment of the trial Court.	Facts
The text of that letter dated 7th June, 1983 addressed to the Deputy Commissioner of Police Public Dealing Branch, Amritsar, shows that her husband was demanding Rs. 35,000 to Rs. 40,000 by way of additional dowry and was illtreating her under the influence of alcohol on that account.	Facts
She also alleged that her motherinlaw and sisterinlaw also conspired and made false accusations against her and instigated her husband to beat her if she refused to bring the additional dowry.	Facts
She alleges that they had conspired to kill her on the night of 6th June, 1983 by sprinkling kerosene petrol on her but their plan misfired.	Facts
She was fed up on account of the beating given to her that night.	Facts
She further alleged that her children were also illtreated by her husband and his family members.	Facts
On account of these developments she states that she had taken the decision to put an end to her life and the lives of her children to spare them of the present and future agony.	Facts
At the foot of the letter she appended a note to the effect that even after their death she apprehended that her husband and his family members may try to cause physical harm to her mother and younger brother and requested the police to extend to them the necessary protection.	Facts
She implores that her salary.	Facts
G.P. Fund and other monetary benefits to which she may be entitled from the school authorities should not fall in the hands of her husband and his relatives and may be given to some school or orphanage and her ornaments, etc. may be recovered from her inlaws and be returned to her parents.	Facts
Another letter of even date was addressed to her mother (her father having since died) stating that she was fed up of the continuous tension, suffering and agony that her mother had to go through on her account as she could not meet the demand for extra dowry.	Facts
She also states that apart from her husband demanding extra dowry he has started making false accusations against her and beating her time and again on that account.	Facts
She further alleges that her husbands mother and sister were privy to this beating by her husband but she had somehow survived.	Facts
Then she adds today I along with three children am sacrificing by fire.	Facts
She ends the letter by stating that her mother need not think that her daughter was dead, in fact she will gain freedom from seven years of hell.	Facts
In the letter addressed to the Deputy Commissioner of Police there is a reference to the earlier application letter dated 12th October, 1977 by which she had complained about possible risk to life.	Facts
It appears from the said letter that the police had gone to inquire into the matter two months later on 11th December, 1977 but during that intervening period the relatives of her husband had intervened and had temporarily patched up the matter.	Facts
It was for that reason that she informed the police that no action was immediately necessary but still she insisted that her application may be kept pending.	Facts
Thus this subsequent letter contains intrinsic evidence about her previous application dated 12th October, 1977.	Facts
After the unfortunate incident which took place on the afternoon of 7th June, 1983, a First Information Report was lodged against the husband Iqbal Singh, by the mother of the deceased.	Facts
After investigation the husband, his mother and sister were put up for trial.	Facts
The Trial Court on an examination of the prosecution evidence convicted all the three accused persons under Section 306, IPC and sentenced the husband Iqbal Singh to rigorous imprisonment for seven years and a fine of Rs 5,000, in default, rigorous imprisonment for one year.	Facts
So far as the other two accused were concerned, having regard to their role and the fact that the mother was an aged and frail woman, he sentenced them to rigorous imprisonment for three years and a fine of Rs. 1,000 each, in default, rigorous imprisonment for three months.	Facts
Against this, order of conviction and sentence all the three accused persons preferred an appeal before the High Court.	Issue
The High Court on a reappreciation of the evidence and having regard to the language of Section 306, IPC came to the conclusion that the prosecution evidence did not establish the ingredients of the Section, in that, there was no evidence to show that any of the accused was guilty of abetment.	Issue
In this view that the High Court took, it allowed the appeal and set aside the order of conviction and sentence passed against the appellants.	Issue
The State has, therefore, approached this Court by way of special leave.	Issue
In the meantime the accused Manjit Kaur has passed away.	Issue
The appeal is, therefore, limited to Iqbal Singh and his sister Kulwant Kaur, Counsel for the State of Punjab took us through the evidence on record, particularly the letters dated 7th June, 1983 and submitted that this was a clear case of the husband and his sister creating conditions which compelled the deceased to take the extreme step of burning herself and her children.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence of Dr. Harjinder Singh who performed autopsy has not been disputed before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
His evidence shows that the deaths of all had resulted on account of shock sustained due to excessive burns.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW/2	Arguments of Petitioner
Jasbir Kaur, the mother of the deceased, says that her daughter complained to her from time to time about the illtreatment meted out to her by her husband on his own and at the instigation of his mother and sister.	Arguments of Petitioner
She has also stated that this illtreatment was due to failure of the deceased to meet his demand for extra dowry, She received a message about the incident while she was at her brothers residence in Amritsar.	Arguments of Petitioner
She and her son went to the hospital and learnt that her daughter and grand children had passed away.	Arguments of Petitioner
She then deposed to have received a letter of 7th June, 1983 on 9th June, 1983.	Arguments of Petitioner
In her crossexamination it was brought out that she had not pointed an accusing finger at the mother and sister of accused Iqbal Singh.	Arguments of Petitioner
She tried to explain the absence of allegation against the said two persons on the ground that she was confused on account of the tragedy.	Arguments of Petitioner
She further deposed that she had omitted the names of two ladies because of pressure exerted on her by Iqbal Singh.	Arguments of Petitioner
Obviously her explanation cannot carry conviction because it is difficult to believe that she would submit to the pressure of Iqbal Singh whom she considered primarily responsible for the death of her daughter and grand children.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may also be mentioned at this stage that accused Kulwant Kaur is a married woman who lives with her husband in another village.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no evidence on record to show that she was at the residence of her brother on the date of the incident or immediately prior thereto to instigate her brother.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW Santosh Singh, brother of the deceased, has maintained that accused Iqbal Singh was illtreating his sister soon after marriage as the latter was not able to meet his demand for extra dowry.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further deposed that after the death of his father his mother had received a sum of Rs. 60,000 or thereabouts by way of provident fund and gratuity and when the accused Iqbal Singh learnt about the same he pressurised the deceased to secure a sum of Rs. 40,000 or thereabouts from that amount to meet his demand for extra dowry.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had gone with his mother PW/2 Jasbir Kaur to the hospital after learning about the incident.	Arguments of Petitioner
In crossexamination he was questioned about the purchase of a plot in the name of the deceased by Iqbal Singh.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, however, stated that his father had given a sum of Rs. 20,000 or 21,000 for purchase of this plot although he could not state the exact price at which it was purchased.	Arguments of Petitioner
The two letters, one addressed to the Deputy Commissioner of Police and the other to the mother dated 7th June, 1983, have been duly proved by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
These letters were written immediately before she put an end to her life and the lives of her three children.	Arguments of Petitioner
These letters reveal her plight immediately before the incident.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a mention about an attempt on the part of her husband to kill her on the preceding day.	Arguments of Petitioner
She apprehended that her children would suffer intolerable miseries if they survived her and, therefore, she took the extreme decision to put an end to their lives also along with her.	Arguments of Petitioner
This letter clearly brings out her turmoil where under she took the extreme step of putting an end to her life.	Arguments of Petitioner
The earlier letter of 12th October, 1977 also shows that she was being illtreated soon after her marriage.	Arguments of Petitioner
The divorce deed produced at Exh.	Arguments of Petitioner
D2 is dated 30th November, 1977.	Arguments of Petitioner
This would show that by that time the relatives had intervened and, therefore, when the police came to inquire on 11th December, 1977 she told them that there was no immediate danger but her application should be kept pending.	Arguments of Petitioner
Considerable emphasis was laid by the learned counsel for the respondents on the statement in Exh.	Arguments of Respondent
D2 attributed to the deceased that she had been forced to marry.	Arguments of Respondent
Iqbal Singh.	Arguments of Petitioner
Emphasis was also laid on the postscript at the foot of the said document made by Iqbal Singh to the effect that he has agreed to a divorce since his wife desires it.	Arguments of Respondent
From these two statements counsel for the respondents argued that the accused Iqbal Singh had no grudge against his wife and had expressed his willingness to put an end to the marital relationship as his wife so desired.	Arguments of Respondent
He also submitted that the statement of the deceased that she was forced to marry Iqbal Singh went to show that it was she who was keen to put an end to the relationship as she did not desire to live with Iqbal Singh.	Arguments of Petitioner
But counsel overlooks the fact that there is intrinsic evidence in the divorce deed that their marital life was unhappy and she apprehended blood shed as well as harm to the children even after they parted company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel then referred to letter Exh.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dl dated 17th April, 1983 written by the deceased to one Gopal Singh complaining about the behaviour of the Headmaster towards her.	Arguments of Petitioner
By that letter she expressed her desire to secure a transfer from the school to get rid of the harassment meted out to her by the Headmaster.	Arguments of Respondent
In this letter there is a mention that her husband Iqbal Singh was spending considerable time in correspondence with the Headmaster.	Arguments of Respondent
From this letter counsel for the respondents submitted that the deceased could have committed suicide on account of the harassment caused to her by the Headmaster of the school.	Arguments of Petitioner
But that does not explain the killing of the children.	Arguments of Respondent
This letter was written on 17th April, 1983 whereas the incident in question occurred on 7th June, 1983 i.e., more than 1 months thereafter.	Arguments of Petitioner
The immediate cause for the extreme step taken by the deceased is clearly reflected in the two letters of 7th June, 1983.	Reasoning
Therefore, the inference drawn by the learned counsel for the respondents from the letter of 17th April, 1983 cannot advance the defence set up by the accused persons.	Reasoning
Iqbal Singh filed a written statement jointly with Kulwant Kaur wherein he stated that he had not helped his wife to secure a transfer as the family was having a good residence in the village and this was the real cause of quarrel between the two.	Reasoning
The statement shows that the factum of quarrel between the husband and wife is not seriously disputed.	Reasoning
The nature of correspondence he was carrying on with the Headmaster is not difficult to judge.	Reasoning
He then states that he had purchased the plot in the name of his wife for Rs. 12,500 but he does not disclose the source from which the consideration for the plot came.	Reasoning
He further states that his wife was earning Rs. 900 per month and therefore, he could never have entertained an intention to push her to committing suicide.	Reasoning
It would, therefore, appear from the evidence placed on record that the relations between the deceased and Iqbal Singh were strained because of the latters demand for extra dowry and they worsened to such an extent that the deceased decided to put an end to her life.	Reasoning
The charge against the accused was under Section 306, I.P.C. That Section must be read in the backdrop of the above facts.	None
Under that Section if any person commits suicide the person who abets the commission of suicide shall be liable to be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years and fine.	None
The question is whether on the facts proved it can be said that either Iqbal Singh or his sister were guilty of abetment.	None
Chapter V of the Penal Code is entitled of Abetment and comprises Sections 107 to 120 of which we may notice Sections 107 and 108 only.	None
Abetment as defined by Section 107 comprises (i) instigation to do that thing which is an offence (ii) engaging in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing and (iii) intentionally aiding by any act or illegal omission the doing of that thing.	None
Section 108 defines an abettor as a person who abets an offence or who abets either the commission of an offence orthe commission of an act which would be an offence.	None
The word instigate in the literary sense means to incite, set or urge on, stir up, goad, foment, stimulate, provok, etc.	None
Since there is no question of parties being engaged in any sort of conspiracy we have to consider whether there was any intentional aiding for committing suicide.	None
The dictionary meaning of the word aid is to give assistance, help, etc.	None
Before we come to grips with the question at issue it is necessary to notice a few legislative changes introduced in the Penal Code to combat the menace of dowry deaths.	None
The increasing number of such deaths was a matter of serious concern to our lawmakers.	None
Cases of cruelty by the husband and his relatives culminated in the wife being driven to commit suicide or being done to death by burning or in any other manner.	None
In order to combat this menace the legislature decided to amend the Penal Code, Criminal Procedure Code and the Evidence Act by the Criminal Law (Second Amendment) Act, 1983 (No. 46 of 1983).	None
So far as the Penal Code is concerned, Section 498 A came to be introduced whereunder cruelty by the husband or his relative to the farmers wife is made a penal offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and fine.	None
The explanation to the section defines cruelty to mean (i) wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to her life, limb or health or (ii) causing harassment of the woman with a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security.	None
Thus, under this newly added provision if a woman is subjected to cruelty by her husband or his relative it is a penal offence and by the insertion of section 198 A in the Code of Criminal Procedure a Court can take cognizance of the offence upon a police report or upon a complaint by the aggrieved party or by the womans parents, brother, sister, etc.	None
The offence is made nonbailable.	None
Insofar as the Evidence Act is concerned, a new section 133A came to be introduced which reads as under 113A. Presumption as to abetment of suicide by a married woman.	None
When the question is whether the commission of suicide by a woman had been abetted by her husband or any relative of her husband and it is shown that she had committed suicide within a period of seven years from the date of her marriage and that her husband or such relative of her husband had subjected her to cruelty, the court may presume, having regard to all the other circumstances of the case, that such suicide had been abetted by her husband or by such relative of her husband.	None
ExplanationFor the purposes of this section, cruelty shall have the same meaning as in Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).	None
On a plain reading of this provision it is obvious that if a wife is shown to have committed suicide within a period of seven years from the date of marriage and there is evidence that she was subjected to cruelty by her husband or his relative, it would be permissible for the court to presume that such suicide was abetted by her husband or by such relative of her husband.	None
The Amendment Act 46 of 1983 received the assent of the President on 25th December, 1983 and was published in the Gazette of India, Extra, dated 26th December, 1983.	None
The trial court rendered its judgment on 23rd February, 1984 and it does not appear if the prosecution concentrated on section 113A, Evidence Act, for otherwise it would have tried to place, on record the exact date of marriage to take advantage of the presumption arising thereunder.	Reasoning
The High Court referred to this provision but did not say anything in regard to its application.	Reasoning
Being a rule of evidence it could perhaps have been invoked if proof regarding the exact date of marriage was laid.	Reasoning
Since there is no cogent evidence that the marriage was solemnised within seven years from the date of incident we need not dilate on that point.	Reasoning
The law underwent a further change with the introduction of section 304B in the Penal Code and section 113B in the Evidence Act by the Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 1986.	None
Where the death of a woman is caused by burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and evidence reveals that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any of his relative for or in connection with any demand for dowry, such death is described as dowry death under section 304B for which the punishment extends to imprisonment for life but not less than imprisonment for seven years, By section 113B, Evidence Act the court has to raise a presumption of dowry death if the same has taken place within seven years of marriage and there is evidence of the woman having been subjected to cruelty and or harassment.	Reasoning
The legislative intent is clear to curb the menace of dowry deaths, etc., with a firm hand.	Reasoning
We must keep in mind this legislative intent.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that since such crimes are generally committed in the privacy of residential homes and in secrecy, independent and direct evidence is not easy to get.	Reasoning
That is why the legislature has by introducing sections 113A and 113B in the Evidence Act tried to strengthen the prosecution hands by permitting a presumption to be raised if certain foundational facts are established and the unfortunate event has taken place within seven years of marriage.	Reasoning
This period of seven years is considered to be the turbulent one after which the legislature assumes that the couple would have settled down in life.	Reasoning
If a married woman is subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or his family members section 498A, I.P.C. would be attracted.	Reasoning
If such cruelty or harassment was inflicted by the husband or his relative for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry immediately preceding death by burns and bodily injury or in abnormal circumstances within seven years of marriage, such husband or relative is deemed to have caused her death and is liable to be punished under section 304B, I.P.C. When the question at issue is whether a person is guilty of dowry death of a woman and the evidence discloses that immediately before her death she was subjected by such person to cruelty and or harassment for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, section 113B, Evidence Act provides that the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.	Reasoning
Of course if there is proof of the person having intentionally caused her death that would attract section 302, I.PC.	None
Then we have a situation where the husband or his relative by his willful conduct creates a situation which he knows will drive the woman to commit suicide and she actually does so, the case would squarely fall within the ambit of section 306, I.P.C.	Reasoning
In such a case the conduct of the person would tantamount to inciting or provoking or virtually pushing the woman into a desperate situation of no return which would compel her to put an end to her miseries by committing suicide.	Reasoning
In the present case the facts clearly reveal from the divorce deed Exh.	Reasoning
D2 that the relations between the husband and the wife were strained even in 1977.	Reasoning
There is intrinsic evidence in that document that the wife apprehended blood shed and harm to her children.	Reasoning
Before the execution of this document she had sought police protection by her application letter dated 12th October, 1977.	Reasoning
Then in April, 1983 her efforts to secure a transfer from the school where she was harassed by the Head Master were frustrated by her husband.	Reasoning
Her husband had kept up the pressure for extradowry since her marriage and had stepped it up after the demise of her father on learning that her mother had received the G P. Fund, Gratuity, etc., due to her father.	Reasoning
Since she and her mother and brother were not able to meet this demand she was subjected to considerable torture.	Reasoning
Added to that was the anxiety caused by her husbands conduct at trying to frustrate her efforts to seek a transfer from the school where she was serving.	Reasoning
The last straw on the camels back fell when she was severely beaten on the previous day i.e. 6th June, 1983, as is evident from her letter of 7th June, 1983.	Reasoning
An atmosphere of terror was created to push her into taking the extreme step.	Reasoning
It would seem it was a carefully chalked out strategy to provoke her into taking the extreme step to kill herself and her children as she apprehended that they will be much more misreable after she is dead and gone.	Reasoning
In this factsituation can it be said that the husband had not been responsible in creating circumstances which would provoke or force her into taking the only alternative left open to her, namely suicide?	Reasoning
Can it be said that the husband did not realise where he was leading her by his willful conduct?	Reasoning
We think in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the trial court had rightly convicted the husband under section 306 I.P.C. We think that the High Court committed an error in reversing the conviction.	Reasoning
We, therefore, allow this appeal, set aside the High Courts order and restore the order of conviction and sentence passed by the trial court.	Decision
We cannot countenance the plea for reduction of his sentence.	Decision
No order on his C.M.P. So far as his sisters involvement is concerned, we think the evidence falls short of proof beyond reasonable doubt and, therefore, we see no reason to interfere with the High Courts order.	Decision
We, therefore, dismiss the States appeal directed against her.	Decision
Her bail bonds will stand cancelled.	Decision
