 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
What would be the meaning of the term unemployed youth stated in an advertisement issued pursuant to an excise policy of the State of West Bengal is involved in these appeals which arise out of a judgment and order dated 8.06.2005 passed by the Calcutta High Court reversing the judgment and order dated 11.06.2004 passed by a learned Single Judge of the said Court in Writ Petition No. 14945 (W) of 2003.	Issue
The basic fact of the matter is not in dispute.	None
An advertisement was issued on or about 18.01.2001 by the State of West Bengal inviting applications from companies firms societies formed by unemployed youth for the purpose of grant of excise licence for country spirit shops in certain locations.	Facts
Appellant No. 1, a partnership firm of the appellant Nos. 2 and 3 herein applied therefor.	Facts
In terms of the said advertisement, respondent No. 1, which is also a partnership firm of which respondent Nos. 2 and 3 are partners as also several others, applied for allotment of the said country spirit shop.4.	Facts
In the select list, the appellant No. 1 was placed at Sl.	Facts
No. 3 whereas the respondent No. 1 was placed at Sl.	Facts
No. 1.	Facts
The candidature of the respondent No. 1 was objected to by the appellants inter alia contending that the respondent Nos. 2 and 3 were not unemployed youth within the meaning of the said advertisement and two locations of the liquor shops proposed by them were not conducive therefore.5.	Facts
The District Magistrate, Bankura being a licencing authority directed an enquiry to be held.	Facts
The Enquiry Officer, in his report, inter alia opined that whereas the respondent No. 2 carried on seasonal business in paddy, Til, potatoes, etc. the respondent No. 1 carried on business with his brother.	None
As regards, location, it was stated The proposed site of the country spirit shop is situated within the market place of Chatramore where ladies also frequently visit the spot for shopping.	None
The drunken people will disturb ladies and other public if license for a country spirit shop is granted with in the market place.	Facts
It was noticed Rajib Chattopadhyay has stated that he is unemployed and lives with his brother, Sanjib Chattopadhyay in a joint family.	None
His brother, Sanjib Chbattopadhyay is the owner of the Light House shop at Gelia More.	Facts
Rajib Chattopadhyay has admitted that he sells electrical goods of the said shop.	Facts
Rajib Chattopadhyay submitted a Xerox copy of a challan showing deposit of profession Tax by Sanjib Chattopadhyay, as a token of Sanjibs shop.	Facts
Rajib Chattopadhyay has admitted that there are decorators shop and tailoring shop by the side of the proposed country spirit shop and the proposed shop is within 30/40 feet from the Bishnupur, Kotulpur metalled Road.	Facts
Another partner, Sri Subhendu Chatterjee has admitted that he was a businessman and dealt in potato till March, 2001.	Facts
They signed the application form for grant of license for country spirit shop on 12.2.2001 and mentioned in column 4 seasonal business  paddy, Til potatoes etc. against business or sales experience, if any, Subhendu Chatterjee has further admitted that he took loan of Rs. 25,000/ (Rupees Twenty five thousand) for business from Chatramore co operative Bank but he could not repay the same till 4.1.2002.	Facts
Subhendu Chatterjee has admitted that his partners name for potato business has been registered with Chatramore Kshudra Babsayee Samiti.	Facts
From the above, it transpires that Subhendu Chatterjee, as on the date of application, was selfemployed, at least, partially and the site for the proposed country spirit shop is situated within the market place of Chatramore.	Facts
The Additional District Magistrate (Excise), Bankura, however, would come within the purview of the term unemployed youth and as the respondents had been carrying on business, they did not satisfy the conditions for allotment of country spirit shop.	Facts
It was directed I accordingly allow this writ application and set aside the order dated December 9, 2002 issued by the District Magistrate and Collector, Bankura granting licence in favour of the Private respondents as well as the order passed by the Appellate Authority dated July 25, 2003 which affirmed the said order.	Facts
The licence granted in favour of the Private respondents is hereby quashed.	Facts
The respondents are directed to take consequential steps for setting the licence for setting up the country spirit shop at Chatramore strictly in accordance with law.	Facts
Such steps must be completed within one month from the date of communication of this order to Collector and District Magistrate, Bankura.	Facts
In view of the disposal of the main Writ Petition, the application filed by the respondent Nos. 7 and 8 for vacating the adinterim order passed in this writ petition, becomes infructuous.	Facts
The said application is also disposed of as infructuous.	Facts
An intra court appeal was preferred thereagainst.	Facts
By reason of the impugned judgment, the writ appeal was allowed by a Division Bench of the said Court, opining It cannot be assumed from the nature of the advertisement that by unemployed youth the authorities have meant a person who shall be totally without any income in order to sustain himself.	Facts
There is no basis for such assumption.	Facts
In fact, in order to get the licence the candidates will have to furnish an objection free site, normally such a site has to be obtained either by taking it on rent or by offering such a site which is part of ones property.	Facts
Apart from that such unemployed youths are supposed to show some financial strength by way of furnishing of bank balance and so on.	Facts
It is not expected that a person who has no income even to sustain himself will be able to satisfy these requirements.12.	Facts
In the instant case it may be noted that the appellants are earning some money in order to sustain themselves but it is nobodys case that they have got any permanent employment or they are serving in any institution as regularly paid employees.	Facts
In fact the registration of persons name in Employment Exchange will show that the persons concerned have registered themselves as unemployed youth for an employment but have not got the employment.	Facts
The same is true of the appellants also.	Facts
It is not disputed by anybody that they are registered with the Employment Exchange.	Facts
But even after such registration they are not getting any employment in order to sustain themselves.	Facts
But they are doing some work may be by way of seasonal business or by working in family business which cannot be called an employment.	Facts
Therefore on this ground alone the licence which has been granted to the appellants cannot be rejected.	Facts
In this connection this Court is also constrained to observe that since the expression unemployed youth has been explained in the advertisement with the help of expression mean, there is no scope for further interpreting the said expression unemployed youth with the help of Blacks Law Dictionary or an ordinary dictionary.	Facts
It was held In view of such authoritative pronouncement of law on the subject it is difficult for this Court to accept the interpretation of unemployed youth given by the learned Judge by relying on Blacks Law Dictionary.	Facts
The learned Judge possibly fell into an error by not holding that, here the expression unemployed youth must receive a contextual interpretation namely it would mean a person who has not been substantially employed or has not been in any service even though lie is registered as an unemployed youth with the Employment Exchange and as has been so declared by the authorities and also must be within a certain age group.	Facts
Apart from that there is no other requirement.	Facts
If the person concerned earns some money for subsistence, he does not go out of the category of unemployed youth if he otherwise fulfils the prescribed conditions.	Facts
Going by this reasoning, as we must, this Court cannot accept the interpretation given to unemployed youth by the ld.	Facts
Judge of the Writ Court.	Facts
As such we feel constrained to take a different view and, set aside the judgment under appeal.	None
Mr. Joydeep Mazumdar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, would contend that the Division Bench of the High Court committed a serious error insofar as it failed to take into consideration that the definition of the term unemployed youth as contained in the aforementioned advertisement dated 18.01.2001 was decisive inasmuch as not only a person who was to apply for allotment of country liquor shop was to be registered with the employment exchange, but also a certificate was required to be obtained from the persons specified therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that grant of such certificate having an impact on the factual aspect in regard to the person being employed or not and having an element of subjectivity wherefor no parameter or guidelines having been laid down, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Tara Chandra Sharma, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State of West Bengal, on the other hand, would draw our attention to Clause 5(3) of the West Bengal Excise (Selection of Person for grant of License at New Sites for Retail Sale of Spirit and Certain other intoxicants other than Foreign Liquor on categories of licensee and licenses for Denatured Spirit) Order, 2000 For short the said Order to contend that some income or some property at the hands of the applicants was necessary as otherwise they would not be in a position to carry out any business in liquor.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rana Mukherjee, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent Nos. 1 to 3, submitted Appellants themselves having obtained a certificate granted by the persons specified in the advertisement cannot now question the correctness or otherwise of the certificate (s) granted in favour of the partners of the respondent No. 1.(ii)	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, no such contention having been raised before the High Court, this Court should not permit the appellant to raise such contention for the first time before this Court.(iii) Validity and or legality of the advertisement and or the said Order having not been challenged by the appellants, the contentions of the appellants in that behalf are wholly misplaced.	Arguments of Respondent
The matter relating to grant of licence is governed by the provisions of the West Bengal Excise (Selection of New Sites and Grant of license for Retail Sale of Spirit and certain other Intoxicants) Rules, 1993 (for short the Rules).	None
In the said Order, it is stated that unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, words and expressions used in this Order and not defined, shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in the West Bengal Excise (Selection of New Sites and Grant of License for Retail Sale of Spirit and Certain Other Intoxicants) Rules, 1993.	None
Clause 3 of the said Order provides that the State Government may reserve any new site or sites for settlement amongst firms or societies formed by unemployed youths under the provisions of any law for the time being in force Explanation appended thereto reads as under Unemployed youth shall mean any person of or above the age of 21 years but not above 37 years, registered as unemployed in any Employment Exchange in the State of West Bengal and certified to be unemployed by any of the authorities mentioned hereunder in whose jurisdiction such person residesa)	None
Member of Parliamentb) Member of Legislative Assemblyc)	None
Sabhadhipati of a Zilia Parishad(d)	None
Sabhadhipati, Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad(e) Chairman, Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council,f) Chief Executive Officer of a notified area(g) Mayor or Commissioner of a Municipal Corporation(h) Chairman of a Municipality	None
The relevant portion of Clause 5(3) of the said Order reads as under To be eligible for a license, an applicanti) must have sufficient education to enable him to make and follow the calculation necessary for conducting the business and writing accounts appertaining thereto correctly.	None
Knowledge of English is essential only in the case of a foreign liquor shopii) must be in a position to invest the capital necessary for financing the shop properly without borrowing from others The question posed before us must be answered inter alia keeping in view the aforementioned rule.	None
There are three criteria attached thereto, viz., (i) the age of the applicant, (ii) they have to be registered as unemployed in any employment exchange in the State of West Bengal and (iii) they have to be certified to be unemployed by any of the authorities specified therein.	None
The meaning of the term unemployed youth must be culled out from the text and context in which the same appeared.	None
In Blacks Law Dictionary, 5th edition, Unemployment is defined as state of being not employed lack of employment.	None
The word unemployed has been explained in the New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 1993 as not made use of, use for a particular purpose, not engaged in any occupation, idle, out of paid employment, redundant.	None
The main thrust in this case, however, appears to be on the registration of a person as unemployed in the employment exchange.	None
Certificate is required to be given by the authorities specified therein as despite such registration and or continuation thereof, a person may be employed with a private person or in some other districts or in some other states.	None
In a case of this nature, a person cannot be said to be employed only because he earns his bare subsistence livelihood by engaging himself in some work.	None
In this case, one of the respondents was helping his brother who was owner of the shop.	None
He was not the owner of the shop.	None
The other respondent used to carry on business which is of seasonal nature.	None
He was, therefore, also not a full fledged businessman.	None
Nothing has been brought on record to show that they were income tax payees or were otherwise established in their life.	None
It may be true that the authorities specified in the Explanation appended to Clause 3 of the said Order were required to issue certificate on the basis of their own concept in regard thereto.	None
It is true that no guideline had been issued, but, probably no guideline was required to be issued, as the said authorities concerned, keeping in view the legal position, would be presumed to be aware of the financial status as also the fact as to whether they remained unemployed.	None
Furthermore, the said Order does not contemplate that the applicants would be absolutely poor or they would not have any property at all.	None
They were required to establish a business in liquor.	None
They were required to make substantial investment.	None
Their financial capacity was required to be such so as to enable them to carry out the business and furthermore fulfill their obligations both contractual and statutory in terms of the provisions of the Excise Act, the Rules framed thereunder as also the conditions of licence.	None
In the instant case, the Division Bench satisfied itself that the respondents were to be considered as unemployed youth in terms of the aforementioned advertisement.	None
In a situation of this nature, the interpretation clause should be given a contextual meaning.	None
It is not exhaustive.	None
It is trite that when a statutory enactment defines its terms, the same should govern what is proved, authorized or done under or by reference to that enactment.	None
It is also trite that all statutory definitions have to be read subject to the qualification variously expressed in the interpretation clause, which created them.	None
In Feroze N. Dotivala v. P.M. Wadhwani and Others (2003) 1 SCC 433 , this Court held It appears that the legislature only intended that in cases where the landlord residing in a premises, parts with possession of a part of it, it would always be open to him to regain the possession of the whole as and when the licensor may so deem necessary.	None
The question of acquiring common lease right by a person not a member of the family may not arise.	None
This is a plain and simple meaning flowing from the definition of the words paying guest under the Act.	None
Introducing any other element or ingredient to give meaning to the words paying guest as may be prevalent under any other law or under English law will be doing violence to the definition of the words paying guest as defined under the Act.	None
In State of Maharashtra v. B.E. Billimoria (2003) 7 SCC 336 , this Court observed It is well settled that the provisions of the statute are to be read in the text and context in which they have been enacted.	None
It is well settled that in construction of a statute an effort should be made to give effect to all the provisions contained therein.	None
It is equally well settled that a statute should be interpreted equitably so as to avoid hardship In P. Kasilingam v. P.S.G. College of Technology 1995 Supp (2) SCC 348 , this Court held A particular expression is often defined by the Legislature by using the word means or the word includes.	None
Sometimes the words means and includes are used.	None
The use of the word means indicates that definition is a hardandfast definition, and no other meaning can be assigned to the expression than is put down in definition.	None
(See Gough v. Gough Punjab Land Development and Reclamation Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Presiding Officer, Labour Court)	None
The word includes when used, enlarges the meaning of the expression defined so as to comprehend not only such things as they signify according to their natural import but also those things which the clause declares that they shall include.	None
The words means and includes, on the other hand, indicate an exhaustive explanation of the meaning which, for the purposes of the Act, must invariably be attached to these words or expressions.	None
In K.V. Muthu v. Angamuthu Ammal (1997) 2 SCC 53 , this Court held Apparently, it appears that the definition is conclusive as the word means has been used to specify the members, namely, spouse, son, daughter, grandchild or dependant parent, who would constitute the family.	None
Section 2 of the Act in which various terms have been defined, opens with the words in this Act, unless the context otherwise requires which indicates that the definitions, as for example, that of family, which are indicated to be conclusive may not be treated to be conclusive if it was otherwise required by the context.	None
This implies that a definition, like any other word in a statute, has to be read in the light of the context and scheme of the Act as also the object for which the Act was made by the legislature.11.	None
While interpreting a definition, it has to be borne in mind that the interpretation placed on it should not only be not repugnant to the context, it should also be such as would aid the achievement of the purpose which is sought to be served by the Act.	None
A construction which would defeat or was likely to defeat the purpose of the Act has to be ignored and not accepted.12.	None
Where the definition or expression, as in the instant case, is preceded by the words unless the context otherwise requires, the said definition set out in the section is to be applied and given effect to but this rule, which is the normal rule may be departed from if there be something in the context to show that the definition could not be applied.	None
In Bharat Coop.	None
Bank (Mumbai) Ltd. v. Coop.	None
Bank Employees Union (2007) 4 SCC 685 , this Court held Section 2(bb) of the ID Act as initially introduced by Act 54 of 1949 used the words means and includes and was confined to a banking company as defined in Section 5 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949, having branches or other establishments in more than one province and includes Imperial Bank of India.	None
Similarly, Section 2(kk), which was also introduced by Act 54 of 1949, defines insurance company as an insurance company as defined in Section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938), having branches or other establishments in more than one province.	None
It is trite to say that when in the definition clause given in any statute the word means is used, what follows is intended to speak exhaustively.	None
When the word means is used in the definition, to borrow the words of Lord Esher, M.R. in Gough v. Gough it is a hardandfast definition and no meaning other than that which is put in the definition can be assigned to the same.	None
(Also see P. Kasilingam v. P.S.G. College of Technology.)	None
On the other hand, when the word includes is used in the definition, the legislature does not intend to restrict the definition it makes the definition enumerative but not exhaustive.	None
That is to say, the term defined will retain its ordinary meaning but its scope would be extended to bring within it matters, which in its ordinary meaning may or may not comprise.	None
Therefore, the use of the word means followed by the word includes in Section 2(bb) of the ID Act is clearly indicative of the legislative intent to make the definition exhaustive and would cover only those banking companies which fall within the purview of the definition and no other.	None
Even if we apply the standards which are applicable in the industrial law meaning thereby Section 17B of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 as also a situation where the question arises as to grant of back wages for not being able to gainfully employed, a person living on mere subsistence earning as of necessity is not considered to be gainfully employed.	None
See Novartis India Ltd. v. State of West Bengal and Ors. 2008	None
(15) SCALE 470	None
Keeping in view the interpretative tools required to be used in a case of this nature, we are of the opinion, despite the fact that the respondents had been earning some money, the same would not disentitle them to take part in the selection process for grant of a license in terms of the order.	None
The advertisement in question keeping in view the text and context in which it was issued clearly go to show that for the purpose of applying for grant of a liquor shop, the respondents were qualified having been continuing to be registered in the Employment Exchange and having been granted a certificate in that behalf by the person specified in the advertisement.	None
It is not a case where the word unemployed should be given a literal or even the dictionary meaning.	None
In our view, it is required to be given a purposive meaning a meaning which is capable of being translated in the action, a meaning which would not lead to an anomaly or absurdity a meaning which satisfies the text and context in which the word has been used.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the appellant No. 1 applied for and was granted the similar certificate.	None
It is, therefore, too late in the day for him to contend now that the provisions relating to grant of certificate being devoid of any guideline or objective criteria should be declared ultra vires.	None
In any event, even otherwise, the validity and or legality of the said Order has not been challenged.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
