Kapadia, J. The short question which arises for determination in these civil appeals filed by the assessee under section 35L(b) of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) is  whether there was value addition on account of galvanization includible in the assessable value of m.s. galvanized pipes.	None
In these civil appeals, we are concerned with the period May 1994 to July 1996.	None
Appellant was engaged inter alia in the manufacture of m.s. galvanized pipes.	Facts
These pipes were made from H.R. coils.	Facts
The pipes emerging on hydro testing stage were pickled in acid, washed in running water and galvanized by dipping in molten zinc.3.	Facts
The appellant filed its classification list claiming that galvanization did not amount to manufacture.	Facts
The appellant claimed that m.s. galvanized pipes were nonexcisable goods, as the said pipes had been processed out of duty paid m.s. pipes manufactured in its factory.	Facts
A showcause notice was issued by the department stating that the appellant had cleared m.s. pipes without adding the cost of galvanization.	Facts
Accordingly, the department alleged underinvoicing.	Facts
According to the appellant, there were two sections in its factory, namely, tube mill section and galvanizing section.	Facts
According to the appellant, 30 of its total production was in m.s. pipes cleared from tube mill section and the balance 70 of the pipes were transferred to another section, known as galvanizing section, in which the fully finished m.s. pipes were galvanized.	Facts
According to the appellant, the process of galvanization took place after completion of the manufacture of the m.s. pipes, which were cleared on payment of duty and since the process of galvanization took place after completion of m.s. pipes and since galvanization did not amount to manufacture, the department was not entitled to load the cost of galvanization on the normal price of m.s. pipes.	Facts
Shri Joseph Vellapally, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee submitted that the process of galvanization did not amount to manufacture, both on general principles as well as under section 2(f) of the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that in the matter of levy of excise duty, the taxable event takes place at the point where the goods are cleared from the licensed premises and, therefore, the value of a product at the time of clearance should be taken into account.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, he urged that the assessee was a registered company having its factory at Sarangpur, district Rajgarh, Madhya Pradesh and was inter alia engaged in the manufacture of m.s. pipes and tubes.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further pointed out that the assessee had two sections in its factory, one name as tube mill section, in which the assessee manufactured m.s. pipes and tubes.	Arguments of Petitioner
For manufacture of m.s. pipes and tubes, steel coils, strips and slits of required thickness were purchased from the market by the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
These items were then rolled in, welded and cut to required lengths and to ensure smoothness, grinding was carried out throughout the lengths of the pipes.	Arguments of Petitioner
The edges of the pipes were subjected to the process of elimination of uneven edges.	Arguments of Petitioner
The pipes were then subjected to hydro testing and threading.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submitted that at this state, the manufacture of pipes got completed and they became marketable.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the assessee, the above entire process was carried out in tube mill section.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant sold about 30 of the entire production of m.s. pipes from the tube mill section to its wholesale dealers after payment of duty under subheading 7306.90.	Arguments of Petitioner
The balance 70 of the pipes manufactured in tube mill section were transferred to another section known as galvanizing section, which was far away from the tube mill section and in a different shed.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the assessee, in the galvanizing section, the fully finished m.s. pipes were galvanized.	Arguments of Petitioner
They were washed in running water and dipped in molten zinc.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the assessee, galvanization of pipes and tubes was done in order to protect the pipes from rusting.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from this, the assessee also purchased from the market fully finished black pipes, which were also subjected to process of galvanization in the galvanizing section and thereafter sold as m.s. galvanized pipes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel urged that galvanization did not amount to manufacture and since 70 of the assessees production of black pipes was transferred to the galvanizing section and since it was disputed that black pipes were in fully finished forms, and that, they were cleared from tube mill section on payment of duty, the cost of galvanization was not includible in the assessable value.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, as soon as manufacture of m.s. pipes became complete, the product became capable of being bought and sold the tariff description contained in subheading 7306.90 also stood answered and levy got attracted at that stage alone under section 3 of the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, in any event, even assuming for the sake of argument that the process of galvanization amounted to manufacture on the facts of this case, galvanization as a process took place after completion of m.s. pipes and, therefore, the cost of galvanization was not includible in the assessable value.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri G.E. Vahanvati, learned Solicitor General submitted on behalf of the department that the question involved in these appeals related to assessment of duty under section 4 of the Act and not on the excisability of the goods.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the concept of valuation was different from the concept of manufacture.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that in the present case, the goods were cleared as m.s. galvanized pipes.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the customers were charged by the assessee for purchase of m.s. galvanized pipes.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel submitted that in the matter of valuation, one has to ascertain the normal price under section 4 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel urged in cases of value addition, the cost of a process incidental to the manufacture of m.s. galvanized pipes has got to be taken into account.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel submitted that per se the process of galvanization may not amount to manufacture.	Arguments of Respondent
However, if such a process was incidental or ancillary to the manufacture of m.s. galvanized pipes then the cost of galvanization has got to be included in its assessable value.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, learned counsel relied upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Sidhartha Tubes Ltd. vs. Collector of Central Excise reported in 2000 (115) ELT 32 and the decision in the case of Procter Gamble Hygiene Health Care Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Bhopal reported in 2005 (9) Scale 559.	Arguments of Respondent
In the present case, the commissioner on facts found that the assessee was clearing from its factory galvanized pipes classifiable under heading 73.06.	Reasoning
It was not disputed that the process of galvanization by itself did not amount to manufacture, but when the assessee was selling its product (m.s. galvanized pipes) manufactured out of H.R. coils after passing through various processes (including galvanization) then such a process gave value addition to the product and consequently, the cost of galvanization has to be included in the assessable value.	Reasoning
Galvanization added to the quality.	Reasoning
Galvanization increased the value of pipes.	Reasoning
It enriched the value of goods and, therefore, the cost incurred by the assessee for galvanization was required to be included in the assessable value.7.	Reasoning
At the outset, we may state that value is the function of price under section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act.	Reasoning
The concept of valuation is different from the concept of manufacture.	Reasoning
Under section 3 of the Act, the levy is on the manufacture of the goods.	Reasoning
However, the measure of the levy is the normal price, as defined under section 4(1)(a) of the Act.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that galvanization as a process does not amount to manufacture.	Reasoning
However, on facts, it has been found by the commissioner that the process of galvanization has taken place before the product is cleared from the place of removal, as defined under section 4(4)(b).	Reasoning
Further, on facts, the commissioner has found that galvanization has added to the quality of the product.	Reasoning
It has increased the value of the pipes.	Reasoning
Hence, the costs incurred by the assessee for galvanization had to be loaded on to the sale price of the pipes.	Reasoning
Therefore, the cost had to be included in the assessable value of m.s. galvanized pipes.	Reasoning
We do not find any error in the reasoning of the adjudicating authority.	Reasoning
In the case of Union of India others vs. Bombay Tyre International Ltd. report in AIR 1984 SC 420 , this Court observed as follows the price of an article is related to its value, and into that value one has to pour several components, including those which enrich the value of the product and which give to an article, its marketability in the trade.	None
Therefore, the expenses incurred on account of the several factors, which have contributed to the value of the product up to the date of sale, are liable to included in the assessable value.	None
Recently, this court in the case of Procter Gamble Hygiene Health Care (supra), has observed as follows This case relates to valuation.	None
At the outset, we would like to clarify certain concepts under the Excise Law.	None
The levy of excise duty is on the manufacture of goods.	None
The excisable event is the manufacture.	None
The levy is on the manufacture.	None
The measure or the yardstick for computing the levy is the normal price under section 4(1)(a) of the Act.	Reasoning
The concept of excisability is different from the concept of valuation.	None
In the present case, as stated above, we are concerned with valuation and not with excisability.	None
In the present case, there is no dispute that AMS came under subheading 3402.90 of the Tariff.	None
There is no dispute in the present case that AMS was dutiable under section 3 of the Act.	None
In the case of Union of India others etc. vs. Bombay Tyre International Ltd. etc. reported in AIR 1984 SC 420 , this Court observed that the measure of levy did not conclusively determine the nature of the levy.	None
It was held that the fundamental criterion for computing the value of an excisable article was the price at which the excisable article was sold or was capable of being sold by the manufacturer.	None
It was further held that the price of an article was related to its value and in that value, we have several components, including those components which enhance the commercial value of the article and which give to the article its marketability in the trade.	None
Therefore, the expenses incurred on such factors inter alia have to be included in the assessable value of the article up to the date of the sale, which was the date of delivery.10.	None
In the case of Sidhartha Tubes Ltd. vs. Collector of Central Excise reported in 2000 (115) ELT 32 , this court held that the process of galvanization, though did not amount to manufacture, resulted in value addition and, therefore, the galvanization charges were includible in the assessable value of the M.S. black pipe.11.	None
The concepts of manufacture and valuation are two different and distinct concepts.	Reasoning
In the present case, we are concerned with valuation.	None
Value is the function of price under section 4(1)(a) of the said Act In the case of Hindustan Polymers vs. C.C.E. reported in 1989 (43) ELT 165 , this Court has held that the normal price for which goods are sold at the factory gate has to be taken as the assessable value and addition thereto has to be made where, in addition to the price, the manufacturer levied a charge for an item which was intrinsically necessary to place the manufactured goods on the market.	None
In the present case, we find that the product cleared from the factory was m.s. galvanized pipes.	Reasoning
Galvanization had given value addition to the m.s. pipes.	Reasoning
The process of galvanization was incidental to the manufacture of the m.s. galvanized pipes and, therefore, the cost of that process was rightly included in the assessable value.	Reasoning
We do not find any error in the concurrent findings recorded by the commissioner and by the tribunal.12.	Reasoning
Before concluding, we may point out that in the present case, a penalty of Rs.10 lacs was imposed by the commissioner.	Decision
On appeal, it has been reduced to Rs.7.5 lacs.	Decision
No reasons have been given for imposing the penalty.	Decision
The matter has arisen at the stage of assessment.	Decision
The appellant has succeeded in showing that the cost of rubber rings (p.p. rings) was not includible in the assessable value of the m.s. galvanized pipes.	Decision
The matter was, therefore, arguable.	Decision
Hence, we set aside the penalty of Rs.7.5 lacs.13.	Decision
Accordingly, the appeals are partly allowed, with no order as to costs.	Decision
