 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
This appeal by certificate is preferred against the Judgment and Decree of the High Court of Andhra confirming those of the Subordinate Judge, Bapatla, dismissing the suit filed by the appellants for possession of the plaint schedule properties.	Issue
The following genealogy will be useful in appreciating the facts and the contentions of the parties.	Facts
It will be seen from genealogy that Veeranna had two wives and that Chimpirayya and Pitchayya were his sons by the first wife and Peda Punnayya and China Punnayyas were his sons by the second wife.	Facts
Veeranna died in the year 1906 and his second son Pitchayya had predeceased him on 191905 leaving his widow Raghavamma.	Facts
It is alleged that sometime before his death, Pitchayya took Venkayya, the son of his brother Chimprirayya in adoption and it is also alleged that in or about the year 1895, there was a partition of the joint family properties between Veranna and his four sons, Chimpirayya, Pitchayya, Peda Punnayya and China Punnayya, Veeranna taking only 4 acres of land and the rest of the property being divided between the four sons by metes and bounds.	Facts
Venkayya died on May 24, 1938, leaving behind a son Subbarao.	Facts
Chimpirayya died on May 5, 1945 having executed a will dated January 14, 1945 whereunder he gave his properties in equal shares to Subbarao and Kamalamma, daughter of his predeceased daughter Saraswatamma thereunder he also directed Raghavamma, the widow of his brother Pitchayya, to take possession of the entire property belonging to him, to manage the same, to spend the income therefrom at her discretion and to hand over the property to his two grandchildren after they attained majority and if either or both of them died before attaining majority, his or her share or the entire property, as the case may be would go to Raghavamma.	Facts
The point to be noticed is that his daughterinlaw, Chenchamma was excluded from management as well as from inheritance after the death of Chimpirayya.	Facts
But Raghavamma allowed Chenchamma to manage the entire property and she accordingly came into possession of the entire property after the death of Chimpirayya.	Facts
Subbarao died of July 28, 1949.	Facts
Raghavamma filed a suit on October 12, 1950 in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Bapatla, for possession of the plaint scheduled properties and to that suit, Chenchamma was made the first defendant Kamalamma the second defendant and China Punnayya, the second son of Veeramma by his second wife, the third defendant.	Facts
The plaint consisted of A, B, C, D, D1 and E Schedules which are alleged to be the properties of Chimpirayya.	Facts
Raghavamma claimed possession of A B and C Scheduled properties from the 1st defendant, for partition and delivery of half share in the properties covered by plaintschedule D and DI which are alleged to belong to her and the 3rd defendant in common and a fourth share in the property covered by plaintschedule E which are alleged to belong to her and the 1st and 3rd defendants in common.	Facts
As Kamalamma was a minor on the date of the suit, Raghavamma claimed possession of the said properties under the will half in her own right in respect of Subbaraos share, as he died before attaining majority and the other half in the right of Kamalamma, as by then she had not attained majority, she was entitled to manage her share till she attained majority.2.	Facts
The first defendant denied that Venkayya was given in adoption to Pitchayya or that there was a partition in the family of Veeranna in the manner claimed by the plaintiff.	Facts
She averred that Chimpirayya died undivided from his grandson Subbarao and, therefore, Subbarao became entitled to all the properties of the joint family by right of survivorship.	Facts
She did not admit that Chimpirayya executed the Will in a sound and disposing frame of mind.	Facts
She also did not admit the correctness of the schedules attached to the plaint.	Facts
The second defendant filed a statement supporting the plaintiff.	Facts
The third defendant filed a statement denying the allegations in the plaint and disputing the correctness of the extent of some of the items in the plaint schedules.	Facts
He also averred that some of the items belonged to him exclusively and that Chimpirayya had no right to the same.3.	Facts
On the pleadings various issues were raised and the main issues, with which we are now concerned, are issues 1 and 2, and they are (1) whether the adoption of Venkayya was true and valid and (2) whether Pitchayya and Chimpirayya were divided as alleged by the plaintiff.	Issue
The learned Subordinate Judge, after considering the entire oral and documentary evidence in the case, came to the conclusion that the plaintiff had not established the factum of adoption of Venkayya by her husband Pitchayya and that she also failed to prove that Chimpirayya and Pitchayya were divided from each other and in the result he dismissed the suit with costs.4.	Facts
On appeal, a Division Bench of the Andhra High Court reviewed the entire evidence over again and affirmed the findings of the learned subordinate Judge on both the issues.	Facts
Before the learned Judges another point was raised, namely, that the recitals in the Will disclose a clear and unambiguous declaration of the intention of Chimpirayya to divide, that the said declaration constituted a severance in status enabling him to execute a Will.	Facts
The learned Judges rejected that plea on two grounds, namely, (1) that the Will did not contain any such declaration and (2) that, if it did, the plaintiff should have claimed a division of the entire family property, that is, not only the property claimed by Chimpirayya but also the property alleged to have been given to Pitchayya and that the suit as framed would not be maintainable.	Facts
In the result the appeal was dismissed with costs.	Facts
In the result the appeal was dismissed with costs.	Facts
The present appeal has been preferred by the plaintiff by certificate against the said judgment.5.	Facts
Learned AdvocateGeneral of Andhra Pradesh, appearing for the appellant, raises before us the following points (1) The findings of the High Court on adoption as well as on partition were vitiated by the High Court not drawing the relevant presumptions permissible in the case of old transactions, not appreciating the great evidentiary value of public documents, ignoring or at any rate not giving weight to admissions made by parties and witnesses and by adopting mechanical instead of an intellectual approach and perspective and above all ignoring the consistent conduct of parties spread over a long period inevitably leading to the conclusion that the adoption and the pation set up by the appellant were true.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) On the assumption that there was no partition by metes and bounds, the Court should have held on the basis of the entire evidence that there was a division in status between Chimpirayya and Pitchayya, conferring on Chimpirayya the right to bequeath his divided share of the family property.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) The will itself contains recitals emphasising the fact that he had all through been a divided member of the family and that on the date of execution of the Will he continued to possess that character of a divided member so as to entitle him to execute the Will in respect of his share and, therefore, the recitals in the will themselves constitute an unambiguous declaration of his intention to divide and the fact that the said manifestation of intention was not communicated before his death to Subbarao or his guardian Chenchamma could not affect his status as a divided member.	Arguments of Petitioner
And (4) Chenchamma, the guardian of Subbarao, was present at the time of execution of the will and, therefore, even if communication was necessary for bringing about a divided status, it was made in the present case.6.	None
Mr. Bhimasankaram, learned counsel for the contesting first respondent, raises a preliminary objection to the effect that the certificate given by the High Court was confined only to three questions which did not include the issues relating to adoption or partition and, therefore, the appellant could not question the correctness of those finding in respect of those issues and that the question whether the recitals in the will themselves constituted a partition in status could not be allowed to be raised, as that point was raised only for the first time in the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
He further contends that both the Courts below gave concurrent findings of fact on the question of adoption as well as on partition and this Court will not reconsider the evidence as a rule of practice and there are no exceptional circumstances to depart from that salutary practice in this appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
He further seeks to sustain the findings of the High Court on the evidence adduced in the case.7.	Arguments of Respondent
We shall take the preliminary objection first.	None
The material part of the certificate issued by the High Court reads thus this Court doth certify that the value of the subject matter of the suit in the Court of first instance is upwards Rs.	None
20,000/. (Rupees twenty thousand) and the value of the subject matter in dispute on appel to the Supreme Court of India is also of the value of upwards of Rs. 20,000/ (Rupees twenty thousand) and that the affirming decree appealed from involves the following substantial questions of law 1.	None
Whether a will executed by a member of a joint Hindu family would of itself be operative to effect a severance between him and the other members of the family by reason of the disposition contained in the Will.2.	None
Whether a will executed by a member of a joint family on the assumption not proved to be well founded or correct that as a result of an anterior partition in the family he, the testator, was solely entitled to the properties disposed of by the Will, would be effective to create a severance between the testator and the other members as on the date of the Will, and3.	None
Whether the aforesaid pleas could be raised for the first time on appeal without their having been raised in the pleadings or at any stage of the trial.8.	None
The said certificate was granted within the terms of Article 133(1) of the Constitution.	None
The material part of Article 133 (1) reads An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any judgment, decree or final order if the High Court certifies (a) that the amount or value of the subjectmatter of the dispute in the Court of first instance and still in dispute on appeal was and is not less than twenty thousand rupees or such other sum as may be specified in that behalf by Parliament(b) that the judgment, decree or final order involves directly or indirectly some claim or question respecting property of the like amount of value or(c) that the case is a fit one for appeal to the Supreme Courtand where the judgment, decree or final order appealed from affirms the decision of the Court immediately below in any case other than a case referred in subclause (c), if the High Court further certifies that the appeal involves some substantial question of law.	None
Mr. Bhimasankaram contends that the conditions laid down for issuing a certificate must also govern the scope of the appeal to the Supreme Court for otherwise, the argument proceeds, the said conditions would become otiose.	Arguments of Respondent
He concedes that the Supreme Court can exercise an unrestricted power of reviewing the judgment of the High Court in the case of a certificate hedged in with conditions by resorting to its power under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
136 of the Constitution, but this is not a case where it can do so especially having regard to the fact that the appellant did not seek to invoke that power.9.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Art.	Reasoning
133 of the Constitution the certificate issued by the High Court in the manner prescribed therein is a precondition for the maintainability of an appeal to the Supreme Court.	Reasoning
But the terms of the certificate do not circumscribe the scope of the appeal that is to say, once a proper certificate is granted, the Supreme Court has undoubtedly the power, as a Court of appeal, to consider the correctness of the decision appealed against from every standpoint, whether on question of fact or law.	Reasoning
A successful party no doubt can question the maintainability of the appeal on the ground that the certificate was issued by the High Court in contravention of the provisions of Art.	Reasoning
133 of the Constitution, but once the certificate was good, the provisions of Art.	Reasoning
133 did not confine the scope of the appeal to the certificate.	Reasoning
We, therefore, reject this preliminary objection.10.	Reasoning
His next objection is that both the learned Subordinate Judge and, on appeal, the learned Judges of the High Court gave concurrent findings of fact on adoption as well as on partition and it is the usual practice of this Court not to interfere with such findings, except in exceptional circumstances and there are no such circumstances in the present case.11.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 133 of the Constitution does not in any way limit the scope of an appeal, provided a proper and valid certificate is issued by the High Court thereunder.	Reasoning
This Court has undoubtedly the power to review the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the lower Courts in appropriate cases.	Reasoning
But it has been a longstanding practice of the Privy Council not to interfere with such findings based upon relevant evidence, except under extraordinary and exceptional circumstances Vide Rani Srimati v. Khagendra, ILR 31 Cal 871 (P C)	None
Fatima Bibi v. Sheikh Ahmed Buksh, ILR 35 Cal 271 (PC) Harendra Lal Roy v. Haridasi Debi, ILR 41 Cal 972 at p. 983 (AIR 1914 P C 67 at p. 71) and Bibhabati v. Ramendra 51 Cal W N 98 at p. 107 (AIR 1947 PC 19 at p. 26)	None
The same practice has been adopted and followed by this Court since its inception see Nanalal v. Bombay Life Assurance Co. Ltd., AIR 1950 S C 172 Firm Srinivas Ram v. Mahabir Prashad, AIR 1951 S C 177 Trojan and Co. v. Nagappa, AIR 1953 S C 235 Rajinder Chand v. Mst.	None
Sukhi, (S) AIR 1957 S C 286 Bhikka v. Charan Singh.	None
AIR 1959 SC 960 M. M. B. Catholicos v. T. Paulo Avira, AIR 1959 P C 31 and Narayan v. Gopal,	None
AIR 1960 S C 100.The reason for the practice is stated to be that when facts have been fairly tried by two Courts and the same conclusion has been reached by both, it is not in the public interest that the facts should be again examined by the ultimate Court of appeal.	None
Whatever may be the reason for the rule, the practice has become fairly crystallized and this Court ordinarily will not interfere with concurrent findings of fact except in exceptional cases, where the findings are such that it shocks the conscience of the Court or by disregard to the forms of legal process or some violation of some principles of natural justice or otherwise substantial and grave injustice has been done.	Reasoning
It is not possible nor advisable to define those circumstances.	Reasoning
It must necessarily be left to the discretion of this Court having regard to the facts of a particular case.	Reasoning
We have heard learned counsel on merits and we do not think it is one of those exceptional cases where we should depart from the salutary practice adopted by this Court.12.	None
Learned AdvocateGeneral contends that the learned Subordinate Judge as well as the High Court did not draw the appropriate presumptions arising from the fact that the transaction were old ones nor did they give sufficient weight to the entries in the revenue records, the admissions made by the parties and to the conduct of the parties and such other important circumstances and, therefore, their findings are liable to be questioned in this appeal.	None
This argument in effect and substance means that the Courts below have not given due weight to particular pieces of evidence.	None
There is an essential distinction between burden of proof and onus of proof burden of proof lies upon the person who has to prove a fact and it never shifts, but the onus of proof shifts, but the onus of proof shifts.	Reasoning
The burden of proof in the present case undoubtedly lies upon the plaintiff to establish the factum of adoption and that of partition.	Reasoning
The said circumstances do not alter the incidence of the burden of proof.	Reasoning
Such considerations, having regard to the circumstances of a partition.	Reasoning
The said circumstances do not alter the incidence of the burden of proof.	Reasoning
Such considerations, having regard to the circumstances of a particular case, may shift the onus of proof.	Reasoning
Such a shifting of onus is a continuous process in the evaluation of evidence.	Reasoning
The criticism levelled against the judgment, of the lower Courts, therefore, only pertains to the domain of appreciation of evidence.	Reasoning
We shall, therefore, broadly consider the evidence not for the purpose of revaluation, but to see whether the treatment of the case by the Courts below is such that it falls in the category of exceptional cases where this Court, in the interest of justice, should depart from its usual practice.13.	None
We shall first take the question of adoption.14.	None
It is well settled that a person who seeks to displace the natural succession to property by alleging an adoption must discharge the burden that lies upon him by proof of the factum of adoption and its validity.	None
Here, the appellant alleges in the plaint that Venkayya, the son of Chimpirayya, was taken in adoption by her husband, Pitchayya.	None
The first defendant, the widow of Venkayya, denies in her written statement that her husband was adopted by Pitchayya.	None
On the said pleadings the following issue was framed Whether the adoption of Venkayya is true and valid.	None
On the pleadings the burden of proof has rightly been placed on the plaintiff.	None
The adoption is alleged to have taken place in the year 1905.The circumstances obtaining at that time were as follows Chimpirayya was about 40 years old he had only one son, Venkayya, who was aged about 2 years Pitchayya was about 25 years old and, therefore, ordinarily he had every prospect of having children of his own it is, therefore, highly improbable unless there are special circumstances, that an only son of an elder brother was taken in adoption by his younger brother though there is no legal prohibition, it is well known that ordinarily an only son is neither given nor taken in adoption.	None
P. W. 1 admits that Addagada family is a prominent and affluent family in the village.	None
But curiously no document of adoption was executed, no invitations were sent to relatives and village officers, and no expenditure incurred in connection with the adoption was entered in the accounts.	None
Unless there were compelling and extraordinary circumstances which necessitated dispensing with all formalities, it is unthinkable that in a village there could have been an adoption made in such an affluent family without pomp and show.	None
P. Ws. 1 and 2 speak to the adoption.	None
P. W. 1 is the cousin of the appellant and P. W. 2 is appellant herself, P. W. 1 says that Pitchayya adopted his brothers son Venkyya and he lived for one month thereafter.	None
The reason for the adoption according to her, was that he was sick and was afraid that he would die.	None
She graphically describes that Alivelamma, the wife of Chimpirayya, gave her son in adoption to the accompaniment of mantrams and tantrams, that one Subbayya of Upputur was the prohit who officiated in the ceremony.	None
In the crossexamination she says that Pitchayya did not die suddenly of an attack of fever but was suffering from dropsy for about a month and also even earlier she admits that for important functions like marriage and adoption in their family they would invite the village officers and other important people of the village, but no such officers or important people were invited when Venkayya was taken in adoption.	None
This witness was 60 years old in 1961 and therefore she would have been about 15 years at the time of the alleged adoption.	None
Assuming for a moment that Pitchayya was suffering from dropsy, there is no reason why no important persons were invited for the function.	None
If her evidence were true, Pitchayya took part in the alleged ceremony and it cannot therefore be suggested that he was so ill that all the formalities had to be dispensed with.	None
Indeed, if he was ill and if the adoption was made without inviting the important people, that should have been the very reason why the village officers would have been invited and a document to evidence it executed.	None
P. W. 2 is the appellant Raghavamma.	None
She says that there was a ceremony of adoption officiated by the prohit Subbayya and that her brotherinlaw and his wife gave the boy to her husband in adoption.	None
She also deposes that her father and his brothers were present at the adoption.	None
In the crossexamination she says that her husband lived for about 3 months after the adoption.	None
She admits that no document was executed and that though there were accounts, no entries relating to the expenses of the adoption were entered therein.	None
While P. W. 1 says that Pitchayya lived for the one month after the adoption.	None
P. W. 2 says that he lived for about 3 months thereafter.	None
Neither in the pleadings nor in the evidence the date of adoption is given.	None
The evidence of P. W. 2 discloses the improbabilities inherent in such an adoption.	None
They also contradict each other on material circumstances.	None
The Courts below have disbelieved their evidence.15.	None
The appellant and the first respondent relied upon the conduct of the parties subsequent to the alleged adoption and filed a number of documents to support their respective cases.	None
On the side of the appellant the following documents, among others, are filed.	None
Promissory notes, mortgages, sales etc.	None
in favour of Venkayya describing him as the adopted son of Pitchayya.	None
Then after mentioning these documents the judgment proceeds.	None
The aforesaid documents range from the year 1911 to 1945.	None
Some of the said documents are promissory notes, mortgages and saledeeds executed by Venkayya in favour of third parties.	None
Therein he is described as the adopted son of Pitchayya.	None
Some of them are suits filed by Venkayya in the plaints therein he described himself as the adopted son of Pitchayya.	None
Among others, there is a solitary cowl in favour of Venkayya as the adopted son of Pitchayya.	None
In 1936 he, as the adopted son of Pitchayya, purchased a property sold in execution of a decree obtained by Chimpirayya.	None
Ex. A. 36 is the sale deed executed by Chimpirayya where in Venkayya is stated to have been given in adoption to Pitchayya.	None
Ex.	None
A 27 is a sale deed executed by the first respondent as guardian of Subbarao, who is described as the son of Pitchayyas adopted son Venkayya.	None
The mutation proceedings relate to lands in one of the villages.	None
Paruchur, wherein the other brothers admitted that Venkayya was the son of Pitchayya and the name of Venkayya represented by his guardian Raghavamma was included in the register.	None
In the insurance proposal form Venkayya is described as the natural son of Chimpirayya and as the adopted son of Pitchayya.	None
Both the Courts below found that this document was tampered with.	None
In the will, Chimpirayya recited the factum of adoption.	None
The aforesaid evidence, if it stood alone, would have furnished an imposing record of conduct wherefrom a Court could have reasonably inferred the factum of adoption.	None
But there is another current of unimpeachable documentary evidence which leads to a contrary inference.	None
The following documents describe Venkayya as the son of Chimpirayya.	None
Then after mentioning these documents the judgment proceeds.	None
the aforesaid documents show that Venkayya was admitted in the school as the son of Chimpirayya, that the mortgage deed executed in favour of Veerana was renewed in favour of Chimpriayya and Punnayya, that Venkayya executed promissory notes, saledeeds and mortgages as the son of Chimpirayya, that he filed suits as the son of Chimpirayya, operated upon the accounts of third parties as his son, that he purchased properties as his son, that he purchased properties as his son, that he solemnly gave evidence in a suit representing himself as the son of Chimpirayya, and that he insured his life as the son of Chimpirayya, that his name was not entered in the revenue accounts relating to Upputur village in respect of the family lands, and that the third parties also addressed him as the son of Chimpirayya.16.	None
So far as the documentary evidence goes, the position is as follows Till 1911 there was no document recording the fact that Venkayya was the adopted son of Pitchayya and that after 1911 there had been contradictory recitals in the documents.	None
Broadly speaking whenever Venkayya executed a document he described himself as the son of Chimpirayya, and whenever third parties executed documents, he was described as adopted son of Pitchayya.	None
He filed suits, sometimes as the son of Chimpirayya and sometimes as the adopted son of Pitchayya.	None
His name was entered in the accounts relating to Paruchur, but not in the accounts relating to Upputur he gave evidence declaring himself as the son of Chimpirayya and also insured his life as such he operated on the accounts of third parties as the son of Chimpirayya while in the will executed by Chimpirayya he was described as the adopted son of Pitchayya, on the death of Venkayya the appellant herself, who under the will was entitled to continue in possession and management, handed over the entire management to the first respondent indicating thereby that the will was not really intended to take effect.	None
In this state of evidence it is not possible to say that there had been a consistent pattern of conduct from which a Court should draw the inference that the adoption must have taken place.17.	Reasoning
Attempt is made to reconcile these contradictory descriptions in the documents by developing different theories.	None
Learned AdvocateGeneral suggests that there was no reason why Chimpirayya should have put forward Venkayya falsely as the adopted son of Pitchayya as early as 1911 when he would not have gained any advantage thereby, for without the aid of adoption the entire property of Pitchayya would have come to him by survivorship.	None
Mr. Bhimasankaram surmises that Chimpirayya pur forward the adoption without the knowledge of Raghavamma to safeguard his family interests against the possible adoption later on by Raghavamma of a stranger and that subsequently both joined together with a view to put pressure upon the first respondent to marry her son Subbarao to Kamalamma.	Arguments of Respondent
He also suggests that Chimpirayya began to put forward his son Venkayya as the adopted son of Pitchayya only after the birth of his second son in 1910 and that after the death of that son in 1916, his only interest was to see that his grandson by his son Venkayya was married to his granddaughter by his daughter and that the will was executed only to put pressure upon the first respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
That the will was executed only for this limited purpose, learned counsel argues, is clearly demonstrated by the fact that Raghavamma, though she was entitled to be put in possession of the entire property, handed over the management of the same to the first respondent after the death of Chimpirayya.	Arguments of Respondent
The said suggestions made by learned counsel on both sides are only based on surmises and they cannot be made the basis for a Courts conclusion.	None
In this state of evidence when both the Courts found, on a careful consideration of oral and documentary evidence and the probabilities arising therefrom that the appellant on whom the burden of proof lay to establish that Venkayya was adopted to Pitchayya has failed to discharge it, we cannot say that the finding was vitiated by such errors that we should review the entire evidence over again and come to a conclusion of our own.	Reasoning
We, therefore, accept the concurrent finding of that fact that there was no adoption.18.	Reasoning
The next question is whether the concurrent finding of fact arrived at by the Courts below on the question of partition calls for our interference.	Issue
In the plaint neither the details of the partition nor the date of partition are given.	None
In the writtenstatement, the first respondent states that Chimpirayya died undivided from his son Subbarao and so Subbarao got the entire property by survivorship.	None
The second issue framed was whether Chimpirayya and Pitchayya were divided as alleged by the plaintiff.	None
The partition is alleged to have taken place in or about the year 1895 but no partition deed was executed to evidence the same.	None
The burden is certainly on the appellant who sets up partition to prove the said fact.	Reasoning
P.W. 1, though she says that Veeranna was alive when his sons effected the partition, admits that she was not present at the time of partition, but only heard about it, P. W. 2, the appellant, deposes that her husband and his brothers effected partition after she went to live with him she adds that in that partition her fatherin law took about 4 acres of land described as Bangala Chenu subjects to the condition that after his death it should be taken by his four sons, that at the time of partition they drew up partition lists and recited that each should enjoy what was allotted to him and that the lists were written by one Manchella Narasinhayya she also admits that the lists are in existence, but she has not taken any steps to have them produced in Court.	Reasoning
She says that each of the brothers got pattas according to the partition, and that the pattas got for Pitchayyas share are in his house	Reasoning
yet she does not produce them.	Reasoning
She says that she paid kist for the lands allotted to Pitchayyas share and obtained receipts but the receipts are not filed.	Reasoning
She admits that she has the account books but they have not been filed in Court.	Reasoning
On her own showing there is reliable evidence, such as accounts, Pattas, receipts, partition lists and that they are available but they are not placed before the Court.	Reasoning
Her interested evidence cannot obviously be acted upon when all the relevant evidence has been suppressed.19.	None
Strong reliance is placed upon the alleged admissions made by D. W. 8 and D. W. 10.	Arguments of Petitioner
D.W. 8 is the karnam of Paruchur for over 30 years.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says in his evidence that Veeranna took 3 acres and 63 cents of land with a condition that it should go to his sons in equal shares and the rest of the lands were divided into two shares, one taken by Chimpirayya and Pitchayya and China Punnayya.	Arguments of Petitioner
He explains that some lands, where the soil is partly good and partly bad, were divided into four parts and one good and one bad went to each sharer.	Arguments of Petitioner
This evidence does not contain any admission that there was a partition inter se between the four brothers indeed it only supports the case that there was partition between the children of Veeranna by his two wives.	Reasoning
The division in four plots in respect of certain lands was only for an equitable distribution of the said lands between the sons of two wives.	Reasoning
D. W. 10 in his evidence says that he does not know in what year the partition took place that it went on for two months that some of the lands were divided into four plots.	Reasoning
His evidence is also consistent with the evidence of D. W. 8.	Reasoning
There is no admission by defendants witnesses that the division was between the four brothers.	Reasoning
The oral evidence, therefore, does not support the case of the appellant that there was a division inter se between Chimpirayya and Pitchayya.20.	Reasoning
Now coming to the documentary evidence, as we have already indicated, all the relevant documents admitted to have been in existence have not been placed before the Court and an adverse inference has, therefore, to be drawn against the appellant.	Reasoning
Even the documentary evidence filed in the case does not help the appellant.	None
The family property is situate in three villages, Paruchur, Upputur and Bodapadu.	None
If there was partition inter se between the four brothers, in the ryotwari settlement effected in 1906 the names of the brothers should have been entered separately in the revenue accounts but the relevant register pertaining to that settlement has not been filed.	None
Even in the later accounts of the year 1918 the name of Venkayya was entered only in respect of some lands in village Paruchur, but no such entries are found in respect of the other villages.	None
Those entries were made on a representation made by Chimpirayya and no one was interested to object to the entries.	None
Even these accounts show that in the earlier register Pitchayyas name was not entered.	None
Though they have some probative value of possession, they do not show that said lands shows against Venkayya fell to the share of Pitchayya at the partition in the year 1895.	None
In Bangala Chenu alleged to have been given to Veeranna with a condition that after his death the four sons should take it in equal shares, Venkayya did not get his share as he should if Pitchayya was divided from Chimpirayya and if he was adopted to Pitchayya.	None
P. W. 2 admits that Chimpirayya had two acres in Bengala Chenu and Punnayya had the other two acres.	None
This admission belies the statement that there was partition inter se among the four brothers, for if the said partition was true, one acre should have fallen to Pitchayyas branch.	None
P. W. 3 also says that Chimpirayya was in enjoyment of the said two acres.21.	None
Exs. B52, B53, B54, B55, B56 and B57 establish that the original mortgage of 1900 executed in favour of Veeranna was later on renewed only by Chimpirayya and Punnayya, that after the alleged partition separate mortgages were executed for portions of the debt in favour of Chimpirayya and Punnayya, that the property which was the subject matter of the mortgages was sold in favour of Chimpirayya and Punnayya and thereafter, under Exs. B61, B62 and B63, Chimpirayya and Punnayya sold land to third parties.	None
These series of documents support the case that there was no partition inter se between Chimpirayya and Pitchayya.	Reasoning
So too, another land obtained by Veeranna under an oral sale in 1886 was formally sold by a registered sale in favour of Chimpirayya and Pannayya under Ex.	Reasoning
B60 in 1911.	None
If Pitchayya had a share, Venkayya should have been one of the vendees.	Reasoning
Exs. B 67 and B 68 are the assessment orders of the year 1933 and Chimpirayya was assessed as representing a Hindu undivided family.	Reasoning
At the time of assessment if Venkayya was not a member of the Hindu joint family, there was no other male member in the family.	Reasoning
The assessment could only be explained on the basis that Venkayya and Chimpirayya were members of a Joint Hindu family.	Reasoning
Both the Courts, on the basis of the said evidence and other evidence, came to the conclusion that it has not been established that in the partition of 1895 there was a division inter se between Chimpirayya and Pitchayya.22.	Reasoning
Some argument is made on the question of burden of proof in the context of separation in a family.	Arguments of Petitioner
The legal position is now very well settled.	None
This Court in Bhagwati Prasad Shah v. Dulhin Rameshwari Kuer, 1951 SCR 603 at p. 607 (AIR 1952 SC 72 at p. 74), stated the law thusThe general principle undoubtedly is that a Hindu family is presumed to be joint unless the contrary is proved, but where it is admitted that one of the coparceners did separate himself from the other members of the joint family and had his share in the joint property partitioned off for him, there is no presumption that the rest of the coparceners continued to be joint.	None
There is no presumption on the other side too that because one member of the family separated himself, there has been separation with regard to all.	None
It would be a question of fact to be determined in each case upon the evidence relating to the intention of the parties whether there was a separation amongst the other coparceners or that they remained united.	None
The burden would undoubtedly lie on the party who asserts the existence of a particular state of things on the basis of which he claims relief.	None
Whether there is a partition in a Hindu joint family is, therefore, a question of fact notwithstanding the fact that one or more of the members of the joint family were separated from the rest, the plaintiff who seeks to get a specified extent of land on the ground that it fell to the share of the testator has to prove that the said extent of land fell to his share but when evidence has been adduced on both sides, the burden of proof ceases to have any practical importance.	Reasoning
On the evidence adduced in this case, both the Courts below found that there was no partition between Chimpirayya and Pitchayya as alleged by the appellant.	Reasoning
The finding is one of fact.	Reasoning
We have broadly considered the evidence only for the purpose of ascertaining whether the said concurrent finding of fact is supported by evidence or whether it is in any way vitiated by errors of law.	Reasoning
We find that there is ample evidence for the finding and it is not vitiated by any error of law.23.	Reasoning
Even so, learned AdvocateGeneral contends that we should hold on the evidence that there was a division in status between Chimpirayya and the other member of the joint Hindu family i.e., Subbarao before Chimpirayya executed the will, or at any rate on the date when he executed it.24.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is settled law that a member of a joint Hindu family can bring about his separation in status by a definite and unequivocal declaration of his intention to separate himself from the family and enjoy his share in severalty.	Reasoning
Omitting the Will, the earlier documents filed in the case do not disclose any such clear intention.	Reasoning
We have already held that there was no partition between Chimpirayya and Pitchayya.	Reasoning
The register of changes on which reliance is placed does not indicate any such intention.	Reasoning
The statement of Chimpirayya that his younger brothers son is a sharer in some lands and, therefore, his name should be included in the register, does not ex facie or by necessary implication indicate his unambiguous declaration to get divided in status from him.	Reasoning
The conflicting descriptions in various documents introduce ambiguity rather then clarity in the matter of any such declaration of intention.	Reasoning
Be it as it may, we cannot, therefore, hold that there is any such clear and unambiguous declaration of intention made by Chimpirayya to divide himself front Venkayya.25.	Reasoning
Now we shall proceed to deal with the will, Ex. A2 (a) on which strong reliance is placed by the learned AdvocateGeneral in support of his contention that on January 14, 1945, that is, the date when the Will was executed, Chimpirayya must be deemed to have been divided in status from his grandson Subbarao.	Arguments of Petitioner
A will speaks only from the date of death of the testator.	None
A member of an undivided coparcenary has the legal capacity to execute a will but he cannot validly bequeath his undivided interest in the joint family property.	None
If he died an undivided member of the family, his interest survives to the other members of the family, and therefore, the will cannot operate on the interest of the joint family property.	None
But if he was separated from the family before his death, the bequest would take effect.	None
So, the important question that arises is whether the testator in the present case became separated from the joint family before his death.26.	Issue
The Learned AdvocateGeneral raises before us the following contentions in the alternative (1) Under the Hindu law a manifested fixed intention as contradistinguished from an undeclared intention unilaterally expressed by a member to separate himself from the joint family is enough to constitute a division in status and the publication of such a settled intention is only a proof thereof.	Issue
(2) Even if such an intention is to be manifested to the knowledge of the persons affected, their knowledge dates back to the date of the declaration, that is to say, the said member is deemed to have been separated in status not on the date when the other members have knowledge of it but from the date when he declared his intention.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned AdvocateGeneral develops his argument in the following steps (1) The Will Ex. A2 (a), contains as unambiguous intention on the part of Chimpirayya to separate himself from Subbarao (2) he manifested his declaration of fixed intention to divide by executing the Will and that the Will itself was a proof of such an intention (3) when the Will was executed, the first respondent, the guardian of Subba Rao was present and, therefore, she must be deemed to have had knowledge of the said declaration (4) even if she had no such knowledge and even if she had knowledge of it only after the death of Chimpirayya, her knowledge dated back to the date when the Will was executed, and therefore, when Chimpirayya died he must be deemed to have died separated from the family with the result that the Will would operate on his separate interest.27.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main question of law that arises is whether a member of a joint Hindu family becomes separated from the other members of the family by a mere declaration of his unequivocal intention to divide from the family without bringing the same to the knowledge of the other member of the family.	Reasoning
In this context a reference to Hindu law texts would be appropriate, for they are the sources from which Courts evolved the doctrine by a pragmatic approach to the problems that arose from time to time.	None
The evolution of the doctrine can be studied in two parts, namely, (1) the declaration of the intention, and (2) the communication of it to others affected thereby.	None
On the first part the following texts would throw considerable light.	None
They are collated and translated by Viswanatha Sastri J., who has a deep and abiding knowledge of the sources of Hindu Law in A. Katheesumma v. A. Beechu, ILR (1950)	None
Mad 502 (AIR 1951 Mad 561 )	None
and we accept his translations as correct and indeed learned counsel on both sides proceeded on that basis.	None
Yajnavalkya, Ch. II, S. 121.	None
In land, corrody (annuity, etc.), or wealth received from the grandfather, the ownership of the father and the son is only equal.	None
Vijnaneswara commenting on the said sloka says And thus though the mother is having menstrual courses (has not lost the capacity to bear children) and the father has attachment and does not desire a partition, yet by the will (or desire) of the son a partition of the grandfathers wealth does take place.	None
(Setlurs Mitakshara, pp.	None
646648.)Saraswati Vilase, placitum 28.From	None
this	None
it is known that without any speech (or explanation) even by means of a determination (or resolution) only, partition is effected, just as an appointed daughter is constituted by mere intention without speech.	None
Viramitrodaya of Hitra Misra (Ch. II, pl.	None
23.)Here too there is no distinction between a partition during the lifetime of the father or after his death and partition at the desire of the sons may take place or even by the desire (or at the will of a single corparcener).Vyavahara Mayukha of Nilakantabhatta (Ch. IV, S. iii1).Even in the absence of any common (joint family) property, severance does indeed result by the mere declaration I am separate from thee because severance is a particular state (or condition) of the mind and the declaration is merely a manifestation of this mental state (or condition).The Sanskrit expressions sankalpa (resolution) in Saraswati Vilas, akechchaya (will of single coparcener) in Viramitrodaya budhivisesha (particular state or condition of the mind) in Vyavahara Mayukha,bring out the idea that the severance of joint status is a matter of individual direction.	None
The Hindu law texts, therefore, support the proposition that severance in status is brought about by unilateral exercise of discretion.28.	None
Though in the beginning there appeared to be a conflict of views, the later decisions correctly interpreted the Hindu law texts.	None
This aspect has been considered and the law pertaining thereto precisely laid down by the Privy Council in a series of decisions See Suraj Narain v. Iqbal Narain, ILR 35 All 80 (PC) Girja Bai v. Sadashiv Dhundiraj, ILR 43 Cal 1031 (AIR 1916 PC 104) Kawal Narain v. Budh Singh, ILR 39 All 496 (AIR 1917 PC 39) and Ramalinga Annavi v. Narayana Annavi, ILR 45 Mad 489 (AIR 1922 PC 201).	None
In Syed Kasam v. Jorawar Singh, ILR 50 Cal 84 (AIR 1922 PC 353) the Judicial Committee, after reviewing its earlier decision laid the settled law on the subject thus It is settled law that in the case of a joint Hindu family subject to the law of the Mitakshara, a severance of estate is effected by an unequivocal declaration on the part of one of the joint holders of his intention to hold his share separately, even though no actual division takes placeSo far, therefore, the law is well settled, namely, that a severance in estate is a matter of individual discretion and that to bring about that state there should be an unambiguous declaration to that effect are propositions laid down by the Hindu law texts and sanctioned by authoritative decisions of Courts.	None
But the difficult question is whether the knowledge of such a manifested intention on the part of the other affected members of the family is a necessary condition for constituting a division in status.	None
Hindu law texts do not directly help us much in this regard, except that the pregnant expressions used therein suggest a line of thought which was pursued by Courts to evolve concepts to meet the requirements of a changing society.	None
The following statements in Vyavahara Mayukha is helpful in this context severance does indeed result by the mere declaration I am separate from thee because severance is a particular state (or condition) of the mind and the declaration is merely a manifestation of this mental state (or condition).One cannot declare or manifest his mental state in a vacuum.	None
To declare is to make known, to assert to others.	None
Others must necessarily be those affected by the said declaration.	None
Therefore a member of a joint Hindu family seeking to separate himself from others will have to make known his intention to the other members of the family from whom he seeks to separate.	None
The process of manifestation may vary with circumstances.	None
This idea was expressed by learned Judges by adopting different terminology, but they presumably found it as implicit in the concept of declaration.	None
Sadasiva Iyer J., in Soundararajan v. Arunachalam Chetty, ILR 39 Mad 159 (AIR 1916 Mad 1170 (2))	None
(FB), said that the expression clearly expressed used by the Privy Council in ILR 35 All 80 (PC) meant clearly expressed to the definite knowledge of the other coparceners.	None
In ILR 43 Cal 1031 (AIR 1916 PC 104) the Judicial Committee observed that the manifested intention must be clearly intimated to the other coparceners.	None
Sir George Lowndes in Bal.	None
Krishna v. Ram Krishna, ILR 53 All 300 (AIR 1931 PC 154 ) took it as settled law that a separation may be effected by clear and unequivocal declaration on the part of one member of a joint Hindu family to his coparceners of his desire to separate himself from the joint family.	None
Sir John Wallis in Babu Ramasray Prasad Choudhary v. Radhika Devi, 43 Mad LW 172 (PC) again accepted as settled law the proposition thata member of a joint Hindu family may effect a separation in status by giving a clear and unmistakable intimation by his acts or declaration of a fixed intention to become separateSir	Reasoning
John Wallis C. J., and Kumaraswami Sastri J., in Ayilamma v. Vendkataswamy, 33 Mad LJ 746 (AIR 1919 Mad 1156) were emphatic when they stated that if a coparcener did not communicate, during his life time, his intention to become divided to the other coparcener or coparceners, the mere declaration of his intention, though expressed or manifested, did not effect a severance in status.	None
These decisions authoritatively laid down the proposition that the knowledge of the members of the family of the manifested intention of one of them to separate from them is a necessary condition for bringing about that members severance from the family.	None
But it is said that two decisions of the Madras High Court registered a departure from the said rule.	None
The first of them is the decision of Madhavan Nair J. in Rama Ayyar v. Meenakshi Ammal, 33 Mad LW 384 (AIR 1931 Mad 278 ).	None
There, the learned Judge held that severance of status related back to the date when the communication was sent.	None
The learned Judge deduced this proposition from the accepted principle that the other coparceners had no choice or option in the matter.	None
But the important circumstance in that case was that the testator lived till after the date of the service of the notice.	None
If that was so, that decision on the facts was correct.	None
We shall deal with the doctrine of relating back at a later stage.	None
The second decision is that of a Division Bench of the Madras High Court, consisting of Varadachariar and King.	None
JJ.	None
in Narayana Rao v. Purushotama Rao, ILR (1938) Mad 315 at p. 318 (AIR 1938 Mad 390 at p. 391).	None
There, a testator executed a will disposing of his share in the joint family property in favour of a stranger and died on August 5, 1926.	None
The notice sent by the testator to his son on August 3, 1926 was in fact received by the latter on august 9, 1926.	None
It was contended that the division in status was effected only on August 9, 1926, when the son received the notice and as the testator had died on August 5, 1926 and the estate had passed by survivorship to the son on that date the receipt of the notice on August 9, 1926 could not divest the son of the estate so vested in him and the will was, therefore, not valid.	None
Varadachariar, J., delivering the judgment of the Bench observed thus It is true that the authorities lay down generally that the communication of the intention to become divided to other coparceners in necessary, but none of them lays down that the severance in status does not take place till after such communication has been received by the other coparceners.	None
After pointing out the various anomalies that might arise in accepting the contention advanced before them, the learned Judge proceeded to stateIt may be that if the law is authoritatively settled, it is not open to us to refuse to give effect to it merely on the ground that it may lead to anomalous consequences but when the law has not been so stated in any decision of authority and such a view is not necessitated or justified by the reason of the rules, we see no reason to interpret the reference to communication in the various cases as implying that the severance does not arise until notice has actually been received by the addressee or addressees.	None
We regret our inability to accept this view.	None
Firstly, because, as we have pointed out earlier, the law has been well settled by the decisions of the Judicial Committee that the manifested intention should be made known to the other members of the family affected thereby secondly, because there would be anomalies on the acceptation of either of the views.	Reasoning
Thirdly, it is implicit in the doctrine of declaration of an intention that it should be declared to somebody and who can that somebody be except the one that is affected thereby.29.	Reasoning
There is yet another decision of the Madras High Court, which is of Rajamannar C. J., and Venkatarama Ayyar J., in Indira Bai v. Sivaprasada Rao ILR (1953)	None
Mad 245 at p. 256 (AIR 1953 Mad 461 at p. 464).	None
There, the testator despatched a telegram addressed to his undivided brother on August 4, evening.	None
In the ordinary course it must have been delivered on August 5.	None
The testator died on August 6 morning.	None
Learned counsel appearing for the brother contended that it had not been established that the telegram reached his client before the testator died and, therefore, the will did not operate on the testators interest in the joint family property.	None
The learned Judges rejected that contention on the basis of the judgment of Varadachariar and King JJ., in ILR (1938) Mad 315 (AIR 1938 Mad 390 )	None
.As	None
a Division Bench they were bound by the decision of another Division Bench but the real basis of the decision is found at p. 256	None
(of ILR Mad) (at p. 464 of AIR Mad)In the case before us, the telegram was despatched on the 4th evening and in the ordinary course it must have been delivered on the 5th and the testator died only on the 6th morning.	None
It appears that in the circumstances of the case the learned Judges presumed that the telegram must have reached the testators brother before the testator died.	None
The conclusion arrived at by the learned Judges would certainly be right on the said facts.	None
But we cannot agree with the view in so far as they agreed with that expressed by Varadachariar and King, JJ.30.	None
Viswanatha Sastri, J., in ILR (1950) Mad 502 (AIR 1951 Mad 561 ) elaborately and exhaustively considered the question that is now posed before us.	None
There, a member of a tarwad served a notice of his unambiguous intention to separate from the other members of the family on the Karnavan of the tarwad.	None
The question was whether the communication of his intention to the Karnavan was sufficient.	None
The appeal first came up before Satyanarayana Rao and Panchapagesa Sastri JJ.	None
Satyanarayana Rao, J., held that the notice was not sufficient to constitute a severance, as it was not served on the other members of the tarwad and Panchapagesa Sastri, J., held that the service on the Karnavan or the manager of the joint family was sufficient as he was a representative of the family.	None
As there was difference of view between the two learned Judges, the matter was placed before Viswanatha Sastri J., and the learned Judge agreed with Panchapagesa Sastri J.	None
But in the course of the judgment the learned Judge went further and held that a unilateral declaration of an intention to become divided on the part of a member of a joint Hindu Family effects severance in status and therefore the despatch to, or receipt by, the other members of the family of the communication or notice announcing the intention to divide on the part of one member of the family is not essential or its absence fatal to a severance in status.	Issue
The conclusions of the learned Judge on the question now raised before us are expressed in two places and they are at pp.	None
543 and 549 (of ILR Mad) (at pp.	None
568 and 570 of AIR Mad)	None
The only reasonable rule that can be deduced from the texts and the several decisions of the Judicial Committee is that the declaration of an intention to divide on the part of a member of the family should be clear and unequivocal and should be indicated, manifested, or published in such a manner as is appropriate in the circumstances of the case.	None
One method, but not the only method, of such manifestation or publication is by delivering a notice containing a declaration of intention to become divided to the other members of the family.	None
At p. 549 (of ILR Mad) (at p. 570 of AIR Mad) it is stated There must be some manifestation, indication, intimation or expression of that intention to become divided, so as to serve as authentic evidence in case of doubt or dispute.	None
What form that manifestation, expression, or intimation or intention should take would depend upon the circumstances of each case, there being no fixed rule or rigid formula.	None
The despatch to or receipt by the other members of the family of a communication or notice announcing the intention to divide on the part of one member of the family is not essential nor its absence fatal to a severance in status.31.	None
We agree with the learned Judge in so far as he held that there should be an intimation, indication or expression of the intention to become divided and that what form that manifestation should take would depend upon the circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
But if the learned Judge meant that the said declaration without it being brought to the knowledge of the other members of the family in one way or other constitutes a severance in status, we find it difficult to accept it.	Reasoning
In our view, it is implicit in the expression declaration that it should be to the knowledge of the person affected thereby.	Reasoning
An uncommunicated declaration is no better than a mere formation or harbouring of an intention to separate.	Reasoning
It becomes effective as a declaration only after its communication to the person or persons who would be affected thereby.32.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that Hindu Law texts suggested and Courts evolved, by a process of reasoning as well as by a pragmatic approach that, such a declaration to be effective should reach the person or persons affected by one process or other appropriate to a given situation.33.	Reasoning
This view does not finally solve the problem.	Reasoning
There is yet another difficulty.	None
Granting that a declaration will be effective only when it is brought to the knowledge of the other member affected, three questions arise, namely, (i) how should the intention be conveyed to the other member or members (ii) when it should be deemed to have been brought to the notice of the other member or members and (iii) when it was brought to their notice, would it be the date of knowledge that would be crucial to fix the date of severance.	Issue
The questions posed raise difficult problems in a fast changing society.	Reasoning
What was adequate in a village polity when the doctrine was conceived and evolved can no longer meet the demands of a modern society.	Reasoning
Difficult questions, such as the mode of service and its sufficiency, whether a service on a manager would be enough, whether service on the major members or a substantial body of them would suffice, whether notice should go to each one of them, how to give notice to minor members of the family, may arise for consideration.	Reasoning
But, we need not express our opinion on the said questions, as nothing turns upon them, for in this appeal there are only two members in the joint family and it is not suggested that Subba Rao did not have the knowledge of the terms of the will after the death of Chimpirayya.34.	Reasoning
The third question falls to be decided in this appeal.	Issue
It is this what is the date from which severance in status is deemed to have taken place?	Issue
Is it the date of expression of intention or the date when it is brought to the knowledge of the other members?	Issue
If it is the latter date, is it the date when one of the members first acquired knowledge or the date when the last of them acquired the said knowledge or the different dates on which each of the members of the family got knowledge of the intention so far as he is concerned?	Issue
If the last alternative be accepted, the dividing member will be deemed to have been separated from each of the members on different dates on which each of the members of the family got knowledge of the intention so far as he is concerned?	Issue
If the last alternative be accepted, the dividing member will be deemed to have been separated from each of the members on different dates.	Issue
The acceptance of the said principle would inevitably lead to confusion.	None
If the first alternative be accepted, it would be doing lip service to the doctrine of knowledge, for the member who gets knowledge of the intention first may in no sense of the term be a representative of the family.	Reasoning
The second alternative may put off indefinitely the date of severance, as the whereabouts of one of the members may not be known at all or may be known after many years.	Reasoning
The Hindu law texts do not provide any solution to meet these contingencies.	Reasoning
The decided cases also do not suggest a way out.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, open to this Court to evolve a reasonable and equitable solution without doing violence to the principles of Hindu law.	Reasoning
The doctrine of relation back has already been recognized by Hindu Law as developed by Courts and applied in that branch of the law pertaining to adoption.	Reasoning
There are two ingredients of a declaration of a members intention to separate.	Reasoning
One is the expression of the intention and the other is brining that expression to the knowledge of the person or person affected.	Reasoning
When once that knowledge is brought homethat depends upon the facts of each caseit relates back to the date when the intention is formed and expressed.	Reasoning
But between the two dates, the person expressing the intention may lose his interest in the family property he may withdraw his intention to divide he may die before his intention to divide is conveyed to the other members of the family with the result, his interest survives to the other members.	Reasoning
A manager of a joint Hindu family may sell away the entire family property for debts binding on the family.	Reasoning
There may be similar other instances.	Reasoning
If the doctrine of relation back is invoked without any limitation thereon, vested rights so created will be affected and settled titles may be disturbed.	Reasoning
Principles of equity require and commonsense demands that a limitation which avoids the confusion of titles must be placed on it.	Reasoning
What would be more equitable and reasonable then to suggest that the doctrine should not affect vested rights?	Reasoning
But imposing such a limitation we are not curtailing the scope of any well established Hindu law doctrine, but we are invoking only a principle by analogy subject to a limitation to meet a contingency.	Reasoning
Further, the principle of retroactivity, unless a legislative intention is clearly to the contrary, saves vested rights.	Reasoning
As the doctrine of relation back involves retroactivity by parity of reasoning, it cannot affect vested rights.	Reasoning
It would follow that, though the date of severance is that of manifestation of the intention to separate the right accrued to others in the joint family property between the said manifestation and the knowledge of it by the other members would be saved.35.	Reasoning
Applying the said principles to the present case, it will have to be held that on the death of Chimpirayya his interest devolved on Subbarao and, therefore, his will, even if it could be relied upon for ascertaining his intention to separate from the family, could not convey his interest in the family property, as it has not been established that Subbarao or his guardian had knowledge of the contents of the said will before Chimpirayya died.36.	Reasoning
It is contended that first respondent, as the guardian of Subbarao, had knowledge of the contents of the Will and, therefore, the Will operates on the interest of Chimpirayya.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed upon the evidence of P. W. 11, one Komanduri Singaracharyulu.	Arguments of Petitioner
He deposed that he was present at the time the Will was executed by Chimpirayya and that he signed it as an identifying witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the crossexamination he said that at the time of the execution of the Will the first defendantrespondent was inside the house.	None
This evidence is worthless.	Reasoning
The fact that she was inside the house cannot in itself impute to her the knowledge of the contents of the Will or even the fact that the will was registered that day.	Reasoning
D. W. 4 is the first respondent hereself.	Reasoning
She says in her evidence that she did not know whether the SubRegistrar came to register the Will of Chimpirayya, and that she came to know of the Will only after the suit was filed.	Reasoning
In that state of evidence it is not possible to hold that the first respondent as guardian of Subbararo, had knowledge of the contents of the Will.37.	Reasoning
In this view, it is not necessary to consider the further question whether the Will coptained a clear and unambiguous declaration of intention on the part of the testator to divide himself from the member of the joint family.38.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.39.	Decision
Appeal Dismissed.	Decision
