 C. Lahoti, J. W.P. (C)	None
No. 276/2001 filed on June 22, 2002, lays challenge to the constitution validity of the Indian Council of World Affairs Ordinance (2001) (No.3 of 2001), promulgated by the President of India on May 8, 2001, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of Article 123 of the Constitution of India.	None
During the pendency of this petition the Ordinance came to be replaced by an Act of Parliament, namely, the Indian Council of World Affairs Act, 2001 (Act No. 29 of 2001), which came into force W.E.F. September 1, 2000.	None
On 19.20.2001 W.P. (C) No. 543/2001 was filed laying challenge to the constitutional validity of this Act.	None
Both the petitions have been filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India and respectively allege the Ordinance and the Act to be violative of Articles 14, 19(1)(a), 19(1)(c) and 300A of the Constitution.	None
FACTUAL BACKDROP	None
In the year 1943, the Indian Council of World Affairs was formed by about 50 distinguished eminent public personalities as a nonofficial, nonpolitical and nonprofit organization.	Facts
On March 31, 1945, the Association was registered as a society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.	Facts
The principal object of the Society, as set out in the Memorandum of Association, was to promote the study of Indian and international questions so as to develop a body of informed opinion on world affairs and Indian relation thereto through study, research, discussion, lectures, exchange of ideas as information etc., with other bodies in India and abroad engaged in similar activities.	Facts
The activities of the Society were housed in a building known as Sapru House.	Facts
Sapru House has come up on a land of about 2 acres situated at No.1, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi, given on lease by the Government of India some time in the year 195051.	Facts
Sapru House has a library with a collection of books mainly on international affairs, an auditorium for holding seminars and discussions, a conference room and other office accommodation.	Facts
The Society was receiving grants from the Government of India from 1974 until the year 1987, whereafter the grant has been discontinued.3.	Facts
On June 30, 1990, the President of India promulgated an Ordinance whereby a statutory body known as the Indian Council of World Affairs was constituted, having perpetual succession and a common seal, with power to hold and dispose of property both movable and immovable.	Facts
The constitutional validity of this Ordinance was put in issue by filing a writ petition before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh, registered as Civil Writ Petition No. 9120 of 1990.	Facts
A learned Single judge of the High Court vide judgment dated September 10, 1990, allowed the writ petition, holding the Ordinance to be ultra vires of the Constitution of India, violating Article 14, 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(c) thereof and also beyond the legislative competence of the Parliament.	Facts
The Union of India filed a letters patent appeal against this judgment of the learned Single Judge.	Facts
The letters patent appeal came up for hearing before a Division Bench of the High Court on October 22, 1990.	Facts
It was brought to the notice of the Division Bench that the Ordinance promulgated on June 30, 1990 had lapsed on September 19, 1990, as the Bill seeking to replace the Ordinance by an Act of Parliament could not be passed.	Facts
The Division Bench formed an opinion that the letters patent appeal had become infructuous and directed the same to be dismissed without any adjudication on merits.4.In December 1999, the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India, cancelled the perpetual lease of the land of the Indian Council of World Affairs.	Facts
The cancellation of lease was followed by an order of reentry.	Facts
A writ petition was filed in the Delhi High Court, laying challenge to the said action of the Central Government.	Facts
The learned single Judge before whom the writ petition came up for hearing refused to grant any interim relief to the writ petitioner, and so a Letters Patent Appeal No. 577/99 came to be filed before the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court.	Facts
On December 24, 1999, the High Court directed further proceedings before the Estate Officer under the Public Premises Act to remain stayed.	Facts
It seems that there was some controversy about the breach of the Interim order granted by the High Court, which led to the filing of two contempt petitions in the High Court of Delhi, which are still pending.5.	Facts
On September 1, 2000, the President of India promulgated Ordinance No.3 of 2000, the terms whereof were more or less similar and identical with those of the Ordinance of 1990.	Facts
The constitutional validity of this Ordinance was challenged by filing C.W.P. No. 5174 of 2000 in the High Court of Delhi.	Facts
A Bill proposing to replace the Ordinance was moved in the Parliament which was passed by the Lok Sabha and was pending in the Rajya Sabha, but the Rajya Sabha was adjourned and, therefore, the Ordinance lapsed on December 31, 2000.6.	Facts
On January 5, 2001, Ordinance No.1 of 2001 was promulgated seeking to revive Ordinance No.3 of 2000 however, this Ordinance too lapsed on April 3, 2001.7.	Facts
On May 8, 2001, Ordinance No.3 of 2001 was promulgated and replaced by an Act of Parliament, which received the assent of the President of India on September 3, 2001.8.	Facts
The facts stated hereinabove are almost undisputed.	Facts
We say so because the chronology of events is not at all the dispute there is a minor variation in the manner of narration of the events and the background leading to the promulgation of the Ordinances and the passing of the Act, which are not very material and hence have been overlooked.	Facts
We may now broadly state the facts which are disputed and which form the subject matter of the controversy arising for decision in the writ petitions.	Facts
The Controversy According to the writ petitioners, Sapru House is a building constructed by the Society.	Arguments of Petitioner
The building, the library and all other movable in Sapru House are owned by the Society.	Arguments of Petitioner
By promulgation the impugned Ordinance and by enacting the impugned Act, the Central Government has taken over the Society as also its movable and immovable properties.	Arguments of Petitioner
This has resulted in violating the right of the writ petitioners to the freedom of speech and expression and to form associations or unions as conferred on citizens by subclauses (a) and (c) of clause (1) of Article 19 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Society has been deprived of its property without any authority of law which is violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The impugned Ordinance and the Act are malicious inasmuch as they are motivated by political considerations.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also alleged that the impugned Ordinance and the Act are violative of the doctrine of Separation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court of Punjab and Haryana had struck down an Ordinance which contained similar provisions and the said judgment dated September 10, 1990, has achieved a finality in view of the challenge to the legality of the judgment having been given up by the Union of Indian by not pressing the letters patent appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
A subsequent legislation which is in defiance of the judgment of the High Court deserves to be struck down solely on this ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the counteraffidavit filed by the Union of India, the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA, for short) had attained an International stature in connection with world affairs and the foreign policies of India visavis other countries.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the activities of the Society, i.e. running the Institution, were being complained against by several persons all over the country on account of the substandard level of programmes and the activities being conducted, as also about the standard of the maintenance of stock of books, periodicals, etc. in the library.	Arguments of Respondent
The image and reputation of the Institution drew adverse publicity in the Press.	Arguments of Respondent
In the counteraffidavit several such instances have been highlighted under the title Glaring Instances of Maladministration as revealed in the Audit conducted by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.	Arguments of Respondent
These instances highlight irregular and incomplete maintenance of accounts, misuse and diversion of funds, and deficits and losses accumulating year by year on account of mismanagement and maladministration.	Arguments of Respondent
Photographs have been filed with the counter affidavit showing the state of disrepair of the building and its furniture.	Arguments of Respondent
Serious irregularities were found to have been committed in the conduct of elections of the Executive Committee, resulting the complete breakdown of the democratic functioning of the Institution.	Arguments of Respondent
The electoral roll consisted of members who had discontinued their membership.	Arguments of Respondent
Fruit and vegetable vendors were enrolled as members of the Indian Council of World Affairs, so as to pack the membership with defunct members only to ensure the continuance in office of a certain set of people.	Arguments of Respondent
Membership fees of all such multiple members were being deposited by a single cheque.11.	Arguments of Respondent
On the affidavit of the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi, it has been stated that financial assistance was regularly granted to ICWA by the MEA and Deptt.	Arguments of Respondent
Of Culture (Ministry of Education).	Arguments of Respondent
Grants have been given after 1986 by organizations like ICSSR.	Arguments of Respondent
Adhoc grants had been given by the Deptt.	Arguments of Respondent
of Culture between 19741975 till 19881989.	Arguments of Respondent
The last grant of Rs. 5 lakhs from MEA was in 19851986.	Arguments of Respondent
In 19961997, the ICWA management wrote off the Capital Reserve of Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
19,38,302/ against the accumulated decifit of Rs. 31,06,897/.	Arguments of Respondent
The deficit of the erstwhile ICWA continued to increase till the takeover by the newly incorporated body on 2nd September, 2000.	Arguments of Respondent
The report of the Special Audit of ICWA by CAG, which commercial on 11.8.2000, highlights unaccounted for liabilities to the extent of Rs. 132.84 lacs, contravention of the provisions of the perpetual lease, nonadjustment of cash drawn for day to day expenses amounting to Rs. 22,48,399.65, and possible misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs. 1,39,086.10 by inflating the total amount of the salary bills.12.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the respondents, the propertySapru House, is situated on land which belongs to the Government of India (Land Development Office).	Arguments of Respondent
Large subventions and grants have been given from time to time by the Government of India to the Society wherefrom the building was constructed.	Arguments of Respondent
The lease of the land was terminated for nonpayment of dues as well as for various breaches amounting to misuse committed by the Society.	Arguments of Respondent
The dues as per the claim of the L DO worked out to more than Rs. 9 crores.	Arguments of Respondent
Eviction orders were passed by the Estate Officer, which have been stayed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
However, having acquired management and control over the Institution and the building and other properties in the year 1990, pursuant to the Ordinance, the Government of India had spent about Rs. 2 crores so as to restore Sapru House to its original condition and make it fit for habitation and use.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union of India has vehemently denied the allegation of the petitioners that the impugned Ordinance and Legislation were politically motivated.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that Governments have changed from time to time with different political leanings.	Arguments of Respondent
However, three Parliamentary Standing Committees appointed at different points of time have recommended the taking over of Sapru House, lamenting the decline in the standard of the Institution.	Arguments of Respondent
Earlier Ordinances are a matter of history and of mere academic relevance in view of the Parliament having ultimately enacted the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
As to the impugned Act being in violation of the doctrine of Separation of Powers and in defiance of the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the respondents have submitted that the decision of the learned single Judge was incorrect.	Arguments of Respondent
In was put in issue by filing a letters patent appeal, which appeal was disposed of without any adjudication on merits due to the High Court having formed an opinion that the adjudication of the appeal was rendered academic in view of the Ordinance having lapsed.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents could not have pressed for decision of the letters patent appeal on merits nor could they have taken the matter further because the High Court or this Court would not have entered into the examination of an issue which was rendered of academic interest only.13.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union of India has vehemently submitted that the Society has not been touched.	Arguments of Respondent
It continues to survive as before and, therefore, the question of any fundamental right within the meaning of subclause (a) and (c) of clause (1) of Article 19 of the Constitution of India having been breached, does not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
As the Institution, the Indian Council of World Affairs, is an institution of national importance, the impugned enactment is protected by Entries 62 and 63 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.14.	Arguments of Respondent
In the submission of the Union of India the building and the library have been built out of Government of India funds and subventions, and some donations received from persons of the eminence of former Prime Ministers and the President of India and other dignitaries.	Arguments of Respondent
The Society does not have any right in any of the properties, as is being claimed by the petitioners.	Arguments of Respondent
Challenge to Ordinance instructuous (W.P.(C) No. 276 of 2001) Before we enter into examining the merits of the attack laid on the impugned Act, we would like to summarily dispose of W.P.(C) No. 276 of 2001 wherein the challenge has been laid to the validity of the Ordinance only.	None
The Ordinance has been replaced by an Act of Parliament.	Decision
A fresh petition has been filed laying challenge to the constitutional validity of the Act.	Decision
All the grounds taken in W.P.(C) No. 276/2001 have been reiterated and reurged in W.P.(C) No. 543/2001.	Decision
As the merits of the pleas raised on behalf of the writ petitioners are available to be considered in the latter civil writ petition, W.P.(C) No. 276/2001 is rendered infructuous and we direct it to be treated as disposed of without any adjudication on merits.	Decision
The Ordinance impugned therein having ceased to operate, the factum of promulgation of such Ordinance remains only a part of the narration of events.	Decision
No such action was taken thereunder the legality whereof may survive for adjudication in spite of the lapse of the Ordinance.	Decision
We will, therefore, confine ourselves to dealing with the validity of the impugned Act.	None
Whether the impugned enactment is vitiated by malafides?	None
Though the petition alleges the impugned Act (with the history of preceding Ordinances) to be the outcome of political malice, no particulars thereof have been given by the writ petitioner.	None
However, that aspect need not be deliberated upon any further in view of two Constitution Bench decisions of this Court.	None
It has been held in K.C. Gajapati Narayan Deo and others vs. State of Orissa, (1954)	None
SCR 1 , and in Board of Trustees, Ayurvedic and Unani Tibia College, Delhi vs. State of Delhi (New Delhi Administration) and Anr., 1962 Supp.	None
(1) SCC 156, that the doctrine of Colourable Legislation does not involve any question of bona fides or mala fides on the part of the legislature.	None
The whole doctrine resolves resolving itself into the question of the competency of a particular legislature to enact a particular law.	None
If the legislature is competent to pass a particular law, the motives which impelled it to act are really irrelevant.	None
On the other hand, if the legislature lacks competency, the question of motive does not arise at all.	None
We will, therefore, concentrate on the legislative competence of Parliament to enact the impugned legislation.	None
If the Parliament has the requisite competence to enact the impugned Act, the enquiry into the motive which persuaded the Parliament into passing the Act would be of no use at all.	None
Gist of the impugned Act The Preamble to the Act, that, is the Indian Council of World Affairs Act, 2001 (Act No. 29 of 2001) reads  An Act to declare the Indian Council of World Affairs to be an institution of national importance and to provide for its incorporation and matters connected therewith.	None
Section 2 declares I.C.W.A. as an institution of national importance.	None
Section 4 incorporates a statutory council by the name of the Indian Council of World Affairs as a body corporate, which shall have perpetual succession and a common seal with power to hold property, movable and immovable, and to contract and to sue and be sued in its name.	None
Section 5 transfers all properties and assets, debts, obligations and liabilities and contracts of the existing council to the new body corporate.	None
The new council consists of the VicePresident of India as its exofficio President and the Prime Minister of India, the Speaker of the Lok Sabha the Leader of the House, Rajya Sabha, the Leaders of the Opposition in both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to be its members, with a provision for future expansion so as to include in the council certain specified and nominated members of the Central Government.	None
Provisions are made for the staff, the functions of the council, budgeting, accounts and audit, and so on.	None
The Central Government is vested with the power to make Rules to carry out the provisions of the Act.	None
The council may make regulations consistent with the Act and the Rules.	None
Without entering into further details it would suffice for our purpose to sum up the gist of the Act by stating that (1) a new body corporate known as the Indian Council of World Affairs has come into existence (2) the institution, Indian Council of World Affairs has been declared to be an institution of national importance (3) the Institution has been taken over by the Central Government and entrusted to the newCouncil  a statutory corporate body (4) the society named the Indian Council of World Affairs has not been touched at all its membership and organization have been left intact, untampered with and untouched.	None
According to the respondents, the impugned Act falls within the the purview of Entries 62 and 63 of List I of the Seventh Schedule, which Entries read as under The institutions known at the commencement of this Constitution as the National Library, the Indian Museum, the Imperial War Museum, the Victoria Memorial and the Indian War Memorial, and any other like institution financed by the Government of India wholly or in part and declared by Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance.63.	None
The institutions known at the commencement of this Constitution as the Benares Hindu University, the Aligarh Muslim University and the Delhi University the University established in pursuance of Article 371E and any other institution declared by Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance.	None
With this much of an introductory statement, we proceed to deal with the several grounds of attack urged by the petitioners.	None
Impugned Act if violative of Article 19(1)(a) (c) Article 19(1)(a) and (c) and clauses (2) and (4) of Article 19, relevant for our purpose, provide as under Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.(1)	None
All citizens shall have the right (a) to freedom of speech and expression(b) xxx xxx(c) to form associations or unions(d) to (q) xxx xxx(2)	None
Nothing in subclause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said subclause in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with Foreign States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt or court, defamation or incitement to an offence.(3) xx	None
xx xx(4)	None
Nothing in subclause (c) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said subclause.(5)	None
xxx xx	None
xx(6)	None
xxx xx	None
xx	None
The Constitution Bench in The State of Madras vs. V.G. Row, 1952	None
SCR 597, laid down twin tests on which the constitutional validity of a legislation under Article 19 is to be tested.	None
The first test is the test of reasonableness which is common to all the clauses under Article 19(1) and the second test is to ask for the answer to the question, whether the restriction sought to be imposed on the fundamental right, falls within subarticles (2) to (6) respectively qua the clauses (a) to (g) of Article 19(1).	None
The reasonable, according to the Constitution Bench, should be applied to each individual statute impugned and no abstract standard, or general pattern of reasonableness can be laid down as applicable to all cases.	None
The nature of the right alleged to have been infringed, the underlying purpose of the restrictions imposed, the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby, the disproportion of the imposition, the prevailing conditions at the time, should all enter into the judicial verdict.	None
In evaluating such elusive factors and forming their own conception of what is reasonable, in all the circumstances of a given case, it is inevitable that the social philosophy and the scale of values of the Judge participating in the decision should play an important part, and the limit to their interference with legislative judgment in such cases can only be dictated by their sense of responsibility and selfrestraint, and the sobering reflection that the Constitution is meant not only for people of their way of thinking but for all, and that the majority of the elected representatives of the people have, in authorizing the imposition of the restrictions, considered them to be reasonable.	None
Under the second test, the Constitution Bench, called upon to deal with the legislation impugned before it by reference to Articles 19(1)(c) and 19(4) of the Constitution, held the impugned legislation to be unconstitutional and void because it curtailed the fundamental right to form associations or unions and fell outside the limits of authorized restrictions under clause (4) of Article 19.	None
Article 19(1) of the Constitution came up for the consideration of a SevenJudges Bench of this Court in Smt.	None
Maneka Gandhi vs. Union of India and others  (1978) 1 SCC 248.	None
Dealing with the scope and purport of Article 19(1) the Bench held Even if a right is not specifically named in Article 19)(1), it may still be a fundamental right covered by some clause of that Article if it is an integral part of a named fundamental right or partakes of the same basic nature and character as that fundamental right.	None
It is not enough that a right claimed by the petitioner flows or emanates from a named fundamental right or that its existence is necessary in order to make the exercise of the named fundamental right meaningful and effective.	None
Every activity which facilities the exercise of a named fundamental right is not necessary comprehended in that fundamental right nor can it be regarded as such merely because it may not be possible otherwise to effectively exercise that fundamental right.	None
What is necessary to be seen is, and that is the rest which must be applied is, whether the right claimed by the petitioner is an integral part of a named fundamental right or partakes of the same basic nature and character as the named fundamental right so that the exercise of such right is in reality and substance nothing but an instance of the exercise of the named fundamental right.	None
If this be the correct test, the right to go abroad cannot in all circumstances be regarded as included in freedom of speech and expression.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Their Lordships referred to All India Bank Employees Association vs. National Industrial Tribunal (1962) 3	None
SCR 269 wherein the plea raised was that the right to form associations protected under Article 19(1)(c) carried with it a guarantee that the association shall effectively achieve the purpose for which it was formed, without interference by law, except on grounds relevant to the preservation of public order or morality as set out in Article 19(4).	None
The plea so raised was rejected.	None
The Court negatived the argument that the freedom to form unions carried with it the concomitant right that such unions should be able to fulfill the object for which they were formed.	None
The scope of the fundamental right conferred by Article 19(1)(a) cannot be expanded on the theory of peripheral or concomitant right.	None
Their Lordships held that such a theory having been firmly rejected in the All India Bank Employees Associations case (supra), any attempt to revive it cannot be countenanced as that would completely upset the scheme of Article 19(1).	None
The words of Rajagopala Ayyanger, J., were quoted with approval, as saying by a series of ever expanding concentric circles in the shape of rights concomitant to concomitant rights and so on, lead to an almost grotesque result.	None
In Maneka Gandhis case (supra) the right to go abroad was clearly held not to be a guaranteed right under Article 19(1) and an imposition by law of restrictions on the right to go abroad was held to be not offending Article 19(1)(a) or (g), as its direct and inevitable impact is only on the right to go abroad and not on the right of free speech and expression or the right to carry on any trade, business, profession or calling.	None
From a reading to the two decisions namely, Smt.	None
Maneka Gandhis case (supra) (sevenJudges Bench) and All India Bank Employees Associations case (supra), (fiveJudges Bench), the following principles emerge (i) a right to form associations or unions does not include within its ken as a fundamental right a right to form associations or unions for achieving a particular object or running a particular institution, the same being a concomitant or concomitant to a concomitant of a fundamental right, but not the fundamental right itself.	None
The associations or unions or citizens cannot further claim as a fundamental right that it must also be able to achieve the purpose for which it has come into existence so that any interference with such achievement by law shall be unconstitutional, unless the same could be justified under Article 19(4) as being a restriction imposed in the interest of public order or morality (ii) A right to form associations guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c) does not imply the fulfillment of every object of an association as it would be contradictory to the scheme underlying the text and the frame of the several fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III and particularly by the scheme of the guarantees conferred by subclauses (a) to (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 (iii) While right to form an association is to be tested by reference to Article 19(1)(c) and the validity of restriction thereon by reference to Article 19(4) , once the individual citizens have formed an association and carry on some activity, the validity of legislation restricting the activities of the association shall have to be judged by reference to Article 19(1)(g) read with 19(6).	None
A restriction on the activities of the association is not a restriction on the activities of the individual citizens forming membership of the association and (iv) A perusal of Article 19 with certain other Articles like 26, 29 and 30 shows that while Article 19 grants rights to the citizens as such, the associations can lay claim to the fundamental rights guaranteed by Article 19 solely on the basis of there being an aggregation of citizens, i.e. the rights to the citizens composing the body.	None
As the stream can rise no higher than the source, associations of citizens cannot lay claim to rights not open to citizens or claim freedom from restrictions to which the citizens composing it are subject.	None
The Constitution Bench in All India Bank Employees Associations case (supra) gave a precise illustration thus  If an association were formed for the purpose of carrying on business, the right to form it would be guaranteed by subclause (c) of clause (1) of Article 19, subject to any law restricting that right conforming to clause (4) of Article 19.	None
As regards its business activities, however, and the achievement of the objects for which it was brought into existence, its rights would be those guaranteed by subclause (g) of clause (1) of Article 19, subject to any relevant law on the matter conforming to clause (6) of Article 19 while the property which the association acquires or possesses would be protected by subclause (f) of clause (1) of Article 19 subject to legislation within the limits laid down by clause (5) of Article 19.	None
Giving exposition to the law by reference to the labour union, the Constitution Bench held  While the right to form a union is guaranteed by subclause (c), the right of the members of the association to meet would be guaranteed by subclause (b), their right to move from place to place within India by subclause (d), their right to discuss their problems and to propagate their views by subclause (a), their right to hold property would be that guaranteed by subclause (f) and so on each of these freedoms being subject to such restrictions as might properly be imposed by clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 as might be appropriate in the context.	None
It is one thing to interpret each of the freedoms guaranteed by the several Articles in Part III in a fair and liberal sense it is quite another to read each guaranteed right as involving or including concomitant rights necessary to achieve the object which might be supposed to underlie the grant of each of those rights.	None
The Constitution Bench further held that the framing and structure of part III of the Constitution by the founding fathers calls for the guarantees embodies in it to be interpreted in a liberal way, so as to subserve the purpose for which the constitutionmakers intended them, and not in any pedantic or narrow sense.	None
This, however, does not imply that the Court is at liberty to give an unnatural and artificial meaning to the expressions used based on ideological considerations.	None
A right to form unions guaranteed by Article 19(1)(c) does not carry with it a fundamental right in the union so formed to achieve every object for which it was formed with the legal consequence that any legislation not falling within clause (4) of Article 19 which might in any way hamper the fulfillment of those objects, should be declared unconstitutional and void.	None
Even a very liberal interpretation cannot lead to the conclusion that the trade unions have a guaranteed right to an effective collective bargaining or to strike, either as part of collective bargaining or otherwise.	None
The right to strike or the right to declare a lockout may be controlled or restricted by appropriate industrial legislation, and the validity of such legislation would have to be rested not with reference to the criteria laid down in clause (4) of Article 19	None
but by totally different considerations.	None
A right guaranteed by Article 19(i)(c) on a literal reading thereof can be subjected to those restrictions which satisfy the test of clause (4) of Article 19.	None
The rights not included in the literal meaning of Article 19(1)(c) but which are sought to be included therein as flowing therefrom i.e. every right which is necessary in order that the association, brought into existence, fulfills every object for which it is formed, the qualifications therefor would not merely be those in clause (4) of Article 19 but would be more numerous and very different.	None
Restrictions which bore upon and took into account the several fields in which associations or unions of citizens might legitimately engage themselves, would also become relevant.	None
The law so settled, as has been stated hereinafter, has not changed its course in the flow of subsequent judicial pronouncements.	None
We may selectively refer to a few of them.	None
In M s. Raghubar Dayal Jai Prakash Anr.	None
vs. The Union of India and others (1962) 3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 547 , the issue related to the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952, which imposed restrictions on the recognition of associations by the Government.	None
Provisions were made for certain enquiries to be held and for the satisfaction of certain criteria whereupon the association could be recognized.	None
The challenge to the constitutional validity of the provision was founded on the submission that the provisions infringed upon the freedom to form associations under Article 19(1)(c).	None
It was urged that the constitutional guarantee to every citizen to the right to from an association could be limited only by an imposition on the right which might legally fall within clause (4) of Article 19 viz.,	None
bye laws which place restrictions based on either public order or morality.	None
It was further urged that where the object of the association is lawful, the citizens, through that association, and the association itself, are entitled by virtue of the guaranteed right to freedom from legislative interference in the achievement of its object, except on grounds germane to public order or morality.	None
In other words, the freedom guaranteed should be read as extending not merely to the formation of the association as such, but to the effective functioning of the association so as to enable in to achieve its lawful objectives.	None
Unless Article 19(1)(c) were so read, the freedom guaranteed would be illusory and the Court should, in construing a freedom guaranteed to the citizen, give him an effective right.	None
In short, the submission was that the right guaranteed under subclause (c) of clause (1) of Article 19 was not merely, as its text would indicate the right to form an association, but would include the functioning of the association without any restraints not dictated by the need for preserving order or the interests of morality.	None
The Constitution Bench discarded the argument as without force and held  the restriction imposed by Section 6 of the Act is for the purpose of recognition and no association is compelled to apply to the Government for recognition under the Act.	None
An application for the recognition of the association for the purpose of functioning under the enactment is a voluntary act on the part of the association and if the statute imposes conditions subject to which alone recognition could be accorded or continued, it is a little difficult to see how the freedom to form the association is affected unless, or course, that freedom implies or involves a guaranteed right to recognition also.	None
The applicability of Article 19 of the Constitution came to be examined from yet another angle in The Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd. and Anr.	None
vs. The State and others Anr.	None
(1964) 6	None
SCR 885.	None
Corporations and companies moved the Supreme Court alleging violation of their fundamental right under Article 19 of the Constitution.	None
Article 19(1)(c) and 19(1)(g) came up for consideration.	None
Their Lordships held that Article 19 applies to citizens and not to persons as Article 14 does.	None
The effect of confining of Article 19 to citizens as distinguished from persons, is that protection under Article 19 can be claimed by citizens and not by corporations or companies.	None
The attempt of the petitioners to claim the benefit of Article 19 by placing reliance on the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil and submitting that the corporation or the company consists of its members and what is adversely affected is their fundamental right, was rejected by the Court.	None
The Constitution Bench held that the fundamental right to form an association cannot be coupled with the fundamental right to carry on any trade or business.	None
As soon as citizens form a company, the right guaranteed to them by Article 19(1)(c) has been exercised and no restraint has been placed on that right and no infringement of that right is made.	None
Once a company or a corporation is formed, the business which is carried on by the said company or corporation is the business of the company or corporation, and is not the business of the citizens who get the company or corporation formed or incorporated and the rights of the incorporated body must be judged on that footing alone and cannot be judged on the assumption that they are the rights attributable to the business of individual citizens.	None
In our opinion, the same principle as has been applied to companies and corporations would apply to a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.	None
In Azeez Basha vs. Union of India  (1968) 1	None
SCR 833 , this Court has held that Article 19(1)(c) does not give any right to any citizen to manage any particular educational institution and it only gives the right to a citizen to form associations or unions.	None
In D.A.V. College, Jullundur etc. vs. The State of Punjab and others (1971) 2 SCC 269 ), the impugned legislation provided for compulsory affiliation of religious or linguistic minority Institutions to the University.	None
It was contended that the compulsory affiliation of the petitioners to the University affects their fundamental right of freedom of association as guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c).	None
It was held that the Notification providing for compulsory affiliation of the educational institution with the University did not in any manner interfere or attempt to interfere with the petitioners right to form an association under Article 19(1)(c).	None
A Full Bench (fiveJudges) decision by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Seethapathi Nageswara Rao and others vs. The Government of A.P. and others, AIR 1978 A.P. 121 (F.B.) is relevant and we are inclined to make a reference to the same.	None
The statutory provision impugned therein was one which provided for merger, amalgamation or liquidation of cooperative societies.	None
The nonviable societies could be merged or amalgamated with the viable societies.	None
It was urged that the forcible dumping of the members of the nonviable societies where such societies are merged with violable societies, violates the rights of the members of the viable societies.	None
It was submitted that a viable society is one voluntarily formed by the members of that society and it is for them to decide whether they would admit other members of nonviable societies or not.	None
The members of a nonviable society cannot be forced upon them against their will.	None
It was also submitted that when a nonviable society is merged with a viable society, the share value in a viable society would drop down and this would adversely affect their fundamental rights under subclauses (f) and (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 and Article 31 of the Constitution.	None
The full Bench rejected the argument as one of absolutely no merit and held that merger does not affect the right to form an association.	None
The effect of merger is regulating the business activity of the society and not the right of the members to form an association.	None
The merger or liquidation is a reasonable restriction imposed on the business activity of the cooperative society by regulating its trade or business activity which would be protected by clause (6) of Article 19.	None
The High Court drew a distinction between the right of a person to form an association and the right of such association to carry a business activity.	None
Before the Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, a Division Bench decision of the High Court of Patna in Harakh Bhagat and another vs. Assistant Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Barh, and others, AIR 1968	None
Patna 211, was cited and it was followed.	None
Following the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the Case of The Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd. (supra) the Division Bench upheld the validity of a legislative provision providing for compulsory amalgamation of cooperative societies in certain situations, and held that the provision did not violate the fundamental right of the members of the Societies under Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.	None
The scheme of Article 19 shows that a group of rights are listed as a clauses (a) to (g) and are recognized as fundamental rights conferred on citizens.	None
All the rights do not stand on a common pedestal but have varying dimensions and underlying philosophies.	None
This is clear from the drafting of clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19.	None
The framers of the Constitution could have made a common draft of restrictions which were permissible to be imposed on the operation of the fundamental rights listed in clause (1), but that has not been done.	None
The common thread that runs throughout subclauses (2) to (6) is that the operation of any existing law or the enactment by the State of any law which imposes reasonable restrictions to achieve certain objects, is saved however, the quality and content of such law would be different by reference to each of the subclauses (a) to (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 as can be tabulated hereunder Article 19 confers fundamental rights on citizens.	None
The rights conferred by Article 19(1) are not available to and cannot be claimed by any person who is not and cannot be a citizen of India.	None
A statutory right  as distinguished from a fundamental right  conferred on persons or citizens is capable of being deprived of or taken away by legislation.	None
The fundamental rights cannot be taken away by any legislation, a legislation can only impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right.	None
Out of the several rights enumerated in clause (1) of Article 19, the right at subclause (a) is not merely a right of speech and expression but a right to freedom of speech and expression.	None
The enumeration of other rights is not by reference to freedom.	None
In the words of the then Chief Justice Patanjali Sastri (In State of West Bengal vs. Subodh Gopal Bose and others, 1954 SCR 587 ) these rights are great and basic rights which are recognized and guaranteed as the natural rights, inherent in the status of a citizen of a free country.	None
Yet, there cannot be any liberty absolute in nature and uncontrolled in operation so as to confer a right wholly free from any restraint.	None
Had there been no restraints, the rights and freedoms may tend to become the synonyms of anarchy and disorder.	None
The founding fathers of the Constitution, therefore, conditions the enumerated rights and freedoms reasonably and such reasonable restrictions are found to be enumeratedin clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 excepting for subclause (i) and (ii) of clause (6), the laws falling within which descriptions are immune from attack on the exercise of legislative power within their ambit (See H.C. Narayanappa and others vs. State of Mysore others, (1960) 3	None
SCR 742 ).	None
The Court, confronted with a challenge to the constitutional validity of any legislative enactment by reference to Article 19 of the Constitution, shall first ask what is the sweep of the fundamental right guaranteed by the relevant subclause out of subclauses (a) to (g) of clause (1).	None
If the right canvassed falls within the sweep and expanse of any of the subclauses of clause (1), then the next question to be asked would be, whether the impugned law imposes a reasonable restriction falling with the scope of clauses (2) to (6) respectively.	None
However, if the right sought to be canvassed does not fall within the sweep of the fundamental rights but is a mere concomitant or adjunct or expansion or incidence of that right, then the validity thereof is not to be tested by reference to clauses (2) to (6).	None
The test which it would be required to satisfy for its constitutional validity is one of reasonableness, as propounded in the case of V.G. Row (supra) or if it comes into conflict with any other provision of the Constitution.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General, Shri Raju Ramachandran, placed implicit reliance on the decision of this Court in L.N. Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change, Patna vs. State of Bihar and others (1988) 2 SCC 433 , and submitted that the said case has a close resemblance to the facts of the present case and provides a complete answer to the plea raised on behalf of the petitioners.39.	Arguments of Respondent
In L.N. Mishras case (supra) the Institute  Lalit Narain Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change, Patna, was started by a Society.	None
The name of the Institute and the name of the Society were the same.	None
On April 19, 1986, the State Government of Bihar promulgated Ordinance No. 15 of 1986, whereby the possession of the Institute was taken over by the State Government on that very day.	None
The constitutional validity of the Ordinance was challenged alleging that it was promulgated and the Institute was taken over at the instance of the then Chief Minister, actuated by mala fides.	None
The Ordinance was later replaced by an Act, the constitutional validity whereof was also challenged on identical grounds.	None
The preamble to the Act stated the need to nationalize private education relating to business management in view of a very good possibility of a rapid industrial and economic development of the State of Bihar.	None
The nationalization was proposed to be resolved in phases.	None
The first phase related to the taking over of the Institute.	None
The challenge was founded on violation of Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution, submitting that the fundamental right to form an association was infringed.	None
The management of the Society was totally displaced and its composition changed.	None
All assets and properties were vested in the State Government and the Commissioner was deemed to have taken charge of the Institute.	None
As all incidence of ownership and management were taken over by the State, what was left to the Society was paper ownership and management.	None
Turning down the challenge, this Court held that the impugned Ordinance and the Act merely took over the Institute.	None
Although, the name of the Society and the Institute are the same, they were two different entities.	None
The impugned legislations took over the Institute and not the Society.	None
No restriction whatsoever was imposed on the functioning of the Society.	None
The provisions of the Act referred to the Institute.	None
The Institute constituted one of the activities of the Society.	None
The petitionerSociety had constituted itself into an association in exercise of the fundamental right conferred by Article 19(1)(c).	None
That right of that Society remains unimpaired and uninterferred with by the impugned Act and Ordinance.	None
The Court further held that  There can be no doubt that the Institute has been taken over by the provisions of the Ordinance and that Act.	None
It is true that with the taking over of the Institute, the Society lost its right of management and control of the Institute, but that is the consequence of all acquisitions.	None
When a property is acquired, the owner loses all control, interest and ownership of the property.	None
Similarly the Society, which was the owner of the Institute, has lost all control and ownership of the Institute.	None
It may be equally true that the Institute was the only activity of the Society, but we are concerned with the right of the Society to form an association.	None
So long as there is no interference with the Society, its constitution or composition, it is difficult to say that because of the taking over or acquisition of the Institute, which was the only property or activity of the Society, the fundamental right of the Society to form an association has been infringed.	None
The Court clarified  the composition of the Society has not been touched at all.	None
All that has been done is to nationalize the Institute of the Society by the acquisition of the assets and properties relating to the Institute.	None
The Society may constitute its governing body in accordance with its rules without any interference by the Government.	None
The Court also tested the validity of the submission that the right of citizens to form associations or unions within the meaning of Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution should be given the widest operation and any law which infringes upon the wide sweep of the right must satisfy the test of Article 19(4), which saves only such laws which impose in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order or morality the reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by Section 19(1)(c).	None
Reliance was placed on All India Bank Employees Association vs. National Industrial Tribunal (1962) 3	None
SCR 269 and the Court concluded that the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c) does not carry with it a further guarantee that the objects or purposes or activities of an association so formed shall not be interfered with by law except on grounds as mentioned in Article 19(4).	None
In sum, the Court rejected the contention on behalf of the society that because of the acquisition of the institute the society lost its right of management over the institute, and as the institute was the main or the only activity of the society, the impugned legislations interfered with the right of the society to form and continue the association and are as such unconstitutional and void.	None
In S.P. Mittal vs. Union of India and others (1983) 1 SCC 51 , the disciples and devoted followers of Sri Aurobindo formed the Aurobindo Society in Calcutta and got it registered as a Society with the object of preaching and propagating the ideals and teachings of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother.	None
The Society for its Auroville project received grants and subventions from UNESCO and also from the Government of India.	None
However, after the death of the Mother, complaints started pouring in with the Central Government which, on enquiry, revealed mismanagement of the affairs of the Society, misuse of the funds thereof and diversion of the funds meant for Auroville to other purposes.	None
There was infighting between the groups of members and the situation went out of control.	None
The Auroville (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance, 1980), was promulgated followed by an Act, whereby the management of Auroville was taken over, thought for a limited period.	None
The constitutional validity of the Act was challenged on the ground that Articles 25, 26, 29 and 30 and also Article 14 were infringed and that the Parliament had no legislative competence to enact the said Act.	None
Turning down the challenge on all the grounds, the Constitution, Bench held, inter alia, that assuming but not holding that the Society or Auroville were a religious denomination, the impugned Act was not hit by Article 25 or 26.	None
It does not curtail the freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practise and propagate ones own religion.	None
The right of management in matters of religion of a religious denomination under Article 26(b) was not taken away what was taken away was the right of management of the property of Auroville which was a secular matter.	None
So also the Act did not curtail the right of any section of citizens to conserve its own language, script or culture conferred by Article 29.	None
An activity, secular in nature, though assumed to be of the Society or the organization to be of religious denomination, did not adversely affect the freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practise and propagate ones own religion.	None
The Constitution Bench has drawn a distinction between such activities of the institution which would necessarily fall within the purview of Articles 25, 26 or 29 and an individual activity which would fall outside the purview of these Articles.	None
The Preamble to the Act declares the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA) to be an institution of national importance and to provide for its incorporation.	None
The same declaration is contained in the body of the Act vide Section 2.	None
The preexisting society  ICWA and the new body corporate, also given the name of ICWA, bear a similarity of names.	None
Yet, it is clear that the impugned Act only deals with ICWA the preexisting body and ICWA the body corporate under the impugned Act.	None
The new body takes over the activities of the preexisting society by running the institution which too is known as ICWA.	None
So far as the society ICWA is concerned, it has been left intact, untouched and uninterested with.	None
There is no tampering with the membership or the governing body of the society.	None
The society is still free to carry on its other activities.	None
No membership of the old society has been dropped.	None
No new member has been forced or thrust upon the society.	None
The impugned legislation nominates members who will be members of the council, the new body corporate, different from the society.	None
The pith and substance of the impugned legislation is to take over an institution of national importance.	None
As the formation of the society, which is a voluntary association, is not adversely affected and the members of the society are free to continue with such association, the validity of the impugned legislation cannot be tested by reference to subClause (a) and (c) of Clause (1) of Article 19.	None
The activity of the society which was being conducted through the institution ICWA has been adversely affected and to that extent the validity of the legislation shall have to be tested by reference to subClause (g) of Clause (1) of Article 19.	None
The activity was of the society and the society cannot claim a fundamental right.	None
Even otherwise the impugned legislation is a reasonable legislation enacted in the interest of the general public and to govern an institution of national importance.	None
It is valid.	None
Sarva Shri P.P. Rao and Ashok Nigam, the learned senior counsel for the petitioners have placed strong reliance on two decisions of this Court, namely, Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Damyanti Naranga and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. The Union of India and others , 1971	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) SCR 840 , and Asom Rashtrabhasha Prachar Samiti, HedayatpurGauhati3 and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. State of Assam and others, 1989 (Supp.)	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 160.	None
In Smt.	None
Damyanti Narangas case (sura) the Constitution Bench ruled that the right to form an association includes not only a right of forming an association to begin with, but also the right to continue to be associated with only those whom they voluntarily admit in the association.	None
Once the citizens have formed any association voluntarily then without any option being given to the members, neither can their membership be taken away nor can they be compelled to associate themselves with members with whom they do not want to associate.	None
The constitution validity of the Hindi Sahitya Sammelan Act, 1962, was successfully challenged.	None
A perusal of the judgment shows that the impugned legislation created a statutory body called The Hindi Sahitya Sammelan.	None
The existence of the original Sammelan was terminated, which resulted in violating the right of members of the original Sammelan to form an association as guaranteed by Article 19(1)(c) and this was the main thrust of attack which dominated the Courts opinion.	None
All the existing members of the original Sammelan were made members of the new Sammelan and many outsiders were also made members thereof by the Act.	None
The new members which were enrolled or could be enrolled, were entitled to be admitted without the consent of the original members of the Sammelan.	None
Thus, the members of the old Sammelan came under compulsion to associate and unite involuntarily with such persons as they did not wish to do.	None
The property of the original Sammelan was taken away and vested in the new Sammelan.	None
The case is, therefore, distinguishable and not applicable to the facts of the present case, where the original society has been left intact and untouched.	None
These distinguishing features were noted also by the Constitution Bench in the case of D.A.V. College, Jullundur, (supra) and the ratio of Smt.	None
Damyanti Narangas case (supra) was held inapplicable.	None
However, even in Smt.	None
Damyanti Narangas case (supra), the Constitution Bench has held that after an association has been formed and the right under Article 19(1)(c) has been exercised by the members forming it, they have no right to claim that its activities must also be permitted to be carried on in the manner they desire.	None
In the case of (supra), the impugned Act was enacted to meet a temporaAsom Rastrabhasa Prachar Samitiry contingency for taking over of the management of the Prachar Samiti temporarily.	None
However, it failed to make any provision for the restoration of the elected body in due course.	None
Not only were new members introduced into the Samiti, no norms were laid down for nominating the government nominees (who could be any one), and the elected members were kept away from the control of the Samiti.	None
On the peculiar facts of the case and the implications of the provisions contained in the impugned enactment the Court concluded that the right of association was virtually taken away and in the name of temporary control and management on the affairs of the society, what was done was a permanent deprivation.	None
In response to a query raised by the Court it was stated by the State before the Court that the State had no desire to restore the Samiti.	None
The impugned legislative provision was, therefore, struck down as violative of Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.	None
Asom Rastrabhasha Prachar Samitis case (supra) is a threeJudge Bench decision and the only decision referred to therein is the case of Smt.	None
Damyanti Narangas case (supra).	None
Though Article 14 has not been referred to in the judgment by specifically mentioning it, it is clear from the judgment that this Court has also formed an opinion that the action of the State was arbitrary and unreasonable, and so was liable to be struck down.	None
Both the decisions relied on by the learned senior counsel for the petitioners are distinguishable and do not apply to the present case.	None
It is wellsettled that while dealing with a challenge to the constitutional validity of any legislation, the court should prima facie lean in favour of constitutional and should support the legislation, if it is possible to do so, on any reasonable ground and it is for the party who attacks the validity of the legislation to place all materials before the Court which would make out a case for invalidating the legislation.	Reasoning
(See Charanjit Lal Chowdhary vs. The Union of India and others, 1950 SCR 869 and Avurvedic and Unani Tibia College, Delhi (supra).	None
In spite of there being a general presumption in favour of the constitutionality of the legislation, in a challenge laid to the validity of any legislation allegedly violating any right or freedom guaranteed by Clause (1) of Article 19 of the Constitution, on a prima facie case of such violation having been made out, the onus would shift upon the respondent State to show that the legislation comes within the permissible limits of the most relevant out of Clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution, and that the restriction is reasonable.	Reasoning
The Constitutional Court would expect the State to place before it sufficient material justifying the restriction and its reasonability.	Reasoning
On the State succeeding in bringing the restriction within the scope of any of the permissible restrictions, such as, the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order, decency or morality etc.	Reasoning
the onus of showing that restriction is unreasonable would shirt back to the petitioner.	Reasoning
Where the restriction on its face appears to be unreasonable, nothing more would be required to substantive the plea of unreasonability.	Reasoning
Thus the onus of proof in such like cases is an ongoing shifting process to be consciously observed by the court called upon to decide the constitutional validity of a legislation by reference to Article 19 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The questions (i) Whether the right claimed is a fundamental right, (ii) whether the restriction is one contemplated by any of the Clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19, and (iii) whether the restriction is reasonable or unreasonable, are all questions which shall have to be decided by keeping in view the substance of the legislation and not being beguiled by the mere appearance of the legislation.50.	Reasoning
The impugned Act does not offend the right guaranteed by Article 19(i)(c).	Reasoning
It also does not in any manner deprive the members of the Society of their freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a).	None
Scrutiny by reference to Article 300A It was submitted that the impugned legislation is violative of Article 300A of the Constitution inasmuch as it unreasonably deprives the petitioners of the property vesting in the society.	None
In this context, a reference to a Constitution Bench decision of this Court would be apposite which deals with the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property under Article 19(1)(f) (since repealed) though not on all the fours with the facts of this case.	None
Board of Trustees, Ayurvedic and Unani Tibia College, Delhi vs. State of Delhi (Now Delhi Administration) and another, 1962 Supp.	None
(1) SCR 156, projects principles which would be relevant for our purpose.	None
An individual founded a pharmaceutical institute known as Hindustani Dawakhana.	None
He also established a medical college known as The Tibbia College.	None
He then formed a society with a few members along with himself and registered the same under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.	None
The Society was known as the Board of Trustees, Ayurvedic and Unani Tibbia College, Delhi (The Board for short).	None
The Board was operating the Tibbia College, an attached hostel and a pharmaceutical institute.	None
Dispute arose within the trustees which led to filing of civil suits.	None
The Court appointed receivers who took possession of the Dawakhana and the College.	None
The Delhi State Legislature passed an Act called The Tibbia College Act, 1952 which came into force on October 19, 1952.	None
The old Board and dissolved and all property, movable and immovable, and all rights, powers and privileges of the Board came to vest in a new Board constituted under the Act.	None
This new Board was called the Tibbia College Board.	None
The civil suits were withdrawn and the Court directed the possession over the properties and institutions to be handed over to the new Board.	None
The old Board filed a civil revision in the High Court of Punjab and thereafter a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution in this Court, impugning the constitutional validity of the Act mainly on two grounds, namely, that the Delhi State Legislature had no legislative power or competence to enact the impugned Act and that, assuming that the Delhi State Legislature had the legislative competence, the Act was still bad as being violative of Articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.	None
Incidentally, it was also contended that the Act passed by the Delhi State Legislature could not override the provisions of the Societies Registration Act, 1860, which is a Central Legislation.	None
According the State of Delhi, the field of legislation was covered by List II (State List)	None
Item 32 which reads as under Incorporation, regulation and winding up of corporations, other than those specified in List I, and universities unincorporated trading, literary, scientific, religious and other societies and associations cooperative societies.	None
The Constitution Bench held that a society could not be equated with a corporation as a society cannot be said to be incorporated as a corporation is.	None
Under Section 5 of the Societies Registration Act, 1860, the property belonging to the society, if not vested in trustees shall be deemed to be vested in the governing body of the society and in all proceedings, civil and criminal, the property will be described as being the property of the governing body.	None
The expression property belonging to the Society does not give the Society a corporate status in the matter of holding and acquiring property it merely describes the property which vests in the trustees or governing body for the time being.	None
It was held that the impugned legislation while creating the new Board has given it a corporate status, confining its powers and duties to the college, pharmaceutical institute and laboratory in Delhi.	None
It fell within the purview of Entry 32 of List II.	None
Dealing with the submission based on Article 31(2) of the Constitution (as it then stood), the Court held that the impugned legislation does not relate to nor does it provide for compulsory acquisition of property for public purpose.	None
The impugned legislation provides for the transfer of the management of the Ayurvedic and Unani Tibbia College, Delhi, from the old Board to a new Board, and for that purpose the old Board was dissolved and a new Board was created with certain rights, powers and privileges to be applied for the exercise of powers and the performance of duties as laid down in the Act.	None
Such legislation could not be tested under Article 31(2) or the tests emerging therefrom.	None
Dealing with the submission made by reference to the repealed Article 19(1)(f), the fundamental right to acquire, hold and dispose of property, the Court held that During the subsistence of the society, the right of the members was to ensure that the property was utilized for the charitable objects set out in the memorandum and these did not include any beneficial enjoyment.	None
Nor did the members of the society acquire any beneficial interest on the dissolution of the society for S.14 of the Act, quoted earlier, expressly negatived the right of the members to any distribution of the assets of the dissolved body.	None
In such an event the property had to be given over to some other society, i.e., for being managed by some other charitable organization and to be utilized for like purposes, and the only right of the members was to determine the society to whom the funds or property might be transferred and this had to be done by not less than threefifths of the members present at the meeting for the purpose and, in default, of such determination, by the civil court.	None
The effect of the impugned legislation is to vary or affect this privilege of the members and to vest the property in a new body created by it enjoined to administer it so as to serve the same purposes as the dissolved society.	None
The only question is whether the right to determine the body which shall administer the funds or property of the dissolved society which they had under the preexisting law is a right to acquire, hold and dispose of property within the meaning of Art.19(1)(f), and if so whether the legislation is not saved by Art.19(5).	None
We are clearly of the opinion that that right is not a right of property within the meaning of Art.19(1)(f).	None
In the context in which the words to dispose of occur in Art.19(1)(f), they denote that kind of property which a citizen has a right to hold.	None
Where however the citizen has no right to hold the property, for on the terms of S.14 of the Societies Registration Act the members have no right to hold the property of the dissolved society, there is, in our opinion, no infringement of any right to property within the meaning of Art.19(1)(f).	None
In this view the question as to whether the impugned enactment satisfies the requirements of Art.19(5) does not fall to be determined.	None
The Court concluded by holding that the Delhi State Legislature did not transgress any of the limitations placed on it, by Art.19(5) when it enacted the impugned legislation.	None
The protection of Art.300A is available to any person, including a legal or juristic person and is not confined only to a citizen.	None
For more than one reason, we are not inclined to entertain this plea.	None
Firstly, with the Fortyfourth Amendment, w.e.f. June 20, 1979, Right to Property having ceased to be a fundamental right, we have grave doubts if the same can be sought to be enforced by a petition under Art.32 of the Constitution.	None
Secondly, we find that a case of violation of Art.300A in the dimension in which it was sought to be canvassed is not taken up in the writ petition.	None
The Union of India has taken over the institution by enacting a law which we have held to be within the legislative competence of the Parliament.	None
Thirdly and lastly, the petition in that regard raises disputed questions of facts.	None
The Union of India do not admit title of the petitioner either in the land or in the building or in any other property claimed to be owned by the petitioners, There is not one document of title produced by the petitioners in support of their claim to the property.	None
Such highly disputed questions of fact which cannot be determined except on evidence are not fit to be taken up for adjudication in the exercise of writ jurisdiction.	None
The exercise of testing the vires of the Impugned legislation by reference to Art.300A of the Constitution is uncalled for in the present petition.	None
Is the impugned Act arbitrary and violative of Art.14?	None
Art.14 of the Constitution prohibits class legislation and not reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation.	None
The requirements of the validity of legislation by reference to Art.14 of the Constitution are that the subject matter of legislation should be a well defined class Founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes that subject matter from others left out, and such differentia must have a rational relation with the object sought to be achieved by the legislation.	None
The laying down of intelligible differentia does not, however, mean that the legislative classification should be scientifically perfect or logically complete.	None
We have already pointed out in an earlier part of this judgment that in the present case successive parliamentary committees found substance in the complaints received that an institution of national importance was suffering from mismanagement and maladministration.	None
The Central Government acted on such findings.	Reasoning
Circumstances warranting an emergent action satisfied the President of India, resulting in his promulgating ordinances which earlier could not culminate into legislative enactments on account of fortuitous circumstances.	Reasoning
At the end the Parliament exercised its legislative power under Art.245 of the Constitution read with Entries 62 and 63 of List I.	Reasoning
The legislation cannot be said to be arbitrary or unreasonable.	Reasoning
It was further submitted that the provisions of the Societies Registration Act, 1860 were effective enough which, if invoked, could have taken care of the alleged grievances.	Arguments of Petitioner
If there was any truth or substance therein the same could have been found on enquiries being held.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion.	None
In a given set of facts and circumstances, merely because an alternative action under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 could have served the purpose, a case cannot be and is not made out for finding fault with another legislation if the same be within the legislative competence of the Parliament, which it is, as will be seen hereinafter.	Reasoning
A similar submission was made and repelled in S.P. Mittals case (supra).	None
The contention there was that provisions in the Societies Registration Act were available to meet the situation in Auroville and that the law and order situation could be controlled by resorting to provisions of the code of Criminal Procedure.	None
The Constitution Bench held  Whether the remedies provided under the Societies Registration Act were sufficient to meet the exigencies of the situation is not for the Court but for the Government to decide, and if the Government thought that the conditions prevailing in Auroville and the Society can be ameliorated not by resorting to the provisions of the Societies Registration Act but by a special enactment, that is an area of the exercise of the discretion of the Government and not of the Court.	None
The Constitution Bench also observed that assuming the facts brought to the notice of the legislature were wrong, it will not be open to the Court to hold the Act to be bad on that account.	None
It was then submitted that the institution ICWA was singled out and though there were several other institutions run by societies or other organizations which were in the grip of more serious mismanagement and maladministration, they were not even touched and the Parliament chose to legislate as to one institution only.	Arguments of Petitioner
This submission too holds no merit.	None
Firstly, no other Institution is named or particularized so as to be comparable with ICWA.	None
Secondly, there can be a legislation in respect of a single institution as is clear from the language itself of Entries 62 and 63 of	None
List I.	None
A single Institution is capable of being treated as a class by itself for the purpose of legislation if there are special circumstances or reasons which are applicable to that institution and such legislation would net incur the wrath of Art.14.	None
In S.P. Mittal (supra), the impugned legislation brought with the object and purpose of taking away the management of Auroville from the Aurobindo Society and to bring it under the management of the Central Government under the provisions of the impugned Act was held to be valid.	None
The exercise of legislative power by Parliament was sought to be justified as falling within the field of Entry 63 of List I.	None
Their Lordships referred to several decisions wherein the constitutional validity of similar legislations was upheld.	None
In Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S.R. Tendolkar (1959 SCR 279 ) legislation relating to a single Individual, in Raja Birakishore v. State of Orissa, (1964 (7) SCR 32 ) legislation in inspect of a single temple and in Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. Union of India, (1950 SCR 869 ) a separate law enacted for one company were held not to offend Art.14 of the Constitution on the ground that there were special reasons for passing such legislation.	None
Effect of the previous judgment of High Court on the impugned legislation Having held that the impugned Act does not suffer from any constitutional infirmity and does not violate Art.19(1)(a) and (c) or Art.300A of the Constitution, we may now proceed to examine by reference to the doctrine of Separation of Powers what is the effect on the impugned Act, of the judgment dated 10.9.1990 delivered by a learned single Judge of the Punjab Haryana High Court, annulling the 1990 Ordinance as constitutionally invalid.	Issue
The submission of the learned counsel for the petitioners is short and simple.	None
It is submitted that an identically worded Ordinance having been held to be unconstitutional and the decision of the High Court holding so having achieved a finality, the Parliament could not have reenacted the contents of the vitiated Ordinance into an Act of Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was forcefully submitted that such an enactment is violative or the doctrine of Separation of Powers and so is liable to be annulled on this very ground.62.	Arguments of Petitioner
The facts of this case are unusual.	None
No precedent, parallel on facts, has been brought to our notice at the Bar though a host of decisions laying down constitutional principles were cited, some of which we shall refer to hereinafter.	None
Let us first state a few general principles relevant for upholding validity of enactments.	None
In Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. and Anr.	None
v. Broach Borough Municipality and Ors., (1969 (2) SCC 283 )	None
the imposition of a tax was held to be invalid because the power to tax was wanting.	None
A validation Act was passed and its constitutionality was put in issue once again.	None
The Constitution Bench spoke a few words about validating statutes in general, as under When a Legislature sets out to validate a tax declared by a court to be illegally collected under an ineffective or an invalid law, the cause for ineffectiveness or invalidity must be removed before validation can be said to take place effectively.	None
The most important condition, of course, is that the Legislature must possess the power to impose the fax, for, if it does not, the action must ever remain ineffective and illegal.	None
Granted legislative competence, it is not sufficient to declare merely that the decision of the Court shall not bind for that is tantamount to reversing the decision in exercise of judicial power which the Legislature does not possess or exercise.	None
A courts decision must always bind unless the conditions on which it is based are so fundamentally altered that the decision could not have been given in the altered circumstances.	None
Ordinarily, a court holds a tax to be invalidly imposed because the power to tax is wanting or the statute or the rules or both are invalid or do not sufficiently create the jurisdiction, validation of a tax so declared illegal may be done only if the grounds of illegality or invalidity are capable of being removed and are in fact removed and the tax is thus made legal.	None
Sometimes this is done by providing for jurisdiction where jurisdiction had not been property vested before.	None
Sometimes this is done by reenacting retrospectively a valid and legal taxing provision and then by fiction making the tax already collected to stand under the reenacted law.	None
Sometimes the Legislature gives its own meaning and interpretation of the law under which tax was collected and by legislative flat makes the new meaning binding upon courts.	None
The Legislature may follow any one method or all of them and while it does so it may neutralise the effect of the earlier decision of the court which becomes ineffective after the change of the Saw.	None
Whichever method is adopted it must be within the competence of the legislature and legal and adequate to attain the object of validation.	None
If the Legislature has the power over the subject matter and competence to make a valid law, it can at any time make such a valid law and make it retrospectively so as to bind even past transactions.	None
The validity of a Validating Law, therefore, depends upon whether the Legislature possesses the competence which it claims over the subject matter and whether in making the validation it removes the defect which the courts had found in the existing law and makes adequate provisions in the Validating Law for a valid imposition of the tax.	None
The law, so laid down, was reiterated and approved by a Seven Judges Bench in Misrilal Jain v. State of Orissa and Anr., (1977 (3) SCC 212 ).	None
In Madan Mohan Pathak and Anr.	None
v. Union of India and Ors., (1978 (2) SCC 50 )	None
too Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. case (supra) was cited and considered.	None
The law laid down by the seven Judges Bench leads one to hold that if by reason of retrospective alteration of the actual or legal situation, the judgment is rendered erroneous, the constitutional validity of the subsequent legislation is not available to be decided on the basis of the previous judgment.	None
The Constitution Bench in Union of India and Anr.	None
v. Raghubir Singh (Dead) by Lrs. etc., (1989 (2) SCC 754 ) observed that the range of judicial review recognized in the superior judiciary of India is perhaps the widest and the most extensive known to the world of law and then cautioned  With the impressive expanse of judicial power vested in them it is only right that the superior courts in India should be conscious of their enormous responsibility.	None
The Constitution Bench summed up the effect of declaring an Act of legislation  in the case before us an Ordinance  on the revival of such Act, by stating that where a statute is declared invalid in India it cannot be reinstated unless constitutional sanction is obtained therefor by a constitutional amendment or an appropriately modified version of the statute is enacted which accords with constitutional prescription.	None
A two Judges Bench of this Court in Indian Aluminium Co. and Ors.	None
v. State of Kerala and Ors.	None
(1996 (7) SCC 637 ) made an exhaustive review of the available judicial opinion and summed up the essence thereof in nine points, three of which are relevant for our purpose, which we set out as under In order that rule of law permeates to fulfil constitutional objectives of establishing an egalitarian social order, the respective sovereign functionaries need free play in their joints so that the march of social progress and order remains unimpeded.	None
The smooth balance built with delicacy must always be maintained(2)	None
In its anxiety to safeguard judicial power, it is unnecessary to be overzealous and conjure up incursion into the judicial preserve invalidating the valid law competently made(3)	None
The Court, therefore, needs to carefully scan the law to find out (a) whether the vice pointed out by the court and invalidity suffered by previous law is cured complying with the legal and constitutional requirements (b) whether the legislature has competence to validate the law (c) whether such validation is consistent with the rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution.	None
Welfare Association A.R.P., Maharashtra and Anr.	None
v. Ranjit P. Gohil and Ors.	None
(JT 2003 (2) SC 335 ) is a decision to which both of us are parties.	None
Therein we have held that it is permissible for the legislature, subject to its legislative competence otherwise, to enact a law which will withdraw or fundamentally alter the very basis on which a judicial pronouncement has proceeded and create a situation which, if it had existed earlier, the Court would not have made the pronouncement.	None
Very recently in Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) and Anr.	None
v. Union of India and Anr.	None
, (2003 (4) SCC 399 ) in the leading opinion recorded by M.B. Shah, J. (the other two learned Judges having also recorded their separate but concurring opinions), the legal position has been summarized thus  the Legislature can change the basis on which a decision is rendered by this Court and change the law in general.	None
However, this power can be exercised subject to constitutional provisions, particularly legislative competence and if it is violative of fundamental rights enshrined in Part III of the Constitution, such law would be void as provided under Art.13 of the Constitution.	None
The legislature also cannot declare any decision of a court of law to be void or of no effect.66.	None
In Smt.	None
Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Shri Raj Narain and Anr., 1975 (Supp.)	None
SCC 1, Chandrachud, J., as His Lordship then was, cited with approval the opinion of Harold Laski that the separation of powers does not mean the equal balance of powers and observed thatwhat cannot be sustained is the exercise by the legislature of what is purely and indubitably a judicial function.	None
In our cooperative federalism there is no rigid distribution of powers what is provided is a system of salutary checks and balances.	None
With advantage, we may quote Justice Aharon Barak, President of the Supreme Court of Israel.	None
In the context of a new statute having been enacted on the previous one having been annulled, the learned Chief Justice says  Review of a new statute should focus not on the fact that it changes the previous ruling of the court, but on the fact that it undermines democracy.	None
Moreover, everything is a question of degree.	None
If the interpretation of a statute is met with an immediate and hasty response from the legislature in the form of new legislation, uncertainty about the law will result, and the public will lose confidence in the legislative branch.	None
This is not the case, however, when the change in legislation after a judicial ruling reflects a thorough and deliberate examination of the ruling and an objective expression of the will of the legislature.	None
(A Judge on Judging The Role of a Supreme Court in Democracy  President Aharon Barak, Harvard Law Review, Vol. 116, No. 1, November 2002, at p.135).	None
He further states that foundation of democracy is a legislature elected freely and periodically by the people.	None
Judges and legal scholars ought not to forget this fundamental principle.	None
The role of a judge in a democracy recognizes the central role of the legislature.	None
Undermining the legislature undermines democracy.	None
My conception of the rule of law and the separation of powers do not undermine the legislature.	None
Rather, they ensure that all branches of state act within the framework of the constitution and statutes.	None
Only thus can we maintain public confidence in the legislature only thus can we preserve the dignity of legislation.	None
He quotes Justice McLachlin as rightly saying that in democracies, the elected legislators, the executive and the courts all have their role to play.	None
Each must play that role in a spirit of profound respect for the other.	None
We are not adversaries.	None
We are all in the justice business, together.	None
(ibid, pp. 136, 137).	None
The position in the present case is, of course, a little different.	None
We are not here dealing with the validity of a validating enactment.	None
In the judgment dated September 10, 1990 (C.W.P. No. 9120 of 1990) the High Court (Bench presided over by the learned single Judge) unfortunately, unmindful of the correct width and expanse of the rights conferred by Subclauses (a) and (c) of Clause (1) of Art.19 of the Constitution, did not correctly comprehend the scope of Art.19(1) of the Constitution and overlooked the fine distinction in the breach of rights complained of by a citizen or citizens  collectively but as citizens, and the right to certain activities claimed by an association.	None
The High Court just confined itself to finding whether the impugned ordinance could be saved by Clauses (2) and (4) of Art.19, and if not, then it was unconstitutional, also because it was too drastic and hence unreasonable.	None
The High Court also went on to say that as compensation was not paid for the property acquired, the ordinance was arbitrary and discriminatory more so because it aimed only at a particular society.	None
While making this observation the High Court overlooked the fact that the ordinance aimed at the Institution and not at the Society, though the nomenclature of the two was the same.	None
The High Court nowhere recorded a finding that any property either belonged to the petitioners or was vested in them before it was taken away, and also did not consider the affect of repeal of Art.19(1)(f) and 31 of the Constitution after which repeal the right to property had ceased to be a fundamental right and the newly engrafted Art.300A of the Constitution requires only authority of law for depriving any person or his property.	None
That decision of the learned Single Judge was not left unchallenged.	None
In fact, the correctness of the judgment of the learned single Judge was put in issue by the Union of India by filing an intra court appeal.	None
Filing of an appeal destroys the finality of the judgment under appeal.	None
The issues determined by the learned Single Judge were open for consideration before the Division Bench.	None
However, the Division Bench was denied the opportunity of hearing and the aggrieved party could also not press for decision of the appeal on merits, as before the appeal could be heard it was rendered infructuous on account of the Ordinance itself having ceased to operate.	None
The Union of India, howsoever it may have felt aggrieved by the pronouncement of the learned single Judge, had no remedy left available to it to pursue.	None
The judgment of the Division Bench refusing to dwell upon the correctness of the judgment of the Single Judge had the effect of leaving the matter at large.	None
Upon the lapsing of the earlier Ordinance pending an appeal before a Division Bench, the judgment of the Single Judgment about the illegality of the earlier Ordinance, cannot any longer bar this Court from deciding about the validity of a fresh law on its own merits, even if the fresh law contains similar provisions.	None
Be that as it may, we are clearly of the opinion that the judgment dated September 10, 1990, is not correct and we specifically record our overruling of the same.	Reasoning
The doctrine of Separation of Powers and the constitutional convention of the three organs of the State, having regard and respect for each other, is enough answer to the plea raised on behalf of the petitioners founded on the doctrine of Separation of Powers.	Reasoning
We cannot strike down a legislation which we have on an independent scrutiny held to be within the legislative competence of the enacting legislature merely because the legislature has reenacted the same legal provisions into an act which, ten years before, were incorporated in an ordinance and were found to be unconstitutional in an erroneous judgment of the High Court and before the error could be corrected in appeal the Ordinance itself lapsed.	Reasoning
It has to be remembered that by the impugned Act the Parliament has not overruled the judgment of the High Court nor has it declared the same law to be valid which has been pronounced to be void by the court.	Reasoning
It would have been better if before passing the Bill into an Act the attention of the Parliament was specifically invited to the factum of an earlier pari materia Ordinance having been annulled by the High Court.	Reasoning
If an ordinance invalidated by the High Court is still reenacted into an Act after the pronouncement by the High Court, the subsequent Act would be liable to be annulled once again on finding that the High Court was right in taking the view of the illegality of the Ordinance, which it did.	Reasoning
However, as we have already stated, this is not the position obtaining in the present case.	Reasoning
The impugned Act is not liable to be annulled on the ground of violation of the doctrine of Separation of Powers.	Reasoning
Impugned Act covered by Entries 62, 63 of List I of Schedule7	None
The challenge to the constitutional validity of the impugned Act fails on all the grounds alleged.	None
The legislation is clearly covered by Entries 62 and 63 of List I Schedule.7.	Reasoning
Initially at one time, the institution was receiving financial aid from the Government of India.	Reasoning
The institution ICWA has been declared to be an institution of national importance by the Act of Parliament.	Reasoning
There is no challenge to the validity of such declaration nor do we find any grounds to take a view different from the one taken in the declaration made by the Government of India.	Reasoning
Once an institution is declared to be a national importance, the Parliament is competent to make any law governing the management, administration and affairs of such an institution.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the petitioners that though the institution is declared and held to be of national importance, yet in enacting other provisions of the impugned Act, the Parliament has encroached upon any field of legislation not available to it.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Act fall within the field of legislation meant for the Union of India.72.	Reasoning
The various Entries in the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule are legislative heads defining the fields of legislation and should be liberally and widely interpreted.	Reasoning
Not only the main matter but also any incidental and ancillary matters are available to be included within the field of the entry.	Reasoning
The settled rules of interpretation governing the Entries do not countenance any narrow and pedantic interpretation.	Reasoning
The judicial opinion is for giving a large and liberal interpretation to the scope of the Entries.	Reasoning
Suffice it to quote from the opinion of the judicial committee of the Privy Council in British Coal Corporation v. The King (AIR 1935 PC 158 , 162) that in interpreting a constituent or organic statute indeed that construction which is most beneficial to the widest possible amplitude of its powers must be adopted.	Reasoning
The Federal Court in United Provinces v. Atiqa Begum (AIR 1941 FC 16, 25) observed that none of the items in the Lists is to be read in a narrow or restricted sense and all ancillary or subsidiary matters referable to the words used in the Entry and which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended therein are to be read in the Entry.	Reasoning
This approach has been countenanced in several decisions of this Court.	Reasoning
(To wit, see Navinchandra Mafatlal v. CIT Bombay City (1955 (1) SCR 829 , 836) Sri Ram Ram Narain Medhi v. The State of Bombay (1959 Supp.	Reasoning
(1) SCR 989.)	None
Conclusion The writ petition is dismissed with costs.	None
