 L. Oza, J. These appeals by leave are directed against the conviction of the three appellants Kehar Singh, Balbir Singh and Satwant Singh under Section 302 read with Section 120B IPC and the appellant Satwant Singh under Section 302 read with Section 120B, Section 34 Section 307 IPC and also under Section 27 of the Arms Act.	Issue
All the three were sentenced to death under Section 302 read with Section 120B.	Issue
The conviction and sentence of these appellants were confirmed by the High Court of Delhi by its judgment in Criminal Appeal Nos. 2829/1986 and Confirmation Case No. 2/86.	Issue
The case relates to a very unfortunate incident where the Prime Minister Smt.	Issue
Indira Gandhi was assassinated by persons posted for her security at her residence.	Issue
The facts brought out during investigation are that Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi had her residence in New Delhi at No. 1, Safdarjung Road.	Facts
Her Office was at No. 1, Akbar Road which was a bungalow adjoining her residence.	Facts
In fact the two bungalows had been rolled into one by a campus with a cemented pathway about 8 ft. wide leading from the residence to the Office and separated by a Sentry gate which has been referred to as the TMC Gate and a sentry booth nearby.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi had gone on a tour to Orissa and returned to New Delhi on the night of 30th October, 1984.	Facts
At about 9 A.M. on the fateful day i.e. 31stOctober, 1984Smt.	Facts
Gandhi left her residence and proceeded towards the office along the cemented path.	Facts
When she approached the TMC Gate and was about 10 or 11 ft.	Facts
away therefrom she was riddled with a spray of bullets and she fell immediately.	Facts
She was removed to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS for short) but to no avail.	Facts
A wireless message about the occurrence was received at 9.23 A.M. by the Wireless Operator Head Constable Ram Kumar PW 38 at Tuglak Road Police Station having jurisdiction over the place of occurrence.	Facts
The Duty Officer PW 1 deputed Sub Inspector Vir Singh PW 20 and Constable Mulak Raj to visit the spotatonce.	Facts
They were soon joined by the Station House Officer Inspector Baldev Singh Gill PW 21.	Facts
These persons roped off the area of occurrence to isolate it, placed it in charge of Constable and then proceeded to AIIMS.	Facts
In the meanwhile it was decided to entrust this investigation to Rajendra Prasad Kochhar PW 73 then Inspector in the Homicide squad of the Crime Branch of Delhi Police.	Facts
However, as is only to be expected having regard to the circumstances, the Government soon decided to constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to pursue the investigation.	Facts
On 9.11.84 the Delhi Administration issued two notifications.	Facts
By one of these in exercise of powers under Section 7(1) of Delhi Police Act, S. Anandram, IPS was appointed as an Additional Commissioner of Police and was declared for the purpose of Section 36 Cr.	Facts
P.C. to be a Police Officer superior in rank to an Officerincharge of a Police Station.	Facts
By the other notification issued in exercise of the powers Conferred under Section 7(2)(b) of the Police Act, Anandram was authorised to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of commissioner of Police in relation to this case and any other offences connected thereto.	Facts
The notification shows that copy of each of them is forwarded for publication to the Delhi Gazette.	Facts
Sometime later on 22nd December, 1984 the Administration in exercise of powers under Section 8(1) of the Police Act appointed Des Raj Kakkar and M.S. Sharma as Deputy Commissioner of Police and Assistant Commissioner of Police respectively designating them as Officers superior to an Officerincharge of a Police Station and placed their services at the disposal of Shri Anandram.	Facts
We understand that Shri R.P. Kapoor was named as the Chief Investigative Officer but it was Mr. Kochhar who was closely associated with the investigation throughout except for a short period between 15.11.84 when the SIT assumed charge and 27.11.84 when his services were lent to SIT and he is an important witness of the prosecution so far as investigation is concerned.	Facts
Shri Kochhar reached AIIMS at about 10 A.M. and at 11.25 A.M. on 31.10.84 he sent at the Tuglak Road Police Station through Shri Vir Singh, PW 20 a report on the basis of which First Information Report (FIR) for a cognizable offence punishable under Sections 307, 120B IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Police Station.	Facts
The report was based on the statement of Narain Singh, PW 9, a Head Constable deputed on duty at Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhis residence, recorded by Shri Kochhar at AIIMS.	Facts
Narain Singh who was accompanying Smt.	Facts
Gandhi at the time of shooting and claimed to be a witness of occurrence had stated as follows.	Facts
This statement made by Narain Singh in the First Information Report brings out the important facts leading to the offence and this part of the Statement as quoted by the High Court reads When we were about 1011 ft.	None
away from the gate of 1, Safdarjung Road and 1, Akbar Road, I noticed Beant Singh SI on duty at TMC Gate and in the adjoining Sentry booth Constable Satwant Singh, 2nd	Facts
En. in uniform armed with a Stengun was on duty.	Facts
When Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi reached near the Sentry booth, Beant Singh, SI took out his service revolver from his right dub and immediately started firing bullets at Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi.	Facts
At the same time Constable Satwant Singh also fired shots at Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi with his Stengun.	Facts
As a result of firing of bullets at the hands of the aforesaid two persons Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi sustained injuries on her front and fell down on the ground.	Facts
Sh.	Facts
Rameshwar Dayal ASI has also received bullet injuries due to the firing made by the aforesaid two persons.	Facts
I threw the umbrella, Shri Beant Singh SI and Constable Satwant Singh were secured with the assistance of Shri B.K. Bhatt, AGP PSO in ITBP personnel.	Facts
The arms of these two persons fell down on the spot itself.	Facts
Thereafter I went to call Dr. R. Obey.	Facts
In the meantime the car, doctor and the other officials reached the place of occurrence and Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi was removed to AIIMS and was got admitted there.	Facts
Shri B.K. Bhatt, Shri R.K. Dhawan, Shri Nathu Ram, Sh.	Facts
Lavang Sherpand Shri Rameshwar Dayal ASI had witnessed the occurrence.	Facts
Beant Singh SI and Constable Satwant Singh in furtherance of their common objects have fired shots at Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi and have caused injuries on her person with an intention to kill her.	Facts
It is learnt that Beant Singh SI and Constable Satwant Singh had also sustained bullet injuries at the hands of ITBP personnel.	Facts
Legal action may please be taken against them.	Facts
Upon receiving the news about the death of Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi, the offence in the FIR was converted from Section 307 to Section 302 and investigation proceeded ahead.	Facts
According to the prosecution Satwant Singh was arrested on 15.11.84 at Red Fort where he had been taken after his discharge from the Hospital in early hours of the same day.	Facts
The Chief Justice and the Judges of the Delhi High Court on a request made by Delhi Administration decided to depute and designate Shri S.L. Khanna, Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Tis Hazari to deal with the remand matter of Satwant Singh in Red Fort, Delhi.	Facts
Satwant Singh was produced before Shri S.L. Khanna, PW 67 on the same day and remanded to the police custodytill29.11.84.	Facts
On 29.11.84itwas said that Satwant Singh wanted to make a confession and he was produced before Shri Khanna.	Facts
Shri Khanna, however, gave him time to think over till 1.12.84 and remanded him to judicial custody in Tihar Jail.	Facts
It appears that thereafter the Delhi Administration again made a request to the Delhi High Court and the Delhi High Court authorised Sh.	Facts
S.L. Khanna by Order dated 1.12.84 to hold remand proceedings in Tihar Jail on 1.12.84 and on subsequent dates.	Facts
It also appears that Shri G.P. Tareja who was the link Magistrate of Shri S.L. Khanna had gone on long leave and by an order dated 1.12.84, Shri Bharat Bhushan Gupta, PW 1 was appointed as a link Magistrate in this case.	Facts
In the light of these orders Satwant Singh was produced before Shri Khanna on 1.1284 in the Jail.	Facts
He passed on the papers to Shri Bharat Bhushan Gupta and later recorded a confession from Satwant Singh on the same day which is Ex.	Facts
11G.	None
One Kehar Singh said to be an Uncle (Phoopha) of Beant Singh working as an Assistant in the Office of the Director General of Supplies Disposals was claimed to have been arrested on 30.11.84.	Facts
He was produced before Shri Khanna on 1.12.84 who remanded him to police custody till 5.12.84.	Facts
He is said to have made a statement on3.12.84 in pursuance of which some incriminating articles were seized at his house and from place pointed out by him.	Facts
He was again produced on 5.12.84 before Shri S.L. Khanna who remanded him to judicial custody till 15.12.84 pending further investigation.	Facts
Balbir Singh, a SubInspector posted for security duty at Smt.	Facts
Gandhis office is said to have been arrested on 3.12.84.	Facts
It is said that certain incriminating material was found on his person when searched at the time of his arrest.	Facts
On 4.12.84 at the request of Delhi Administration the High Court empowered Shri S.L. Khanna to deal with the remand matter of these persons accused in the assassination case of Prime Minister.	Facts
Balbir Singh was therefore produced before Shri S.L. Khanna on 4.12.84 and was remanded to the police custody till 6.12.84.	Facts
On 6.12.84 an application was filed before Shri S.L. Khanna which stated that Balbir Singh wanted to make a confession.	Facts
The matter was sent by Sh.	Facts
S.L. Khanna to Sh.	Facts
Bharat Bhushan Gupta.	Facts
After two appearances before Shri Bharat Bhushan, Balbir Singh finally refused to make statement confessional or otherwise.	Facts
In the meantime the Police had recorded certain statements one of Amarjit Singh PW 44 who was also a Police Officer ASI on duty at the PMs residence.	Facts
These statements have been recorded on 24.11.84 and 19.12.84.	Facts
The Police requested the Magistrate Shri Bharat Bhushan to record a statement of Amarjit under Section 164 Cr.	Facts
P.C.	Facts
That was accordingly recorded as PW 44A. Beant Singh had died as a result of injuries sustained by him and referred to by Narain Singh in his statement in the FIR itself.	Facts
A report under Section 173 Cr.P.C hereto referred to as the chargesheet was filed on 11.12.1985 in the Court of Shri S.L. Khanna against Satwant Singh who had survived after a period of critical illness from his injuries and the two other persons referred to above namely Balbir Singh and Kehar Singh.	Facts
These three persons were accused of an offence under Sections 120B, 109 and 34 read with 302 IPC and also of substantive offences under Sections 302, 307 IPC and Sections 27,54 59 of the Arms Act.	Facts
This report also mentions Beant Singh as one of the accused persons but since he had died the charges against him were said to have abetted.	Facts
The prosecution case at the trial was that in June 1984 the armed forces of the Indian Union took action which is described generally as Operation Bluestar under which armed forces personnel entered the Golden Temple complex at Amritsar and cleared it off the terrorists.	Facts
In this operation it is alleged that there was loss of life and properties as well as damage amongst other things to the Akal Takht in the Golden Temple complex.	Facts
As a result of this Operation the religious feelings of the members of the Sikh community were greatly offended.	Facts
According to the prosecution, all the four accused persons mentioned in the chargesheet who were Sikhs by faith have been expressing their resentment openly and holding Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi responsible for the action taken at Amritsar.	Facts
They had met at various places and at various times to discuss and to listen inflammatory speeches and recording calculated to excite listeners and provoke them to retaliatory action against the decision of the Government to take army action in Golden Temple complex.	Facts
The resentment led them ultimately to the incident of 31.10.84 and to become parties to a criminal conspiracy to commit an illegal act namely to commit the murder of Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi.	Facts
In pursuance of the above conspiracy accused has committed the following acts.	Facts
This report (chargesheet) stated facts against each of the accused persons which have been quoted by the High Court in its judgment Accused Kehar Singh, a religious fanatic, after the Bluestar Operation converted Beant Singh and through him Satwant Singh to religious bigotry and made them undergo Arnrit Chakna ceremony on 14.10.1984 and 24.10.1984 respectively at Gurudwara Sector VI, R.K. Puram, New Delhi.	Facts
He also took Beant Singh to Golden Temple on 20.10.1984 where Satwant Singh was to join them as part of the mission.	Facts
Since the Bluestar Operation Balbir Singh was planning to commit the murder of Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi and discussed his plans with Beant Singh, who had similar plans to commit the offence.	Facts
Balbir Singh also shared his intention and prompted Satwant Singh to commit the murder of Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi and finally discussed this matter with him on 30th October, 1984.	Facts
In the first week of September, 1984, when a falcon (baaz) happened to sit on a tree near the main reception of PMs house, at about 1.30 P.M. Balbir Singh spotted the falcon, called Beant Singh there and pointed out the falcon.	Facts
Both of them agreed that it had brought the message of the Tenth Guru of the Sikhs and that they should do something by way of revenge of the Bluestar Operation.	Facts
Both of the above accused performed ardas then and there.	Facts
In pursuance of the aforesaid conspiracy	None
, Beant Singh and Satwant Singh, who had prior knowledge that Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi was scheduled to pass through the T.M.C. Gate on31.10.1984 at about 9 A.M. for an interview with an Irish television team, manipulated their duties in such a manner that Beant Singh would be present at the T.M.C. Gate and Satwant Singh at the T.M.C. Sentry booth on 31.10.1984 between 7.00 and 10.00	Facts
A.M. Beant Singh managed to exchange his duty with SI Jai Narain (PW 7) and Satwant Singh arranged to get his duty changed from Beat No. 4 at PMs house to T.M.C. Sentry Booth situated near the latrine by misrepresenting that he was suffering from dysentery.	Facts
Beant Singh was armed with a revolver (No. J296754, Butt No. 140) which had 18 cartridges of 38 bore and Satwant Singh was armed with a SAF Carbine (No. WW13980 with Butt No. 80) and 100 cartridges of 9 mm.	Facts
Both having managed to station themselves together near to T.M.C. Gate on 31.10.1984, at about 9.10 A.M., Beant Singh opened fire from his revolver and Satwant Singh from his carbine at Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi as she was approaching the T.M.C. Gate.	Facts
Beant Singh fired five rounds and Satwant Singh 25 shots at her from their respective weapons.	Facts
Smt.	Reasoning
India Gandhi sustained injuries and fell down.	Facts
She was immediately taken to the AIIMS where she succumbed to her injuries the same day.	Facts
The cause of death was certified upon a postmortem which took place on 31.10.1984, as haemorrhage and shock due to multiple fire arm bullet injuries which were sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.	Facts
The postmortem report No. 1340/ 84 of the AIIMS also opined that injuries Nos. 1 and 2, specified in the report, were sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature, as well.	Facts
In this report (chargesheet) it was also mentioned that Beant Singh and Satwant Singh laid down their weapons on the spot which had been recovered.	Facts
About five empties of Beant Singhs revolver were recovered and 13 live cartridges 38 bore from his persons, 25 empties of SAF carbine and 6 led pieces were recovered from the spot.	Facts
About 75 live cartridges of .99 SAF carbine were recovered from the person of Satwant Singh That two led pieces were recovered from the body of Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi during the postmortem and two from her clothes and that the experts have opined that the bullets recovered from the body and found from the spot were fired through the weapons possessed by these two accused persons.	Facts
The report also mentioned that Remeshwar Dayal ASI who was following Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi, PW 10 also received grievous and dangerous injuries on his left thigh as a result of shots fired by the accused which according to the medical opinion were grievous and dangerous to life.	Facts
It is significant that in this case the Additional Sessions Judge who tried the case was nominated by the High Court for trial of this case and on this count some arguments were advanced by the learned Counsel for the appellants.	Facts
I will examine the contentions a little later.	None
Learned counsel appearing for appellants Kehar Singh and Balbir Singh first raised some preliminary objections about the procedure at the trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
First contention raised by him was about the venue of the trial and the manner in which this venue was fixed by the Delhi High Court by a notification under Section 9(6) Cr.P.C. 14.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second objection was about the trial held in jail and it was contended that under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, open and public trial is one of the constitutional guarantees of a fair and just trial and by holding the trial in the Tihar Jail this guarantee has been affected and accused have been deprived of a fair and open trial as contemplated under Section 327 Cr.P.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
The other objection raised was that under Section 327 Cr.	Arguments of Petitioner
P.C.	Reasoning
it is only the trial Judge, the Sessions Judge who could for any special reasons hold the trial in camera or a part of the trial in camera but there is no authority conferred under that Section on the High Court to shift the trial in a place where it ultimately ceases to be an open trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel on this ground referred to series of decisions from United States, England and also from our own courts and contended that the open trial is a part of the fair trial which an accused is always entitled to.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The other question raised by the learned Counsel for the appellants was that by preventing the accused from getting the papers of the Thakkar Commission, its report and statements of persons recorded who are prosecution witnesses at the trial the accused have been deprived of substantial material which could be used for their defence.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
These main questions were raised by the counsel appearing for Kehar Singh and Balbir Singh and counsel for Satwant Singh adopted these arguments and in addition raised certain preliminary objection pertaining to the evidence of postmortem, ballistic expert and similar matters.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondent replied to some of the legal arguments and also the other arguments on facts.	Arguments of Respondent
One of the preliminary objections sought to be raised by the learned Additional solicitor General was that this Court in an appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution of India is not expected to interfere with the findings of facts arrived by the two courts below.	Arguments of Respondent
He also relied on some decisions of this Court to support his contention.	Arguments of Respondent
On the preliminary objection raised by the Additional Solicitor General that in this appeal under Article 136, we are not expected to go into the facts of the case, we will like to observe that we are dealing with a case where the elected leader of ourpeople, the Prime Minister of India was assassinated and who was not only an elected leader of the majority but was very popular with the people, as observed also by the High Court in its judgment but still we have all through maintained the cardinal principle of our Constitution  Equality before law and the concept of rule of law in the system of administration of justice.	None
Although these accused persons indicated at some stage that they are not able to engage counsel but still they could get the services of counsel of their choice at the State expense, it must be said to the credit of the learned Counsel Shri Ram Jethmalani and Shri R.S. Sodhi that they have done an excellent job for the appellants and therefore we will like to thank these counsel and also the Additional Solicitor General, who all have rendered valuable assistance to this Court.	None
In view of the importance of the case, we have heard the matter at some length both on questions of law and also on facts.	None
The first objection raised by the learned Counsel is on the basis of Section 194 that it was not necessary for the High Court to have allotted the case to a particular Judge.	Issue
The learned Judges of the High Court in their judgment have come to the conclusion that the last part of the Section refers to The High Court may by special order direct him to try and on the basis of this phrase the High Court in the impugned judgment, has observed that it was even open to the accused to make an application and to get the case transferred or allotted to a Judge.	Reasoning
Section 194 Cr. P.C. reads Additional and Assistant Sessions Judge to try cases made over to them  An Additional Sessions Judge or Assistant Sessions Judge shall try such cases as the Sessions Judge of the division may, by general or special order, make over to him for trial or as the High Court may, by special order, direct him to try.	None
The first part of the Section clearly provides that the Sessions Judge of the Division by general or special order is supposed to allot cases arising in a particular area or jurisdiction to be tried by Additional or Assistant Sessions Judges appointed in the division but the last part of this Section also authorises the High Court to allot the case to a particular Judge keeping in view the fact that in certain cases the Sessions Judge may not like to allot and may report to the High Court or either of the parties may move an application for transfer and under these circumstances it may become necessary for the High Court to allot a particular case to a particular Judge.	Reasoning
Thus, this objection is of no consequence.	Reasoning
The other objection which has been raised by the learned Counsel is about the issuance of a notification by the High Court under Section 9(6) Cr.P.C. and by this notification the High Court purported to direct that the trial in this case shall be held in Tihar Jail.	Reasoning
Learned counsel appearing for the Delhi Administration on the other hand attempted to justify such an order passed by the High Court by contending that if the High Court had the authority to issue notification fixing the place of sitting it was open to the High Court also to fix the place of sitting for a particular case whereas emphasis by learned Counsel for the appellants was that Section 9(6) only authorises the High Court to fix the place of sitting generally.	Reasoning
So far as in any particular case is concerned, the second part of Subclause 6 permits the trial court with the consent of parties to sit at any other place than the ordinary place of sitting.	Reasoning
The High Court in the impugned judgment have attempted to draw from proviso which has been a local amendment of Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
Unfortunately nothing could be drawn from that proviso as admittedly that is not a State amendment applicable to Delhi.	Reasoning
Section 9(6) Cr.	Reasoning
P.C. nowhere permits the High Court to fix the venue of a trial of particular case at any place other than the place which is notified as the ordinary place of sitting.	Reasoning
It reads thus Section 9(6)	None
The Court of Session shaft ordinarily hold its sitting at such place or places as the High Court may, by notification, specify but if, in any particular case, Court of Session is of opinion that it will tend to the general convenience of the parties and witnesses to hold its sittings at any other place in the sessions division, it may, with the consent of the prosecution and the accused, sit at that place for the disposal of the case or the examination of any witness or witnesses therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the basis of this language one thing is clear that so far as the High Court is concerned it has the jurisdiction to specify the place or places where ordinarily a Court of Sessions may sit within the division.	Reasoning
So far as any particular case is to be taken at a place other than the normal place of sitting it is only permissible under the second part of subclause with the consent of parties and that decision has to be taken by the trial court itself.	Reasoning
It appears that seeing the difficulty the Uttar Pradesh amended the provision further by adding a proviso which reads Provided that the court of Sessions may hold, or the High Court may, direct the Court of Session to hold, its sitting in any particular case at any place in the sessions division, where it appears expedient to do so for considerations of internal security or public order, and in such cases, the consent of the prosecution and accused shall not be necessary.	Reasoning
But it is certain that if this proviso is not on the statute book applicable to Delhi, it can not be used as the High Court has used to interpret it.	Reasoning
That apart, if we look at the notification from a different angle the contention advanced by the learned Counsel for the appellants ceases to have any force.	Reasoning
Whatever be the terms of the notification, it is not disputed that it is a notification issued by the Delhi High Court under Section9 Subclause (6) Cr.P.C. and thereunder the High Court could do nothing more or less than what it has the authority to do.	Reasoning
Therefore, the said notification of the High Court could be taken to have notified that Tihar Jail is also one of the places of sitting of the Sessions Court in the Sessions division ordinarily.	Reasoning
That means apart from the two places Tis Hazari and the New Delhi, the High Court by notification also notified Tihar Jail as one of the places where ordinarily a Sessions Court could hold its sittings.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, there is no error if the Sessions trial is held in Tihar Jail after such a notification has been issued by the High Court.	Reasoning
The next main contention advanced by the counsel for the appellants is about the nature of the trial.	Issue
It was contended that under Article 21 of the Constitution g. citizen has a right to an open public trial and as by changing the venue the trial was shifted to Tihar Jail, it could not be said to be an open public trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also referred to certain orders passed by the trial court wherein it has been provided that representatives of the Press may be permitted to attend and while passing those orders the learned trial Judge had indicated that for security and other regulations it will be open to Jail authorities to regulate the entry or issue passes necessary for coming to the Court and on the basis of these circumstances and the situation as it was in Tihar Jail it was contended that the trial was not public and open and therefore on this ground the trial vitiates.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that provisions contained in Section 327 Cr.	Arguments of Petitioner
P.C. clearly provides that a trial in a criminal case has to be public and open except if any part of the proceedings for some special reasons to be recorded by the trial court, could be in camera.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that the High Court while exercising jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
under Section 9(6) notified the place of trial as Tihar Jail, it indirectly did what the trial court could have done in respect of particular, part of the proceedings and the, High.	Arguments of Petitioner
Court has no jurisdiction under Section 327 to order trial to be held in camera or private and in fact as the trial was shifted to Tihar Jail it ceased to be open and public trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel on this part of the contention referred to decisions from American Supreme Court and also from House of Lords.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the argument advanced has been on the basis of the American decisions where the concept of open trial has developed in due course of time whereas so far as India is concerned here even before the Constitution our criminal practice always contemplated a trial which is open to public.	Reasoning
In fact, the High Court in the impugned judgment was right when it referred to the concept of administration of justice under the old Hindu Law.	Reasoning
But apart from it even the Criminal Procedure Code as it stood before the amendment had a provision similar to Section 327 which was Section 352 of the Old Code and in fact it is because of this that the criminal trial is expected to be open and public that in our Constitution phraseology difference from the United States has been there.	None
Article 21 provides No person shall be deprived of, his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.	None
It is not disputed that so far as this aspect of open trial is concerned the procedure established by law even before our Constitution was enacted was as is provided in Section 327 Cr.P.C.	None
(Section 352 of the old Code) Court to be open(1)	None
The place in which any.	None
Criminal Court is held for the purpose of inquiring into or trying any offence Shall be deemed to be an open Court, to which the public generally may have access, so far as the same can conveniently contain them Provided that the Presiding Judge or Magistrate, may, if he thinks fit, of order at any stage of any inquiry into, or trial of, any particular case, that the public generally, or any particular person, shall not have access to, or be or remain in, the room or building used by the Court.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in Subsection (1), the inquiry into and trial of rape or an offence under Section 376, Section 376A, Section 376B, Section 376C or Section 376D of the Indian Penal Code shall be conducted in camera Provided that the presiding judge may, if he thinks fit, or on an application made by either of the parties, allow any particular per son to have access to, or be or remains in, the room or building used by the court.	None
Where any proceedings are held under Subsection (2) it shall not be lawful for any person to print or publish any matter in relation to any such proceedings, except with the previous permission of the court.	None
This was Section 352 in the CrPC which was Act of 1898.	None
It will be interesting to notice the language of Section 327.	None
It speaks that any place where a criminal court holds its sitting for enquiry or trial shall be deemed to be an open court to which the public generally may have access.	None
So far as the same can conveniently contain them.	None
The language itself indicates that even if a trial is held in a private house or is held inside Jail or anywhere no sooner it becomes a venue of trial of a criminal case it is deemed to be his law an open place and everyone who wants to go and attend the trial has a right to go and attend the trial except the only restriction contemplated is number of persons which could be contained in the premises where the Court sits.	None
It appears that the whole argument advanced on behalf of the appellants is on the basis of an assumption inspite of the provisions of Section 327 that as the trial was shifted from the ordinary place where the Sessions Court are sitting to Tihar Jail it automatically became a trial which was not open to public but in our opinion in view of Section 327 this assumption, the basis of the argument itself is without any foundation and can not be accepted and argument on the basis of the foreign decisions loses all its significance.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as this country is concerned the law be very clear that as soon as a trial of a criminal case is held whatever may be the place it will be an open trial.	Reasoning
The only thing that it is necessary for the appellant is to point out that in fact that it was not an open trial.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that there is no material at all to suggest that any one who wanted to attend the trial was prevented from so doing or one who wanted to go into the Court room was not allowed to do so and in absence of any such material on actual facts all these legal arguments loses its significance.	Reasoning
The authorities on which reliance were placed are being dealt with elsewhere in the judgment.	None
Learned Additional Solicitor General attempted to contend that this is not a question of any constitutional right under Article 21 and the basis of his argument was that Article 21 only talks of procedure established by law and if today on the statute book there is Section 327, tomorrow Section 327 may be so amended that it may not be necessary for a criminal trial to be open and on this basis, learned Additional Solicitor General attempted to contend that it does not become a constitutional right at all.	Arguments of Respondent
It is very clear that Article 21 contemplates procedure established by law and in my opinion the procedure established by law was as on the day on which the Constitution was adopted and therefore it is not so easy to contend that by amending the Criminal Procedure Code the effect of the procedure established by law indicated in Article 21 could be taken away.	Reasoning
The trend of decisions of this Court has clearly indicated that the procedure must be fair and just.	Reasoning
Even expeditious trial has been considered to be a part of guarantee under Article 21 but in my opinion so far as the present case is concerned it is not necessary to go so far.	Reasoning
At present no one could dispute that the procedure established by law as indicated in Article 21 is as provided in Section 327 and unless on facts it is established that what is provided in Section 327 was prevented or was not permitted, it could not be said that merely because trial was held at a particular place it could be said to be a trial which was not open to public.	Reasoning
As indicated earlier on facts there is nothing to indicate although learned Counsel also attempted to some extent to suggest that there were restrictions.	Reasoning
A person has to pass through two gates, a person has to sign on the gate and had to have a pass or a clearance but in the modern times especially in the context of the circumstances as they exist.	Reasoning
On this basis it could not be said that it ceased to be a public trial.	Reasoning
It could not be doubted that at one time in this Court the highest Court of the land, any one could freely walk in and sit and attend the Court but today even in this Court there are restrictions and one has to pass through those restrictions but still it could not be said that any one is prevented from attending the Court and therefore merely suggesting the difficulties in reaching the Jail will not be enough.	Reasoning
On the other hand, learned Additional Solicitor General drew our attention to the plan of the Jail and the situation of the premises where the trial was held and it is not disputed that it was not that part of the Jail where the prisoners are kept but was the Office block where there was an approach, people were permitted to reach and the trial was held as if it was held in an ordinary place and it is in this view that as I observed earlier that in fact what the High Court did by issuing a notification under Section 9(6) was not to fix place of trial of this particular case in Tihar Jail.	Reasoning
But what could be understood is that High Court by notification made Tihar Jail also as one of the places where a Sessions Court could ordinarily sit and in this case therefore the trial was held at this place.	Reasoning
As soon as a trial is held whatever the place may be the provisions of Section 327 are attracted and it will be an open Court and every citizen has a right to go and unless there is evidence or material on record to suggest that on the facts in this particular case public at large was not permitted to go or some one was prevented from attending the trial or that the trial was in camera.	Reasoning
In fact without an appropriate order it could not be said that what is contemplated under Section 327 or under Article 21 was not made available to the accused in this case and therefore it could not be contended that there is any prejudice at the trial.	Reasoning
There remains however one more question which was raised by the counsel for the appellants that inspite of the prayer made by the accused person during the trial and also in the High Court about the copies of the statement of witnesses who have been examined by the prosecution and S.C.205 were also examined before the Commission (Thakkar Commission) to be provided to the accused so that they may be in a position to use these statements for purposes of contradiction or for other purposes.	Arguments of Petitioner
They had also prayed for the copy of the Thakkar Commission report as the Thakkar Commission was inquiring into the events which led to the assassination of the Prime Minister.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, it was contended that the terms of reference which were notified for the enquiry of the Thakkar Commission were more or less the same questions which fell for determination in this case and thus the appellants have been prejudiced and they could not avail of the material which they could use to build up their defence.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned Counsel not only the accused are entitled to previous statements of witnesses who are examined by the prosecution but they are also entitled to any material on the basis of which they could build up their defence and raise appropriate issues at the trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel relied on number of decisions and also said that the decision of the Supreme Court in Dalmias case is not binding as in that case the scope of Section 6 of the Commission of Enquiry Act was not in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
27.	None
Whereas learned Counsel for the respondent, the Additional Solicitor General vehemently contended that the language of Section 6 is clear that a witness, who is examined before a Commission, is protected and that protection is such which clearly indicates that his statement made before the Commission could not be used against him for any other purpose in any other proceeding either civil or criminal.	Arguments of Respondent
The only exception carved out in Section 6 pertains to his prosecution for perjury and therefore when the language is clear and the exception carved out is clear enough, no other exception could be carved out nor the Section could be interpreted in any manner.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Additional Solicitor General the Commission by its regulation and notification clearly made the enquiry a confidential affair and in addition to that there was an amendment of the Act by Ordinance which even provided that if Government by notification decided not to place the Report of the Commission before the House of Parliament or Legislature then it was not necessary that it should be so placed before the House and thus the report not only was confidential but even the Parliament had no right to see the report and therefore neither the report nor the statements made before the Commission could be asked for by the accused for the purposes of trial.	Arguments of Respondent
Soon after the assassination of Smt.	Reasoning
Indira Gandhi, the Government of India by notification dated 20.11.84 constituted a Commission under the Commission of Enquiry Act, 1952 (the Act).	Reasoning
The Commission was presided over by Mr. Justice M.P. Thakkar, a sitting Judge of this Court.	Facts
The terms of enquiry notified for the Committee reads a) the sequence of events leading and all the facts relating to, the assassination of late Prime Minister Whether the crime could have been averted and whether there were any lefts or dereliction of duty in this regard on the part of any one of the commission of the crime and other individuals responsible for the security of the late Prime Minister c) the deficiencies, if any, in the security system and arrangements as prescribed or as operated to in practice which might have facilitated the commission of the crime d) the deficiencies, if any, in the procedure and measures as prescribed, of as operated in practice in attending to any providing medical attention to the late Prime Minister after the commission of the crime and whether was any lapse or dereliction of duty in this regard on the part of the individuals responsible for providing such medical attention e) whether any person or persons or agencies were responsible for coursing, preparing and planning the assassination or whether there was any conspiracy in this behalf, and if so, all its ramifications.	Facts
The Commission was also asked to make recommendations as to corrective remedies and measures that need to be taken for future.	Reasoning
It is therefore clear that out of these terms of reference the first term (a) and the last one (e) are such that the evidence collected by the Commission could be said to be relevant for the purposes of this trial.	Reasoning
It is significant that the Commission framed regulations under Section 8 of the Act in regard to the procedure for enquiry and regulation 8 framed therein reads In view of the sensitive nature of enquiry the proceedings will be in camera unless the Commission directs otherwise.	Facts
This Regulation made it clear that the proceedings of the Commission will be ordinarily in camera.	Reasoning
It would only be in public if the Commission so directs and it is not disputed that so far as recording of evidence is concerned and the proceedings of the Commission it has gone on in camera throughout and even the report, interim and the final report.	Reasoning
And then also it was stated by the Commission itself to be confidential.	Reasoning
In this perspective the prayer of the appellants has to be considered.	None
Under the Act as it stood before the amendment which was done by Ordinance No. 6 of 1986 normally the Government was supposed to place the report of the Commission under Section 3 Subclause 4 of the Act before the House of the People within six months of the submission of the report by the Commission but the Government did not do that.	None
The steps were taken to amend the Commission of Enquiry Act and on May 14, 1986 the President of India promulgated an Ordinance No. 6 of 1986 namely Commission of Enquiry (Amendment) Ordinance, 1986 by which Subsections 5 and 6 were introduced to Section 3 as follows Subclause 5 The provisions of Subsection 4 shall not apply if the appropriate Govt.	Facts
is satisfied then in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State friendly relations with foreign states or in public interest, it is not expedient to lay before the House of People, or as the case may be, the Legislative Assembly of the State, the report or any part thereof, of the Commission.	Facts
On the enquiry made by the Commission under Subsection (1) and issue a notification to that effect in the official gazette.	None
Every notification issued under Subsection(5)shall be laid before the House of the People, as the case may be the Legislative Assembly of the State, if it is as may be after the issued of the notification, and if it is not sitting, writ in seven days of its resuming and the appropriate Govt.	Facts
shall seek the approval of the House of People, or as the case may be, the Legislative Assembly of the State to the notification by a resolution moved within a period of 15 days beginning with the day on which the notification is so laid before the House of People or as the case may be the Legislative Assembly of the State makes any modification in the notification or directs that the notification should be care in have effect.	Facts
The notification shall their after have effect as the case may be.	None
In pursuance of this amendment on May 15, 1986 the Central Government issued a notification under Subsection (5) of Section 3 satisfied that it is not Central Government, being satisfied that.	Facts
it is not expedient in the interest of the security of the State and in public interest to lay before the House of People, the reopen submitted to the Government on 19.11.85, and 27.2.86, by Justice M.P. Thakkar, a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court of India appointed under the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. 50 867(B), dated the 20th November 1984 thereby notifies that the said report shall not be laid before the House of People.	None
It is interesting that on 20.8.86, Ordinance No. 6 was replaced by Commission of Enquiry (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Act No. 36 of 1986 with retrospective effect.	Reasoning
The said notification dated May 15,1986 was also got approved by the House of People as required under Subsection 6 of Section 3 and therefore after the approval of the notification by the House of the People there remains no question of placing the report of the Commission before the House.	Reasoning
So far as the steps taken by the appellants are concerned, it is no doubt true that an appropriate application in the manner in which it was moved in the High Court was not moved in the trial court but it could not be doubted that one of the accused persons had even sought these copies in the trial court and the same prayer has been appropriately made during the hearing in the High Court.	Reasoning
The proper time for awarding the prayer was in the trial court during the pendency of the trial as the accused wanted the copies of the previous statements of some of the prosecution witnesses which were recorded during the enquiry before the Thakkar Commission but such a prayer was made and rejected.	Issue
The High Court rejected this prayer by the impugned judgment against which the present appeal is before us.	Issue
The High Court relied on the decision of this Court in the case of Rain Krishan Dalmiay.	Reasoning
Justice Tendulkar 1959 SCR 279 , which is referred to henceforth as Dalmias case.	Reasoning
It was contended by learned Counsel for the appellants that this case could not be accepted as an authority on interpretation of Section 6 as in that case the scope of Section 6 was not before the Court but it was the validity of the provisions which were challenged.	Reasoning
Das, C.J. in Dalmias case while examining the challenge to the validity of the Act and the notification issued thereunder made the following observations The whole purpose of setting up of a Commission of Enquiry consisting of experts will be frustrated and the elaborate process of enquiry will be deprived of its utility if the opinion and the advice of the expert body as to the measures and situation disclosed calls for can not be placed before the Government for consideration notwithstanding that doing so can not be to the prejudice of anybody because it has no force of its own.	Reasoning
In our view, the recommendations of a Commission of Enquiry are of great importance to the Government in order to enable it to make up its mind as to what legislative or administrative measures should be adopted to eradicate the evil found or to implement the beneficial objects it has in view.	Reasoning
From this point of view, there can be no objection even to the Commission of Enquiry recommending the imposition of some form of punishment which will, in its opinion, be sufficiently deterrent to delinquent in future.	Reasoning
But seeing that the Commission of Enquiry has no judicial powers and its report will purely be recommendatory and not effective proprio vigore.	Reasoning
The statement made by any person before the Commission of Enquiry under Section 6 of the Act is wholly inadmissible in evidence in any further proceedings civil or criminal.	Reasoning
According to learned Counsel, in that case it was not the scope of Section 6 but the validity of the provisions were in question and the observations were only incidental and it can not be regarded as a binding precedent.	Reasoning
The High Court has accepted these observations of this Court in the judgment quoted above and in our opinion rightly.	Reasoning
But apart from it, we shall try to examine Section 6 itself and other provisions relevant for the purpose as to whether the appellants i.e. the accused before the trial court were entitled to use the copies of the statement of those prosecution witnesses who were examined before the Thakkar Commission for purposes of cross examination or to use the report of the Commission or whether it could be handed over or given over to the accused for whatever purpose they intended to use.	Issue
The learned Counsel for the parties on this aspect of the matter have referred to number of decisions of various High Courts and also some of the decisions of the English courts.	None
They are being dealt with in the judgment elsewhere as in my opinion it is not necessary to go into all of them except examining the provisions of the Act itself.	None
35A. Section 6 of the Commission of Enquiries Act reads No statement made by any person in the course of giving evidence before the Commission shall subject him to, or be used against him in any civil or criminal proceedings except a prosecution for giving false evidence of such statement.	Reasoning
On analysis of the provision, it will be found that there are restrictions on the use of a statement made by a witness before the Commission.	Reasoning
First is Shall subject him to any civil or criminal proceedings except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such statement.	Reasoning
The second restriction, according to me, is spelt out from the words or be used against him in any civil or criminal proceedings.	Reasoning
Thus if we examine the two restrictions stated above it appears that a statement given in a Commission can not be used to subject the witness to any civil or criminal proceedings nor it can be used against him in any civil or criminal proceedings and in my opinion it is in the context of these restrictions that we will have to examine the provisions of the Evidence Act which permit the use of a previous statement of a witness and for what purpose.	Reasoning
Section 145 read with Section 155(3) and Section 157 are the relevant provisions of the Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 145 reads Crossexamination as to previous statements in writing A witness may be cross examined as to previous statements made by him in writing or reduced into writing and relevant to matters in question, without such writing being shown to him, or being proved but if it is intended to contradict him by the writing, his attention must, before the writing can be proved, be called to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him.	None
This provision permits that a witness may be crossexamined as to the previous statement made by him in writing or reduced to writing relevant to the matters in question without such writing being shown to him or being proved.	None
But if it is intended to contradict him by the writing his attention must be drawn to those parts of the writing and it can be proved.	None
A witness could be cross examined on his previous statement but if a contradiction is sought to be proved then that portion of the previous statement must be shown to him and proved in due course.	None
Section 155 of the Evidence Act provides for the use of a previous statement to impeach the credit of a witness.	None
Section 155 reads Impeaching credit of witness  	None
The credit of a witness may be impeached in the following ways by the adverse party or, with the consent of the Court, by the party who calls hint (1) by the evidence of persons who testify that they, from their knowledge of the witness, believe to be unworthy of credit (2) by proof that the witness has been bribed, or has (accepted) the offer of a bribe, or has received any other corrupt inducement to give his evidence (3) by proof of former statements inconsistent with any part of this evidence which is liable to be contradicted When a man is prosecuted for rape or an attempt to ravish, it may be shown that the prosecutor was of generally immoral character.	None
This section provides that the credit of a witness may be impeached in the following ways by an adverse party with the consent of the Court by the party who calls him and the third subclause refers to a former statement which is inconsistent with the statement made by the witness in evidence in the case and it is permissible that the witness be contradicted about that statement.	None
The third provision is Section 157 which provides for the use of a previous statement for corroboration.	None
It reads Former statements of witness may be proved to corroborate later testimony as to same fact.	None
In order to corroborate the testimony of a witness, any former statement made by such witness relating to the same fact, at or about the time when the fact took place, or before any authority legally competent to investigate the fact, may be proved.	None
A perusal of these three Sections clearly indicate that there are two purposes for which a previous statement can be used.	None
One is for cross examination and contradiction and.	Reasoning
the other is for corroboration.	Reasoning
The first purpose is to discredit the witness by putting to him the earlier statement and contradicting him on that basis.	Reasoning
So far as corroboration is concerned it could not be disputed that it is none of the purposes of the defence to corroborate the evidence on the basis of the previous statement.	Reasoning
Section 145 therefore is the main section under which relief was sought by the accused.	Reasoning
The use for which the previous statement was asked for was to contradict him if necessary and if it was a contradiction then the earlier statement was necessary so that contradiction be put to the witness and that part of the statement can be proved.	Reasoning
To my mind, there could be no other purpose for which the appellants could use the previous statements of those witnesses.	Reasoning
Contradiction could be used either to impeach his credit or discredit him or to pull down or bring down the reliability of the witness.	Reasoning
These purposes for which the previous statements are required could not be said to be purposes which were not against the witness.	Reasoning
The two aspects of the restrictions which Section 6 contemplates and have been discussed earlier are the only two aspects which could be the result of the use of these statements.	Reasoning
I cannot find any other use of such previous statements in criminal proceedings.	Reasoning
It is therefore clear that without going into the wider questions even a plain reading of Section 6 as discussed above will prohibit the use of the previous statements at the trial either for the purposes of the cross examination to contradict the witness or to impeach his credit.	Reasoning
The only permissible use which has been provided under Section 6 is which has been discussed earlier and therefore the Courts below were right in not granting the relief to the accused.	Reasoning
The report of the Commission was also prayed for although learned Counsel could not clearly suggest as to what use report of the Thakkar Commission could be to the accused in his defence.	Reasoning
The report is a recommendation of the Commission for consideration of the Government.	Reasoning
It is the opinion of the Commission based on the statements of witnesses and other material.	Reasoning
It has no evidentiary value in the trial of the criminal case.	Reasoning
The courts below were also justified in not summoning the reports.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for parties referred to number of decisions, Indian and foreign and are being dealt with by my learned colleague in this judgment.	None
But in view of the discussions above I do not find it necessary to go further into the matter.	None
Learned counsel for Appellant No. 1	Arguments of Petitioner
Satwant Singh also made a reference to some of the questions which were raised before the High Court in respect of the postmortem, although learned Counsel appearing for the other two appellants did not seriously raise those questions.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is apparent that in the facts of the case as the evidence stands the question of postmortem or a fuller postmortem was necessary or not loses all its significance.	Reasoning
There is no dispute that she died as a result of the gun shot injuries which was inflicted by Bent Singh and Satwant Singh, one who shot from his service revolver and other from the carbine.	Reasoning
In view of such clear evidence about the cause of the death, the postmortem examination loses all its significance.	Reasoning
It becomes important only in cases where the cause of death is to be established and is a matter of controversy.	Reasoning
Before I go to the merits and deal with the evidence in the case, I will dispose of the preliminary objection raised by the learned Additional Solicitor General as to the scope of the appeals before us.	None
He urged that under Article 136 of the Constitution this Court is not expected to go into the questions of fact when there are concurrent findings of fact recorded by the courts below.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel apart from Article 136 relied upon a decision reported in the case of Pritam Singh Versus The State 1950CriLJ1270 where Fazal Ali, J. said It would be opposed to all principles and precedents if we were to constitute ourselves into a third court of fact and after reweighing the evidence come to the conclusion different from that arrived at by the trial Judge and the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly in Ram Raj v. State of Ajmer 1954CriLJ1313	Reasoning
Justice Mahajan, Chief Justice observed at page 1134 Unless it is shown that exceptional and special circumstances exist that substantial and grave injustice have been done and the casein question presents features of sufficient gravity to warrant a review of decision appealed against this Court does not exercise its overriding powers under Article 136(1) of the Constitution and the circumstances that because the appeal have been admitted by special leave does not e lant to open out the whole case and contest all the findings of fact and raise every point which should have been raised in the High Court.	Reasoning
Even in the final hearing only those points can be urged which are fit to be urged at the preliminary stage when the leave to appeal is asked for.	Reasoning
Even in a recent decision 1983CriLJ1096 Justice Thakkar Stated A concurrent finding of fact can not be reopened in an appeal unless it is established (i) that the finding is based on no evidence or record, that the finding is perverse, it being such as no reasonable person would have arrived at even if the evidence was taken at its face value or thirdly, the finding is based and built on inadmissible evidence which evidence if excluded from the vision would negate the prosecution case or substantially discredit or impair it or fourthly some vital piece of evidence which would tilt the balance in favour of the convict has been overlooked, disregarded or wrongly discarded.	Reasoning
These are the principles laid down by this Court and keeping these in view I will attempt to examine the High Court judgment.	None
I may however, mention that where the High Court has reached conclusions based on partly inadmissible evidence and partly on circumstances which are not justified on the basis of evidence, or partly on facts which are not borne out from the evidence on record it can not be contended that in an appeal under Article 136 this Court will not go into the facts of the case and come to its own conclusions.	Reasoning
The case on hand is one of such cases and some of the findings of fact reached by the High Court could not be said to be such which are concurrent or conclusive.	Reasoning
We were therefore put to the necessity of examining the evidence wherever it was necessary.	None
The other ground urged on behalf of the appellants relates to the relevancy of evidence on conspiracy in view of Section 10 of the Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will be worth while to deal with this question of law at this stage.	None
Section 120A and 120B of the Indian Penal Code which deal with the question of conspiracy.	None
Section 120A reads When two or more persons agree to do, or cause to be done, (1) an illegal act, or (2) an act which is not illegal by illegal means, such an agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy Provided that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides the agreement is done by one or more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof.	Reasoning
Section 120A provides for the definition of criminal conspiracy and it speaks of that when two or more persons agree to do or cause to be done an act which is an illegal act and Section 120B provides for the punishment for a criminal conspiracy and it is interesting to note that in order to prove a conspiracy it has always been felt that it was not easy to get direct evidence.	Reasoning
It appears that considering this experience about the proof of conspiracy that Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act was enacted.	Reasoning
Section 10 reads Things said or done by conspirator in reference to common design  Where there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence or an actionable wrong, anything said, done or written by any one of such persons in reference to their common intention, after the time when such intention was first entertained by any one of them, is a relevant fact as against each of the person believed to be so conspiring, as well for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy as for the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it.	None
This Section mainly could be divided into two the first part talks of where there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired to commit an offence or an actionable wrong, and it is only when this condition precedent is satisfied that the subsequent part of the Section comes into operation and it is material to note that this part of the Section talks of reasonable grounds to believe that two or more persons have conspired together and this evidently has reference to Section 120A where it is provided When two or more persons agree to do, or cause to be done.	Reasoning
This further has been safeguarded by providing a proviso that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to criminal conspiracy.	Reasoning
It will be therefore necessary that a prima facie case of conspiracy was to be established for application of Sec, 10.	Reasoning
The second part of Section talks of anything said, done or written by any one of such persons in reference to the common intention after the time when such intention was first entertained by any one of them is relevant fact against each of the persons believed to be so conspiring as well for the purpose for proving the existence of the conspiracy as for the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it.	Reasoning
It is clear that this second part permits the use of evidence which otherwise could not be used against the accused person.	Reasoning
It is well settled that act or action of one of the accused could not be used as evidence against the other.	Reasoning
But an exception has been carved out in Section 10 in cases of conspiracy.	Reasoning
The second part operates only when the first part of the Section is clearly established i.e. there must be reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together in the light of the language of Section 120A.	Reasoning
It is only then the evidence of action or statements made by one of the accused could be used as evidence against the other.	Reasoning
in Sardar Sardul Singh Caveeshar v. State of Maharashtra 1965CriLJ608a , Subha Rao, J. (as he then was) analysed the provision of Section 10.	None
and made the following observations This section, as the opening words indicate will come into play only when the Court is satisfied that there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence or an actionable wrong, that is to say, there should be a prima facie evidence that a person was a party to the conspiracy before his acts can be used against his coconspirators.	None
Once such a reasonable ground exists, anything said, done or written by one of the conspirators in reference to the common intention, after the said intention was entertained, is relevant against the others, not only for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy but also for proving that the other person was a party to it.	None
The evidentiary value of the said acts is limited by two circumstances, namely, that the acts shall be in reference to their common intention and in respect of a period after such intention was entertained by any one of them.	None
The expression in reference to their common intention is very comprehensive and it appears to have been designedly used to give it a wider scope than the words in furtherance of in the English law with the result, anything said, done or written by a coconspirator, after the conspiracy was formed, will be evidence against the other before he entered the field of conspiracy or after he left it.	None
Another important limitation implicit in the language is indicated by the expressed scope of its relevancy.	None
Anything so said, done or written is a relevant fact only as against each of the persons believed to be so conspiring as well for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy as for the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it.	None
It can be used only for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy or that the other person was a party to it.	None
It cannot be used in favour of the other party or for the purpose of showing that such a person was not a party to the conspiracy.	None
In short, the Section can be analysed as follows (1) There shall be a prima facie evidence affording a reasonable ground for a Court to believe that two or more persons are members of a conspiracy (2) if the said condition is fulfilled, anything said, done or written by any one of them in reference to their common intention will be evidence against the other (3) anything said, done or written by him should have been said, done or written by him after the intention was formed by any one of them (4) it would also be relevant for the said purpose against another who entered the conspiracy whether it was said, done or written before he entered the conspiracy or after he left it (5) it can only be used against a coconspirator and not in his favour.	None
In the light of these observations and the analysis of Section 10 we will have to examine the evidence led by prosecution in respect of conspiracy.	None
We first take the case of Balbir Singh.	Facts
Balbir Singh was an Officer of the Delhi Police in the cadre of Sub Inspector.	Facts
He was posted on duty at the PMs residence on security.	Facts
On 31.10.84 in the morning he was not on duty but his duty was to commence in the evening and on that day at Akbar Road gate it appears that when he reported for duty in the normal course he was asked to go to the Security Police Lines and at about 3 A.M. on November 1, 1984 he was awakened from his sleep and his house was searched by SI Mahipal Singh, PW 50, Constable Hari Chand, PW 17 and Inspector Shamsheer Singh.	Facts
Nothing except a printed took on Sant Bhindrawale Ex.	Facts
PW 17A was recovered.	Facts
It is alleged that about 4 A.M. he was taken to Yamuna Velodrome.	Facts
He was kept there till late in the evening when he is reported to have been released.	Facts
This custody in Yamuna Velodrome is described by Sh.	Facts
Kochhar, PW 75 as de facto custody.	Facts
But there is no evidence or no police officer examined to say that he allowed this accused to go in the evening on November 1,1984.	Facts
Thereafter he is alleged to have been arrested on December 3, 1984 at Najafgarh Busstand.	Facts
When his personal search was taken and certain articles were recovered from his possession including a piece of paper which is Ex. PW.	Facts
26B.	Facts
On December 4, 1984 he was produced before the Magistrate who remanded him to police custody.	Facts
Thereafter it is alleged that he expressed his desire to make a confession but when produced before the Magistrate he refused to make any statement.	Facts
The allegations in the chargesheet against this accused if summarised are that Balbir Singh like the other accused persons has expressed his resentment openly holding Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi responsible for the Bluestar Operation.	Facts
He was planning to commit the murder of Smt.	Facts
Gandhi	Facts
and he discussed these matters with Beant Singh deceased who had similar plan to commit the murder.	Facts
He also shared his intention and prompted accused Satwant Singh to commit the murder of Smt.	Facts
Gandhi and finally discussed the matter with him on Oct. 30,1984.	Facts
In the first week of September, 1984 a falcon (baaz) happened to sit on the tree near the Reception gate of the Prime Ministers house in the afternoon at about 1.30 P.M. Balbir Singh spotted the falcon and called Beant Singh there.	Facts
Both of them agreed that it has brought a message of the Tenth Guru of Sikhs that they should do something by way of revenge of the Bluestar Operation.	Facts
Thereafter they offered Ardas.	None
These allegations, the prosecution has attempted to prove by the evidence of the following witnesses SI Madan Lal Sharma, PW 13 ii) Constable Satish Chandra Singh, PW 52 iii)Sub Inspector Amarjit Singh, PW 44 and iv) Confession of Satwant Singh,	Facts
PW 11C.	None
The prosecution also strongly relied upon the, document Ex.	None
Pw26B which was recovered from the possession of the accused when he was arrested at Najafgarh Busstand.	Facts
His leave applications which are Ex.	Facts
PW 26 E1 to E5 along with his post crime conduct of absconding are also relied upon.	Facts
According to the accused, the document Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW 26B was not recovered from his possession as alleged by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also contests his arrest at Najafgarh Busstand and says that it is just a makebelieve arrangement.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, he was all along under police custody right from the day when he was taken to Yamuna Velodrome on November 1, 1984.	Arguments of Petitioner
Infact he was not allowed to go put and the question of his abscondence does not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was also not put any question on abscondence under Section 313 examination.	Arguments of Petitioner
49.	None
Now, we will take first, the arrest of this accused on 1st November.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that on 1st November late at night his house was searched and a printed took  Sant Bhindrawale was seized from his house and he was brought to Yamuna Velodrome.	Reasoning
It is also not in dispute that the prosecution evidence itself indicates that upto the evening the next day he was seen in the Yamuna Velodrome.	Reasoning
It will be better here to describe what this Yamuna Velodrome is?	Reasoning
From the prosecution evidence what has emerged is that this is a place where there are number of offices but Police has reserved a portion of this building to be used for interrogation and investigation.	Reasoning
Normally when a person or a witness is brought for interrogation or investigation at a Police station, some record has to, be made as there is a general diary although diaries may or may not be filled in but a duty is cast on the Station House Officer of a Police Station to maintain the movements of the Police Officers and also to note down the activities especially when it is connected with the investigation of an important case.	Reasoning
But it appears that all about the preliminary investigation of this case was going on at Yamuna Velodrome, witnesses and persons were brought here, detained or kept, and interrogated.	Reasoning
We do not have any further evidence in regard to this place.	Reasoning
According to the prosecution, this accused was at Yamuna Velodrome upto the evening of that day and thereafter he was allowed to go and then he absconded.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact this part of the story becomes very important in view of the further facts alleged by the prosecution that the investigating officer got some information through some one that this accused who was wanted would appear at the time and place indicated.	Reasoning
But there is no evidence as to who asked this accused to go.	Reasoning
He was a suspect in the criminal conspiracy.	Reasoning
He could not have gone away of his own accord.	Reasoning
Some responsible officer must have taken the decision but it is unfortunate that no officer has been examined to state that I thought that his presence was not necessary and therefore I allowed him to go.	Reasoning
Learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the State before us also was asked if he could lay his hands at any part of the evidence of any one of the witnesses who could say that before him this person was allowed to go from the Yamuna Velodrome.	Reasoning
There is no evidence on this aspect of the matter at all and therefore we are left with the only evidence that this person was arrested at midnight in the late hours on 1st November and was carried to Yamuna Velodrome and was seen there by some prosecution witness till the evening of the next day.	Reasoning
Then the other aspect of the matter which is of some importance is about the prosecution allegation that he was absconding from 1st or 2nd November till 3rd Dec. 1984.	Reasoning
It is significant that no witness has been examined to indicate that he went to find him out either at his residence or at any other place in search of him and that he was not available.	Reasoning
There is also no evidence produced to indicated that inspite of the fact that during investigation police wanted to arrest him again but he was not available at his known address.	Reasoning
It is perhaps of absence of evidence as to absconding the trial court when examined this accused under Section 313 did not put him any question about his abscondence.	Reasoning
It is therefore clear that the abscondence as a circumstance could not be used against him.	Reasoning
Let us now examine the story of the prosecution that this accused was arrested at Najafgarh Busstand.	Reasoning
It is alleged that Sh.	Reasoning
Kochhar, the Investigating Officer got some information that this accused was expected to appear at that place on 3rd December, 1984.	Reasoning
It was not immediately after the assassination.	Reasoning
It was after a month.	Reasoning
The people could come forward to become witness.	Reasoning
But no independent witness has been examined in support of the arrest or seizure from the accused.	Reasoning
It may be as technically argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General that the presence of public witnesses under the scheme of CrPC is required when there is search and seizure from the house or property of the accused but not when a person is arrested and something is recovered from the personal search.	Reasoning
But it is wellknown that in all matters where the police wants that the story should be believed they always get an independent witness of the locality so that that evidence may lend support to what is alleged by the police officers.	Reasoning
Admittedly for this arrest at Najafgarh and for the seizure of the articles from the person of the accused there is no other evidence except the evidence of police officers.	Reasoning
Independent witness in this case would be all the more necessary especially in view of what has been found above as his release after the earlier arrest is not established, and his abscondence is not proved.	Reasoning
In such a controversial situation the presence of an independent witness from the public, if not of the locality, would have lent some support to the case of the prosecution.	Reasoning
It may also be noted that according to Mr. Kochhar, that the accused appeared at the Busstand but they have not been able to disclose from where he appeared.	Reasoning
Whether he got down from a bus, if so from which bus  city or outstation bus?	Reasoning
How he appeared there is all mystery.	Reasoning
Nobody bothered to notice of his coming.	Reasoning
It is said that he had a DTC bus ticket.	Reasoning
Nobody examined it.	Reasoning
Perhaps there was nothing to examine.	Reasoning
If the Police Officers had gone with prior information to arrest the absconding accused who was involved in such an important crime, they could have taken an independent witness with them.	Reasoning
It is again interesting to note that instead of searching him and performing the formalities of arrest at the place where the accused appeared, he was taken to a place said to be the office of the Electricity Board.	Reasoning
The search and seizure took place there.	Reasoning
Some articles were recovered from his possession.	Reasoning
Most of the articles recovered are mere personal belongings.	Reasoning
There was also a piece of paper since marked as Ex.	Reasoning
PW 26/	Reasoning
B. The Police did not think it necessary to have an independent witness even for the seizure memo, when particularly some important piece of evidence was recovered from his possession.	Reasoning
The reply of the learned Additional Solicitor General was that in law it was not necessary.	Reasoning
The Investigating Officer when questioned in crossexamination answered that nobody was available or none was prepared to be a witness in this matter.	Reasoning
It is unthinkable at a public place and that too at the Busstand.	Reasoning
Learned Additional Solicitor.	Reasoning
General also attempted to contend that the circumstances in Delhi after the assassination of the Prime Minister were such that no witness was prepared to come forward.	Reasoning
It appears that for every problem this situation is brought as a defence but in our opinion, this would not help them so far as this matter is concerned.	Reasoning
We are talking of 3rd December which was more than a month after the unrest in Delhi.	Reasoning
It is very difficult to believe that a citizen in this capital did not come forward to be a witness for seizure memo.	Reasoning
The arrest of the accused in the circumstances appears to be only a show and not an arrest in actuality.	Reasoning
Learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the State frankly conceded that if the release of this accused after his arrest on 1st November is not established and his abscondence is not proved, then the story of his arrest on 3rd December with the recovery of the articles loses all its significance.	Reasoning
It is indeed so.	None
In the context of what has been discussed above it is apparent that the arrest of the accused on 3rd December and the recovery of these articles from his person have not been proved satisfactorily and therefore could not be of any consequence against this accused.	Reasoning
The prosecution attempted to prove the recovery of Ex.	None
PW 26/B on the basis of an entry in the Malkhana Register of Tuglak Road Police Station.	None
Entry 986 in the Malkhana Register which is made on December 3,1984 according to the learned Additional Solicitor General, contains a verbatim copy of the seizure memo Ex.	None
P W 35Aand it indicates the fact of recovery of PW26/ B and therefore proves that it was recovered from the appellant upon his arrest and search on that day.	Arguments of Respondent
Here again there is an interesting situation.	None
There is an endorsement in the Malkhana Register stating that the DTC ticket which the accused carried and the paper containing the dates in English Ex.	Reasoning
PW 26/B were not deposited.	Reasoning
The Malkhana Register therefore is of no help to the prosecution.	Reasoning
If they were taken back for any further investigation they could have made an entry to that effect in the general diary.	Reasoning
The nature of entry in the Malkhana Register only shows the recovery of certain articles and a note that the two documents although are said to be recovered but they were not brought and deposited at the Tuglak Road Police Station.	Reasoning
It is therefore clear that although in the seizure memo the mention of the two documents including Ex.	Reasoning
PW 26/B is there, they in fact did not reach the Police Station or see the light of the day.	Reasoning
In view of these infirmities we can not accept that the accused was arrested on 3rd December as alleged by the prosecution.	Reasoning
So the recovery of Ex.	Reasoning
PW 26/B is doubtful.	Reasoning
However, we may refer to the said document as it has been said to be one of the most important pieces of evidence as the High Court has described it.	Reasoning
The document can be taken to have been written in the handwriting of Balbir Singh as that is not seriously contested before us.	Reasoning
The document is a sheet of paper in which we find certain entries.	Reasoning
The document is reproduced at Pages Nos. 5758 of the judgment prepared by my learned brother Shetty, J. If this document is considered to be a memorandum of events prepared by this accused relating to his conspiracy, why should he carry it in an atmosphere surcharged with emotion against the Sikhs.	Reasoning
Not only that, this person knew that he was an accused in such an important case where whole public opinion is against him.	Reasoning
He also knew that he was absconding and he also knew that he was carrying in his pocket such an important piece of evidence.	Reasoning
Was it his intention that he should keep it readily available so that he could oblige the prosecution whenever they needed?	Reasoning
There is no other possible reason why this person should keep this document with him all the time.	Reasoning
On our questioning the learned Additional Solicitor General about this strange behaviour of the accused, he also could not explain as to why the accused could have thought of carrying such a piece of paper in his pocket.	Reasoning
Apart from it, if the document is looked at as it is we see nothing in it except a mention of few dates and few events.	Reasoning
It even does not indicate that with those events whether this accused was connected in any manner.	Reasoning
It is also significant that this document was not with this accused when his house was searched and he was arrested on the night of 1st November, 1984.	Reasoning
If the accused after that arrest was not released at all and there was no occasion for him to go away then, one fails to understand as to how this document came in his possession?	Reasoning
The explanation suggested by the learned Counsel for the accused appears to be the most probable.	Reasoning
As indicated from other evidence, the accused was preparing to give a statement or a confession and therefore he was given the notes and he must have recorded those dates to facilitate the statement that he was planning or he was made to give which ultimately he chose not to give at all.	Reasoning
Looking to this document the only material which could be said to be of some significance is the words felt like killing.	Reasoning
But there is no reference after those words as to who was intended to be killed.	Reasoning
There is also no indication as to whose feelings are noted in this piece of paper.	Reasoning
There are entries in this document which refer to meetings, visits, persons, visiting somebodys house but it is not clear as to whom they refer and what is intended when these reference is made.	Reasoning
Beant Singh has been referred to in this document more than in one place.	Reasoning
At one place, there, is a reference to Beant Singh with eagle.	Reasoning
But there is no reference to a joint Ardas or this accused or Beant Singh telling that it had brought a message or they should take revenge.	Reasoning
The entry does not suggest that the accused has anything to do with the eagle.	Reasoning
If there is anything, it is against Beant Singh.	Reasoning
A perusal of this whole document also shows that there is no reference at all to Beant Singh and his plan to kill the Prime Minister.	Reasoning
Nowhere it is mentioned about the bomb or grenade with which he was planning to eliminate the Prime Minister before 15th August, 1984.	Reasoning
There is also no reference about Beant Singh conspiring with this accused or viceversa.	Reasoning
Kehar Singh is not at all in the document.	Reasoning
Satwant Singh, however, is mentioned against 30th October,.	Reasoning
But it does not give an indication where?	Reasoning
The prosecution has connected it with the evidence of PW 52 who was the Sentry in the Prime Minister security.	Reasoning
We will consider the evidence of this witness a little later.	None
Under these circumstances it is very clear that except the mention of Bluestar Operation and felt like killing there is nothing in this document which is of any significance.	Reasoning
If the document is read as it is, we see nothing incriminating against this accused.	Reasoning
Unfortunately it appears that the High Court read in this document what was suggested by the prosecution without considering whether it could be accepted or not in the absence of evidence on record.	Reasoning
Admittedly, there is no such evidence at all in this case.	Reasoning
Satish Chandra Singh, PW52, who has been produced to prove the meeting of Balbir Singh with Satwant Singh was for the first time examined during the investigation on 7.2.85 that is after the trial had commenced.	None
He has stated that when he was on duty on October 30, 1984 Satwant Singh came and talked to Balbir Singh.	None
But he frankly admitted that he could not follow what they talked as he did not know Punjabi.	None
What value we could attach to the testimony of this witness.	None
It is impossible to believe him.	None
In view of what we have noticed, even if the document is accepted to have been written by the accused, still there is nothing in it on the basis of which an inference of conspiracy could be drawn.	Reasoning
There must be evidence to indicate that the accused was in agreement with the other accused persons to do the act which was the ultimate object which was achieved on 31.10.1984.	Reasoning
This document therefore although described by the learned Judges of the High Court as very important piece of evidence is nothing but a scrap of paper.	Reasoning
Excluding from consideration this recovery of a piece of paper Ex.	None
PW26/B, what remains has been alaysed by the High Court in the judgment in the following words Summing up then the evidence against Balbir Singh leaving out of account for the time being the confession of Satwant Singh and the evidence of Amarjit Singh the position is as follows He was an Officer on security duty at the PMs house.	None
He knew Beant Singh and Satwant Singh as well.	None
He shared the indignation of Beant Singh against Smt.	None
Gandhi for Operation Bluestar, and was in a mood to avenge the same.	Reasoning
He went on leave on 25.6.84 to 26.7.84.	None
On his return he met Beant Singh and Amarjit Singh.	None
He was present on the occasion of the appearance of eagle and their association on that date is borne out by Ex.	None
PW26/B. He is known to have talked to Satwant Singh on 30th October, 1984.	None
Unfortunately, the learned Judges of the High Court when they came to the conclusion that Balbir Singh knew Beant Singh and Satwant Singh well, have not referred to any piece of evidence in this case which establishes that they knew each other well.	Reasoning
The learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the State also has not been able to point out any piece of evidence on the basis of which this could be inferred.	Reasoning
This accused being a Sikh also is referred to but there were number of Sikh officers posted at the house of the Prime Minister and merely because he was a Sikh it could not be said that he became a party to the conspiracy or he was in conspiracy or he knew Beant Singh and Satwant Singh well.	Reasoning
Similarly as regards the observations made by the High Court that Balbir Singh shared indignation of Beant Singh against Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi and was in a mood to avenge for the Bluestar Operation, there is no evidence to support it.	Reasoning
From the testimony of SI Madan Lal Sharma, PW 30 all that we could gather is that after the Bluestar Operation Balbir Singh was in an agitated mood and he used to say that the responsibility of damaging the Akal Takht lies with Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi and it would be avenged by them.	Reasoning
From this it cannot be inferred that Balbir Singh wanted to take revenge against the Prime Minister alongwith Beant Singh.	Reasoning
This is not what is said by the witness.	Reasoning
If expression of anger or protest on the Bluestar Operation could be used as a piece of evidence or a circumstance against accused then all that members of the Sikh community who felt agitated over the Bluestar Operation must be held as members of the conspiracy.	Reasoning
So far as taking leave is concerned there is nothing on the basis of which any significance could be attached to it.	Reasoning
There is no material to indicate that during the leave Balbir Singh met Beant Singh or anyone else or was in any manner connected with the conspiracy or was doing something in pursuance of the agreement of conspiracy between them.	Reasoning
Merely because on certain dates he was on leave no inference could be drawn.	Reasoning
The High Court relied on the fact that after returning from leave this accused met Beant Singh and Amarjit Singh but on this meeting also there is no other evidence except the evidence of Amarjit Singh PW 44 which we will deal with a little later.	Reasoning
So far as appearance of falcon and offering of ardas is concerned it is admitted that appearance of falcon is considered, by the Sikh community, as a sacred thing as falcon is supposed to be a representative of the Guru and if therefore this accused and Beant Singh offered ardas nothing could be inferred from this alone.	Reasoning
As even the High Court observed that Nothing unusual or abnormal about the incident as any religious Sikh seeing the appearance of the falcon could offer the Ardas.	Reasoning
So far as meeting with Satwant Singh is concerned on October 30, 1984 the only evidence of that fact is the evidence of Satish Chandra Singh PW 52 about whom I have discussed little earlier and nothing more need be stated here.	Reasoning
With this we are now left with the evidence of Amarjit Singh who is an important witness as per the prosecution.	Reasoning
It has come on record that his statement during investigation was recorded thrice twice by Police under Section 161 and then under Section 164 Cr.	Reasoning
P.C.	Facts
The first statement is Ex.	Reasoning
PW 44 which was recorded on November 24, 1984 after 25 days of the incident and the Second statement PW 44 DB was recorded on December 19, 1984.	Reasoning
On December 21, 1984 the third statement PW 44A under Section 164 of the Code came to be recorded.	Reasoning
In the first statement there is no involvement of Balbir Singh.	Reasoning
The second statement according to the witness was recorded at his own instance.	Reasoning
He states that it did not occur to him that assassination was the handwork of Balbir Singh and Kehar Singh.	Reasoning
After he had learnt about the firing and death of Smt.	Reasoning
Indira Gandhi he recalled certain things and went to Shri R.P. Sharma who recorded his statement on 24.11.84.	Reasoning
According to him, he recalled bit by bit and that was the reason, he gave the subsequent two statements.	Reasoning
If we carefully peruse these statements it is clear that the entire approach of the High Court appears to be erroneous.	Reasoning
Amarjit Singh PW 44 states before the Court as follows In the first week of August 1984 I had a talk with Beant Singh.	None
Then he told me that he would not let Mrs. Indira Gandhi unfurled the flagon 15th August.	None
Shri Balbir Singh also used to tell me that if he could get a remote control bomb and his children are sent outside India then he also could finish Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	None
I used to think that he was angry and I used to tell him that he should not think in these terms.	None
In the third week of October, 1984, Balbir Singh told me that Beant Singh and his family have been to the Golden Temple alongwith Kehar Singh her Phoopha.	None
He further told that Beant Singh and Constable Satwant Singh had taken amrit in Sector 6, R.K. Puram, New Delhi at the instance of Kehar Singh.	None
In his first statement PW 44 DA which has been exhibited during his cross examination admittedly there is no reference to Balbir Singh at all.	None
No reference to Balbir Singh telling the witness that if he could get a remote control bomb and his children are sent outside India, he could also finish Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	None
There he has stated In the end of September, 1984 SI Balbir Singh met me once in the Prime Ministers house and told me that Beant Singh wanted to kill the Prime Minister before 15th August, he (Beant Singh) agreed to kill her with a grenade and remote control but this task was to be put off because the same could not be arranged.	None
Actual words being In do cheeson ka intezam nahin ho saka is liye baattalgayi.	None
Similarly in his earlier statement Ex.	None
PW 44 DA what this witness said was In the third week of October, 1984 Beant Singh SI met me and told me that he had procured one Constable.	None
Actual words being October ke tisare hafte main Beant Singh mujhe mila usne bataya ki usne ek sipahi pataya hai and that now both of them would put an end to Smt.	None
Indira Gandhis life very soon.	None
These portions of the statement which were put and proved from Amarjit Singh as his first statement recorded by the police clearly go to show that he had only alleged these things against Beant Singh.	Reasoning
What he did later was to improve upon his statement and introduce Balbir Singh also or substitute Balbir Singh in place of Beant Singh.	Reasoning
The only other inference is that he was himself a party to that conspiracy.	Reasoning
Otherwise there is no explanation why he should keep on giving statement after statement, that too after 25 days of the incident.	Reasoning
The second statement was recorded on December 19 and a third statement on December 21, 1984.	Reasoning
It clearly shows that he was a convenient witness available to State whatever was desired from him.	Reasoning
He appears to have become wiser day by day and remembered bit by bit, is certainly interesting to remember.	Reasoning
It could not be doubted that the two versions given out by this witness are not such which could easily be reconciled.	Reasoning
In fact in his first version there is nothing against Balbir Singh.	Reasoning
In his second statement he has tried to introduce things against him.	Reasoning
This apparently is a clear improvement.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled that even delay is said to be dangerous and if a person who is an important witness does not open his mouth for a long time his evidence is always looked with suspicion but here we have a witness who even after 25 days gave his first statement and said nothing against the present accused and then even waited for one more month and then he suddenly chose to come out with the allegations against this accused.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, such a witness could not be relied upon and even the High Court felt that it would not be safe to rely on the testimony of such a witness alone.	Reasoning
Apart from it, the evidence which he has given is rather interesting.	Reasoning
According to him Beant Singh and Balbir Singh were so close to him that they used to keep him informed about their plans to assassinate the Prime Minister of India.	Reasoning
But relation with Balbir was such that he was not even invited when Balbir Singh was married and therefore it was nothing but casual	Reasoning
but still he claims that he had so much of close association that he used to be taken in confidence by these two persons.	Reasoning
That means that he is one of the conspirators or otherwise he would not have kept quiet without informing his superiors as it was his duty to do when the Prime Minister was in Janger.	Reasoning
In view of this, it is clear that there is no evidence at all to establish prima facie participation of this accused in conspiracy or any evidence to indicate that he had entered into any agreement to do an unlawful act or to commit an offence alongwith the other accused persons.	Reasoning
Therefore, in absence of any evidence in respect of the first part of Section 10 which is necessary it could not be contended that the confession of Satwant Singh could be of any avail or could be used against this appellant.	Reasoning
Before parting with this witness, one more thing may be noted.	Reasoning
The High Court, in order to explain that this witness Amarjit Singh did not refer to Balbir Singh in his first statement on 24.11.84 stated something out of imagination.	Reasoning
The High Court has quoted his statement on 24.11.84 in these words He is also reported to have said that Beant Singh had wanted to kill Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi before 15th of August and that he had agreed to do so if grenade and remote control were available.	Reasoning
In this context, the use of the word agreed and word he the High Court felt that they refer to Balbir Singh and none else.	Reasoning
This appears to be an explanation given by Amarjit Singh in his statement in Court and the High Court felt that it could accept it.	Reasoning
It is clear that where he says agreed and he in his statement on November 24, 1984 he had not named Balbir at all.	Reasoning
It is only now in his statement at trial that he grew wiser and made an attempt by way of this explanation.	Reasoning
It is rather unfortunate that the High Court felt that this explanation should be accepted.	Reasoning
The statement against Balbir coming for the first time on 21st December, 1984 itself in the light of the settled criminal jurisprudence of this country ought to have been rejected outright.	Reasoning
Secondly, the High Court found corroboration from the confession of Satwant Singh.	Reasoning
So far as the statement or the confession of Satwant Singh is concerned, it could not be used against this accused as we have earlier indicated.	Reasoning
Thirdly so far as falcon incident is concerned, we do not know how the High Court felt that that incident corroborates the evidence of Amarjit Singh when Amarjit Singh alone talks of the falcon incident.	Reasoning
There is no basis for this conclusion of the High Court.	Reasoning
Lastly, it may be noted that so far as this accused is concerned, even Bimla Khalsa, the wife of Beant Singh does not mention anything.	Reasoning
In the light of the discussions above, in our opinion, so far as this accused is concerned there is no evidence at all on the basis of which his conviction could be justified.	Reasoning
He is therefore entitled to be acquitted.	Reasoning
Kehar Singh	Reasoning
The finding of guilt recorded by the High Court against Kehar Singh is a mixture of both relevant and irrelevant evidence adduced by the prosecution.	Reasoning
We will consider only those that are most important and relevant.	None
Material evidence against Kehar Singh is the evidence of PW 65, Bimla Khalsa wife of Be ant Singh.	Reasoning
She was examined by the Police on 16th January, 1985 and 19th January, 1985.	None
This witness although has been declared hostile, but her statement could not be discarded in to to merely because on certain questions she has chosen not to support prosecution.	None
It is true that her statement for the first time during investigation was recorded on 16th January, 1985 but it could not be disputed that after all she is the wife of the main accused in this case.	None
She has lost her husband on 31st October.	None
She was placed in a situation where it would have been very difficult for her to compose herself in a manner in which she could give her statement immediately.	None
It is nobodys case that she has any grudge against anybody.	None
Important circumstances which emerge from the testimony of this witness are She was married to Beant Singh in 1976 through the good offices of her maternal uncle Gurdeep Singh.	None
ii) Kehar Singhs wife Jagir Kaur hailed from Matloya and she (Bimla) used to call Kehar Singh and Jagir Kaur Phoophi and Phoopha and there was close friendship between the two families.	None
Rajendra Singh son of Kehar Singh who was a friend of Beant Singh and often used to have drinks with him.	None
In her statement in Court later she also stated that the wives of Rajendra Singh and Shamsher Singh, brother of Beant Singh belonged to the same biradari.	None
iii)	None
Kehar Singh started visiting their house more often after theOperation Bluestar.	None
Beant Singh and Kehar Singh had talked about the destruction of the Akal Takht in the Golden Temple complex on two or three occasions but become silent when she came.	None
iv) In the last week of July, Beant Singh told her that he had gone to the Gurudwara at Moti Bagh at the instance of Kehar Singh and that they heard highly provocative and inciting speeches there.	None
Beant Singh had told her that he would become a Shaheed and that she should look after the children or God will look after them but he never told her that he wanted to kill Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi.	Facts
In the middle of September, 1984 the birthday of the grandson of Ujagar Singh Sandhu was celebrated at his residence at Moti Bagh.	None
Though they had not received any invitation, at Kehar Singhs instance they attended the party where many inciting speeches were delivered.	None
vi)	None
On 13.10.84 her husband told her that he would be taking Amrit on 14.10.84 and when she asked for the reason, he told her that it was in order go give up drinking.	None
vii)	None
On 17.10.84 she was sent to Gurudwara Sis Ganj alongwith Kehar Singh and Jagir Kaur to take Amrit there which she did.	None
viii)	None
On the evening of 17.10.84 Kehar Singh came and was closeted together with Beant Singh on the roof of the house for 15 to 18 minutes.	None
Satwant Singh who had come to their house on the two earlier occasions in the first week of October, also came.	None
First two talked in low tone and later all the three had meals together.	None
She asked Kehar Singh what they were talking about on the roof.	None
He said it was about asking somebody to take Amrit.	None
When she said why it needed to be kept secret from her, he became silent but he complained to her husband later about her having questioned him.	None
ix) On 20th October, 1984 Beant Singhs family went to Amritsar with Kehar Singh and his wife.	Reasoning
Originally Beant Singh and Kehar Singh had intended to go alone.	None
She has said that she would also like to go there and that all of them could go in March, 1984.	None
Then he insisted that she should also go with him, it was decided that Jagir Kaur should also go.	None
At Amritsar they stayed with one M.R.Singh that evening while Bimla Khalsa and children and Jagir kaur were listening to the Kirtan, Beant Singh and Kehar Singh went to see the Akal Takht.	None
She also wanted to go but she was told she could see it next morning.	None
Next morning also, Beant Singh and Kehar Singh left for Akal Takht early in the morning leaving them to follow later.	None
When they were all there again Beant Singh and Kehar Singh went away somewhere and returned 3 to 4 hours later.	None
On their way back again the two went away alone to some place for a few minutes.	None
They purchased a cassette and a photo of Bhindrawale.	None
Beant Singh stayed behind saying that to meet some one and join them at the railway station.	None
They returned to Delhi on 21st October, 1984, On 24.10.84 Beant Singh insisted on her taking Amrit again at RXPuram Gurudwara but she refused.	None
After he returned from the night duty he went alongwith Satwant Singh on a Scooter.	None
There is only one variation between the previous statement and evidence in Court.	Reasoning
That relates to identification of Satwant Singh.	Reasoning
In the Court she attempted to s.ay that he was a boy and later explained that at that time he had no beard but the manner in which the boy has been described and the occasions when the boy had come to their house, there is hardly any doubt left.	Reasoning
Apart from it, so far as Satwant Singh is concerned even if we omit the evidence of Bimla Khalsa, it is not material.	Reasoning
But it could not be doubted that from her evidence that the above circumstances have been established.	Reasoning
Next important circumstance is the Vak.	Reasoning
It is alleged that when early morning the worship starts in a Gurudwara, the Granth Sahib is opened at random and some message from a page which is so opened is written on the blackboard as a Vak for the day.	Reasoning
It is proved by Bimla Khalsa that Ex.	Reasoning
P. 55 A was written in the handwriting of Beant Singh.	Reasoning
It was a Vak of a particular day which was in the following terms One gets comfort on serving the Guru.	Reasoning
Then miseries do not come near.	Reasoning
Birth and death come to an end and black (wicked) do not have effect.	Reasoning
About this Vak having been taken out in the Gurudwara, there is some controversy as the witness produced for that purpose Surendra Singh, PW 55 was not in a position to produce the diary but so far as Beant Singh is concerned, the Vak written by him on a piece of paper in Yellow ink in gurumukhi with date 13.10.84 was put on it has been proved by the evidence of Bimla Khalsa.	Reasoning
This was admittedly found from the quarters of Beant Singh on 31.10.84 and it was lying inside the book Sant Bhindrawale.	Reasoning
As far as the incident on 17th October is concerned, Bimla Khalsa in clear terms stated that Kehar Singh and Beant Singh had secret talks.	Reasoning
She wanted to know it, but she was not given to understand.	Reasoning
This kind of secret talk with Beant Singh which Kehar Singh had, is a very significant circumstance.	Reasoning
Apparently Kehar Singh being an elderly person did not indicate to her about their plan.	Reasoning
If the attempt of Kehar Singh was to dissuade Beant Singh then there was no occasion for him to keep the matter secret from his wife.	Reasoning
On the contrary he should have indicated to his wife also what Beant Singh was planning.	Reasoning
These talks therefore as proved by Bimla Khalsa go a long way in establishing Kehar Singh being a party to the conspiracy.	Reasoning
Her evidence also indicates that Beant Singh took Amrit on 14th and Beant Singh kept his golden kara and ring in the house of Kehar Singh which has been recovered from the latter.	Reasoning
It clearly goes to show that Kehar Singh knew why Beant Singh took Amrit and why he handed over the golden kara and ring to him.	Reasoning
It is also clear from the evidence of Bimla Khalsa that what transpired between Beant Singh and Kehar Singh on 14th was not conveyed to her and she was kept in dark.	Reasoning
In this background, the trip to Amritsar of Beant Singh, Kehar Singh and their families is of some significance.	Reasoning
On October 20, 1984 Beant Singh and Kehar Singh alongwith their family members went to Amritsar.	Reasoning
There is evidence indicated by Bimla Khalsa that originally Kehar Singh arid Beant Singh wanted to go alone but ultimately they agreed that the families also could accompany.	Reasoning
According to the evidence of Bimla Khalsa they reached at Amritsar at about 2 to 3 P.M. and went to Darbar Sahib Gurudwara in the evening of 20th October.	Reasoning
While ladies and children were listening to kirtan, Beant Singh and Kehar Singh went to see the Akal Takht.	Reasoning
Bimla Khalsa wanted to accompany them to see the Akal Takht but she was told to see the same on the next morning.	Reasoning
On the next morning i.e. on 21st October, PW 53 was woken up by Kehar Singh and told that he would attend Asaki War Kirtan in Darbar Sahib.	Reasoning
He went alongwith Beant Singh.	Reasoning
The ladies and children went to Darbar Sahib at 8 A.M. alongwith PW 53.	Reasoning
They returned home at 11 A.M. Beant Singh and Kehar Singh did not return alongwith them.	Reasoning
After lunch, PW 53 took the ladies and children to the railway station.	Reasoning
Beant Singh and Kehar Singh directly came to the railway station from where they caught the train to New Delhi.	Reasoning
The attempt of these two persons to keep themselves away from the company of their wives and children speaks volume about their sinister designs.	Reasoning
The way in which these two avoided the company of the members of the family and PW 53 at whose residence they were staying and the manner in which they remained mysterious if looked at with the secret talks which they had in the house of Bimla Khalsa earlier goes to establish that the two were doing something or discussing something or planning something which they wanted to keep it as a secret even from Bimla Khalsa.	Reasoning
So far as Amrit Chhakna ceremony is concerned or taking Amrit is concerned, ordinarily it may not be significant.	Reasoning
It is only a ceremony wherein a Sikh takes a vow to lead the life of purity and giving up all worldly pleasures and evil habits but this unfortunately is a situation which could be understood in different ways.	Reasoning
The manner in which Amrit has been taken by Beant Singh and even Satwant Singh has been made to take it and even Bimla Khalsa made to take it makes it significant that in all these three of Amrit taking Kehar Singh was always with them or atleast it could be said, was inspiring them to have it.	Reasoning
It also indicates that there was something in the mind of Beant Singh which was known to Kehar Singh and which he even tried to keep a secret from Bimla Khalsa, wife of Beant Singh and wanted Beant Singh to have a full religious purification and confidence.	Reasoning
There is yet another circumstance.	Reasoning
Postcrime conduct of Kehar Singh.	Reasoning
It is in the evidence that on the day i.e. 31st October, 1984 although Kehar Singh claims to be on leave, he goes to the office at 10.45 M. and at that time when the news reached in the Office about the assassination PW 59 inquired from Kehar Singh as to what had happened?	None
Kehar Singh replied in these words Whosoever would take confrontation with the Panth, he would meet the same fate.	None
This remark shows his guilty mind with that of Beant Singh.	None
We have discussed some of the main features of the case and it is not necessary for us to go into other details which the High Court has discussed.	Reasoning
These circumstances by themselves indicate that Kehar Singh was a coconspirator to assassinate Mrs. Gandhi.	Reasoning
Satwant Singh	Reasoning
He was a Constable on security duty at the residence of the Prime Minister.	None
He was charged under Section 302 read with Section 120B and Section 34 for murdering the Prime Minister Smt.	Facts
IndiraGandhi, secondly under Section 307 for attempting to murder one Rameshwar Dayal, PW 10 and under Section 27 of the Arms Act.	None
To prove these charges, prosecution has examined Narain Singh, PW 9, Rameshwar Dayal PW 10 and Nathu Ram PW 64 besides Sukhvir Singh PW 3 and Raj Singh PW 15.	None
PW 27 has deposed about the history as to how this person was recruited in the Police in 1982 and how he happened to come to be posted at Teen Murti Lines and thereafter in the security duty with the Prime Minister.	None
PW 14 Duty Officer at the Teen Murti Lines has deposed that DAP personnel was placed on duty at various duty points at the PMs house on weekly basis from Friday to Friday by Head Constable Dayal Singh the Company Havaldar.	None
The daily duty maintained at Teen Murti Ex.	None
PW 4C shows that Entry No. 85 that on the morning of 31.10.84 Satwant Singh was put on duty at Gate No. 4 in the Akbar Road House and not the TMC Gate and this entry is confirmed by Ex.	None
PW 15 Daily diary Clerk at that time.	None
The arms and ammunition register Ex.	None
PW 3A at Teen Murti Lines also shows that Satwant Singh was issued an SAF Carbine having But No. 80 alongwith five magazines and hundred live rounds of 99 of ammunition.	None
He signed the register in token of the receipt.	None
PW 3, the Armoury Incharge confirms this.	None
There is also evidence to indicate that this person manipulated his duty and was put on the TMC gate where ultimately the incident took place on the morning of 31.10.1984.	None
The main evidence against him is evidence of eye witnesses.	Reasoning
The first eye witness which I would like to refer is Narain Singh PW 9.	Reasoning
This witness stated that he was on duty at about 7.30 A.M. in the porch of the Prime Ministers house.	Reasoning
According to him at 8.45 A.M. he with an umbrella took up his position near the entry gate as he came to know that Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi had to go to No. 1, Akbar Road to meet certain foreign TV representative and he was to go alongwith her holding an umbrella to protect her from the sun.	Reasoning
At 9.10.A.M. Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi came out of the house followed by Nathu Ram PW 6 and her Private Secretary Shri R.K. Dhawan.	Reasoning
Then he moved over to the right side and held the umbrella Ex.P.19.	Reasoning
They approached the TMC Gate and when they were about 10 ft. therefrom he saw that the gate was open and he also saw Beant Singh on the left side and Satwant Singh on the right side, the former in a Safari suit and the later in the uniform and with a Carbine stengun in his hands.	Reasoning
At that time Beant Singh took out his revolver from the right dub and fired at Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi and immediately thereafter Satwant Singh also started firing at her.	Reasoning
Smt.	Facts
Gandhi was hit by these bullets and injured.	Reasoning
She fell down on the right side.	Reasoning
Seeing this he threw the umbrella on the left side, took out his revolver and jumped on Beant Singh.	Reasoning
As a result of which revolver fell from the hands.	Reasoning
He saw Satwant Singh throwing his Carbine to the ground on his right side.	Reasoning
At that time Shri Bhatt, the personal guard of Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi and ITBP personnel arrived there and secured Satwant Singh.	Reasoning
Some other persons also came and secured Beant Singh.	Reasoning
He then ran to summon the doctor and while going, he noticed that Rameshwar Dayal PW 10 had also sustained bullet injuries.	Reasoning
The doctor himself came running by then.	Reasoning
He, Bhatt, the doctor and Nathu Ram took her to the escort car which had arrived near and placed he in the rear seat.	Reasoning
By this time, Smt.	Reasoning
Sonia Gandhi had also arrived and Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi was taken to AIIMS accompanied by Bhat, Dhawan and Fotedar on the Front seat and the doctor and Sonia Gandhi on the back seat.	Reasoning
He went to the Hospital in a staff car and PW 10 was taken to AIIMS in another car.	Reasoning
There she was taken to the eighth floor and he was given the duty of controlling the crowd.	Reasoning
At about 10 or 10.15 A.M. R.P.Kochhar, PW 73 arrived and this witness gave a statement to Kochhar in the doctors room which was recorded by him and sent to Tuglak Road Police Station which is the FIR in this Case.	Reasoning
His testimony is corroborated by the First Information Report and also by the two other eye witnesses Rameshwar Dayal and Nathu Ram whose presence on the spot could not be doubted.	Reasoning
Nathu was in the personal staff of the Prime Minister and Rameshwar Dayal himself had received injuries.	Reasoning
Apart from it, this evidence of direct witnesses also finds corroboration from the postmortem report, recovery of cartridges and arms on the spot and the evidence of the Doctor and the expert who tallied the bullets.	Reasoning
Under these circumstances even if the confession of this appellant Satwant Singh is not taken into consideration, still there is enough evidence which conclusively establish his part in the offence and in this view of the matter there appears to be no reason to interfere with the conclusions arrived at by the two courts below.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, the appeal of Satwant Singh deserves to be dismissed.	Reasoning
Then is the question of sentence which was argued to some extent.	Issue
But it must be clearly understood that it is not a case where X is killed by Y on some personal vendetta.	None
The person killed is a lady and no less than the Prime Minister of this Country who was the elected leader of the people.	Reasoning
In our country we have adopted and accepted a system wherein change of the leader is permissible by ballet and not by bullet.	Reasoning
The act of the accused not only takes away the life of popular leader but also undermines our system which has been working so well for the last forty years.	Reasoning
There is yet another serious consideration.	Reasoning
Beant Singh and Satwant Singh are persons who were posed on the security duty of the Prime Minister.	Reasoning
They are posted there to protect her from any intruder or from any attack from outside and therefore if they themselves resort to this kind of offence, there appears to be no reasons or no mitigating circumstance for consideration on the question of sentence.	Reasoning
Additionally, an unarmed lady was attacked by these two persons with a series of bullets and it has been found that a number of bullets entered her body.	Reasoning
The manner in which mercilessly she was attacked by these two persons on whom the confidence was reposed to give her protection repels any consideration of reduction of sentence.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, even the conspirator who inspired the persons who actually acted does not deserves any leniency in the matter of sentence.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the sentence awarded by the trial court and maintained by the High Court appears to be just and proper.	Reasoning
In the light of the discussions above Criminal Appeal No. 180/87 filed by accused Kehar Singh and Criminal Appeal No. 182/87 file by accused Satwant Singh are dismissed.	Decision
Conviction and sentence passed against them are maintained whereas Criminal Appeal No. 181/87 filed by Balbir Singh is allowed.	Decision
Conviction and sentence passed against him are set aside.	Decision
He is in custody.	Decision
He be set at liberty forthwith, if not wanted in connection with any other case.	Decision
C. Ray, J. I have perused the judgments prepared by my learned brothers Honble Oza, J. and Honble Shetty, J. I fully concur with the views expressed in these judgments.	None
However since the matter is important I like to deal with two aspects of the case i.e. whether trial in Tihar Jail is vitiated as it infringes the right of the accused to have open public trial and secondly, whether the confession of accused Satwant Singh being not made in the manner prescribed under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal procedure is admissible in evidence and whether the same can be relied upon.	Issue
A Gazette Notification dated 10.5.1985 was issued under Section 9(6) of the CrPC mentioning that the High Court of Delhi have directed that the trial of this assassination case shall be held in the Central Jail Tihar.	None
Another Notification of the same date was issued whereby the High Court was pleased to order that this case will be tried by Shri Mahesh Chandra, Addl.	None
Sessions Judge, New Delhi.	None
This order was made under Section 194 of the CrPC, 1973.	None
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that Section 9(6) empowers the High Court to specify the place where the Sessions Court shall hold its sittings ordinarily.	Arguments of Petitioner
It does not empower the High Court to direct the holding of a court in a place other than the usual place of sitting in court for trial of a particular case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only in a particular case if the Court of Sessions is of opinion that it will be for the general convenience of the parties and witnesses to hold its sittings at any other place in the Sessions Division, it may, with the consent of the prosecution and the accused, sit at that place for the disposal of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has not been given any such power to order holding of court at any other place than the court where generally the sittings of the Court of Sessions are held or where usually the Court of Sessions sit.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was therefore, urged that the impugned order is wholly bad and arbitrary.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has also been urged in this connection that speedy trial and trial in an open court is fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The holding of trial in Tihar Jail as directed by the High Court is a clear breach of this fundamental right and as such the entire trial is vitiated.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has also been urged in this connection that an application was filed on behalf of the accused, Kehar Singh before the Court on 17 5.1985 objecting to the holding of trial in jail.	Arguments of Petitioner
This application, of course, was rejected by order dated 5.6.1985 by the Magistrate by holding that the trial in Tihar Jail was an open trial and there was no restriction for the public so minded to go to the place of trial to witness the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the first objection the fixing of the place of sitting of Court of Sessions was made prior to the enforcement of the CrPC Code Amendment, 1973 by the executives.	None
Under the amended Criminal Procedure Code 1973, Section 9(6) has conferred power on the High Court to notify the place where the Court of Sessions will ordinarily hold its sittings within the Sessions Division in conformity with the policy of separation of judiciary from the executive.	None
It is also to be noticed that the High Court may notify the place or places for the sittings of the Court of Sessions.	None
Thus the High Court can fix a place other than the Court where the sittings are ordinarily held if the High Court so notifies for the ends of justice.	None
However, the use of the words ordinarily by itself signifies that the High Court in exercise of its powers under Section 9(6) of the said Act may order the holding of court in a place other than the court where sittings are ordinarily held if the High Court thinks it expedient to do so and for other valid reasons such as security of the accused as well as of the witnesses and also of the Court.	None
The order of the High Court notifying the trial of a particular case in a place other than the Court is not a judicial order but an administrative order.	None
In this case because of the surcharged atmosphere and for reasons of security, the High Court ordered that the trial be held in Tihar Jail.	None
Therefore, it cannot be said that the trial is not an open trial because of its having been held in Tihar Jail as there is nothing to show that the public or the friends and relations of the accused were prevented from having access to the place of trial provided the space of the court could accommodate them.	None
It is also to be noted in this connection that various representatives of the press including representatives of international news agency like BBC etc. were allowed to attend the proceedings in court subject to the usual regulations of the jail.	None
It is pertinent of mention that Section 327 of the CrPC provides that any place in which any criminal court is held for the purpose of inquiring into or trying any offence shall be deemed to be an open court, to which the public generally may have access, so far as the same can conveniently contain them.	None
The place of trial in Tihar Jail according to this provision is to be deemed to be an open court as the access of the public to it was not prohibited.	None
Moreover, it has been submitted en behalf of the prosecution that there is nothing to show that the friends and relations of the accused or any other member of the public was prevented from having access to the place where trial was held.	None
On the other hand, it has been stated that permission was granted to the friends and relations of the accused as well as to outsiders who wanted to have access to the court to see the proceedings subject, of course, to jail regulations.	None
Section 2(p) Criminal Procedure Code defines places as including a house, building, tent, vehicle and vessel.	None
So court can be held in a tent, vehicle, a vessel other than in court.	None
Furthermore, the proviso to Section 327 Criminal Procedure Code provides that the presiding Judge or Magistrate may also at any stage of trial by order restrict access of the public in general, or any particular person in particular in the room or building where the trial is held.	None
In some cases trial of criminal case is held in court and some restrictions are imposed for security reason regarding entry into the court.	None
Such restrictions do not detract from trial in open court.	None
Section 327 proviso empowers the Presiding Judge or Magistrate to make order denying entry of public in court.	None
No such order had been made in this case denying access of members of public to court.	None
Trial in jail does not by itself create any prejudice to the accused and it will not be illegal.	None
In re T.K Ganeshan AIR1950Mad696 , it has been held that Section 352 empowers the magistrate to hold his court in any place, provided it is done publicly and the Court premises is made accessible to the public, there can be no objection to the holding of the trial within the jail compound in the recreation room which is strictly outside the jail premises proper.	None
Where the public have access to the courtroom and the trial is conducted in open view, the holding of the trial within the jail compound will not cause prejudice to the accused and will not be illegal, merely because it relates to an offence committed within the jail premises, where the trying Magistrate is in no way connected with the jail department.	None
In the case of Sahai Singh and Ors.	None
v. Emperor AIR 1917 (Lahore) 311 the trial of the criminal case was held in jail.	None
It was contended that the whole trial was vitiated.	None
It has been held that  There is nothing to show that admittance was refused to anyone who desired it, or that the prisoners were unable to communicate with their friends Counsel.	None
No doubt, it is difficult to get Counsel to appear in jail and for that reason, if for no other, such trials are, undesirable, but in this case the Executive Authorities were of the opinion that it would be unsafe to hold the trial elsewhere.	None
The trial was therefore, held to be not vitiated.	None
In Prasanta Kumar Mukherjee V	None
The State AIR1952Cal91 the petitioner was tried along with several others on a charge under Section 147	None
I.P.C and the trial took place inside the Hooghly Jail.	None
In accordance with the order made by the magistrate who was posted at Serampore.	None
It was contended by the learned Counsel on behalf of the accused that the trial inside the Hooghly jail was improper and prejudiced the accused in his defence.	None
It was observed that The ordinary rule is that the trials are to be held in open Court.	None
While there is nothing in law to prevent a magistrate by Section 352, Criminal P,C, the very nature of a jail building and the restrictions which are necessarily imposed on any one visiting jail, would make it ordinarily impossible for a Magistrate to hold open Court in Jail.	None
There may be circumstances in which for reasons of security for the accused or for the witnesses or for the Magistrate himself or for the valid reason the Magistrate may think it proper to hold Court inside jail building or some other building and restrict the free access of the public.	None
There is, however nothing in the record of this case to show that there was any such reason which made the Magistrate decide in favour of holding the trial in a jail.	None
Similar observation has been made in the case of Kailash Nath Agarwal and Anr.	None
v. Emperor AIR 1947 All 436 .	None
This decision has been relied upon in the case of Narwarsingh and Ors.	None
v. State AIR 1952	None
Mp 1932.	None
In the case of Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v. Common Wealth of Virginia United States Supreme Court Reports 65 L. Ed.	None
973 before the commencement of fourth trial on murder charges, counsel for the defendant moved that the trial be closed to the public.	None
The prosecutor stated that he had no objection, and the trial court apparently relying on a Virginia statute Providing that in the trial of all criminal cases, the court may, in its discretion, exclude from the trial any persons whose presence would impair the conduct of a fair trial, provided that the right of the accused to a public trial shall not be violatedordered that the courtroom be kept clear of all parties except the witnesses when they testified.	None
Later that day a newspaper and its two reporters, who had been present at the time the order was issued but who made no objection, sought a hearing on a motion to vacate the closure order.	None
After a closed hearing on the motion at which counsel for the newspaper argued that constitutional considerations mandated that before ordering closure, the court should first decide that the right of the defendant could be protected in no other way, the court denied the motion to vacate and ordered the trial to continue with the press and public excluded, expressing his inclination to go along with the defendants motion so long as it did not completely override all rights of everyone else.	None
Subsequently the Judge granted a defense motion to strike the prosecutions evidence and found the defendant not guilty of murder, and the court granted the newspapers motion to intervene nunc pro tunc in the case.	None
The newspaper then petitioned the Virginia Supreme court for writs of mandamus and prohibition and filed an appeal from the trial courts closure order, but the Virginia Supreme Court dismissed the mandamus and prohibition petitions and, finding no reversible error, denied the petition for appeal.	None
On certiorari, the United States Supreme court reversed the order.	None
Virginia Chief Justice who delivered the majority judgment of the Court expressed the view that there is a guaranteed right of the public under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to attend criminal trials and that absent an overriding interest articulated in findings, the trial of a criminal case must be Open to the public, and emphasized that in the case at bar the trial judge made no findings to support closure, no inquiry was made as to whether alternative solutions would have met the need to insure fairness, and there was no recognition of any right under the Constitution for the public or press to attend the trial.	None
It has already been stated hereinbefore that in the instant case though the trial was held in Tihar Jail for reasons of security of the accused as well as of the witness and of the court and also because of the surcharged atmosphere,there was no restriction on the public to attend the Court, if they so minded.	None
Therefore, this trial in the instant case in Tihar Jail is an open trial and it does not prejudice in any manner whatsoever the accused.	None
It has been urged referring to the case Scott and Anr.	None
v. Scott, 1911 A11.E.R.1 that the broad principle is that the administration of justice should take place in open court except in three case such as suits affecting wards, lunacy proceedings and thirdly cases where secrecy, as for instance, the secrecy of a process of manufacture or discovery or inventiontrade secrets is of the essence of cause.	None
Therefore, it recognises that in cases where the ends of justice would be defeated if the case is not heard in camera the court may pass order for hearing the case in camera.	None
In the case of Cora Lillian Mcpherson V Oran Leo Mcpherson, a divorce suit was heard in the Judges Library.	None
Public access to the courtrooms was provided from a public corridor.	None
There was no direct access to the library, which was approached through a double swing door in the wall of the same corridor.	None
One wing of the door was always fixed.	None
A brass plate with the word private on it was attached to it.	None
Both the counsel and the Judge were not in robes, and when the Judge took his seat he announced that he was sitting in open Court, and that the library as the place of trial there was no intention of shutting out anybody though a regular courtroom was available.	None
It was held that Every Court of justice is open to every subject of the King.	None
Publicity is the authentic hallmark of judicial as distinct from administrative procedure and a divorce suit is not within any exception.	None
The actual presence of the public is never of course necessary.	None
The court must be open to any who may present themselves for administration.	None
These observation were made following the judgment in the case of Scott V Scott (supra).	None
All cases have been considered by this Court in Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar and Ors.	None
v. State of Maharashtra and Anr.	None
1986 (3) SCR 744 wherein it has been observed that while emphasising the importance of public trial, we cannot overlook the fact that the primary function of the judiciary is to do justice between the parties who bring their causes before it.	None
If a judge trying a cause is satisfied that the very purpose of finding truth in the case would be retarded, or even defeated if witnesses are required to give evidence subject to public gaze, is it or is it not open to him in exercise of his inherent power to hold the trial in camera either partly or fully?	None
If the primary function of the trial is to do justice in causes brought before it, then on principle, it is difficult to accede to the proposition that there can be no exception to the rule that all causes must be tried in open court.	None
If the principle that all trials before courts must be held in public was treated as inflexible and universal and it is held that it admits of no exceptions whatever, cases may arise whereby following the principle, justice itself may be defeated.	None
That is why we feel no hesitation in holding that the high Court has inherent jurisdiction to hold a trial in camera if the ends of justice clearly and necessarily require the adoption of such a course.	None
In this connection it is essential to remember that public trial of causes is a means, though important and valuable, to ensure fair administration of justice, it is a means, not an end.	None
It is the fair administration of justice which is the end of judicial process, and so, if ever a real conflict, arises between fair administration of justice itself on the one hand, and public trial on the other, inevitably, public trial may have to be regulated or controlled in the interest of administration of justice.	None
Though public trial or trial in open court is the rule yet in cases where the ends of justice would be defeated if the trial is held in public, it is in that case the Court has got inherent jurisdiction to hold trial in camera.	None
Therefore, the holding of trial in jail cannot be said to be illegal and bad and entire trial cannot be questioned as vitiated if the High Court thinks it expedient to hold the trial in jail.	None
The submission of the learned Counsel on behalf of the appellant on this issue is not sustainable, This court while considering the plea made on behalf of the detenu that the proceedings of the advisory Board should be thrown open to the public in the case of A.K. Roy, etc. v. Union of India and Anr 1982CriLJ340 held that  This right to a public trial is not one of the guaranteed rights under our Constitution as it is under the 6th Amendment of the American Constitution which secures to persons charged with crimes a public, as well as a speedy, trial.	None
Even under the American Constitution, the right guaranteed by the 6th Amendment is held to be personal to the accused, which the public in general cannot share.	None
Considering the nature of the inquiry which the Advisory Board has to undertake, we do not think that the interest of justice will be served better by giving access to the public to the proceedings of the Advisory Board.	None
I do not think it expedient to consider this aspect of the matter at this juncture in view of the explicit provision made in Section 327 of CrPC, 1973 corresponding to Section 352 of the old Criminal procedure Code which enjoins that the place in which any criminal court is held for the purpose of inquiring into or trying any offence shall be deemed to be an open court.	None
The confession of accused No. 1, Satwant which was recorded in Tihar Jail by the Link Magistrate, Shri Bharat Bhushan has been vehemently criticised by the learned Counsel Mr. Ram Jethamalani on the ground that the confession being not recorded in open court as required under the provisions of Section 164 of Criminal Procedure Code, is inadmissible in evidence and it cannot be adhered to for convicting the accused.	None
This submission does not hold good in view of the pronouncement of this Court in Hem Raj Devilal v. The State of Ajmer 1954CriLJ1313 wherein it has been held that No doubt the confession was recorded in jail though ordinarily it should have been recorded in the Court House, But that irregularity seems to have been made because nobody seems to have realized that that was the appropriate place to record it but this circumstance does not affect in this case the voluntary character of the confession.	None
In Ram Chandra and Anr.	None
v. State of Uttar Pradesh the appellant was sent to Naini jail on 13th July.	None
He was brought before a Magistrate on 17th July	None
but he refused to make any confession.	None
On 7th October a letter signed by the appellant was sent to the District Magistrate, Allahabad, through the Superintendent of the Jail to the effect that he wanted to make a confession.	None
At about this time he was kept in solitary confinement and that the police officer who was investigating this case went to the Naini Jail on 8th and 9th October.	None
The District Magistrate deputed Smt.	None
Madhuri Shrivastava to record confession.	None
She went to Jail on 10th October and recorded the confession in jail.	None
Before recording the confession the magistrate did not attempt to ascertain why he was making the confession after such a long lapse of time.	None
She in her crossexamination said that she thought it improper to record his statement in Court and during court hours.	None
She was not aware of the rules framed by the Government that confession is to be recorded ordinarily in open court and during court hours unless for exceptional reasons it is not feasible to do so.	None
She also did not apprise the accused that he is not bound to make any statement and such statement if made may be used against him.	None
She gave the usual certificate that the accused made the statement voluntarily.	None
In these circumstances it was held that the confession was not recorded in accordance with law and the accused was not explained that he was not bound to make any statement and if any statement is made, the same will be used against him.	None
It was therefore, held that the confession was not a voluntary one and the same cannot be used in convicting the accused, Thus the reason for not taking into consideration the confession was that the mandatory requirement of explaining to the accused as provided in Section 164(3) of Criminal Procedure Code, was not observed before the recording of confession and as such the confession was not a voluntary one.	None
The recording of confession in jail by itself was not held to invalidate the confession by this Court, It has been urged by Mr. Jelhamalani that a confession not recorded in the manner prescribed in Section 164 Cr.	Arguments of Petitioner
P.C.	Facts
and if a certificate as required to be appended below the confession is not made in accordance with the prescribed terms, is inadmissible in evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this submission reference was made to Nazir Ahmed v. King Emperor .	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case the Judicial Committee observed that the principle applied in Taylor v. Taylor (1816) 1 C D 426 to a court, namely that where a power is given to do a certain thing in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not at all and that other methods of performance are necessarily forbidden, applied to judicial officers making a record under Section 164 and, therefore, held that the Magistrate could not give oral evidence of the confession made to him which he had purported to record under Section 164 of the Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
Otherwise all the precautions and safeguards laid down in Sections 164 and 364, both of which had to be read together, would become of such trifling value as to be almost idle.	Arguments of Petitioner
112.	None
It has been urged on behalf of the respondent that if the confession is not recorded in proper form as prescribed by Section 164 read with Section 281 which corresponds to earlier Section 364, it is a mere irregularity and it can be cured by Section 463 on taking evidence that the statement was recorded duly and it has not injured the accused in defence on merits.	Arguments of Respondent
This question came up for consideration in this Court in the case of State of Uttar Pradesh v. Singhara Singh arid Ors.	None
19644SCR485 .	None
It has been observed that What Section 533 therefore, does is to permit oral evidence to be given to prove that the procedure laid down in 8.164 had in fact been followed when the Court finds that the record produced before it does not show that that was so.	None
If the oral evidence establishes that the procedure had been followed, then only can the record be admitted.	None
Therefore, far from showing that the procedure laid down in Section 164 is not intended to be Obligatory, Section 533 really emphasises that that procedure has to be followed.	None
The section only permits oral evidence to prove that the procedure had actually been followed in certain cases where the record which ought to show that does not on the face of it do so.	None
In Ranbir Singh and Ors.	None
v. Emperor	None
19644SCR485	None
the accused was taken into the thana compound and the Magistrate who is a retired District Judge recorded his statement in the open at 9 p.m.	None
The Magistrate did not tell him that he was a Magistrate and he did not satisfy himself by questioning him whether he was making the confession voluntarily, although he states quite definitely that he was satisfied by observation that the man was making a voluntary statement.	None
It was observed that the failure of the Magistrate to question the accused as to his making the confession voluntarily is a radical and fatal defect, which cannot be cured by Section 533 of the Criminal Procedure Code.	None
The confession was held inadmissible.	None
In the case of Partap Singh v. The Crown 1925 I.L.R. (LS) 415 it does not appear from the confession that the provisions of Section 164(3) i.e. to explain to the person who is to make it that he is riot bound to make a confession at all and that if he does so, it may be used as evidence against him, were not applied by the Magistrate.	None
Question arose whether such a defect in the confession can be cured by Section 533 Criminal Procedure Code.	None
It was held that a defect in form is curable and a defect in substance is not.	None
It was further held that If as a matter of fact the statement was duly recorded, that is to say, after the required explanation had been given, but the Magistrate had failed to embody that fact in the certificate such a defect would be curable.	None
If the explanation had not in fact been made the statement could not be held to have been duly made and Section 533 could not be appealed to.	None
In Parg Emperor 1931 Cri.LJ.	None
97	None
it has been held that in recording a confession it is the duty of the Magistrate to satisfy himself in every reasonable way that the confession is made voluntarily and further it is the imperative duty of the Magistrate to record those questions and answers by means of which he has satisfied himself that the confession is in fact voluntary.	None
Omission warn the accused that he was making a confession before Magistrate and to record the steps taken by the Magistrate to see that the confession was made voluntarily is a substantial defect not curable by Section 533 Criminal Procedure Code.	None
The High Court of Orissa in the case of Ambai v. The State 1966 Cri.LJ.	None
651 has held that Section 533 can cure errors of forms and not of substance.	None
On a consideration of the above decisions it is manifest that if the provisions of Section 164(2) which require that the Magistrate before recording confession shall explain to the person making confession that he is not bound to make a confession and if he does so it. may be used as evidence against him and upon questioning the person if the Magistrate has reasons to believe that it is being made voluntarily then the confession will be recorded by the Magistrate.	None
The compliance of the Subsection (2) of Section 164 is therefore, mandatory and imperative and noncompliance of it renders the confession inadmissible in evidence.	None
Section 463 (old Section 533) of the CrPC provides that where the questions and answers regarding the confession have not been recorded evidence can be adduced to prove that in fact the requirements of Subsection (2) of Section 164 read with Section 281 have in fact been complied with.	None
If the Court comes to a finding that such a compliance had in fact been made the mere omission to record the same in the proper form will not render it inadmissible evidence and the defect is cured under Section 463 (Section 533 of the old Criminal Procedure Code) but when there is noncompliance of the mandatory requirement of Section 164(2) Criminal Procedure Code and it comes out in evidence that no such explanation as envisaged in the aforesaid Subsection has been given to the accused by the Magistrate, this substantial defect cannot be cured under Section 463 Criminal Procedure Code.	None
In Abdul Rajak Murtaja Dafedar v. State of Maharashtra 1970CriLJ373	None
it was observed that the appellant himself never said that he made the confession on account of any inducement or coercion on the part of the police.	None
The appellant was kept in jail custody for 3 days from October 25 to October 28, 1966 and on October 28,1966 the Executive Magistrate made the preliminary questioning of the appellant, gave him a warning and sent him back to District jail at Sangli.	None
On the next day the appellant was produced before the Magistrate and the confession was recorded.	None
The appellant had thus spent four days in judicial custody and he was not under the influence of the investigating agency for at least four days.	None
Again he had 24 hours to think after he was told by the Magistrate that he was not bound to make any confession and if he made one it would be used against him.	None
It was held that the confession could not be said to be not voluntary.	None
In Dagdu and Ors. etc. v. State of Maharashtra 1977CriLJ1206 eight confessions were recorded by a SubDivisional Magistrate, Devidas Sakharam Pawar (PW23) without complying with the mandatory provisions of Section 164 of the CrPC.	None
He made no effort to ascertain from any of the accused whether he or she was making the confession voluntarily.	None
Nor did he ask any of the accused whether the police had offered or promised any incentive for making the confessional statement.	None
He also did not try to ascertain for how long the confessing accused were in jail custody prior to his production for recording the confession.	None
There was no record to show whether the accused were sent after they were given time for reflection.	None
In none of these confessional statements there was a memorandum as required by Section 164 of the CrPC that the Magistrate believed that the confession was voluntarily made.	None
It was observed by this Court that The failure to observe the safeguards prescribed therein are in practice calculated to impair the evidentiary value of the confessional statements.	None
It was further observed that Considering the circumstances leading to the processional recording of the eight confessions and the abject disregard, by the Magistrate, of the provisions contained in Section 164 of the Code and of the instructions issued by the High Court, we are of the opinion that no reliance can be placed on any of the confessions.	None
In Ram Prakash v. The State of Punjab 1959 SCR 1219 it was held that A voluntary and true confession made by an accused though it was subsequently retracted by him, can be taken into consideration against a coaccused by virtue of Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act, but as a matter of prudence and practice the Court should not act upon it to sustain a conviction of the coaccused without full and strong corroboration in material particulars both as to the crime and as to his connection with that crime.	None
In the instant case the accused Satwant Singh who was in police custody was produced before the Magistrate Shri S.L. Khanna on 29.11.1984.	None
On that day the accused made an application (Ext.PW 11/A) stating that he wanted to make a statement about the facts concerning Indira Gandhi Assassination Case.	None
The Magistrate directed the remand of the accused in judicial custody till 1.12.1984 giving the accused time to reconsider and reflect.	None
The Magistrate also told him that he was not bound to make any statement and if any statement is made the same might be used against him.	None
The Magistrate also directed to send a letter to the Secretary, Legal Aid Committee to provide legal assistance to the accused at the expense of the State.	None
On 1.12.1984, the Magistrate enquired of the accused whether he wanted to make a statement whereon the accused stated that he wanted to make statement.	None
He allowed to consult his counsel, Shri I.U. Khan, Advocate who conferred with him for about 15 minutes privately, as the accused insisted that his statement be recorded, the application was sent by the Magistrate, Shri S.K. Khanna to the Link magistrate, Shri Bharat Bhushan for recording his statement.	None
Before recording his statement Dr.Vijay Kumar was called to examine the accused.	None
Dr.Vijay Kumar stated in his report (Ext.PW 11/B) that in his opinion the accused is fit to make his statement.	None
It appears from Ext. PW 11/B2 as well as from the questions and answers which were put to the accused (Ext.PW 11/B3) that the Link Magistrate, Shri Bharat Bhushan warned the accused that he was not bound to make any confessional statement and in case he does so it may be used against him during trial.	None
The accused in spite of this warning wanted to make a statement and thereafter the confessional statement Ext, PW 11/C was recorded by the Link Magistrate.	None
In the certificate appended to the said confessional statement it has been stated that there was no pressure upon the accused and there was neither any police officer nor any body else within the hearing or sight when the statement was recorded.	None
Therefore, it appears that the accused was put the necessary questions and was given the warning that he was not bound to make any statement and in case any statement is made, the same might be used against him by the prosecution for his conviction.	None
Ofcourse, no question was put by the Magistrate to the accused as to why he wanted to make a confessional statement.	None
It also appears from the evidence of the Magistrate, Shri Bharat Bhushan (Ext. PW 11) that the confessional statement was made voluntarily by the accused.	None
So the defect in recording the statement in the form prescribed is cured by Section 463 of the CrPC.	None
It is indeed appropriate to mention in this connection that the defect in recording the statement in appropriate form prescribed can be cured under Section 463 of the CrPC provided the mandatory provisions of 164(2) namely explaining to the accused that he was not bound to make a statement and if a statement is made the same might be used against him, have been complied with and the same is established on an examination of the Magistrate that the mandatory provisions have been complied with.	None
122123.	None
The accused No. 1, Satwant Singh has been charged with the murder of Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India Under Section 302 I.P.C. read with Section 120B and 34 I.P.C. He has also been charged Under Section 307 I.P.C for attempt to murder Rameshwar Dayal.	None
He has further been charged Under Section 27 of the Arms Act.	None
The prosecution has examined three eye witnesses namely PW9 Narain Singh, PW10 Rameshwar Dayal and PW 64 Nathu Ram.	None
Prosecution has also examined PW 49 Ganga Singh, Member of ITBP who immediately after the firing apprehended Satwant Singh.	None
PW9 Narain Singh, deposed that he was on duty at 1.	None
Safdarjung Road from 7.30 A.M. on 31.10.1984 and the place of duty was, isolation cordon near the porch.	None
He stated that at 8.45 A.M. he took hold of the umbrella and took his position near the pantry gate as he came to know that the Prime Minister, Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi had to meet the foreign T.V. representatives in No. 1, Akbar Road.	None
At 9.10 A.M. Prime Minister emerged out of her house No. 1, Safdarjung Road followed by Nathu Ram (PW64) and her Private Secretary, R.K. Dhawan.	None
At that time the deponent was holding the umbrella over the head of Prime Minister to save her from sun and was moving on her right side.	None
They approached the TMC gate and when they were about 10 feet from there, he saw that the gate was open.	None
He also saw Beant singh on the left side and Satwant Singh on the right side.	None
The former was in safari suit and the latter i.e. Satwant singh was in his uniform.	None
Satwant singh had a stengun in his hands.	None
At that time, Beant singh took out his revolver from the right dub and fired the Prime Minister and immediately thereafter Satwant Singh also started firing upon the Prime Minister.	None
The Prime Minister was hit by those bullets and injured and fell down on the right side.	None
Seeing them firing on the Prime Minister, he throw the umbrella and took out his revolver and jumped upon Beant Singh whereupon his (Beant Singh) revolver fell from his hands.	None
He secured Beant Singh.	Reasoning
He further stated that he noticed Rameshwar Dayal, ASI sustained bullet injuries.	None
The doctor himself came running by then and at his direction he, Mr. Bhatt, ACP, Sr.Opey and Nathu Ram took her to the escort car which had arrived and placed her in the rear seat.	Reasoning
He further said that he went to the hospital in staff car.	None
ASI, Rameshwar Dayal was taken in another escort car to AIIMS.	None
In his crossexamination he further stated that except for the accused Satwant Singh he did not find any constable of D.A.P. on duty on 31.10.1984 in the P.M. house on the portion through which he passed.	None
He also stated that it was incorrect to suggest that Satwant Singh had sustained bullet injuries before Mrs. Indira Gandhi had been fired at.	None
He also denied the suggestion that he was not present on the spot or that bullets were coming from the four sides of Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	None
He also stated that he was stunned when he saw the bullets coming from Beant Singh and Satwant Singh.	None
He also stated that as Mrs. Indira Gandhi approached towards TMC gate within its ten feet, Beant Singh took out his revolver and immediately shot at Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	Facts
PW10 ASI Rameshwar Dayal deposed to the following effect I was on duty on 31.10.1984 at P.M.s house at No. 1, Safdarjung Road from 7.30 A.M.to 1.30 P.M.	None
It was a security duty.	None
I was on duty of water attendant in the pilots car of the Prime minister.	None
I enquired about the P.M.s Programme.	None
I learnt that the Prime Minister was to attend a film shooting VCR in No. 1, Akbar Road at 9 A.M.	None
As I was going from No. 1, Safdarjung Road No. 1, Akbar road and had reached the concrete road from the nursery, I saw Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi coming from No. 1.Safdarjung Road to No. 1,Akbar Road.	None
At that time, Shri RXDhawan, H.C.	None
Narain Singh with an umbrella on the right side a little behind her and Nathu Ram following R.K. Dhawan were also seen by me going towards No. 1, Akbar Road from No. 1, Safdarjung Road.	None
I also started moving behind them.	None
As the Prime Minister reached near the Sentry booth link gate i.e. the TMC Gate or Akbar Road front gate, I saw Beant Singh, SI and Satwant Singh constable with a stengun on duty.	None
Satwant singh, constable was in uniform.	None
All of a sudden Beant singh fired at the Prime Minister with his revolver by raising his right hand and immediately thereafter Satwant singh also fired at the Prime Minister with his revolver by raising his right hand and immediately thereafter Satwant Singh also fired at Prime Minister with his stengun.	None
I saw the Prime Minister falling.	None
I ran to shield the Prime Minister and I was also injured with the bullets.	None
I fell down	None
and I got up.	None
By that time, Narain Singh H.C. had thrown is umbrella and had run to seize and secure Beant Singh and one Lawang Sherparan to secure them from Akbar Road side.	None
They i.e. Beant Singh and Satwant Singh threw their arms.	None
In the meanwhile, ITBP staff secured Beant Singh and Satwant Singh.	None
At that time Beant Singh said, whatever was to be done had been done.	None
In his crossexamination, he stated that the bullet had come from Satwant Singh side and it was that bullet which hit him.	None
He also stated, In fact, I could not have so stated since I had already told in my statement dated 2.11.1984 that Satwant and Beant Singh had fired at the Prime Minister, Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi and injured her.	Facts
He denied th6 suggestion that he was at a distance of 6065 feet away from the Prime Minister when she was fired at and stated that he was at a distance of only 10/15 steps.	None
PW.64 Nathu Ram, EXLibrary Asstt.	None
and Personnel Attendant to Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi stated in his deposition to the following effect On 31.10.1984 I had come on my duty at 7.A.M. to No. 1, Safdarjung Road as Library Asstt.	None
and Personnel attendant of late P.M., Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi.	Facts
I was required to come in the morning, open the librarycumbed room of the late Prime Minister and get it cleaned and dusted and then be in attendance upon the late P.M. to do what she wanted me to do.	None
On 31.10.1984 as well, after performing the above duties by about 9.05 A.M., the Prime Minister, Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi was ready to go out with Mr. R.K. Dhawan.	None
The Prime Minister thereupon left the room at 9.05 A.M. fallowed by Shri R.K. Dhawan and then followed by me.	None
She reached the pantry gate where Shri Narain Singh was waiting with an umbrella in his hand.	None
As the Prime Minister emerged out of the pantry gate, Shri Narain Singh opened the umbrella over her and held the said umbrella in his right hand while the Prime Minister was moving towards No. 1, Akbar Road.	None
At that time, when P.M. was moving towards No. 1, Akbar Road, Narain Singh was with her on the right side holding the umbrella over her while on the left side	None
Shri R.K. Dhawan was moving besides her talking to her.	None
I was following Shri R.K. Dhawan at that time.	None
I was about two steps behind Shri R.K. Dhawan.	None
As all of us came out of the jafarigate, I noticed that the TMC gate was lying open and Beant Singh SI in safari suit was standing on our left side while Satwant Singh constable in uniform was standing on the right side of ours near the TMC gate.	None
As we reached within about 1011 feet of the TMC Gate, Beant Singh took out his revolver and started firing on the Prime Minister.	None
Immediately thereafter Satwant Singh also started firing from his stengun upon the Prime Minister.	None
Then the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi fell towards her right side.	None
We were startled.	None
At that very moment, Narain Singh threw umbrella and jumped upon Beant Singh and took out his (Narain Singhs) revolver, and secured Beant Singh.	None
Simultaneously, Mr Bhatt and Lawang Sherpa and other uniformed persons also arrived there and they secured Satwant Singh accused.	None
Beant Singh and Satwant Singh threw their arms on the ground.	None
When Narain Singh got up for bringing the doctor, Dr. Opey arrived on the spot.	None
When myself, Shri Bhatt, Dr. Opey were in the process of removing the Prime Minister, Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi to the car along with Shri R.K. Dhawan and Narain Singh at that time I noticed that Rameshwar Dayal was also holding his leg in injured state on the spot.	None
In his crossexamination in answer to a question he stated I saw two persons namely Beant Singh and Satwant Singh with arms.	None
Shri Narain Singh also had arm with him and none else had the arms.	None
On a consideration and appraisement of the evidence of the eyewitnesses, it is clear and apparent that the accused Satwant Singh and Beant Singh fired at Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi while she was approaching the TMC gate accompanied by her Private Secretary Shri R.K. Dhawan, Narain Singh, H.C., PW9 holding an umbrella on her head to protect her from sun accompanying her on the right side and Nathu Ram following behind Shri R.K. Dhawan.	None
It also appears that Beant singh first started firing from his service revolver and simultaneously the accused No. 1, Satwant Singh also cocked his SAF Carbine towards the Prime Minister whereon the Prime Minister fell on the ground on her right side.	None
It has been tried to suggest that the bullets were coming from all the sides and accused Satwant Singh was seriously injured by such bullets and Beant Singh died.	None
This suggestion was however, denied by the eyewitnesses and they specifically stated that the accused Satwant Singh and Beant Singh shot on the Prime Minister while she was approaching the TMC gate and she was about 810 steps away from the TMC gate.	None
It has been denied that there was any firing from all the sides and it has been specifically stated in crossexamination that the firing was from the front side which hit the Prime Minister and the said firing was caused by Beant Singh and Satwant Singh from their respective service revolver and SAF Carbine.	None
It also appears that Beant Singh and accused Satwant Singh were apprehended by PW 9 Narain Singh HC and by the ITBP people.	None
It has also been specifically stated by PW9 in crossexamination that Satwant Singh did not sustain bullet injuries before Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi had been fired at.	None
The suggestion on behalf of the defence that there was firing from all sides and accused Satwant Singh was injured seriously and Beant Singh died by this firing has got no basis and it is unsustainable.	None
PW49 Ganga Singh, L Naik of ITBP stated in his deposition to the following effect On 31.10.19841 was posted on duty at No. 1, Safdarjung Road from 6 A.M. to 2 P.M. near the main gate in guard room.	None
At 9.15 A.M. I heard sound of firing of bullets from the TMC gate.	None
I along with Shri Tersem Singh, Padam Singh, Jai Chand, Daya Nand thereupon took our carbines and went towards TMC gate running.	None
We found Prime Minister Madam lying in injured condition on the floor.	None
Near the gate there were two Sardars in white clothes, again said one was in civil dress and the other was in uniform.	None
The uniformed Sardar is present in the court i.e. Satwant Singh.	None
He had a carbine in his hand.	None
The other Sardar had a small weapon.	None
Inspector Tersem Singh made them handsup.	None
I secured them.	None
I and Padam Singh secured the uniformed sardar.	None
The sardar was secured by Jai Chand and Daya Nand.	None
I took into possession a rucksack from the shoulder of the uniformed sardar.	None
Thereupon, Inspector Tersem Singh asked us to take the two sardars to the guard room.	None
The carbine and the small weapon were thrown on the ground.	None
We then took both of them to the guardroom.	None
We left them there and Inspector Tersem Singh asked us to go to our point of duty.	None
I heard some fireshots from the guard room side and the accused No. 1 and Beant Singh were lying injured there.	None
In crossexamination he stated that The revolver and stengun were in the hands of the sardars before Shri Tersem Singh made them handsup.	None
It is incorrect to suggest that Satwant Singh had already been hit by a bullet when I reached the TMC gate.	None
I secured Satwant singh from the right side.	None
Rucksack was on the left shoulder.	None
It is obvious from the deposition of PW 49 that when he and other ITBP men took Beant Singh and Satwant Singh to the guard room they were not at all in injured condition.	None
It has also been stated by this witness that the revolver and SAF carbine were in the hands of two sardars before Shri Tersem Singh made them handsup.	None
This witness also denied the suggestion that Satwant Singh had already been hit by a bullet when he reached the TMC gate.	None
The evidence of this witness therefore, contradicts and falsifies the suggestion tried to be made on behalf of the defence, i.e. the accused Satwant Singh was injured already by bullets coming from all sides.	None
It is pertinent to mention in this connection to the evidence of PW27ASI Mangat Ram who was posted as ASI personnel in 2nd Battalion D.A.P.	None
He brought the record relating to Satwant Singh constable	None
No. 1614 in 2nd Battalion DAP who was posted on 31.10.1984 in C D at Teen Murti Line.	None
He also deposed that in 27.6.1983 vide order No. 236267/ASIP22nd Battalion DAP he was posted in C Company of Teen Murti Line.	None
Daily diary maintained at Teen Murti 2nd Battalion DAP (Ex.	None
PW 14/C) shows from entry No. 85 dated 30./31.10.1984 that on the morning on 31.10. 1984, Satwant Singh constable No. 1.614 was put on duty at Beat No. 4 in the Akbar Road House and not at the TMC gate and this entry is confirmed by PW 15, the daily diary clerk at Teen Murti Line.	None
He deposed that entry No. 85 in Ex.	None
PW 14/A is in his hand and is correct.	None
He also stated that the accused Satwant Singh was put on duty at Beat No. 4, Akbar Road in the P.M. House and not at TMC gate and he was given arms as per koth register.	None
The arms and ammunitions register (Ex. PW 3/A) at Teen Murti Line shows that Satwant Singh was issued a SAF Carbine (sten gun) having Butt No. 80 along vith 5 magazines and 100 live rounds of 9mm ammunition and that he signed the register in token of its receipt, therefore this goes to show the presence of the accused Satwant Singh at the TMC gate in the P.M. house at 1 Akbar Road on duty from 7.30 A.M. on 31.10.1984 with a SAF Carbine Butt No. 80.	None
There is therefore no iota of doubt that the accused No. 1, Satwant singh was present at the TMC gate at No. 1, Akbar Road on the fateful morning i.e. on 31.10.1984.	None
It is to be noted in this connection that the duty of accused Satwant Singh constable was placed at beat No. 4 Akbar Road House on 31.10,1984 as is evident from entry No. 85 in the Rojnamcha i.e. daih diary kept at Teen Murti Line	None
but he in conspiracy with Beant singh manipulated his duty at TMC gate on the plea that he was suffering from dysentery and having loose motions.	None
This will be obvious from the deposition of PW 43 Constable Deshpal Singh No. 1157 who deposed that he was posted at TMC gate 1, Safdarjung Road, P.M. House w.e.f.	None
28th October, 1984 from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. and also from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m.	None
He further stated that he was on duty on 29th, 30th and 31st October, 1984 at these hours.	None
On 31.10.1984 he reported in the Line Teen Murti and then took his arm and proceeded towards his duty in P.M. House.	None
When he reached the P.M. House, the H.C. Kishan Lal No. 1109 told him that Satwant Singh who was on duty on beat No. 4 was suffering from loose motions and therefore he should give duty at beat	None
No. 4 while Satwant Singh would take his position duty at TMC gate, as there was latrine near TMC gate.	None
This clearly shows that Satwant Singh, accused No. 1 manipulated his duty from beat No. 4 to TMC gate in P.M. House and so there is no doubt about his presence at the TMC gate on 31.10.1984 from 7.30.a.m.	None
PW 12 G.R. Prasad, Principal Scientific Officer Incharge Ballistic Division, C.F.S.L., New Delhi had deposed to the effect that the bullet (marked BC/7) recovered from injury No. 1 described in the postmortem report was fired from the 9mm stengun (marked W/1).	None
He further deposed that the bullet recovered from injury No. 2 was fired from the .38 special revolver (marked W/2).	None
This affirms the prosecution case that the accused Satwant Singh and deceased Beant Singh fired shots at Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi from their respective weapons.	None
The deposition of these independent witnesses is corroborated by the confessional statement PW 11/C made by the accused Satwant Singh.	None
Though the said confession was retracted subsequently by the accused, the same can be used by the Court against the accused in convicting him.	None
In Manohar Singh v. Emperor AIR1946All15 it has been held that a confession made by an accused can not be used to convict his coaccused unless there is corroborative evidence against the coaccused but a person can be convicted solely upon his own confession even if retracted if the Court believes it to be true.	None
The law has been well settled in a decision of this Court in Sarwan Singh Rattan Singh v. State of Punjab wherein it has been observed that In law it is always open to the court to convict an accused on his confession itself though he has retracted it at a later stage.	None
Nevertheless usually Courts require some corroboration to the confessional statement before convicting an accused person on such a statement.	None
What amount of corroboration would be necessary in such a case would always be a question of fact to be determined in the light of the circumstances of each case.	None
In the instant case the confessional statements were corroborated by independent evidences which clearly prove, the guilt of the accused.	None
Therefore the charges against the accused Satwant Singh have been duly proved.	None
The concurrent findings of the Trial Court as will as the High Court that offences under Section 302 I.P.C. read with Section 120B, I.P.C. and Section 34 I.P.C. were proved, must be upheld.	None
It is a gruesome murder committed by the accused who was employed as a security guard to protect the Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.	None
It is one of the rarest of rare cases in which extreme penalty of death is called for.	None
The charge of conspiracy has been elaborately dealt with in the judgments rendered by my learned brothers.	None
It appears therefrom that the charge of conspiracy against Kehar Singh with the accused Satwant Singh and Beant Singh since deceased who are the constable and S.I. respectively posted at the P.M.s House to look after the security of Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi has been proved without any reasonable doubt.	None
Therefore, the appeal Nos. 180 and 182 of 1987 are dismissed and the conviction and sentence of death as confirmed by the High Court are upheld.	Decision
The charge of conspiracy against accused No. 2, Balbir Singh has not been proved and as such the appeal filed by him i.e. Criminal Appeal No. 181 of 1987 is allowed and the judgment of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The appellant should be set free forthwith.	Decision
Jagannatha Shetty, J. I agree respectfully with the conclusion reached by my learned brother, Mr. G.L.Oza, J., in these appeals.	None
I wish, however, in view of the importance of the questions involved, to give my own reasons, and to which I attach importance.	None
These appeals by special leave are directed against the conviction and sentence awarded against the appellants by the High Court of Delhi in Criminal Appeals Nos. 28 and 29 of 1986 and murder Reference No. 2 of 1986.	Issue
The crime charged is not simply the murdering of a human being, but it is the crime of assassination of the duly elected Prime Minister of the Country.	None
The motive for the crime was not personal, but the consequence of the action taken by the Government in the exercise of constitutional powers and duties.	None
In our democratic republic, if the government becomes subversive of the purpose of its creation, the people will have the right and duty to change it by their irresistible power of ballot and have the Government of their own choice wisely administered.	None
But no person who is duly constituted shall be eliminated by privy conspiracies.	None
Indian citizens are committed to the Constitution.	None
They have faith in the ballot box.	None
They have confidence in the democratic institutions.	None
They have respect for constitutional authorities.	None
The assassination of Mrs. Indira Gandhi, the third Prime Minister of India, has, therefore, come as a rude shock.	None
It has sent shudder through the civilised world.	None
The issues joined in these appeals involve the highest interest of the whole people of this country.	None
It is a matter of great importance to the people of this country that the accused be lawfully tried and lawfully convicted or acquitted.	None
A wrongful conviction or a wrongful acquittal may shake the confidence of the people in our justice delivery system.	None
The matter, therefore, requires utmost concern.	None
Trial of the assassin and conspirators for the murder of Mrs. Indira Gandhi has resulted in the conviction.	Facts
Satwant Singh (A1), Balbir (A2) and Kehar Singh (A3) are convicted of murder under Section 302 read with Section 120B IPC.	Facts
Satwant Singh is also convicted of murder under Section 302 read with Section 120B and 34 IPC, as well as under Section 307 IPC and Section 27 of the Arms Act.	Facts
The trial judge has awarded the sentence of death on all the three accused.	Facts
The trial judge has also awarded other terms of imprisonment on Satwant Singh.	Facts
The Delhi High Court has confirmed the conviction and sentence.	Facts
The prosecution version of the assassination may be briefly told That in June, 1984, the Indian Army mounted an operation known as Blue Star Operation by which the Armed Force personnel entered the Golden Temple complex at Amritsar to flush out the armed terrorists.	Facts
That operation resulted in loss of life and property as well as damage to the Akal Takht at the Golden Temple.	Facts
It has offended the religious feelings of some members of the Sikh community.	Facts
Resentment was expressed even by some of the Sikh employees of the Delhi Police posted for Prime Ministers security.	Facts
The accused persons are Sikhs by faith.	Facts
They had been expressing their resentment openly, holding the Prime Minister responsible for the action taken at Amritsar.	Facts
They became parties to a criminal conspiracy to murder Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	Facts
Mrs. Indira Gandhi, the Prime Minister, had returned from an official tour of Orissa in the evening of October 30, 1984.	Facts
The day followed was Wednesday.	Facts
In the early hours of every Wednesday, Mrs. Indira Gandhi used to meet people in groups.	Facts
So it was called Darshan Day.	Facts
Unfortunately, she did not adhere to that usual programme.	Facts
The Darshan was cancelled because of another engagement.	Facts
That engagement was with wellknown actor and writer Peter Ustinov.	Facts
His crew was to record an interview with Mrs. Indira Gandhi for Irish Television.	Facts
They were waiting at Bungalow No. 1., Akbaf Road, the home office of the Prime Minister.	Facts
Bungalow No. 1, Safdarjung Road was the Official residence of the Prime Minister.	Facts
The two buildings are connected by a narrow cemented pathway.	Facts
They are located practically in one campus, but separated by a sentry gate which is known as the TMC Gate.	Facts
This is the place where hidden hands sent shock waves to the Nation.	Facts
Mrs. Indira Gandhi at about 9.10 a.m. emerged from her house with her loyal assistants and a faithful servant.	Facts
Immediately behind her was Head Constable Narayan Singh (PW 9) holding an umbrella to protect her against the Sun.	Facts
Rameshwar Dayal (PW 10) an Assistant SubInspector, Nathu Ram (PW 64), her personal attendant and R.K.Dhawan, Special Assistant were closely following Mrs. Gandhi.	Facts
All were on the cemented pathway.	Facts
Mrs. Gandhi was at the head of the entourage.	Facts
She was approaching the TMC gate where Beant Singh, SI was on the left side while Satwant Singh, Constable was on the right side.	Facts
They had managed to station themselves together near the TMC gate.	Facts
Beant Singh got exchanged his duty with S.I. Jai Narain (PW 7).	Facts
Satwant Singh ought to be at Beat No. 4.	Facts
He, however, managed to get TMC sentry booth by misrepresenting that he was suffering from dysentery.	Facts
He was given that place since it was near the latrine.	Facts
Beant Singh was armed with his service revolver while Satwant Singh had SAF Carbine.	Facts
When Mrs. Gandhi reached near the TMC gate, Beant Singh opened fire from his carbine revolver.	Facts
Beant Singh fired five rounds and Satwant Singh released 25 bullets at Mrs. Gandhi.	Facts
Then and there Mrs. Gandhi fell down never to get up.	Facts
She was immediately rushed to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).	Facts
There a team of doctors fought their losing battle to save the life of the slain Prime Minister.	Facts
Rameshwar Dayal (PW 10) who was following Mrs. Gandhi also received bullet injuries as a result of the shots fired by the accused.	Facts
At the spot of the incident, the two assassins are alleged to have thrown their arms and said I have done what I have to do.	Facts
Now you do what you have to do.	Facts
The personnel of the Indo Tibetan Boarder Police (ITBP) pounced on them and took them off to the guard room.	Facts
What happened inside the guard room is not on the record.	Facts
The fact, however, remains that both the assassins had been shot by the ITBP personnel.	Facts
They were soon removed to the hospital where Beant Singh was pronounced dead and Satwant Singh was found to be critically injured.	Facts
Satwant Singh survived after 15 dayss treatment.	Facts
He is accused No. 1 in this case.	Facts
Balbir Singh and Kehar Singh are the other two accused.	Facts
They are said to be parties to the conspiracy to eliminate Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	Facts
Balbir Singh was an S.I. Posted in the security at the residence of the Prime Minister.	Facts
Kehar Singh was an Assistant in the Directorate General of Supply and Disposal, New Delhi.	Facts
He is related to S.I. Beant Singh.	Facts
After the investigation, the chargesheet was filed against the three appellants.	Facts
They were accused of offences under Section 120B, 109 and 34 read with Section 302 of the IPC and also of substantive offences under Sections 302 and 307 of the IPC and Section 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.	Facts
It may be mentioned that the report also names Beant Singh as one of the accused but since he had died, the charges against him were said to have abated.	Facts
In due course, the accused were committed to take their trial in the Court of Session, In the meanwhile, the High Court of Delhi issued two notifications.	Facts
By one notification, the High Court directed the trial of the case shall be held in the Central Jail, Tihar according to law.	Facts
By another notification, the High Court directed that the case be tried by Shri Mahesh Chandra, Additional Sessions Judge, New Delhi.	Facts
In pursuance of the above notifications, the accused were tried in Central Jail, Tihar.	Facts
The learned trial Judge found the accused guilty of all the charges framed against them and sentenced them as earlier stated.	None
There were two appeals before the High Court of Delhi challenging the conviction and sentence.	Facts
Satwant Singh preferred Criminal Appeal No. 28 of 1986.	Facts
Balbir Singh and Kehar Singh together preferred Criminal Appeal No. 29 of 1986.	Facts
These appeals were listed along with the Murder Reference No. 2 of 1986, before a Bench consisting of three Judges.	Facts
The learned Judges, in the course of hearing, also paid a visit to the scene of the crime to get acquainted with the topography of the place of incident.	Facts
After considering the material on record, the High Court accepted Murder Reference 2/86 and confirmed the conviction and the sentence of death on all the accused.	Facts
The High Court also confirmed the other sentences on Satwant Singh.	Facts
Consequently, the appeals preferred by the accused were dismissed.	Facts
In these appeals, the accused are challenging the validity of their trial and the legality of their conviction and sentence.	Issue
The contentions raised as to legality of the trial admit of being summarised and formulated thus Whether the High Court has power to direct the trial of the case at a place other than the normal seat of the Court of Session?	Issue
(ii) Whether the trial inside the jail premises is the very antithesis of an open trial?(iii)	Issue
Whether the trial proceedings were devoid of sufficient safeguards to constitute a public trial?	Issue
And (iv) whether the Courts refusal to call for the statements made by certain prosecution witnesses before the Thakkar Commission was justified?	Issue
I will deal with these questions in turn.	None
Mr. R.S. Sodhi (amicus curiae) appeared for accused No. 1 and Mr. Ram Jethmalani, Senior Advocate, (amicus curiae) appeared for accused Nos. 2 and 3 Mr. G. Ramaswamy, Additional Solicitor General appeared for the State.	None
Both sides of the case have been placed before us with care and skill.	None
Patiala House is the place where the Court of Session at Delhi shall ordinarily hold its sittings.	Facts
On May 10, 1985, the Delhi High Court, however, issued a notification in exercise of, the powers conferred by Section 9(6) of the CrPC 1973 (Code) directing that the session case relating State v. Satwant Singh and Ors.	Facts
F.I.R., No. 241 of 1984 shall be held in the Central Jail, Tihar.	Facts
The notification reads In exercise of the power conferred by Section 9(6) of the CrPC, 1973 the Honble the Chief Justice and Judges of this Court have been pleased to order that the trial of the Sessions Case relating to F.I.R. No.	Facts
241/ 84 of the Arms ActState v. Satwant Singh and Ors., shall be held in the Central Jail, Tihar, according to law.	Facts
BY ORDER OF THE COURT Sd (USHA MEHRA)	None
REGISTRAR	None
On the same day, the High Court passed another order under Section 194 of the Code designating Shri Mahesh Chandra, Additional Sessions Judge as the Judge to try the said case.	Facts
Shri Mahesh Chandra was a Senior District and Sessions Judge at the Courts in New Delhi within the jurisdiction of which the offence was committed.	Facts
The case of the appellants is that the High Court has no jurisdiction to issue the first notification directing the trial at Tihar Jail.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that Section 9(6) confers power on the High Court to specify by notification a place or places at which criminal trials can be held by the Court of Session in the Union Territory of Delhi.	Arguments of Petitioner
The requirement of a notification of the High Court of the place or places where the Court of Session will function is intended to facilitate the process of public participation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a notification, it is submitted, has already been issued by the High Court of Delhi.	Arguments of Petitioner
The whole of the Union Territory, it is pointed out, comprises of one division or district.	Arguments of Petitioner
Originally, the trials in cases pertaining to the entire territory were conducted only at the District Court Complex in Tis Hazari.	Arguments of Petitioner
With the increase of Sessions Cases, the Court of Session was also authorised to hold its sittings at the Parliament Street Courts (now shifted to Patiala House) in New Delhi and the District Court Complex at Shahdra.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that Shri Mahesh Chandra himself was holding Court at Patiala House in relation to certain other cases, and therefore, he can ordinarily hold his sittings only at Patiala House even for the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that Section 9(6) empowers the High Court only to specify the place or places at which all, or any class of the cases pertaining to a division can be heard and does not empower the High Court to specify the place or places of hearing for individual cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
The choice of any other place for holding the sittings, wholly or partly, in any particular case lies within the power of the trial Judge, the trial Judge may exercise that power for the general convenience of parties and witnesses when agreed to by both the parties, 156.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court did not accept these submissions.	None
In substance, it was held that the actual location of a Court can be decided by the High Court either generally or with reference to a particular court or even with reference to a particular case if there is compelling reason.	None
The High Court also said that the fact that it is done with reference to a particular case impairs nobodys fundamental right and is also not discriminatory, as no offender has a vested right to be tried at the usual seat of the Court of Session.	None
The High Court, in my judgment, is right in reaching the above conclusion.	None
Section 9(6) provides Section 9.	None
Court of Session The court of session shall ordinarily hold its sitting at such place or places as the High Court may, by notification specify but, if in any particular case, the Court of Session is of opinion that it will tend to the general convenience of the parties and witnesses to hold its sitting at any other place in the Sessions division, it may with the consent of the prosecution and the accused, sit at that place for the disposal of the case or the examination of any witness or witnesses therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsection (6) can be conveniently divided into two parts.	None
The first part provides power to the High Court to notify the place or places for the Court of Session to hold its sittings for disposal of cases.	None
The second part deals with the power of the Court of Session in any particular case to hold its sittings at a lace not notified by the High Court.	None
The real question which we have to determine is, what do the words place or places mean in the context in which we find it in the first part of Subsection (6), and in the legal landscape of other allied provisions in the Code?	Issue
There is a great deal of juristic writing on the subject of statutory interpretation, and I make no attempt here to summarise it all.	None
I will do it elsewhere in this judgment hen dealing with question No.	None
(iv).	None
Here I do not want to spend more of my time since I need not search for the meaning of the word.	None
The word place with which we are concerned has been defined under the Code.	None
Section 2(p) of the code defines place.	None
It is an inclusive definition.	None
The Place as defined includes a house, building, tent, vehicle, and vessel.	None
The words, too, are empirical signs, not copies or models of anything The words are slippery customers Says COLIN CHERRY (On Human Communication at 10).	None
The interpretation of a word must, therefore, depend upon the text and the context.	None
As C. Chinnappa Reddy, J., Said If the text is the texture, the context is what gives the colour.	None
Neither can be ignored.	None
Both are important.	None
That interpretation is best which makes the textual interpretation match the contextual.	None
A Statute is best interpreted when we know why it was enacted.	None
(Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless G.F. I. Co.	None
AIR 1987 SC 1023 .	None
The words place or places used in Section 9(6) apparently indicates that there could be more than one place for the sitting of the Court of Session.	None
The different places may be notified by different notifications.	None
There may be a general notification as well as a special notification.	None
The general notification may specify the place for the class of cases where Court of Session shall sit for disposal.	None
The special notification may specify the same place or a different place in respect of a particular case.	None
Adroitly, it is said that the words and sections like men do not have their full significance when standing alone.	None
Like men, they are better understood by the company they keep.	None
Section 9(4) and Section 194 of the Code are the closely related sections.	None
They may also be examined in order to understand the true meaning of the word place or places in the first part of Section 9(4).	None
Section 9(4) reads The Session Judge of the Session division, may be appointed by the High Court to be also an additional Sessions Judge of another division, and in such case he may sit for the disposal of cases at such place or places in the other division as the High Court may direct.	None
Section 9(4) empowers the High Court to appoint a Sessions Judge of one division to sit at such place or places in another division for disposal of cases.	None
The High Court while so appointing need not direct him to sit only at the ordinary place of sittings of the Court of Session.	None
There is no such constraint in Section 9(4).	None
The High Court may also issue a separate notification under Section 9(6) specifying the place or places where that Session Judge should sit for disposal of cases.	None
Section 194 provides Additional and Assistant Sessions Judges to try cases made over to them.	None
An Additional Sessions Judge or Assistant Sessions Judge of the division may, by general or special order, make over to him for trial or as the High Court may by special order, direct him to try.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Section 194 provides power to the High Court to make a special order directing an Additional or Assistant Sessions Judge of the same division to try certain specified cases or a particular case.	None
If the High Court thinks that the Additional or Assistant Sessions Judge should hold the Court at a specified place, a separate notification could be issued under Section 9(6).	None
The argument that the first part of Section 9(6) should be read along with the second part thereof has, in the context, no place.	None
The first part provides power to the High Court.	None
It is an administrative power, intended to further the administration of justice.	None
The second part deals with the power of the Court of Session.	None
It is a judicial power of the Court intended to avoid hardship to the parties and witnesses in a particular case.	None
One is independent of and unconnected with the other.	None
So, one should not be confused with the other.	None
The judicial power of the Court of Session is of limited operation, the exercise of which is conditioned by mutual consent of the parties in the first place.	None
Secondly, the exercise of that power has to be narrowly tailored to the convenience of all concerned.	None
It cannot be made use of for any other purpose.	None
This limited judicial power of the Court of Session should not be put across to curtail the vast administrative power of the High Court.	None
Section 9(6) is similar to Section 9(2) of the Old Code (Act 5 of 1898).	None
The only difference being that Section 9(2) conferred power on the State Government to specify the place or places where the Court of Session should sit for the purpose of disposal of cases.	None
That power is now vested in the High Court.	None
The change of authorities was made to keep in tune with the separation of judiciary from the executive.	None
The scope of the sections, however, remains the same.	None
In Lakshman v. Emperor AIR 1931 Bom 313 , a Special Bench of the Bombay High Court sustained the validity of a similar notification issued under Section 9(2).	None
Patkar, J., expressed his view (at 320) Under Section 9, Subsection (2), Criminal P.C. the Local Government may, by general or special order, in the official gazette, direct at what place or places the Court of Session shall hold its sittings, but until such order is made the Court of Session shall hold its sittings as heretofore.	None
It is contended on behalf of the accused that the Local Government has already issued a notification directing the Court of Session to be held at Alibag in certain months commencing on dates to be fixed by the Sessions Judge of Thana, and that the notification dated 5th February, 1931 does not direct any new place where the Court of Session should hold its sitting, and further that the notification does not order the Court of Session to hold its sitting at Alibag, but has directed a particular Additional Sessions Judge to hold the sitting of his Court at Alibag.	None
Under Section 193(2) the Local Government had power to direct Mr. Gundil, the Additional Sessions Judge, to try this particular case.	None
The previous orders of the Local Government were general orders under Section 9(2) and there is nothing in Section 9(2), to prevent a special order being passed directing at what place a Court of Session should hold its sitting.	None
If by reason of an outbreak of plague or any other cause it becomes necessary or expedient that a Court of Session hold its sittings in respect of all the cases at a different place or should try a particular case at a particular place, the words of Section 9(2) are wide enough to cover such an order.	None
An order passed under Section 9(2) is an administrative order passed by the Local Government, and the special order of the Local Government in the present case directing the Additional Sessions Judge to try this particular case at Alibag does not appear to contravene the provisions of Section 9(2).	None
This appears to be the correct view to be taken having regard to the scheme and object of Section 9(2) of the Old Code.	None
In Ranjit Singh v. Chief Justice and Ors. 1985 28 DLT 153 the Delhi High Court while considering the validity of a like notification proclaimed more boldly (at 157) Section 9(6) recognises that the Court of Session if it wishes to hold its sitting at another place can only do so with the consent of prosecution and the accused.	Reasoning
As to the specifying of places of sitting of Court of Session no such restriction is there and it is left to the best judgment of the High Court.	None
Of course, this does not mean that such a power can be exercised arbitrarily.	None
But then it must be noted that Courts have consistently held that where power is vested in a High Official it must ordinarily be presumed that the power is exercised in a bona fide and reasonable manner.	None
Surely, it is a reasonable presumption to hold that when the Full Court exercised its power, like in the present case, directing that the Court of Session may hold its sitting at a place other than its ordinary place of sitting considerations of the interest of justice, expeditious hearing of the trial and the requirement of a fair and open trial are considerations which have weighed with the High Court in issuing the impugned notification.	None
It should be borne in mind that very rarely does the High Court exercises its power to direct any particular case to be tried in jail.	None
When it does so it is done only because of overwhelming consideration of public order, internal security and a realisation that holding of trial outside jail may be held in such a surcharged atmosphere as to completely spoil and vitiate the court atmosphere where it will not be possible to have a calm, detached and fair trial.	None
It is these considerations which necessitated the High Court to issue the impugned notification.	None
Decision is taken on these policy considerations and the question of giving a hearing to the accused before issuing the notification is totally out of place in such matters.	None
These are matters which evidently have to be left to the good sense and to the impartiality to the Full Court in taking a decision in a particular case.	None
It seems to me that the High Court of Delhi is also right in observing that it is unnecessary to hear the accused or any body else before exercising the power under Section 9(6).	None
Such a hearing, however, is required to be given by the Court of Session if it wants to change the normal place of sitting, in any particular case, for the general convenience of parties and witnesses.	None
From the foregoing discussion and the decisions, it will be clear that the impugned notification of the High Court of Delhi directing that the trial of the case shall be held at Tihar Jail is not ultra vires of Section 9(6) of the Code.	None
Re. Question(ii)	None
It is argued that public trial is a fundamental requirement of the Constitution and is a part of the constitutional guarantee under Article 21.	None
A public trial in jail in the very nature of things is neither desirable nor possible.	None
The massive walls, high gates, armed sentries at every entrance and the register maintained for noting the names of the visitors are said to be the inhibiting factors to keep away the potential visitors.	None
People generally will not venture to go to jail and it is said, that jail is notionally and psychologically a forbidden place and can never be regarded as a proper place for public trial.	None
The High Court rejected these contentions.	None
The High Court, however, proceeded on the assumption that a public trial is a part of the Constitutional guarantee under Article 21 of our Constitution.	None
It is unnecessary to deal with that aspect in this case.	None
In A. K. Roy v. Union of India 1982CriLJ340 Chandrachud, C.J., speaking for the Constitution Bench said (at 354)	None
The right to public trial is not one of the guaranteed rights under our Constitution as it is under the Sixth Amendment of the American Constitution which secures to persons charged with crimes a public, as well as speedy trial.	None
Even under the American Constitution, the right guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment is held to be personal to the accused which the public in general cannot share.	None
The right of an accused to have a public trial in our country has been expressly provided in the code, and I will have an occasion to consider that question a little later.	None
The Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution provides In all criminal prosecution, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury No such right has been guaranteed to the accused under our Constitution.	None
The argument that jail can never be regarded as proper place for a public trial appears to be too general.	None
The jail trial is not an innovation.	None
It has been there before we were born.	None
The validity of jail trial with reference to Section 352 of the code of 1898 since reenacted as Section 327(1) has been the subject matter of several decisions of different High Courts.	None
The High Court in this case has examined almost all those decisions.	None
I will refer to some of them with laconic details.	None
Before that, it is better to have before us Section 352 of the Code of 1898.	None
It reads Courts to be open  The place in which any Criminal court is held for the purpose of inquiring into or trying any offence shall be deemed an open Court, to which the public generally may have access, so far as the same can conveniently contain them.	None
Provided that the presiding Judge or Magistrate may, if he thinks fit, order at any stage of any inquiry into, or trial or, any particular case, that the public generally, or any particular person, shall not have access or be or remain in, the room or building used by the Court.	None
In Sahai Singh v. Empemr AIR 1917 Lahore 311, the accused were convicted and sentenced in the trial held in a jail.	None
There conviction was challenged before the High Court at Lahore on the ground, amongst others, that the trial was vitiated because it was held in the jail.	None
The High Court rejected the contention stating It is necessary that I should first mention a contention that the whole trial is vitiated because it was held in the jail.	None
Counsel for some of the appellants has referred to Section 352, Criminal Procedure Code, but there is nothing to show that admittance was refused to any one who desired it, or that the prisoners were unable to communicate with their friends or Counsel.	None
No doubt it is difficult to get Counsel to appear in the jail and for that reason, if for no other, such trials are usually undesirable, but in this case the Executive Authorities were of the opinion that it would be unsafe to hold the trial elsewhere.	None
In Kailash Nath v. Emperor AIR 1947 All. 436 , the Allahabad High Court said that there is no inherent illegality in jail trials if the Magistrate follows the rules of Sections 352 and the place becomes something like an open Court.	None
The practice of having trials inside jails, as the High Court has rightly pointed out, seems to have persisted even after the coming into force of the Constitution.	None
In re M.R. Venkataraman AIR1950Mad441 the High Court of Madras after referring to the decisions in Kailash Naths case and Sahais case, observed(at 442)	None
Again, if the conveyance of prisoners, and the accused to and from the court house or other buildings, will be attended with serious danger of attack, and the rescue of the accused or the prisoners, or with heavy cost to the Government in providing an armed escort, it may well be within the powers of the Judge or Magistrate, after due consideration of the public interests and after writing down the reasons in each case, to hold the trials even inside the jail premises, where the accused are confined.	None
In re T.R. Ganeshan AIR1950Mad696 , the Madras High Court was again called upon to consider the validity of a jail trial.	None
In this case, the trial was held in recreation room which was within the jail compound.	None
The building consisted of a hall and verandah on two sides.	None
It was situated at some distance from the prison walls proper.	None
It was accessible to the public.	None
The press reporters, some members of the Bar and public also attended the trial proceedings.	None
The High Court upheld the validity of that trial.	None
The High Court also said that in the interest of justice and fair trial of the case itself that, in certain circumstances and in some cases, the public may be excluded.	None
The Calcutta High Court in Prasanta Kumar v. The State AIR1952Cal9 and Madhya Pradesh High Court in Narwar Singh and Ors.	None
v. State 193 at 195 recognised the right of the Magistrate to hold Court in jail for reasons of security for accused, for witnesses or for the Magistrate himself or for other valid reasons.	None
It may now be stated without contradiction that jail is not a prohibited place for trial of criminal cases.	None
Nor the jail trial can be regarded as an illegitimate trial.	None
There can be trial in jail premises for reasons of security to the parties, witnesses and for other valid reasons.	None
The enquiry or trial, however, must be conducted in open Court.	None
There should not be any veil of secrecy in the proceedings.	None
There should not even be an impression that it is a secret trial.	None
The dynamics of judicial process should be thrown open to the public at every stage.	None
The public must have reasonable access to the place of trial.	None
The Presiding Judge must have full control of the Court house.	None
The accused must have all facilities to have a fair trial and all safeguards to avoid prejudice.	None
In the present case there is no reason to find fault with the decision of the High Court to have the trial in Tihar jail.	None
The records show that the situation then was imperative.	None
The circumstances which weighed with the High Court may be gathered from a letter dated May 8, 1985, addressed by the Home Secretary to the Registrar of the High Court.	None
The relevant portion of the letter reads The case is of very special nature and of utmost importance.	None
The assassination of the late Prime Minister had provoked violence and security of State besides the maintenance of law and order had become vital problems for Administration.	None
There is every risk of breach of public peace and disturbance of law and order, if the trial is held in an open place.	None
The lives of the trial Judge, prosecutor and those otherwise involved in the prosecution of the case may be jeopardised.	None
It is on record that during committal proceeding the Magistrate and Prosecutor concerned were threatened with dire consequences as they were working for a successful prosecution.	None
The circumstances in which the Honble High Court was pleased to accept the prayer of the Administration for conducting remand and committal proceedings in Central Jail, Tihar continue to exist.	None
It is only for the security of the Judge, witnesses, Police Officers and Ors.	None
but also for the safety of the accused themselves that the trial of the case may be held in Central Jail, Tihar.	None
The letter reveals a grim picture of the then existing situation.	None
It is said that the assassination of Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi had provoked widespread violence threatening the security of the State and the maintenance of law and order.	None
The remand and the committal proceedings had to be taken in Tihar Jail since the Magistrate and Prosecutor were threatened with dire consequences.	None
It is also said that such circumstances continued to exist when the case came up for trial.	None
The letter ends with a request to have the trial of the case in Tihar Jail for the security of the Judge, witnesses, Police Officers and also for the safety of the accused themselves.	None
The High Court also has taken note of the events that immediately followed the assassination of Smt.	None
Gandhi.	Facts
Beant Singh one of the assassins was shot dead and Satwant Singh who is the accused herein received near fatal gun shot injury.	None
That is not all.	None
There was unprecedented violence aftermath in the national capital and other places.	None
Frenzied mob armed with whatever they could lay their hands were seen besieging passing sikhs and burning their vehicles, as doctors in the hospital fought their vain battle to save the life of Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	None
Even President Zail Singhs cavalcade, making its way from the Airport to the hospital was not spared.	None
The reaction of outrage went on unabated followed by reprisal killings and destruction of properties.	None
The local police force was baldly shaken.	None
They could do little even to contain the violence.	None
The Army had to be deployed to stem the tide of deluge.	None
The new Prime Minister, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi made an unscheduled broadcast to the Nation pleading for sanity and protection to the Sikhs.	None
Nevertheless three days passed on with murder and loot leaving behind a horrendous toll of more than two thousand dead and countless property destroyed.	None
It is a tragedy frightening even to think of.	None
This has been referred to in the report (at 11 to 15) of Justice Ranganatha Misra Commission of Inquiry.	None
These unprecedented events and circumstances, in my judgment, would amply justify the decision of the High Court to direct that the trial of the case should take place in Tihar Jail.	None
RE Question (iii) The question herein for consideration is whether the trial held in Tihar Jail was devoid of sufficient safeguards to constitute an open trial?	Issue
As a preliminary to the consideration of this question, it is necessary to understand the scope of Section 327(1) of the Code.	None
The section provides Section 327.	None
Court to be open The place in which any criminal court is held for the purpose of inquiring into or trying any offence shall be deemed to be an open Court, to which the public generally may have access, so far as the same can conveniently contain them Provided that the Presiding Judge or Magistrate may, if he thinks fit, order at any stage of any inquiry into, or trial of, any particular case, that the public generally, or any particular person, shall not have access, to or be or remain in, the room or building used by the Court.	None
The main part of Subsec(1) embodies the principle of public trial.	None
It declares that the place of inquiry and trial of any offence shall be deemed to be an open Court.	None
It significantly uses the words open Court.	None
It means that all justice shall be done openly and the Courts shall be open to public.	None
It means that the accused is entitled to a public trial and the public may claim access to the trial.	None
The Subsection however goes on to state that the public generally may have access so far as the place can conveniently contain them.	None
What has been stated here is nothing new.	None
It is implicit in the concept of a public trial.	None
The public trial does not mean that every person shall be allowed to attend the court.	None
Nor the court room shall be large enough to accommodate all persons.	None
The court may restrict the public access for valid reasons depending upon the particular case and situation.	None
As Judge Cooley states (Cooleys Constitutional Law, Vol.	None
I, 8 Ed. 647)	None
It is also requisite that the trial be public.	None
By this is not meant that every person who seeks fit shall in all cases be permitted to attend criminal trials because there are may cases where, from the character of the charge and the nature of the evidence by which it is to be supported, the motives to attend the trial on the part of portions of the community would be of the worst character, and where regard for public morals and public decency would require that at least the young be excluded from hearing and witnessing the evidences of human depravity which the trial must necessarily bring to light.	None
The requirement of a trial is for the benefit of the accused that the public may see he is fairly dealt with and not unjustly condemned, and that the presence of interested spectators may keep his triers keenly alive to a sense of their responsibility into the importance of their functions and the requirement is fairly observed if, without partiality of favouritism, a reasonable proportion of the public is suffered to attend, notwithstanding that those persons whose presence could be of no service to the accused, and who would only be drawn thither by a prurient curiosity, are excluded altogether.	None
The proviso to Subsection (1) of Section 327 specifically provides power to the Presiding Judge to impose necessary constraint on the public access depending upon the nature of the case.	None
It also confers power on the Presiding Judge to remove any person from the court house.	None
The public trial is not a disorderly trial.	None
It is an orderly trial.	None
The Presiding Officer may, therefore, remove any person from the Court premises if his conduct is undesirable.	None
If exigencies of a situation require, the person desiring to attend the trial may be asked to obtain a pass from the authorised person.	None
Such visitors may be even asked to disclose their names and sign registers.	None
There may be also security checks.	None
These and other like restrictions will not impair the right of the accused or that of the public.	None
They are essential to ensure fairness of the proceedings and safety to all concerned.	None
So much as regards the scope of public trial envisaged under Section 327(1) of the code.	None
There are yet other fundamental principles justifying the public access to criminal trials The crime is a wrong done more to the society than to the individual.	None
It involves a serious invasion of rights and liberties of some other person or persons.	None
The people are, therefore, entitled to know whether the justice delivery system is adequate or inadequate.	None
Whether it responds appropriately to the situation or it presents a pathetic picture.	None
This is one aspect.	None
The other aspect is still more fundamental.	None
When the State representing the society seeks to prosecute a person, the State must do it openly.	None
As Lord Shaw said with most outspoken words (Scoot v. Scott 1913 A.C. 417)	None
It is needless to quote authority on this topic from legal, philosophical, or historical writers.	None
It moves Bentham over and over again.	None
In the darkness of secrecy, sinister interest and evil in every shape have full swing.	None
Only in proportion as publicity has place can any of the checks applicable to judicial injustice operate.	None
Where there is no publicity there is no justice.	None
Publicity is the very soul of justice.	None
It is the keenest spur to exertion and the surest of all guards against improbity.	None
It keeps the judge himself while trying under trial.	None
The security of securities is publicity.	None
But amongst historians the grave and enlightened verdict of Hallam, in which he ranks the publicity of judicial proceedings even higher than the rights of Parliament as a guarantee of public security, is not likely to be forgotten Civil liberty in this kingdom has two direct guarantees the open administration of justice according to known laws truly interpreted, and fair constructions of evidence and the right of Parliament, without let or interruption, to inquire into, and obtain redress of, public grievances.	None
Of these, the first is by far the most indispensable nor can the subjects of any State be reckoned to enjoy a real freedom, where this condition is not found both in its judicial institutions and in their constant exercise In open dispensation of justice, the people may see that the State is not misusing the State machinery like the Police, the Prosecutors and other public servants.	None
The people may see that the accused is fairly dealt with and not unjustly condemned.	None
There is yet another aspect.	None
The courts like other institutions also belong to people.	None
They are as much human institutions as any other.	None
The other instruments and institutions of the State may survive by the power of the purse or might of the sword.	None
But not the Courts.	None
The Courts have no such means or power.	None
The Courts could survive only by the strength of public confidence.	None
The public confidence can be fostered by exposing Courts more and more to public gaze.	None
There are numerous benefits accruing from the public access to criminal trials.	None
Beth Hornbuckle Fleming in his article First Amendment Right of Access to Pretrial Proceeding in Criminal Cases (Emory Law Journal, V.32(1983) P.618 to 688) neatly recounts the benefits identified by the Supreme Court of the United States in some of the leading decisions.	None
He categorizes the benefits as the fairness and testimonial improvement effects on the trial itself, and the educative and sunshine effects beyond the trial.	None
He then proceeds to state Public access to a criminal trial helps to ensure the fairness of the proceeding.	None
The presence of public and press encourages all participants to perform their duties conscientiously and discourages misconduct and abuse of power by judges, prosecutors and other participants.	None
Decisions based on partiality and bias are discouraged, thus protecting the integrity of the trial process.	None
Public access helps to ensure that procedural rights are respected and that justice is applied equally.	None
Closely related to the fairness function is the role of public access in assuring accurate fact finding through the improvement of witness testimony.	None
This occurs in three ways.	None
First, witnesses are discouraged from committing perjury by the presence of members of the public who maybe aware of the truth.	None
Second, witnesses like other participants, may be encouraged to perform more conscientiously by the presence of the public, thus improving the overall quality of testimony.	None
Third, unknown witnesses may be inducted to come forward and testify if they learn of the proceedings through publicity.	None
Public access to trials also plays a significant role in educating the public about the criminal justice process.	None
Public awareness of the functioning of judicial proceedings is essential to informed citizen debate and decision making about issues with significant effects beyond the outcome of the particular proceeding.	None
Public debate about controversial topics, such as, exclusionary evidentiary rules, is enhanced by public observation of the effect of such rules on actual trials.	None
Attendance at criminal trials is a key means by which the public can learn about the activities of police, prosecutors, attorneys and other public servants, and thus make educated decisions about how to remedy abuses within the criminal justice system.	None
Finally, public access to trials serves an important sunshine function.	None
Closed proceedings, especially when they are the only judicial proceedings in a particular case or when they determine the outcome of subsequent proceedings, may foster distrust of the judicial system.	None
Open proceedings, enhance the appearance of justice and thus help to maintain public confidence in the judicial system.	None
With these observations, let us now hark back to the safeguards provided to ensure an open trial in this case.	None
First, let us have an idea of the building in which the trial took place.	None
The Office Block of the Jail Staff was used as the Court House.	None
It is an independent building located at some distance from the main Jail complex.	None
In between there is a courtyard.	None
This courtyard has direct access from outside.	None
A visitor after entering the courtyard can straight go to the Court House.	None
He need not get into the Jail complex.	None
This is evident from the sketch of the premises produced before us.	None
It appears the person who visits the Court House does not get any idea of the Jail complex in which there are Jail Wards and Cells.	None
From the sketch, it will be also seen that the building comprises of a Courthall, Bar room and chamber for the Judge.	None
The Court hall can be said to be of ordinary size.	None
It has seating capacity for about fifty with some more space for those who could afford to stand.	None
The accused as undertrial prisoners were lodged at Jail No. 1 inside the Jail complex.	None
It was at a distance of about 1 km form the Court House.	None
For trial purposes, the accused were transported by van.	None
In the Court hall, they were provided with bullet proof enclosure.	None
This is a rough picture of the Court House where the accused had their trial.	None
For security reasons, the public access to trial was regulated.	None
Those who desired to witness the trial were required to intimate the Court in advance.	None
The trial Judge used to accord permission to such persons subject to usual security checks.	None
Before commencement of the trial of the case, the representatives of the Press and News Agencies, national and international, approached the trial Judge for permission to cover the Court proceedings.	None
The representatives of BBC, London Times, New York Times and Associated Press were some of them.	None
The trial Judge allowed their request by his order dated May 15, 198S in the following terms.	None
I do feel that in the best traditions of the trial, the press is permitted to cover the proceedings of the trial in the case.	None
In view thereof	None
I think it just and proper to allow the press to cover the proceedings.	None
Without exception the news agencies would have a right to cover the proceedings through a representative.	None
So far as individual papers are concerned, efforts would be made to accommodate as many of them as security and space would permit.	None
In view thereof, it is directed that a letter be addressed to the Supdt.	None
Jail.	None
Tihar with the request that the press representatives may be allowed to enter and have access to the Court room where the proceedings would be held in the jail.	None
It would be open to the supdt.	None
Jail to put such restrictions as regards security checkup or production of accreditation cards or identity cards as he considers necessary.	None
On May 20, 1985, Kehar Singh(A3) filed an application before the trial court contending that the trial should be held in open Court at Patiala House, New Delhi and not in Central Jail, Tihar.	None
The State filed an objection contending interalia That regulated entry has been made for the safety of the accused and for the general safety of the others concerned with the trial.	None
Every specific request of the accused and others to attend the trial has been allowed by the Court.	None
The entry of the Court room is merely regulated in the interest of safety.	None
A blanket charter to permit every person known or unknown or whose antecedents are not proper can very much defeat the ends of justice.	None
Not only it has to be ensured that a fair trial is given, but it has also to be kept in view that the prevailing peculiar situation, the security is not jeopardized at any cost.	None
The members and the relatives of the accused have been permitted by the Court to be present at the time of hearing.	None
It was, therefore, not a closed or a secret trial.	None
xxxx xxxx xxxx	None
In view of the prevailing situation and peculiar circumstances the Honble High Court had vide its order chosen the venue of trial.	None
The only proper venue for a trial like this is jail.	None
Even this learned Court would have opted for the same in view of the security risk, nature of the crime, persons involved and keeping in view the other allied circumstances of the case.	None
It was also stated, that the case as is and product of misguided fundamentalism and terrorism.	None
In the prevailing atmosphere in the country, the accused as well as the witnesses are in grave danger of outside terrorists attacks and this has to be safeguarded.	None
Transport of accused persons at set times from and to the jail is fraught with danger.	None
The application of the accused and the objections thereof were considered and disposed of by order dated June 5, 1984.	None
The relevant portion of the order reads There can be no dispute that public has a right to know but it is precisely for this purpose that National and International Press has been allowed to be present in the Court during the entire trial.	None
The Press is the most powerful watchdog of the public interest and, certainly, we in India have not only free but also a very responsible press and interest of general public are quite safe in their hands.	None
It is not merely Indian press representatives and the news agencies which have been allowed to come to attend the trial but the International agency like BBC, London times, New York Times and Associated Press have also been allowed and admitted and are, in fact, present.	None
XXX xxxx XXX	None
It can be categorically declared and placed on record by this Court that all press representatives and news agencies whosoever have sought permission have been without exception granted necessary permission by this Court.	None
I am sure right of public to know about the trial has been more than assured by the presence of the Press in the Court.	None
The suggestion of learned defence counsel that presence of Press is not sufficient guarantee is not a fair comment on a free, fair and responsible Press of India.	None
It would be proper to mention here that to ensure fair trial and judicious administration of justice the presence of defence counsel, the Press and the relations of the accused persons has been allowed With reference to the people in general, it was pertinently observed Nonetheless, space permitting, this Court would not be averse or disinclined to allow public men also to attend the proceedings subject to usual security checkup.	None
The learned trial Judge did not make the aforesaid observation as an empty formality.	None
True to his words, he did permit access to the members of the public also.	None
He permitted even the Law Students in batches to witness the trial.	None
This we could see from the extract of the visitors book maintained by the authorities.	None
There is hardly any instance brought to our attention where a person who sought permission was denied access to the Court.	None
The High Court has also considered this aspect carefully.	None
The High Court has observed that the trial Judge has given access to the place of trial for all members of the Public who may be minded to attend the same save for certain reasonable restriction imposed in public interest.	None
This statement has not been shown to be incorrect.	None
The fact also remains that the accused were represented by leading members of the Bar.	None
Some of the close relatives of the accused were allowed to be present at the trial.	None
All press representatives and news agencies whoever sought permission have been allowed to cover the day to day Court proceedings.	None
The Trial Judge in his order dated June 5,1985 has specifically stated this.	None
There can, therefore, be no doubt or dispute as to the adequacy of safeguards provided to constitute an open trial.	None
Indeed, the steps taken by learned trial Judge are more than adequate to ensure fair trial as well as public trial.	None
For the accused, it is argued that the people can assert their right of access to criminal trials in the exercise of their fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and they need not be under the mercy of the Court.	None
It is also argued that there shall not be any discrimination in the matter of public access to judicial proceedings and first come first served should be the principle no matter whether one is a press person or an ordinary citizen.	None
The contentions though attractive need not be considered since no member of the public or press is before us making grievance that his constitutional right of access to the trial has been denied in this case.	None
This Court has frequently emphasized that the decision of the Court should be confined to the narrow points directly raised before it.	None
There should not be any exposition of the law at large and outside the range of facts of the case.	None
There should not be even obiter observations in regard to questions not directly involved in the case.	None
These principles are more relevant particularly when we are dealing with constitutional questions.	None
I should not transgress these limits.	None
However, the decisions referred to us may be briefly touched upon here.	None
In Nourish Shridhar Mirajkar v. State of Maharashtra (1963 (3) SCR 744), this Court had an occasion to consider the validity of a judicial verdict of the High Court of Bombay made under the inherent powers.	None
There the learned Judge made an oral order directing the Press not to publish the evidence of a witness given in the course of proceedings.	None
That order was challenged by a journalist and others before this Court on the ground that their fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) and (g) have been violated.	None
Repelling the contention, Gajendragadkar, CJ, speaking for the majority view, said (at 76061)	None
The argument that the impugned order affects the fundamental rights of the petitioners under Article 19(1), is based on a complete misconception about the true nature and character of judicial process and of judicial decisions.	None
But it is singularly inappropriate to assume that a judicial decision pronounced by a Judge of competent jurisdiction in or in relation to a matter brought before him for adjudication can effect the fundamental rights of the citizens under Article 19(1).	None
What the judicial decision purports to do is to decide the controversy between the parties brought before the Court and nothing more.	None
If this basic and essential aspect of the judicial process is borne in mind, it would be plain that the judicial verdict pronounced by Court in or in relation to a matter brought before it for its decisions cannot be said to affect the fundamental rights of citizens under Article 19(1).	None
There is trilogy of decisions of the Supreme Court of United States dealing with the constitutional right of the public access to criminal trials In Gannet Co. v. De Pasquale 443 U.S. 368 , the defendants were charged with murder and requested closure of the hearing of their motion to suppress allegedly involuntary confessions and physical evidence.	None
The prosecution and the trial Judge agreed and said that closure was necessary.	None
The public and the press were denied access to avoid adverse publicity.	None
The closure was also to ensure that the defendants right to a fair trial was not jeopardized.	None
The Supreme Court addressed to the question whether the public has an independent constitutional right of access to a pretrial judicial proceedings, even though the defendant, the prosecution, and the trial Judge had agreed that closure was necessary.	None
Explaining that the right to a public trial is personal to the defendant, the Court held that the public and press do not have an independent right of access to pretrial proceedings under the Sixth Amendment.	None
Although the Court in Gannett held that no right of public access emanated from the sixth Amendment it did not decide whether a constitutional right of public access is guaranteed by the first amendment.	None
This issue was discussed in Richmond Newspaper Inc. v. Virginia 448 US 555 .	None
This case involved the closure of the courtroom during the fourth attempt to try the accused for murder.	None
The United States Supreme Court considered whether the public and press have a constitutional right of access to criminal trials under the first amendment.	None
The Court held that the first and fourteenth amendments guarantee the public and press the right to attend criminal trials.	None
But the Richmond Newspapers case still left the question as to whether the press and public could be excluded from trial when it may be in the best interest of fairness to make such an exclusion.	None
That question was considered in the Globe Newspapers v. Superior Court (1982) 73 L.Ed.248.	None
There the trial Judge excluded the press and public from the court room pursuant to a Massachusetts statute making closure mandatory in cases involving minor victims of sex crimes.	None
The Court considered the constitutionality of the Massachusetts statute and held that the statute violated the first amendment because of its mandatory nature.	None
But it was held that i t would be open to the Court in any given case to deny public access to criminal trials on the ground of states interest.	None
Brennan, J., who delivered the opinion of the Court said (at 25859)	None
We agree with appellee that the first interest safeguarding the physical and psychological wellbeing of a minor is a compelling one.	None
But as compelling as that interest is, it does not justify a mandatory closure rule, for it is clear that the circumstances of the particular case may determine on a case by case basis whether closure is necessary to protect the welfare of a minor victim.	None
Among the factors to be weighed are the minor victims age, psychological maturity and understanding, the nature of the crime the desires of the victims, and the interests of parents and relatives.	None
xx xx	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
Such an approach ensures that the constitutional right of the press and public to gain access to criminal trials will not be restricted except where necessary to protect the States interest.	None
It will be clear from these decisions that the mandatory exclusion of the press and public to criminal trials in all cases violates the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.	None
But if such exclusion is made by the trial Judge in the best interest of fairness to make that exclusion, it would not violate that constitutional rights.	None
It is interesting to note that the view taken by the American Supreme Court in the last case, runs parallel to the principles laid down by this Court in Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar case.	None
Re Question (iv) There remains, however, the last question formulated earlier in this judgment, namely, whether the trial Court was justified in refusing to call for the statements of witnesses recorded by the Thakkar Commission?	Issue
For a proper consideration of the question, it will be necessary to have a brief outline of certain facts.	None
Soon after the assassination of Mrs. Indira Gandhi, the Government of India, by Notification dated November 20, 1984, constituted a Commission under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 (the Act).	Facts
The Commission was presided over by Mr. Justice M.P. Thakkar, the sitting Judge of this Court.	Facts
The Commission was asked to make an enquiry with respect to the matters (a) the sequence of events leading, and all the facts relating to, the assassination of the late Prime Minister (b) whether the crime could have been averted and whether there were any lapses of dereliction of duty in this regard on the part of any of the commission of the crime and other individuals responsible for the security of the late Prime Minister (c) the deficiencies, if any, in the security system and arrangements as prescribed or as operated in practice which might have facilitated the commission of the crime (d) the deficiencies, if any, in the procedures and measures as prescribed, or as operated in practice in attending to any providing medical attention to the late Prime Minister after the commission of the crime and whether there was any lapse or dereliction of duty in this regard on the part of the individuals responsible for providing such medical attention (e) whether any person or persons or agencies were responsible for conceiving, preparing and planning the assassination and whether there was any conspiracy in this behalf, and if so, all its ramifications.	Facts
The Commission was also asked to make recommendations as to the corrective remedies and measures that need to be taken for the future with respect to the matters specified in clause (d) above.	Facts
On December 5, 1984, the Commission framed regulations under Section 8 of the Act in regard to the procedure for enquiry.	Facts
Regulation 8 framed thereon reads In view of the sensitive nature of the enquiry, the proceedings will be in camera unless the Commission directs otherwise.	Facts
Accordingly, the Commission had its sittings in camera.	Facts
On November 19,1985, the Commission submitted an interim report to the Government followed by the final report on February 27,1986.	Facts
In the normal course, the Government ought to have placed the report of the Commission under Section 3(4) of the Act before the House of the People within six months of the submission of the report.	Facts
But the Government did not do that.	Facts
The steps were taken to amend the Commissions of Inquiry Act.	Facts
On May 14,1986, the President of India promulgated Ordinance No. 6 of 1986 called the Commissions of Inquiry (Amendment) Ordinance 1986 by which Subsections (5)and(6)were introduced to Section 3 as follows The provisions of Subsection (4) shall not apply if the appropriate Government is satisfied that in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State friendly relations with foreign State or in the public interest, it is not expedient to lay before the House of the people or, as the case may be, the Legislative Assembly of the State, the report, or any part thereof, of the Commission on the Inquiry made by the Commission under Subsection (1) and issues a notification to that effect in the Official Gazette.	Facts
Every notification issued under Subsection(5) shall be laid before the House of the people or, as the case may be, the Legislative Assembly of the State, if it is sitting as soon as may be after the issue of the notification, and if it is not sitting, within seven days of its reassembly and the appropriate Government shall seek the approval of the House of the People or, as the case may be, the Legislative Assembly of the State to the notification by a resolution moved within a period of fifteen days beginning with the day on which the notification is so laid before the House of the People or as the case may be, the Legislative Assembly of the State makes any modification in the notification or directs that the notification should cease to have effect, the notification shall thereafter have effect, as the case may be.	Facts
On May 15, 1986, the Central Government issued a notification under Subsection(5) of Section 3 stating The Central Government, being satisfied that it is not expedient in the interest of the security of the State and in the public interest to lay before the House of the People the report submitted to the Government on the 19th November 1985, and the 27th February, 1986, by Justice M.P. Thakkar, a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court of India appointed under the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home affairs No. S.O. 867(B) dated the 20th November, 1984, hereby notifies that the said reports shall not be laid before the House of the People.	Facts
On August 20, 1986, Ordinance No. (6) was replaced by the Commission of Inquiry (Amendment) Act, 1986 (Act 36 of 1986) with retrospective effect.	Facts
The said notification dated May 15, 1986 was also got approved by the House of the People as required under Subsection (6) of Section 3.	Facts
We may now revert to the steps taken by the accused before the trial court.	Facts
After the prosecution examined some of the witnesses, accused No. 1 moved the Court with an application dated August 5,1985 praying for summoning true copies of statements of all persons recorded by the Thakkar Commission and who happened to be the prosecution witnesses in the case.	Facts
It was stated in the application that the statements should be summoned for the purpose of Section 145 of the Evidence Act.	Facts
The trial court rejected that application following the decision of this Court in Ramakrishna Dalmia v. Justice Tandolkar 19591SCR279 .	Facts
The trial court said that the statements recorded by the Commission are inadmissible in evidence in any subsequent proceedings and cannot therefore be used for the purpose of contradicting the same witnesses under Section 145 of the Evidence Act.	Facts
Before the High Court, the accused made two applications under Section 391 of the Criminal procedure Code.	Facts
On July 16, 1986 accused Nos. 2 and 3 made an application for additional evidence.	Facts
Accused No. 1 also made a similar application dated July 17, 1986.	Facts
They wanted the depositions recorded and the documentary evidence received by the Thakkar Commission as additional evidence in the case.	Facts
They also wanted the High Court to summon the two reports of the Thakkar Commission.	Facts
The High Court rejected both the applications in the course of the judgment which is now under appeal.	Facts
The High Court has stated that it is not proper to compel production of the proceedings or the report of the Commission in view of the privilege of nondisclosure provided by the Act of Parliament.	Facts
The High Court also depended upon the decision of this Court in Dalmias case.	Facts
The decision therein was held to be an authoritative pronouncement on the scope of Section 6 of the Act and as to the utilisation of statement made by any person before the Commission.	Facts
The High Court held that the evidence before the Commission is wholly inadmissible in any other Civil or Criminal proceedings except for prosecuting the person for perjury.	Facts
The principal submission before us is that the High Court has misconstrued the scope of Section 6 of the Act and misunderstood the observations in Dalmias case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that the observation in Dalmias case.	Arguments of Petitioner
as a binding precedent since this Court was not called upon therein to examine the true scope of Section 6. 219.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that the scope of section as such did not come up for consideration in Dalmias case.	None
Das, CJ., while examining the challenge to the validity of the Act and a notification issued thereunder made some observations as to matters of principle (294295)	None
The whole purpose of setting up of a Commission of Inquiry consisting of experts will be frustrated and the elaborate process of inquiry will be deprived of its utility if the opinion and the advice of the expert body as to the measures the situation disclosed calls for cannot be placed before the Government for consideration notwithstanding that doing so cannot be to the prejudice of anybody because it has no force of its own.	None
In our view, the recommendations of a Commission of Inquiry are of great importance to the Government in order to enable it to make up its mind as to what legislative or administrative measures should be adopted to eradicate the evil found or to implement the beneficial objects it has in view.	Reasoning
From this point of view, there can be no objection even to the Commission of Inquiry recommending the imposition of some form of punishment which will, in its opinion, be sufficiently deterrent to delinquents in future.	Reasoning
But seeing that the Commission of Inquiry has no judicial powers and its report will purely be recommendatory and not effective proprio vigore and the statement made by any person before the Commission of Inquiry is under Section 6 of the Act wholly inadmissible in evidence in any future proceedings, civil or criminal.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Since the argument in the above case did not traverse the scope of Section 6 of the Act, it is now necessary to call attention to the same at length.	None
Before examining the matter, it may not be inappropriate to state that the accused in criminal trials should be given equal opportunity to lay evidence fully, freely and fairly before the Court.	None
The Government which prosecutes an accused will lay bare the evidence in its possession.	None
If the accused asks for summoning any specific document or thing for preparing his case, it should normally be allowed by the Court if there is no legal bar.	None
But the demand, as Brennan, J., of the Supreme Court of the United States, observed, must be for production of specific documents and should not propose any broad or blind fishing expedition.	None
(Clinton E. Jencks v. United States,353 U.S.657 1LEd 1103).	None
Ameer Ali, J. In Nizam of Hyderabad v. A.M. Jacob ILR 19 Cal.	None
52 made similar observations he cannot call for anything and everything from anybody and everybody.	None
The thing called for must have some relation to, or connection with the subjectmatter of the investigation or enquiry, or throw some light on the proceedings, or supply some link in the chain of evidence.	None
These principles are broadly incorporated for the guidance of Courts under Section 91 and 233 of the Code.	None
Let us turn to consider in detail the language of the Critical section.	None
Section 6 provides No statement made by a person in the course of giving evidence before the Commission shall subject him to, or be used against him in any civil or criminal proceedings except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such statement XX XX XX XX XX XX XX	None
Dissecting the section, it will be clear that the statement made by a person before the Commission, in the first place shall not be the basis to proceed against him.	None
Secondly, it shall not be used against him in any subsequent civil or criminal proceedings except for the purpose set out in the section itself.	None
The single exception provided thereunder is a prosecution for giving false evidence by such statement.	None
The term used against has given rise to controversy.	None
The Bombay High Court in (i) Sohan Lal v. State AIR1965Bom1 and (ii) State ofMaharashtrav.	None
Ibrahim Mohd.	None
1978 Cri LJ 1157 has regarded the observations in Dabnias case as an obiter.	None
It was held Whether a particular statement made by a witness before the Commission is used against him will depend on the prejudice or detriment caused or likely to cause to the person in civil or criminal proceedings or otherwise.	None
It must, therefore, necessarily depend on the facts and circumstances relating to the use or intended use.	None
Whether any particular prejudice or detriment can be said to result from the use of the statements will also depend on facts.	None
Mere crossexamination under Section 145 can at the most expose his statement.	None
That does not render the use of the statement against him in law because law requires him to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth before the Commission also and implies that he will be prosecuted for perjury if he tells lies.	None
Maharashtra v. Ibrahim Mohd. 1978 CrI. LJ 1157.	None
This line of reasoning also found favour with the Assam High Court in State of Assam v. SuprbhatBhadra But Madhya Pradesh High Court in Puhupram and Ors.	None
v. State of M.P. 1968 MP LJ 629 has taken a contrary view.	None
That High Court said that the language of Section 6 is plain enough to show that the statement made by a person before the Commission of Inquiry cannot be used against him for the purpose of crossexamination.	None
It is urged that even if the words used against means preventing the use of the statement for the purpose of contradiction as required under Section 145 of the Evidence Act, there are other provisions by which the previous statement could be looked into for productive use without confronting the same to the witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference is made to the first part of Section 145, Subsection (1) and(2) of Section 146 as well as Sections 157 and 159 of the Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also said that the term used against in Section 6 was not intended to be an absolute bar for making use of such statement in subsequent proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Additional Solicitor General, on the other hand, states that Section 6 was intended to be a complete protection to persons against the use or utility of their statements in any proceedings except in case of prosecution for perjury.	Arguments of Respondent
Such protection is necessary for persons to come and depose before the Commission without any hesitation.	Arguments of Respondent
Any dilution of that protection, it is said, would defeat the purpose of the Act itself.	Arguments of Respondent
Before I come to consider the arguments put forward by each side, I venture to refer to some general observations by way of approach to the questions of construction of statutes.	None
In the past, the Judges and lawyers spoke of a golden rule by which statutes were to be interpreted according to grammatical and ordinary sense of the word.	None
They took the grammatical or literal meaning unmindful of the consequences.	None
Even if such a meaning gave rise to unjust results which legislature never intended, the grammatical meaning alone was kept to prevail.	None
They said that it would be for the legislature to amend the Act and not for the Court to intervene by its innovation.	None
During the last several years, the golden rule has been given a go bye.	None
We now look for the intention of the legislature or the purpose of no statute.	None
First, we examine the words of the statute.	None
If the words are precise and cover the situation in hand, we do not go further.	None
We expound those words in the natural and ordinary sense of the words.	None
But, if the words are ambiguous, uncertain or any doubt arises as to the terms employed, we deem it as our paramount duty to put upon the language of the legislature rational meaning.	None
We then examine every word, every section and every provision.	None
We examine the Act as a whole.	None
We examine the necessity which gave rise to the Act.	None
We look at the mischiefs which the legislature intended to redress.	None
We look at the whole situation and not just onetoone relation.	None
We will not consider any provision but of the framework of the statute.	None
We will not view the provisions as abstract principles separated from the motive force behind.	None
We will consider the provisions in the circumstances to which they owe their origin.	None
We will consider the provisions to ensure coherence and consistency within the law as a whole and to avoid undesirable consequences.	None
Let me here add a word of caution.	None
This adventure, no doubt, enlarges our discretion as to interpretation.	None
But it does not imply power to us to substitute our own notions of legislative intention.	None
It implies only a power of choice where differing constructions are possible and different meanings are available.	None
For this purpose, we call in external and internal aids External aids are the Statement of Objects and Reasons when the Bill was presented to Parliament, the reports of the Committee, if any, preceded the Bill, legislative history, other statutes in pari materia and legislation in other States which pertain to the same subject matter, persons, things or relations.	None
Internal aids are Preamble, Scheme, enacting parts of the statutes, rules of languages and other provisions in the statutes.	None
The Act may now be analysed.	None
The Act is a short one consisting of 12 Sections.	None
Section 3 provides power to he appropriate Government to appoint a Commission of Inquiry for the purposes of making an inquiry into any definite matter of public importance.	None
Section in 4 confers upon a Commission of Inquiry certain powers of a Civil Court (for example, summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses and examining them on oath, etc.)	None
Section 5 empowers the appropriate Government to confer some additional powers on a Commission of Inquiry.	None
Section 5(a) authorizes the Commission to utilise the service of any officer or investigating agency for the purpose of conducting any investigation pertaining to inquiry entrusted to the Commission.	None
Section 6 confers upon persons giving evidence before the Commission protection from prosecution except for perjury.	None
The other section are not important for our purpose except Section 8.	None
Section 8 provides procedure to be followed by the Commission.	None
The Commission is given power to regulate its own procedure and also to decide whether to sit in public or in private.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the original Act reads It is felt that there should be a general law authorising Government to appoint an inquiring authority on any matter of public importance, whenever considered necessary, or when a demand to that effect is made by the legislature and that such law should enable to inquiring authority to exercise certain specific powers including the powers to summon witnesses, to take evidence on oath, and to compel persons to furnish information.	None
The bill is designed to achieve this object.	None
It will be clear from these provisions that the Act was intended to cover matters of public importance.	None
In matters of public importance it may be necessary for the Government to fix the responsibility on individuals or to kill harmful rumours.	None
The ordinary law of the land may not fit in such cases apart from it is time consuming.	None
The Commission under our Act is given the power to regulate its own procedure and also to decide whether to sit in camera or in public.	None
A Commission appointed under the Act does not decide any dispute.	None
There are no parties before the Commission.	None
There is no lis.	None
The Commission is not a Court except for a limited purpose.	None
The procedure of the Commission is inquisitorial rather than accusatorial.	None
The Commission more often may have to give assurance to persons giving evidence before it that their statements will not be used in any subsequent proceedings except for perjury.	None
Without such an assurance, the persons may not come forward to give statements.	None
If persons have got lurking fear that their statements given before the Commission are likely to be used against them or utilised for productive use on them in any other proceeding, they may be reluctant to expose themselves before the Commission.	None
Then the Commission would not be able to perform its task.	None
The Commission would not be able to reach the suggests of truth from the obscure horizon.	None
The purpose for which the Commission is constituted may be defeated.	None
The Court should avoid such construction to Section 6 which may stultify the purpose of the Act.	None
Section 6 must on the other hand, receive liberal construction so that the person deposing before the Commission may get complete immunity except in a case of prosecution for perjury.	None
That is possible if the word against used in Section 6 is properly understood.	None
The meaning given in Blacks Law Dictionary supports such construction (at 57) Against  Adverse to, contrarySometimes meaning Upon, which is almost, synonymous with word on Apart from that, it may also be noted that Section 6 contains only one exception.	None
That is prosecution for giving false evidence by such statement.	None
When the Legislature has expressly provided a singular exception to the provisions, it has to be normally understood that other exceptions are ruled out.	None
The view that I have taken gets confirmation from the report of the Royal commission on Tribunals of Inquiry (1966).	None
Before referring to the report, it will be useful to have before us, the relevant provisions of the English statutes which are not materially dissimilar to our Act.	None
There are two English statutes which may be looked into (i)	None
The Special Commission Act, 1888 and (ii) The Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) Act, 1921.	None
Section 9 of the Special Commission Act, 1888 provides 9A witness examined under this Act shall not be excused from answering any question put to him on the ground of any privilege or on the ground that the answer thereto may criminate or tend to criminate himself.	None
Provided that no evidence taken under this Act shall be admissible against any person in any civil or criminal proceeding except in the case of a witness accused of having given false evidence in any inquiry under this Act (Emphasis supplied) Section 1(3) of the Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) Act, 1921, provides A witness before any such tribunal shall be entitled to the same immunities and privileges as if he were a witness before the High Court or the Court of Session.	None
Section 9 of the Special Commission Act, 1888 protects the witness in every respect except in a prosecution for giving false evidence by such statement.	None
It provides that the evidence given by him shall be inadmissible in any civil or criminal proceedings.	None
Section 1(3) of the Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) Act, 1921 provides only a limited or partial immunity to a witness.	None
It is similar to the immunity afforded to a witness before the High Court or the Court of Session.	None
In 1966, the Royal Commission on Tribunals of Inquiry was constituted under the Chairmanship of the Rt. Hon.	None
Lord Justice Salmon.	None
The Commission was appointed to review the working of the Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) Act, 1921, and to consider whether it should be retained or replaced by some other provision.	None
The Commission was also authorised to suggest any changes in the Act as are necessary or desirable and to make recommendations.	None
The Royal Commission in its report at para 63 recommended Further Immunity Section 1(3) of the Act of 1921 provides that a witness before any Tribunal shall be entitled to the same immunities and privileges as if he were a witness before the High Court or the Court of Session, This means that he cannot be sued for anything he says in evidence e.g. if he says A is a liar.	None
His evidence is untrue.	None
A cannot sue him for defamation.	None
It does not mean however that his answer as a witness cannot be used in evidence against him in any subsequent civil or criminal proceedings.	None
We consider the witnesss immunity should be extended so that neither his evidence before the Tribunal, nor his statement to the Treasury Solicitor, nor any documents he is required to produce to the Tribunal, shall be used against him in any subsequent civil or criminal proceedings except in criminal proceedings in which he is charged with having given false evidence before the Tribunal or conspired with or procured others to do so.	None
This extension of the witnesss immunity would bring the law in this country into line in this respect with similar provision in the legislation of Canada, Australia and India and indeed with Section 9 of the Special Commission Act, 1888.	None
It would also, in our view, be of considerable assistance in obtaining relevant evidence, for persons may be chary of coming forward for fear of exposing themselves to the risk of prosecution or an action in the civil courts.	None
Moreover, the suggested extension of the immunity would make it difficult for a witness to refuse to answer a question on the ground that his answer might tend to incriminate him.	None
Thus not only would the witness be afforded a further measure of protection but the Tribunal would also be helped in arriving at the truth.	None
The Royal Commission appears to have thoroughly examined the provisions as to immunity to witnesses in the legislations of Canada, Australia and India and Section 9 of the special Commission Act, 1888.	None
The Commission has stated that the immunity provided to witnesses under Section 1(3) of the Act, 1921 is insufficient for the purpose of advancing the object of the Act.	None
It should be extended so that the statement of a witness before the Tribunal shall not be used against him in any subsequent civil or criminal proceedings except in a prosecution for perjury by giving false evidence before the Tribunal.	None
The extension of such immunity, according to the Royal Commission, would bring Section 1(B) of the Act, 1921 into line with the similar provisions in the legislations of Canada, Australia and India.	None
The legislation in India is the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 with which we are concerned.	None
It is apparent that the Royal Commission was of opinion that Section 6 of our Act provides complete protection to witnesses in terms of Section 9 of the Special Commission Act, 1888.	None
It means that the statement given before a Commission shall not be admissible against the person in any subsequent civil or criminal proceeding save for perjury.	None
There is, therefore, much to be said for the observation made in Dalmias case and indeed that is the proper construction to be attributed to the language of Section 6 of the Act.	None
I respectfully affirm and reemphasise that view.	None
It is needless to state that the said decisions of the High Courts of Bombay and Assam are incorrect and they stand overruled.	None
Having reached this conclusion, it is strictly unnecessary to fall back on the other contention raised by counsel for the appellants.	None
Let us now move on to the merits of the case against each of the accused.	None
But, before proceeding to consideration of the merits, it will be appropriate to have regard to principles and precedents followed by this Court while dealing with an appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution.	None
There is a string of decisions laying down those principles right from 1950.	None
In Pritam Singh v. The State 1950CriLJ1270 , Fazal Ali, J., said (at 170) It would be opposed to all principles and precedents if we were to constitute ourselves into a third Court of fact and, after reweighing the evidence, come to a conclusion different from that arrived at by the trial Judge and the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
In HemRaj State of Ajmer 1954CriLJ1313 , M.C. Mahajan, CJ. had this to say (at 1134) Unless it is shown that exceptional and special circumstances exist that substantial and grave injustice has been done and the casein question presents features of sufficient gravity to warrant a review of the decision appealed against, this Court does not exercise its overriding powers under Article 136(1) of the Constitution and the circumstance that because the appeal has been admitted by special leave does not entitled the appellant to open out the whole case and contest all the findings of fact and raise every point which could be raised in the High Court.	Reasoning
Even at the final hearing only those points can be urged which are fit to be urged at the preliminary stage when the leave to appeal is asked for.	Reasoning
More recently, in Bhoginohai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat 1983CriLJ1096 Thakkar, J., recounted (at 755) A concurrent finding of fact cannot be reopened in an appeal, unless it is established first that the finding is based on no evidence or second, that the finding is perverse, it being such as no reasonable person could have arrived at even if the evidence was taken at its face value or thirdly, the finding is based and built on inadmissible evidence, which evidence if excluded from vision, would negate the prosecution case or substantially discredit or impair it or fourthly, some vital piece of evidence which would tilt the balance in favour of the convict has been overlooked, disregarded or wrongly discarded.	Reasoning
Bearing in mind these principles, let me take up the case of Balbir Singh (A2) first for consideration Balbir Singh	None
He was an officer of the Delhi Police in the cadre of SubInspectors.	Facts
He was posted on duty at the PMs residence.	Facts
He was not on duty in the morning of October 31, 1984.	Facts
His duty was to commence in the evening on that day at the ingate of Akbar Road.	Facts
When reported for duty, in the usual course, he was asked to go to the security police lines.	Facts
At about 3 a.m. on November 1,1984, he was awakened from his sleep and his house was searched by SI, Mahipal Singh (PW 50), Constable Hari Chand (PW 17) and Inspector Shamshir Singh.	Facts
Nothing except a printed book on Sant Bhindrawale (Ex.PW 17/A) was recovered.	Facts
At about 4 a.m., he was taken to Yamuna Velodrome.	Facts
He was kept there till late in the evening when he was released from, what Kochar (Pw 73) says, de facto custody.	Facts
On December 3, 1984, he was said to have been arrested at Najafgarh busstand.	Facts
On December 4, 1984, he was produced before the Magistrate, who remanded him to police custody.	Facts
Thereafter, he expressed his desire to make a confession.	Facts
But when produced before the Magistrate, he refused to make a statement  confessional or otherwise.	Facts
He was tried along with the other accused for having entered into a criminal conspiracy to commit the murder of the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	Facts
He was convicted under Section 302 read with Section 120B IPC and sentenced to death.	Facts
The chargesheet contains the following accusations against Balbir Singh That Balbir Singh, like other accused, had expressed his resentment openly, holding Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi responsible for the Blue Star Operation.	Facts
He was planning to commit the murder of Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi.	Facts
He discussed his plans with Beant Singh (deceased), who had similar plans to commit the murder.	Facts
He also shared his intention and prompted accused Satwant Singh to commit the murder of Smt.	Facts
Indira Gandhi and finally discussed the matter with him on October 30,1984.	Facts
In the first week of September 1984, a falcon (Baaj) happened to sit on a tree near the main Reception of the Prime Ministers house at about 1.30 pm.	Facts
Balbir Singh spotted the falcon.	Facts
He called Beant Singh there.	Facts
Both of them agreed that it had brought a message of the Tenth Guru of the sikhs and they should do something by way of revenge of the Blue Star Operation, Thereafter, they performed Ardas then and there.	Facts
These accusations are sought to be established by the testimony of SI, MadanLal Sharma (PW 13), Constable Satish Chander Singh (PW 52), SI, Amarjit Singh (PW 44) and the confession of Satwant Singh (Ex.PW 11/C).	Facts
The prosecution also strongly rely upon a document described as memorandum of events (Ex.PW 26/B) said to have been recovered upon the arrest of Balbir Singh on December 3,1984.	Facts
His leave applications (Ex. PW 26/E1 to E5) and his post crime conduct as to absconding are also relied upon.	Facts
The case of Balbir Singh is that the document Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW 26/B was not recovered from his possession as made out by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
His arrest at Najafgarh busstand was a make believe arrangement.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was not arrested there and indeed he could not have been arrested, since he was all along under police custody right from the day when he was taken to Yamuna Velodrome on November 1,1984.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was not absconding and the question of absconding did not arise when he was not released at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
No question was put to him under Section 313 examination that he had absconded.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that the conclusions of the High Court on all these matters are apparently unsustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
254.	None
Before examining these contentions, it will be better to dispose of the point common to this accused and Kehar Singh (A3) relating to the validity of sentence of death awarded to them.	None
It is urged that there was no charge against the accused under Section 109 of IPC and without such a charge, they are liable to be sentenced only for the offence of abetment and not for the murder.	None
Reliance is placed on the provisions of Section 120B IPC which provides, inter alia, that a party to a criminal conspiracy shall be punished in the same manner as if he had abetted such offence.	None
The contention, in our opinion, is really illfounded.	None
It overlooks the vital difference between the two crimes (i)abetment in any conspiracy, (ii) criminal conspiracy.	None
The former is defined under the second clause of Section 107 and (2) xx	None
the latter is under Section 120A. Section 107, so far as it is relevant, provides A person abets the doing of a thing, Firstly Secondly  Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing or Thirdly Section 109 provides Whoever abets any offence, shall, if the act abetted is committed in consequence of the abetment and no express provision is made by this Code for the punishment of such abetment, be punished with the punishment provided for the offence.	None
Criminal conspiracy is defined under Section 120A 120A.	Reasoning
When two or more person agree to do, or cause to be done  (1) an illegal act, or (2) an act, which is not illegal by illegal means, such agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy xx	None
XX XX XX XX Punishment for criminal conspiracy is provided under Section 120B 120B(1)	None
Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards, shall, where no express provision is made in this Code for the punishment of such conspiracy, be punished in the same manner as if he had abetted such offence.	None
xx	None
XX XX	None
The concept of criminal conspiracy will be dealt with in detail a little later.	None
For the present, it may be sufficient to state that the gist of the offence of criminal conspiracy created under Section 120A is a bare agreement to commit an offence.	None
It has been made punishable under Section 120B.	None
The offence of abetment created under the second clause of Section 107 requires that there must be something more than a mere conspiracy.	None
There must be some act or illegal omission in pursuance of that conspiracy.	None
That would be evident by the wordings of Section 107 (Secondly) engages in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy The punishments for these two categories of crimes are also quite different.	None
Section 109 IPC is concerned only with the punishment of abetments for which no express provision is made under the Indian Penal Code.	None
A charge under Section 109 should, therefore, be along with some other substantive offence committed in consequence of abetment.	None
The offence of criminal conspiracy is, on the other hand, an independent offence.	None
It is made punishable under Section 120B for which a charge under Section 109 IPC is unnecessary and indeed, inappropriate.	None
The following observation of Das, X, in Pramatha Nath Taluqdar v. Saroj Ranjan Sarkar 1962 (Su) 2 SCR 297 also supports my view Put very briefly, the distinction between the offence of abetment under the second clause of Section 107 and that of criminal conspiracy under Section 120A is this.	None
In the former offence a mere combination of persons or agreement between them is no enough.	None
An act or illegal omission must take place in pursuance of the conspiracy and in order to the doing of the thing conspired for in the latter offence the mere agreement is enough, if the agreement is to commit an offence.	None
So far as abetment by conspiracy is concerned, the abettor will be liable to punishment under varying circumstances detailed in Sections 108 to 117.	None
It is unnecessary to detail those circumstances for the present case.	None
For the offence of criminal conspiracy it is punishable under Section 120B.	None
This takes me back to the other contentions specifically urged on behalf of Balbir Singh.	None
Of the evidence relied upon by the prosecution, the document Ex.	None
PW 26/B is said to be the most important.	None
The High Court has accepted it as revealing a coherent story of participation of the accused in the conspiracy.	None
The High Court also said the document shows beyond doubt that Balbir Singh was all along in the picture and associated with Beant Singh and Satwant Singh.	None
Before us, the criticisms against this document are various and varied.	None
It may be stated and indeed cannot be disputed that the genuineness of the document is inextricably connected with the arrest and search of the accused at Najafgarh Bus Stand.	None
The document was recovered from the accused upon arrest and search made under Section 51 of the Code.	None
If the arrest cannot carry conviction then the recovery automatically falls to the ground.	None
Not merely that, even the allegation that the accused had absconded vanishes to thin air.	None
The police at the earliest moment suspected Balbir Singh as a person involved in the conspiracy to murder the Prime Minister.	None
After midnight, they arrived at his residence.	None
They knocked on the door and made him to get up from his bed.	None
They searched his house and found nothing incriminating against him.	None
They took him to Yamuna Velodrome doubtless upon arrest.	None
The plain fact is that Balbir Singh was kept under custody throughout the day.	None
At 6 PM, he was seen at the Yamuna Velodrome by Rameshwara Singh (PW 51).	None
The case of the prosecution however, is that Balbir Singh was released thereafter and he was absconding till he was arrested on December 3,1984 at Najafgarh Bus Station.	None
The accused challenges this version.	None
The Courts do not interfere in the discretion of the police in matters of arrest, search and release of persons suspected in criminal cases.	None
But the courts do insist that it should be done according to law.	None
If the prosecution say that that the accused was released from custody and the accused denies it, it will be for the prosecution to place material on record in support of the version.	None
Admittedly, there is no record indicating the release of Balbir Singh from Yamuna Velodrome.	None
The explanation given is that Yamuna Velodrome being not a Police Station, registers were not maintained to account for the incoming and outgoing suspects.	None
It is hardly an explanation where life and death questions are involved.	None
Again, the question of absconding by the accused remains unanswered.	None
First, there is no material to lend credence to this serious allegation.	None
Nobody has been asked to search him.	None
No police party has been sent to track him.	None
No procedure contemplated under law has been taken.	None
Second, there is no evidence from which place the accused came and landed at Najafgarh Bus Stand.	None
Kochar (PW 73) has deposed that he had secret information at 2 PM on December 3, 1984 that the accused was likely to visit Najafgarh Bus Stand.	None
He went along with Sant Ram (PW 35), SubInspector of Crime Bench.	None
There they saw the accused at the Bus Stand.	None
Before he was arrested, Kochar personally interrogated him at the electricity office near the Najafgarh Bus Stand.	None
The interrogation went on for more than one hour.	None
Yet, Kochar could not locate the place from where the accused came to Najafgarh Bus Stand.	None
Upon arrest, it is said that the police have recovered certain articles including Ex.	None
PW26/B under the seizure memo(Ex.	None
Pw35/A).But there is no independent witness for the seizure memo.	None
Third, no question as to absconding was put to the accused in the examination under Section 313 of the Code.	None
What was put to him under question No. 52 was that he had remained absent from duty from November 4,1984 till December 3,1984.	None
That is not the same thing to ask that the accused had absconded during that period.	None
For that question, the accused replied that he was under police detention from November 1,1984 till December 3,1984 and there was no question of his attending the duty during that period.	None
He has also stated that he was formally arrested on December 3, 1984 and till then he was under Police detention.	None
Realising the weakness in this part of the case, learned Additional Solicitor General relied upon the averments in the application moved by the police for remanding the accused to police custody.	Arguments of Respondent
It was stated in the remand application dated December 4, 1984 that Balbir Singh had absconded and was not available for interrogation.	None
It was also stated therein that Balbir Singh was arrested at Najafgarh Bus stand on December 3, 1984.	Facts
Shri S.L. Khanna, Additional C.M.M., remanded the accused to police custody till December 6.	None
The order of remand was signed by the accused.	None
It is argued that the accused being a police officer did not object to the allegations made against him in the remand application.	None
I do not think that this contention requires serious consideration.	None
The averments in the remand application are only selfserving.	None
The silence of the accused cannot be construed as his admission of those allegations.	None
There is yet another feature to which I should draw attention.	None
The prosecution want to establish the recovery of Ex.	None
PW 26/B from the accused by other contemporaneous document.	None
Reference in this context is made to theMalkana Register of the Tughlak Road Police Station.	None
Entry 986 in the Malkana Register, according to the learned Additional Solicitor General, contains verbatim copy of the seizure memo (Ex.	None
Pw 35/A)and it is indicative of the fact that Ex.	None
Pw 26/B was recovered from the accused upon his arrest and search.	None
Here again there is some difficulty.	None
There is an endorsement in the Malkana Register stating that the DTC ticket which the accused carried and the paper containing the dates in English (Ex.	Reasoning
Pw 26/B) were not deposited.	Reasoning
Malkana Register, therefore, is of little assistance to the prosecution.	Reasoning
In view of these infirmities, the arrest of the accused at Najafgarh Bus Stand does not inspire confidence.	None
This by itself is sufficient to discard the document Ex.	None
PW 26/B. Let me also examine the contents of the document which has been highlighted by the High Court.	None
The document can be taken to be in the handwriting of Balbir Singh to avoid reference to unnecessary evidence.	None
But that in my opinion, does not advance the case of prosecution.	None
The document is a sheet of paper in which we find the following entries June 1984  	None
Army operation  felt like killing  Put on duty outside No. 1	None
S.J. Road again at Dalip Singh No. 1 SJ.	None
Rd.  	None
Proceeded on leave for 30 days July 1984 Dalip Varinder Singh visited my house,  Dalip took me to Gurbakshs house where Santa Singh also met.  	None
Dalip Singh Gurbaksh visited my house Mavalankar Hall  Went to Ghaziabad  	None
I visited Gurbaksh Singhs house  for Hemkunt  I visited Gurbaksh Singhs house   Back from leave August 1984  	None
Met Amarjit Singh Beant Singh  Dalip Singh Virender Singh etc. met at Bangla Sahib  Mavalankar Hall Gurupurab at Bangla Sahib 3rd Week Harpal Singh Virender  Beant Singh Eagle meeting at  Beant Singh decision to start constructive work September 1984  Visited Gurbaksh Singhs house  Dalip a boy Narinder Singh Virender 26  1000 Visited Gurbakshs house learned about the boy  Leave for 4/5 days October 1984  	None
Narinder Singh  Leave for 4/5 days 22nd  	None
Beant Singh leave for 4 days  Dalip Singh Mohinder Singh visited 28  30  Satwant 31  	None
If this document is an incriminating piece of evidence, as the High Court has observed, it is rather baffling why the accused, who was suspected to be a conspirator to murder the Prime Minister of the country, should carry the document wherever he goes and that too at a place where there were reprisal killings.	None
The accused is not a rustic person.	None
He is a SubInspector of Police with several years of service to his credit.	None
He must have anticipated the danger investigated so many crimes.	None
He must have anticipated the danger of carrying incriminating document when he was already suspected to be a party to the deadly conspiracy.	None
Unable to compromise myself with any reason, I sought the assistance of learned Additional Solicitor General.	None
He too could not give any explanation.	None
Indeed, nobody could offer even a plausible explanation for this unusual conduct attributed to the accused.	None
To my mind, to say that the absconding accused  Sub Inspector was found at a public place in the national capital with an incriminating document which may take him to gallows is to insult the understanding, if not the intelligence, of police force of this country.	None
That is one aspect.	None
The other aspect relates to the assessment of inherent value of the document.	None
A bare reading of the document, as rightly urged for the accused, shows that this is a document composed at one time with the same ink and same writing instrument.	None
The corrections, the fixing of months and dates with the nature of entries therein apparently indicate that the document was not kept as a contemporaneous record of events relating to Balbir Singh.	None
The fact that it was not in the possession of the accused when his house was searched in the early hours of November 1,1984 also confirms this conclusion.	None
In the document, there is no reference to killing of the Prime Minister.	None
In fact, except for a felt like killing in early June as an immediate reaction to the Blue Star Operation, even the manifestation of this feeling does not exist anywhere in subsequent part of the document.	None
The document refer to bare meetings, visits of persons, or visiting somebodys house.	None
It is, however, not possible to find out to whom the document was intended to be used.	None
In the document, Beant Singh is referred to at four places.	Reasoning
At one place, there is a reference to Beant Singh wit eagle (not falcon).	Reasoning
The cross mark of X closely followed by A long arrow mark in the document indicates the indecision of the author or somebody is straining his memory.	None
There is no reference to a joint Ardas or a message for revenge associated with the appearance of eagle.	None
The entry does not suggest that the author had anything to do with the eagle.	None
It is something between Beant Singh alone and the eagle.	None
It is significant that there is no reference to Beant Singh and his plans to murder the Prime Minister.	None
There is no reference to bombs or grenades associated with the plans to eliminate the Prime Minister before the 15th August, 1984.	None
There is no reference to any commission of any offence.	None
There is no reference about Beant Singh conspiring with Balbir Singh.	Reasoning
There is no reference to Kehar Singh at all.	None
If Balbir Singh was a party to the conspiracy with Beant Singh, the date on which Beant Singh had placed the murder of Mrs. Gandhi, that is, 25 October, 1984 as written in Ex.	None
P.39 ought to have been noted in Ex.	None
PW 26/ B.	Reasoning
We do not find any reference to that date.	None
There is a cryptic reference to Satwant Singh against 30th October and it must be with reference to the evidence of Constable Satish Chander Singh (Pw 52) whose evidence no Court of law could believe.	None
PW 52 was a Sentry in the Prime Ministers security.	None
According to him, Balbir Singh was on duty on October 30, 1984 at a distance of about 57 steps from his point of duty.	None
He states that Satwant Singh came to meet Balbir Singh at 8 PM on that day.	None
He further states that they talked something in Punjabi which he could not follow, as he did not know Punjabi.	None
The only one entry which makes a reference to killing is the second entry.	None
It refers to felt like killing.	None
But one does not know who felt like killing and killing whom?	None
It may be somebodys reaction to the Blue Star Operation.	None
If the document is read as a whole, it does not reveal anything incriminating against Balbir Singh.	None
Before considering the other matters against Balbir Singh, it will be useful to consider the concept of criminal conspiracy under Section 120A and 120B of IPC.	Issue
These provisions have brought the Law of Conspiracy in India in line with the English law by making the overtact unessential when the conspiracy is to commit any punishable offence.	None
The English Law on this matter is wellsettled.	None
The following passage from Russel on Crime (12 Ed.	None
Vol.	None
I, 202) may usefully noted The gist of the offence of conspiracy then lies, not in doing the act, or effecting the purpose for which the conspiracy is formed, nor in attempting to do them, nor in inciting others to do them, but in the forming of the scheme or agreement between the parties.	None
Agreement is essential.	None
Mere knowledge, or even discussion, of the plan is not, per se, enough.	None
Glanville Williams in the Criminal Law (Second Ed.382) explains the proposition with an illustration The question arose in an Iowa case, but it was discussed in terms of conspiracy rather than of accessoryship.	None
D, who had a grievance against P, told E that if he would whip P someone would pay his fine.	None
E replied that he did not want anyone to pay his fine, that he had a grievance of his own against P and that he would whip him at the first opportunity.	None
E whipped P.D. was acquitted of conspiracy because there was no agreement for concert of action?, no agreement to cooperate.	None
Coleridge, J., while summing up the case to Jury in Regina v. Murphy 173 E R 508 pertinently states I am bound to tell you, that although the common design is the root of the charge, it is not necessary to prove that these two parties came together and actually agreed in terms to have this common design and to pursue it by common means, and so to carry it into execution.	None
This is not necessary, because in many cases of the most clearly established conspiracies there are no means or proving any such thing, and neither law nor common sense requires that it should be proved.	None
If you find that these two persons pursued by their acts the same object, often by the same means, one performing one part of an act, so as to complete it, with a view to the attainment of the object which they were pursuing, you will be at liberty to draw the conclusion that they have been engaged in a conspiracy to effect that object.	None
The question you have to ask yourselves is, Had they this common design, and did they pursue it by these common means the design being unlawful?	None
It will be thus seen that the most important ingredient of the offence of conspiracy is the agreement between two or more persons to do an illegal act.	None
The illegal act may or may not be done in pursuance of agreement, but the very agreement is an offence and is punishable.	None
Reference to secs.	None
120A and 120BIPC would make these aspects clear beyond doubt.	None
Entering into an agreement by two or more persons to do an illegal act or legal act by illegal means is the very quintessence of the offence of conspiracy.	None
Generally, a conspiracy is hatched in secrecy and it may be difficult to adduce direct evidence of the same.	None
The prosecution will often rely on evidence of acts of various parties to infer that they were done in reference to their common intention.	None
The prosecution will also more often rely upon circumstantial evidence.	None
The conspiracy can be undoubtedly proved by such evidence direct or circumstantial.	None
But the Court must enquire whether the two persons are independently pursuing the same and or they have come together to the pursuit of the unlawful object.	None
The former does not render them conspirators, but the latter is.	None
It is, however, essential that the offence of conspiracy requires some kind of physical manifestation of agreement.	None
The express agreement, however, need not be proved.	None
Nor actual meeting of two persons is necessary.	None
Nor it is necessary to prove the actual words of communication.	None
The evidence as to transmission of thoughts sharing the unlawful design may be sufficient.	None
Gerald Orchard of University of Canterbury, New Zealand 1974 C L R 297 explains the limited nature of this proposition Although it is not in doubt that the offence requires some physical manifestation of agreement, it is important to note the limited nature of this proposition.	None
The law does not require that the act of agreement take any particular form and the fact of agreement may be communicated by words or conduct.	None
Thus, it has been said that it is unnecessary to prove that the parties actually came together and agreed in terms to pursue the unlawful object there need ever have been an express verbal agreement, it being sufficient that there was a tacit understanding between conspirators as to what should be done.	None
I share this opinion, but hasten to add that the relative acts or conduct of the parties must be conscientious and clear to mark their concurrence as to what should be done.	None
The concurrence cannot be inferred by a group of irrelevant facts artfully arranged so as to give an appearance of coherence.	None
The innocuous, innocent or inadvertent events and incidents should not enter the judicial verdict.	None
We must thus be strictly on our guard.	None
It is suggested that in view of Section 10 of the Evidence Act, the relevancy of evidence in proof of conspiracy in India is wider in scope then that in English Law.	None
Section 10 of the Evidence Act introduced the doctrine of agency and if the conditions laid down therein are satisfied, the acts done by one are admissible against the coconspirators.	None
Section 10 reads Where there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence or an actionable wrong, anything said, done or written by any one of such persons in reference to their common intention, after the time when such intention was first entertained by any one of them, is a relevant fact as against each of the persons believed to be so conspiring, as well for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy as for the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it.	None
From an analysis of the section, it will be seen that Section 10 will come into play only when the court is satisfied that there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence.	None
There should be, in other words, a prima facie evidence that the person was a party to the conspiracy before his acts can be used against his coconspirator.	None
Once such prima facie evidence exists, anything said, done or written by one of the conspirators in reference to the common intention, after the said intention was first entertained is relevant against the others.	None
It is relevant not only for the purpose of proving the existence of conspiracy, but also for proving that the other person was a party to it.	None
It is true that the observations of Subba Rao, J., in Sardar Sardul Singh Caveeshar v. State of Maharashtra 1965CriLJ608a lend support to the contention that the admissibility of evidence as between coconspirators would be liberal than in English Law.	None
The learned Judge said (at 390) The evidentiary value of the said acts is limited by two circumstances, namely, that the acts shall be in reference to their common intention and in respect of a period after such intention was entertained by any one of them.	None
The expression in reference to their common intention is very comprehensive and it appears to have been designedly used to give it a wider scope than the words in furtherance of in the English Law with the result, anything said, done or written by a coconspirator, after the conspiracy was formed, will be evidence against the other before he entered the field of conspiracy or after he left it.	None
But, with respect, the above observations that the words of Section 10 have been designedly used to give a wider scope than the concept of conspiracy in English Law, may not be accurate.	None
This particular aspect of the law has been considered by the Privy Council in Mirza Akbar v. King Emperor AIR 1940 Pc 176 at 180, where Lord Wright said that there is no difference in principle in Indian Law in view of Section 10 of the Evidence Act.	None
The decision of the Privy Council in Mirza Akbars case has been referred to with approval in Sardul Singh Caveeshar v. The State of Bombay 1957CriLJ1325 where Jagannadhadas, J., said The limits of the admissibility of evidence in conspiracy case under Section 10 of the Evidence Act have been authoritatively laid down by the Privy Council in Mirza Akbar v. the King Emperor (supra).	None
In that case, their Lordships of the Privy Council held that Section 10 of the Evidence Act must be construed in accordance with the principle that the thing done, written or spoken, was something done in carrying out the conspiracy and was receivable as a step in the proof of the conspiracy.	None
They notice that evidence receivable under Section 10 of the Evidence Act of anything said, done or written, by any one of such persons (i.e., conspirators) must be in reference to their common intention.	None
But their Lordships held that in the context (notwithstanding the amplitude of the above phrase) the words therein are not.	None
capable of being widely construed having regard to the wellknown principle above enunciated.	None
In the light of these principles, the other evidence against Balbir Singh may now be considered.	None
The High Court has summarised that evidence (leaving out of account the confession of Satwant Singh and the evidence of Amarjit Singh) as follows Summing up, then, the evidence against Balbir Singh, leaving out of account for the time being the confession of Satwant Singh and the evidence of Amarjit Singh, the position is as follows He was an officer on security duty at the PMs house.	None
He knew Beant Singh and Satwant singh well.	None
He shared the indignation of Beant Singh against Smt.	None
Gandhi for Operation Blue Star and was in a mood to avenge the same.	Reasoning
He went on leave from 25.6.84 to 26.7.84.	None
On his return he met Beant Singh and Amarjit Singh.	None
He was present at the occasion of the appearance of the eagle and their association on that date is borne out by Ex.	None
PW 26/	Reasoning
B. He is known to have talked to Satwant Singh on 30th October, 1984 I do not think that the High Court was justified in attaching importance to any one of the aforesaid circumstances in proof of the conspiracy.	None
The High Court first said, Balbir Singh was an officer on security duty at the PMs house.	None
But, like him, there were several Sikh officers on security duty at the PMs house.	None
It was next stated, Balbir Singh knew Beant Singh and Satwant Singh well.	None
Our attention has not been drawn to any evidence to show intimacy between Balbir Singh and Beant Singh or between Balbir Singh and Satwant Singh.	None
The High Court next said that Balbir Singh shared the indignation of Beant Singh against Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi and was in a mood to avenge for the Blue Star Operation.	Reasoning
There is no acceptable evidence in this regard.	None
From the testimony of SI, Madan Lal Sharma (PW 13), all that we could gather is that after the Blue Star Operation, Balbir Singh was in agitated mood and he used to say that the responsibility of damaging Akal Takhat lies with Smt.	Reasoning
Gandhi and it would be avenged by them.	Reasoning
This is not to say that Balbir Singh wanted to take revenge against the Prime Minister along with Beant Singh.	Reasoning
The High Court did not take into consideration such resentment expressed by Kehar Singh (A3) and indeed it would be proper not to take notice of such general dissatisfaction.	None
It is not an offence to form ones own opinion on governmental action.	None
It is on record that some members of the sikh community felt agitated over the Blue Star Operation.	None
The resentment was also expressed by some of the Sikh employees of the Delhi Police posted for PMs security.	Facts
In fact, the chargesheet against all the accused is founded on those averments.	None
Amarjit Singh (PW 44) specifically refers to this in the course of his evidence.	None
Resentment of the accused on Blue Star Operation should, therefore, be excluded from consideration.	None
The High Court next depended upon the earned leave taken by Balbir Singh for the period from June 25 to July 26, 1984.	None
The High Court rightly did not give significance to casual leave applications of Balbir Singh (Ex.PW 26/E1 to E5).	None
I fail to see why taking of earned leave should assume importance.	None
There is no material that Balbir Singh took earned leave for any sinister purpose of design.	None
There is no evidence that during the said period, he met Beant Singh or anybody else connected with the conspiracy.	None
It is, therefore, totally an innocuous circumstance.	None
The High Court next said that Balbir Singh, on his return from leave, met Beant Singh and Amarjit Singh.	None
No other specific meeting has come to light except the meeting referred to by Amarjit Singh (PW 44) which I will presently consider.	None
The High Court lastly relied upon the act of offering Ardas to falcon on its appearance at the PMs house in the first week of September, 1984.	None
This is also from the evidence of Amarjit Singh (PW44).	None
Assuming that falcon did appear and sat on a tree in the PMs house and that Beant Singh and Balbir Singh did offer Ardas on the occasion, there is, as the High Court has observed, nothing unusual or abnormal about the incident.	None
The sanctity of the falcon as associated with the Tenth Guru is not denied.	None
They offered Ardas in the presence of so many class IV employees in the PMs house.	None
The last act of Balbir Singh, referred to by the High Court, was his meeting with Satwant Singh on October 30, 1984.	None
That has been referred to by Satish Chander Singh (PW 52), whose evidence as earlier seen has got only to be referred to be rejected.	None
In my opinion, all the facts and circumstances above recited are either irrelevant or explainable.	None
No guilty knowledge of the contemplated assassination of the Prime Minister could be attributed to Balbir Singh on those facts and circumstances.	None
It now remains to be seen whether the evidence of Amarjit Singh (PW 44) is acceptable or whether it is inherently infirm and insufficient.	Issue
There are grave criticisms against this witness.	None
I will only examine some of them.	None
The relationship between him and Balbir Singh was anything but cordial.	None
It was indeed casual.	None
They were not on visiting terms.	None
Amarjit Singh was not even invited to attend the marriage of Balbir Singh.	None
That was the type of connection that existed between them.	None
Yet, Amarjit Singh deposes that Balbir Singh and Beant Singh used to keep him informed regularly about their plan of action to murder the Prime Minister.	None
He wants the court to believe that he was in a position to advise the conspirators against any such move.	None
It is too difficult to accept this self styled advisor.	None
As a faithful security officer, he was duty bound to alert his superiors about any danger to the Prime Minister.	None
He knew that responsibility as he admits in his evidence, but failed to perform his duty.	None
To place reliance on his testimony would be to put a premium on his irresponsibility.	None
The police have recorded three statements from Amarjit Singh on three different dates.	None
The first statement (Ex.Pw 44/DA) was recorded on November 24, 1984.	None
After 25 days, the second statement (Ex.Pw 44/DB) was recorded on December 19, 1984.	Reasoning
Both were under Section 161 of the Code.	None
Again on December 21,1984, the third statement (Ex.PW 44/A) under Section 164 of the Code came to be recorded.	Reasoning
In the first statement, there is no express involvement of Balbir Singh.	Reasoning
The second statement, according to the witness, was recorded at his own instance.	Reasoning
He deposes before the Court It did not occur to me that assassination was the handywork of Balbir Singh and Kehar Singh after I had learnt about the firing and death of Smt.	None
Indira Gandhi.	Facts
I on recalling earlier talk realised on 24.11.1984 that the assassination of Mrs. Indira Gandhi was the handywork of Shri Balbir Singh and Shri Kehar Singh.	None
Then I went to Shri R.P. Sharma who recorded my statement on 24.11.1984.	None
A is correct that I recall things bit by bit.	None
It is correct that there is a difference in my statement Pw 44/ DA and Pw 44/DB.	None
It is because many questions were not put to me earlier and, therefore, I did not mention them in my first statement.	None
He thus admits that there is difference between the first and second statement.	None
But the High Court said that there is no improvement or after thought so as to implicate Balbir Singh.	None
The approach of the High Court appears to be incorrect.	None
Amarjit Singh (P W 44) states before the Court	None
In the firstweek of August, 1984, I had a talk with Beant Singh.	None
Then he told me that he would not let Mrs. Indira Gandhi unfurl the flag on 15th August.	None
Shri Balbir Singh also used to tell me that if he could get remote control bomb and his children are sent outside India, then he also could finish Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	None
I used to think that he was angry and I used to tell him that he should not think in these terms xx XX XX XX XX	None
In the third week of October, 1984, Balbir Singh told me that Beant Singh and his family have been to Golden Temple along with Kehar Singh, her Phoopha.	None
He further told that SI Beant Singh and Constable Satwant Singh had taken Amrit in Sector VI, R.K. Puram, New Delhi at the instance of Shri Kehar Singh.	None
In the first statement (Ex.PW44/DA), there is no reference to Balbir Singh telling the witness that if he could get remote control bomb and his children are sent outside India, he could also finish Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	None
There he has stated In the end of September, 1984, SI Balbir Singh met me once in the Prime Ministers house and told me that Beant Singh wanted to kill the Prime Minister before 15th of August.	None
He (Beant Singh) had agreed to kill her (Prime Minister) with a grenade and remote control but this task was to be put off because the same could not be arranged, actual words being IN DONO CHEEZON KAINTEZAM NAHIN HO SAKA IS LIYE BATT TAL GAVE1.	None
Again in the first statement (Ex.PW 44/DA) what he stated was In the third week of October, 1984, Beant Singh, SI met me and told me that he had procured one constable, actual words being October, 1984 FETEESRA HAFTEMAIN BEANT SINGH MUJHE MILA AUR USNE BATAYAKE USNEEK SIPAHIPATAYA HAT and that now both of them would put an end to Smt.	None
Indira Gandhis life very soon.	None
The discrepancies between the first version and the evidence in Court are not immaterial.	None
They are substantial and on material points.	None
The witness is putting the words of Beant Singh into the mouth of Balbir Singh and thereby creating circumstances against the latter.	None
Lastly, the reference is made to the confession of Satwant Singh (Ex.PWH C) to support the prosecution version.	None
But it is as much a bad step as others in this case.	None
The confession of a coaccused could be used only to lend assurance to the conclusion on the acceptable evidence against the accused.	None
When by all the testimony in the case, Balbir Singhs involvement in the conspiracy is not established, the confession of Satwant Singh cannot advance the prosecution case.	None
Even otherwise, the reference in the confession as to the conspiracy between Balbir Singh and Beant singh was not within the personal knowledge of Satwant Singh.	None
He refers to Beant Singh consulting Balbir Singh and advising to kill PM.	None
It is not clear who told him and when?	None
Such a vague statement is of little use even to lend assurance to any acceptable case against Balbir Singh.	None
In my judgment, the evidence produced by the prosecution against Balbir Singh is defective as well as deficient.	None
It is safer,, therefore, to err in acquitting than in convicting him.	None
KEHAR SINGH(A3)	Facts
Kehar Singh was an Assistant in the Directorate General of Supply and Disposal, New Delhi.	Facts
The case against him is That he was a religious fanatic.	Facts
He had intense hate against Mrs. Indira Gandhi for causing damage to the Akal Takhat by the Blue Star Operation.	Facts
He was in a position to influence Beant Singh, since he was the uncle of Beant Singhs wife called as Poopha.	Facts
He converted Beant Singh and through him Satwant Singh to religious bigotry.	Facts
He made them to undergo Amrit Chakhan Ceremony on October 14, 1984 and October 24, 1984 respectively at Gurudwara, R.K. Puram, New Delhi.	Facts
He also took Beant Singh to Golden Temple, Amritsaron October 20,1984.	Facts
The prosecution, in support of the case that he was a party to the conspiracy to murder Mrs. Indira Gandhi, relied on the following Ujagar Sandhu incident (2) Darshan Singh incident Amrit Chakhan ceremony and (4) Amritsar trip.	Facts
Besides, the prosecution relied upon his reaction to Blue Star Operation, attendance in office, post crime conduct, and a pamphlet in Gurumukhi captioned Indira De Sikh.	Facts
The recovery of gold kara and gold ring belonging to Beant Singh from the residence of this accused was also depended upon.	Facts
Both the courts have generally accepted the prosecution version and held that the conspiracy to assassinate Mrs. Indira Gandhi was hatched out by all the three persons, that is, Kehar Singh, beant Singh and Satwant Singh.	Facts
I will first try to eliminate the irrelevant evidence against this accused.	None
The prosecution examined three witnesses to prove the reaction of the accused to Blue Star Operation O.P. Sharma (PW 31), Darshan Singh Jaggi (Pw 32), and Krishan Lal Uppal (PW 33).	None
These witnesses have testified that Kehar Singh was very unhappy at the consequences of Blue Star Operation and he considered that Smt.	None
Gandhi was responsible for the same.	None
In fairness to the accused, it shall be kept out of account for the reasons given by me while discussing the case of Balbir Singh.	None
I shall also exclude from consideration the pamphlet captioned Indira De Sikh (Ex.P.53) and the connected evidence of Raj Bir Singh (PW 54), Bal Kishan Tanwar, ACP (PW 63) and Daya Nand (PW 66).	None
That pamphlet in Gurumukhi no doubt, contains vitriolic attack on Mrs. Indira Gandhi.	None
But it was recovered from an open drawer of the office table of Kehar Singh when he was not in office.	None
It is a printed matter.	None
It does not show that Kehar Singh was the author of it.	None
Nor there is any evidence to indicate that Kehar Singh has anything to do with it.	None
I shall not take notice of Darshan Singh incident either.	None
It was alleged to have occurred in the Gurudwara, Moti Bagh, New Delhi, a couple of days before Raksha Bandhan day (August 18, 1984).	None
It appears that there was a kirtan of Prof. Darshan Singh, who spoke very movingly about the consequences of Blue Star Operation.	None
Kehar Singh and Beant Singh were said to be present on the occasion.	None
After nearing the speech of Prof. Darshan Singh, Beant Singh was found to be sobbing.	None
Thereupon, Kehar Singh told him that he should not weep, but take revenge.	None
This has been spoken to by Inder Bir Singh (PW 68).	None
This incident has a story behind.	None
In the newspaper Tribune dated November 25, 1984, there was an article (Ex. D.62/X) written by certain Prabhojot Singh.	None
The article goes by the headline Profile of an Assassin.	None
It was written therein There was a sudden transformation in the thinking of Beant Singh after the Army action.	None
He started accompanying his uncle Kehar Singh, an Assistant in the officer of the Director General Supplies and Disposal to Gurudwara Moti Bagh.	None
In July, a noted Ragi from Punjab performed viragkatha at the Gurudwara.	None
Beant Singh was moved and reportedly starting crying.	None
It was at this stage, Kehar Singh told him not to cry, but to take revenge.	None
The investigating agency has admittedly secured that Newspaper well in time.	None
It was preserved in their office file.	None
K.P. Sharma (PW 70) has deposed to this.	None
But he examined PW 68 only on July 3,1985, that is, after the accused were committed to take their trial.	None
It is said that the news item in Tribune is very vague and despite the best efforts, none except PW 68 could be secured till July 3.	None
This is unacceptable.	None
The said article furnishes sufficient leads like Virag Katha noted Ragi, Moti Bagh Gurudwara, the month of July, Kehar Singh and Beant Singh together attending the function, etc.	None
The author of the article is Prabhojot Singh.	None
The investigating officer could have got some more particulars if Prabhojot Singh had been approached.	None
But nobody approached him.	None
Nor anybody from the said Gurudwara has been examined.	None
The function in which the noted Prof. Darshan Singh Ragi participated could not have been an insignificant function.	None
A large number of local people, if not from far off places would have attended the function.	None
No attempt appears to have been made in these directions to ascertain the truth of the version given in the Tribune.	None
PW 68 is a solitary witness to speak about the matter.	None
He claims to know Kehar Singh but not Beant Singh.	None
It is not safe to accept his version without corroboration.	None
Let me now descend to the relevant material against the accused.	None
Ujagar Sandhu incident is relevant and may be taken note of.	None
The incident is in connection with celebration of the birthday of a child in Sandhus house to which Kehar Singh alone was invited but not Beant Singh.	None
Kehar Singh, however, persuaded Beant Singh and Mrs. Bimla Khalsa (PW 65) to accompany him.	None
They went together and participated in the function.	None
Bimla Khalsa swears to this.	None
It is common ground that there were inciting and provocating Bhajans in that function.	None
The provocating Bhajans were in the context of destruction of Akal Takhat by the Blue Star Operation.	None
But it is argued that there is no evidence that Beant Singh and his wife were deliberately taken by Kehar Singh tc expose them to provocative Bhajans.	None
There may not be any such evidence, but it may not be non sequitur when one takes an uninvited guest to such function in the circumstances of this case.	None
The incident on October 17, 1984 in the house of Beant Singh, to which Bimla Khalsa testifies, is more positive.	None
It plainly indicates that Kehar Singh and Beant Singh were combined and conspiring together.	None
She has deposed that Kehar Singh came to her house and was closeted with Beant Singh on the roof for about 18/15 minutes.	None
There was hush hush talk between them which could not be overheard by Bimla Khalsa, as she was in the kitchen.	None
That evoked suspicion in her mind.	None
She did consider if I may use her own words theirtalk as something secret.	None
There, then, she enquired from Kehar Singh replied that the talks were with regard to making somebody to take Amrit.	None
Bimla Khalsa remarked that taking Amrit was not such a thing as to talk secretly.	None
She was perfectly right in her remark.	None
There cannot be a secret talk about Amrit taking ceremony.	None
It is religious function.	None
Kehar Singh might have realised that it would be difficult to explain his conduct without exposing himself.	None
He came with cryptic reply There was nothing particular.	None
Bimla Khalsa further deposed that in the same evening Kehar Singh took meals in her house alongwith her husband and Satwant Singh who later joined them.	None
Apparently, Beant Singh did not like his wife enquiring about the exchange of secret information between him and Kehar Singh.	None
On October 20,1984, when they were in Amritsar, Beant Singh had asked his wife why she had questioned Kehar Singh as to what they were talking on the roof on October 17, 1984.	None
It may be pertinently asked Why did Kehar Singh and Beant Singh suppress the conversation?	None
Why did Kehar Singh give such reply to Bimla Khalsa?	None
If the conversation related to taking of Amrit by Beant Singh or his wife, there was no necessity to have a secret talk, since Beant Singh and Bimla Khalsa had already taken Amrit by then.	None
Kehar Singh knew it and in fact he had accompanied Bimla Khalsa for that ceremony.	None
The said conversation, as the High Court has observed could be only to further the prosecution of the conspiracy.	None
Satwant Singh later joining them for meals lends credence to this conclusion.	None
An endeavour is made to impeach Bimla Khalsa, first, on the ground that she turned hostile, and second, that she was examined belatedly.	None
I must state that merely because she turned hostile, her evidence cannot be discarded.	None
That is a well accepted proposition.	None
She has no axe to grind against any person.	None
She gains nothing by telling falsehood or incorrect things against Kehar Singh.	None
She has revealed what she was told and what she had witnessed on October 17,1984 in her own house.	None
There is, therefore, no reason to discard that part of her testimony.	None
As to the second complaint, it is true that the police did not record her statement immediately after the incident.	None
That is understandable.	None
She has lost her husband.	None
She was in immeasurable grief.	None
She ought to be allowed time to compose herself.	None
Both the objections raised against her testimony are, therefore, not sound.	None
Beant Singh appears to have planned to murder Mrs. Gandhi on October 25,1984.	None
It has been indicated by his own writing on the text of the Vak recovered on search of his house at 3 AM on November 1,1984.	None
Balraj Nanda (PW 16) who searched his house along with others recovered a book under the title Bhindranwale Sant (Ex.P.36).	None
Inside the book, a copy of Hukamnama (Vak) dated October 13, 1984 written in saffrro ink was found (Ex.P.39).	None
On the reverse of Ex.P.39, the following two dates are written 25.10.1984	None
I Yes.	None
26.10.1984  	None
Yes 8 AM to 10 AM.	None
This writing has been proved to be that of Beant singh.	None
It has been established by the evidence of Bimla Khalsa and the testimony of other witnesses.	None
Bimla Khalsa has stated that Ex.P.39 is in the handwriting of Beant Singh on both sides thereof.	None
The evidence of P.C. Maiti (PW 24), Additional Director, Institute of Criminology and Forensic Science, New Delhi and S.K. Sharma (PW 25), Assistant Director (Document) in the same Institute also confirms that fact.	None
Against this background, the visit to Amritsar assumes importance.	None
On October 20, 1984, Kehar Singh and Beant Singh along with their family members went to Amritsar.	Reasoning
There they stayed in the house of one Mr. M.R. Singh (PW 53).	None
Bimla Khalsa states that they reached Amritsar at 23 PM and went to Darbar Sahib Gurudwara in the same evening.	Reasoning
While ladies and children were listening to kirtan, Beant Singh and Kehar Singh went to see the Akal Takht.	Reasoning
Bimla Khalsa wanted to accompany them to see the Akal Takht, but she was told to see the same on the next morning.	Reasoning
What happened on the next day is still more curious.	None
In the early house, PW 53 was woken up by Kehar Singh and told that he would attend Asa Ki WarKirtan in Darbar Sahib.	Reasoning
So stating, he went along with Beant Singh.	None
The ladies and children were left behind.	None
They went to Darbar Sahib at 8 AM along with PW 53.	None
They returned home at 11 AM and had lunch with PW 53.	None
Beant Singh and Kehar Singh did not join them for lunch, nor they returned to the house of PW 53.	None
PW 53 took the ladies and children to Railway Station to catch the train for the return journey.	None
Beant Singh and Kehar Singh appeared there and all of them left by the same train.	None
What is significant to note herein is about the relative character of Kehar Singh and Beant Singh.	None
Even at the most sacred place they remained isolated from their wives and children.	None
No wonder, birds of the same feather fly together.	None
It is suggested that Kehar Singh being an elderly person and a devout religious Sikh was keeping company with Beant Singh to dissuade the latter from taking any drastic action against Mrs. Gandhi.	None
I wish that Kehar Singh had done that an given good advice to Beant Singh.	None
He had the opportunity to bring Beant Singh back to the royal path, but unfortunately, he did nothing of that kind.	None
If he had not approved the assassination of the Prime Minister, Beant Singh would not have grafted Satwant Singh to the conspiracy.	None
Secondly, if Kehar Singh was really interested in redeeming Beant Singh, he would have taken the assistance of Bimla Khalsa.	None
He did not do that even.	None
She was deliberately not taken into confidence.	None
She was in fact kept in darkness even though she was inquisitive to know their secret talk.	None
It is true that there is no substantive evidence from the testimony of Bimla Khalsa that Beant Singh took Amrit on October 14, 1984 at the instance of Kehar Singh.	None
Bimla Khalsa has only stated I cannot say if on the 14th October, 1984, Beant Singh had taken Amrit at the instance of Kehar Singh in Sector VI, Gurudwara, R.K. Puram, but on the 13th October he was telling me that he was going to take Amrit.	None
The fact, however, remains that Beant Singh took Amrit on October 14, 1984.	None
Kehar Singh was undisputedly present at the ceremony in which Bimla Khalsa took Amrit.	None
It may not be, therefore, unreasonable to state that he must have been present when Beant Singh also took Amrit.	None
The recovery made from his house supports this inference.	None
It is said that while taking Amrit or thereafter, the person is not expected to wear gold ornaments.	None
Beant Singh had gold kara (Ex.P.27) and ring (Ex.P.28).	None
These two articles were recovered by the investigating agency from the house of Kehar Singh.	None
That is not disputed before us.	None
Beast Singh must have entrusted the articles to Kehar Singh at the time of his taking Amrit.	None
It also shows the significant part played by Kehar Singh in taking Amrit by Beant Singh.	None
It is true that taking Amrit by itself may not have any sinister significance.	None
It is a religious ceremony and Amrit is taken only to lead a life of spartan purity giving up all worldly pleasures and evil habits.	None
But, unfortunately, the assassins have misused that sacred religious ceremony for ulterior purpose.	None
The post crime conduct of Kehr Singh is conclusive of his guilt.	None
He was cognizant of all the details of the coming tragedy and waiting to receive the news on that fateful day.	None
That would be clear from the testimony of Nand Lal Mehta (PW 59) who was an office colleague of Kehar Singh.	None
He has deposed that Kehar Singh had met him in the third floor corridor of the office at about 10.45 AM on October 31, 1984.	None
By that time, the news of the murderous attack on the Nations Prime Minister came like a thunderbolt from a clear sky.	None
The messenger had told that somebody had shot at Mrs. Gandhi.	None
PW 59 then enquired from Kehar Singh as to what had happened.	None
Kehar Singh replied that whosoever would take confrontation with the Panth, he would meet the same fate.	None
So stating, he went away.	None
It may be noted that at that time, there was no specific information to the outside world whether any Sikh had shot the Prime Minister or anybody else.	None
Unless Kehar Singh had prior knowledge, he could not have reacted with those words.	None
To sum up His close and continued association with Beant Singh his deliberate attempt to exclude Mrs. Bimla Khalsa from their company and conversation his secret talk with Beant Singh followed by taking meals together with Satwant Singh his keeping the gold Kara and ring of Beant Singh and his post crime conduct taken together along with other material on record are stronger as evidence of guilt than even direct testimony.	None
I agree with the conclusion of the High Court that Kehar Singh was one of the conspirators to murder Mrs. Gandhi, though not for all the reasons stated.	None
SATWANT SINGH (A1)	Facts
He was a constable in the Delhi Police recruited on January 12, 1982.	Facts
After training, he was posted in the Fifth Battalion of the Delhi Armed Police (DAP).	Facts
After further commando training, he was posted in the Second Battalion of the DAP.	Facts
Thereafter, he was posted in the C company of the Battalion at the lines on Teen Murti Lane where he reported for security duty at the Prime Ministers house on July 2,1983.	Facts
There are three charges against Satwant Singh Section 302 read with 120B and 34 IPC for murdering the Prime Minister Mrs. Indira Gandhi (ii) Section 307 IPC for the attempted murder of Rameshwar Dayal (PW10) and (iii) Section 27 of the Arms Act.	None
In proof of these charges, the prosecution have examined three eye witnesses to the occurrence.	Facts
Narain Singh (PW 9), Rameshwar Dayal (PW 10) and Nathu Ram (PW 64).	Facts
Besides, Sukhvir Singh (PW 3), Raj Singh (PW 15), Deshpal Singh (PW 43) and Ganga Singh (PW 49) have also been examined.	Facts
On October 31, 1984, in the usual course, Satwant Singh was put on security at Beat No. 4 in the Akbar Road House (not at the TMC Gate).	Facts
This has been confirmed by the daily dairy maintained at Teen Murti (Ex.PW 14/C)	Facts
(Entry No. 85).	Facts
Raj Singh (PW 15) has testified to this entry.	Facts
Satwant Singh was given arm and ammunition.	Facts
He was issued SAF Carbine (Stengun) having Butt No. 80 along with 5 magazines and 100 live rounds of 9 mm ammunition.	Facts
In acknowledgment thereof, he has signed the register (Ex.PW 3/A).	Facts
Sukhvir Singh (PW 3) has deposed to this.	Facts
With the said arm and ammunition, Satwant Singh left Teen Murti Lines at about 6.45 AM to take up his duty at Beat No. 4.	Facts
But he did not go to that spot.	Facts
The case of the prosecution is that Satwant Singh had got exchanged his place of duty to carry out the conspiracy he had with Beant Singh to murder Mrs. Gandhi.	Facts
But, on the other hand, the accused states that he had been decoyed to the TMC Gate by certain persons that he was injured by the cross firing that he fell down and was not in a position to shoot the Prime Minister or anybody.	Facts
The fact, however, remains that Satwant Singh got exchanged his place of duty with that of Deshpal Singh (PW 43).	Facts
It appears that one Head Constable Kishan Lal No. 1109 allowed the sentries to exchange their places since Satwant Singh was suffering from loose motions and TMC Gate being nearer to a latrine.	Facts
So, Deshpal Singh took up position at Beat No. 4 while Satwant Singh at TMC Gate.	Facts
Three eye witnesses to the occurrence (i) Narain Singh (ii) Rameshwar Dayal and (iii) Nathu Ram corroborate with each other on all material particulars.	Facts
They had accompanied the Prime Minister on the fateful day.	Facts
They were able to see vividly, describe correctly and identify properly the persons who gunned down Mrs. Gandhi.	Facts
Both the Courts below have accepted them as natural and trustworthy witnesses.	Facts
Such a conclusion based on appreciation of evidence is binding on this Court in the appeals under Article 136.	Facts
I may, however, briefly refer to their evidence.	None
Narain Singh (PW 9) is a Head Constable.	None
He was on duty from 7.30 AM on October 31, 1984.	Facts
He has deposed that at 8.45 AM, he came to know that the Prime Minister had to go to No. 1	None
Akbar Road, to meet certain foreign T.V. representatives.	None
He took up an umbrella and remained ready to follow the Prime Minister.	None
According to him, at 9.10 AM, Smt.	None
Gandhi emerged out of the house followed by Mr. R.K. Dhawan Private Secretary and Nathu Ram (PW 64).	Reasoning
He has stated that he moved over to the right side of Mrs. Gandhi holding the umbrella to protect her against the Sun.	None
They proceeded towards the TMC Gate.	None
The TMC Gate was kept open, where Beant Singh was on the left side and Satwant Singh on the right side.	None
When they were about 10 or 11 feet from the TMC Gate, Beant singh took out his revolver from his right dub and fired at Mrs. Gandhi Immediately, Satwant Singh also started firing at Mrs. Gandhi with his Stengun.	None
Mrs.Gandhi fell down.	None
He threw away the umbrella, took out his revolver and dashed towards Beant Singh to secure him.	None
He saw Mr. Bhatt, the personal guard of Mrs. Gandhi and ITBP personnel arriving there and securing Satwant Singh and Beant Singh.	None
He noticed that Rameshwar Dayal (PW 10) was also hit by bullets.	None
He has further stated that the Doctor came running.	None
Mrs. Sonia Gandhi too.	None
They lifted Mrs. Gandhi and placed in the rear seat of the escort car that was brought there.	None
Mrs. Gandhi was taken to the AIIMS accompanied by the Doctor and Mrs. Sonia Gandhi on the back seat and Mr. Bhatt, Mr. Dhawan and Mr. Fotedar on the front seat of the car.	Reasoning
He also went to the hospital where Kochar (PW 73) came and took his statement.	None
That statement formed the basis of the F.I.R. in this case.	None
There can be little doubt as to the presence of Narain Singh at the spot.	None
His evidence receives full corroboration from the other two eye witnesses.	None
The umbrella (Ex.P. 19) which he was holding has been recovered from the place under the seizure memo (Ex.PW 5/H).	None
Rameshwar Dayal (PW 10) is an A.S.I. of Police.	None
He was on security duty at the PMs residence.	Facts
He was also the water attendant in the pilot car of the Prime Minister.	None
From his evidence, it will be seen that he had gone to the pantry in the PMs house and got thermos flasks with water, napkins and glass.	None
He was informed that the Prime Minister had an engagement with a T.V. Team at the Akbar Road premises.	None
He went there and saw the T.V. Team.	None
He met the gardner and asked for a guldasta, but the gardner said that he would prepare and get it.	None
In the meantime, he saw the Prime Minister coming out of the house and proceeding towards Akbar Road premises followed oy Mr. R.K. Dhawan and others.	None
He also joined the entourage.	None
Rest of his evidence is identical in terms with that of Narain Singh (PW 9).	None
According to him, he ran to shield Mrs.Gandhi, but was hit by bullets.	None
Undisputedly, he had suffered bullet injuries.	None
He was admitted to the AIIMS for treatment.	None
The Medicolegal Certificate (MLC) issued by the AIIMS (Ex.10/ DA) supports his version.	None
No further corroboration is necessary to accept his evidence.	None
Nathu Ram (PW 64) is also an eye witness.	None
He was a dedicated servant of Mrs. Gandhi.	None
He was always with Mrs. Gandhi not only when she was in power but also when she was out of power.	None
His duty was to clean and dust the librarycumbed room of the Prime Minister and then stand by in attendance.	None
He has deposed that he was informed by Mrs. Gandhi about the change of programme in the morning of October 31 and was asked to ring up to the makeup persons to come.	None
Accordingly, he called to makeup persons at 7.35 AM.	None
After Mrs. Gandhi was ready and left the room at about 9.05 AM, he followed her.	None
He has testified that Mrs. Gandhi was accompanied by Mr. R.K. Dhawan and followed by Narain Singh and Rameshwar Dayal.	None
His evidence as to the relative acts of the two assassins is consistent with the version of PW 9 and PW 10.	None
As a faithful servant, he has helped to lift and carry Mrs. Gandhi to the car.	None
His presence at the spot was most natural.	None
His evidence is simple and straightforward.	None
Ganga Singh (PW 49) has spoken to events that immediately followed the assassination of the Prime Minister.	None
He is a lancenaik in the ITBP commando force placed on duty at the PMs residence.	None
When he heard the sound of fire arms from the TMC Gate, he ran to the spot as duty bound.	None
He found Mrs. Gandhi on the ground lying injured.	None
He saw two Sardars out of whom one was in uniform whom he identified in the Court as Satwant Singh.	None
He has deposed that his Inspector Tarsem Singh who also came there made the Sardars hands up.	None
He and other ITBP personnel secured the Sardars and took them to guard room.	None
At the spot, he took possession of rucksack (Ex.P. 21) from Satwant Singh.	None
The rucksack contained four magazines of 9 mm carbine, two of which were full (one with 20 bullets and the other with 30 bullets) and two empty.	None
The presence of Satwant Singh at TMC Gate is also not in dispute and indeed it was admitted by him while answering question No. 51(A) in the examination under Section 313 of the Code.	None
What is important to notice from the testimony of Ganga Singh is that Satwant Singh when apprehended by him was not injured.	None
He was taken safely to guard room.	None
He did not receive any bullet injury in the incident with which we are concerned.	None
He must have been shot evidently inside the guard room where he was taken for safe custody by the ITBP personnel.	None
The defence put forward by Satwant Singh that he was decoyed to the TMC gate where he received bullet injury is therefore, patently false.	None
The eye witnesses are not strangers to the assassins.	None
They were familiar faces in the security ring of the Prime Minister.	None
Their presence with Mrs. Gandhi at the spot was not accidental, but consistent with their duties.	None
There was no scope for mistaken identity since everything happened in the broad day light.	None
Therefore, the evidence thus far discussed itself is sufficient to bring home the guilt to Satwant Singh on all the charges levelled against him.	None
If necessary, the records contain evidence as to the identification of arms and ammunition entrusted to the assassins.	None
I have already referred to the evidence relating to the stengun(Ex.	None
P.4) and ammunition delivered to Satwant singh.	None
The stengun along with 25 empties of the stengun was recovered from the place of incident under the seizure memo (Ex.PW 5/H).	None
The revolver (Ex. P. 1) delivered to Beant Singh and 5 empties of the revolver were also collected at the spot.	None
Dr. T.D. Dogra (PW 5) while conducting limited postmortem examination has taken two bullets from the body of Mrs. Gandhi one from injury No. 1 and the other from injury No. 2.	None
These bullets along with the arms recovered from the spot were sent for the opinion of G.R. Prasad (Pw 12), Principal Scientific Officer, Ballistic Division, GFSL, New Delhi.	None
P.W. 12 has testified that the bullets recovered from the body of Mrs. Gandhi are traceable to the stengun and the revolver.	None
Similar is the evidence with regard to the other bullets recovered from the place of incident.	None
The record also contains evidence about the total tally of the bullets fired and the empties collected.	None
It is needless to discuss that evidence here.	None
It is, however, argued for the accused that the finger prints found on the stengun were not tested for comparison and the two bullets recovered from the body of Mrs. Gandhi were not examined for the traces of blood or tissues.	None
It is further said that the postmortem examination conducted by Dr. Dogra ought to have been full and complete to clinch the issues.	None
There is no substance in these contentions.	None
It is not necessary to confirm the finger prints on the stengun, as that of the accused when it is proved that that stengun was delivered to him.	None
The examination of the bullets recovered from the body of Mrs. Gandhi for the traces of blood or tissues is also unnecessary, since one of the bullets taken by the Doctor tallied with the stengun (Ex.P.4).	None
Equally, limited postmortem examination conducted by Dr. Dogra would not affect the merits of the case.	None
It is not always necessary to have a complete postmortem in every case.	None
Section 174 of the Code confers discretion to the Police Officer not to send the body for postmortem examination if there is no doubt as to the cause of death.	None
If the cause of death is absolutely certain and beyond the pale of doubt or controversy, it is unnecessary to have the postmortem done by Medical Officer.	None
In the instant case, there was no controversy about the cause of death of Mrs. Gandhi.	None
A complete postmortem of the body was therefore uncalled for.	None
From the aforesaid direct testimony coupled with the other clinching circumstances available on record, there is not even an iota of doubt about the crime committed by Satwant Singh.	None
I agree with the High Court that he is guilty of all the charges.	None
In this view of the matter, it is unnecessary to burden this case by reference to confession of Satwant Singh.	None
This takes me to the question of sentence.	Issue
Section 354(3) of the Code, 1973 marks a significant shift in the legislative policy of awarding death sentence.	None
Now the normal sentence for murder is imprisonment for life and not sentence of death.	None
The Court is required to give special reasons for awarding death sentence.	None
Special reasons means specific facts and circumstances obtained in the case justifying the extreme penalty.	None
This Court in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab 1980CriLJ636 has indicated certain guidelines to be applied to the facts of each individual case where the question of imposing death sentence arises.	None
It was observed that in cases where there is no proof of extreme culpability the extreme penalty need not be given.	None
It may be given only in rarest of rare cases where there is no extenuating circumstance.	None
In Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab 1983CriLJ1457 , this Court again indicated some principles as to what constitute The rarest of rare cases which warrant the imposition of death sentence.	None
The High Court has carefully examined these principles and given reasons why in this case, the death sentence alone should be awarded.	None
In my opinion, the punishment measured is deserved.	None
There cannot be two opinions on this issue.	None
The Blue Star Operation was not directed to cause damage to AkalTakht.	None
Nor it was intended to hurt the religious feelings of Sikhs.	None
The decision was taken by the responsible and responsive Government in the national interest.	None
The Prime Minister (late) Mrs. Indira Gandhi was, however, made the target for the consequences of the decision.	None
The security guards who were duty bound to protect the Prime Minister at the cost of their lives, themselves became the assassins.	None
Incredible but true.	None
All values and all ideals in life all norms and obligations are thrown to the winds.	None
It is a betrayal of the worst order.	None
It is the most foul and senseless assassination.	None
The preparations for the execution of this egregious crime do deserve the dread sentence of the law.	None
Having regard to the views which I have expressed, I too would dismiss the appeals of Kehar Singh and Satwant Singh, but allow the appeal of Balbir Singh by setting aside his conviction and sentence, and acquitting him of all the charges.	None
Before parting with the case, I would like to express my gratitude to counsel amicus curiae for their willingness to assist, on behalf of the accused.	None
With their profound learning and experience, they have argued the case remarkably well.	None
I must also place it on record my appreciation about the deep learning and assiduity with.	None
which Mr. G. Ramaswami, Additional Solicitor General assisted on behalf of the State.	None
He was extremely fair to the Court as well as to accused.	None
