 Subba Rao, CJ.1.	None
This appeal by certificate is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Rajasthan at Jodhpur dismissing the petition filed by the appellants under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution.2.	None
The relevant facts may be briefly stated.	Facts
By a registered saledeed, dated December 10, 1958, the appellants purchased the land comprised in Khasra Nos. 158 and 182/2 situated in village Sangaria in Tehsil Hanumangarh in the State of Rajasthan.	Facts
On February 14, 1957, the Government of Rajasthan published a notification No. 7(104)	Facts
Rev (A), dated October l9, 1956 under .S. 4 of the Rajasthan Land Acquisition Act 1953, hereinafter called the Act, to the effect that the said land, along with others, was needed or likely to be needed for the public purpose of laying township and orchards.	Facts
On January 9, 1958, another notification was published in the Rajasthan Gazette under S 5 (2) of the Act.	Facts
On February 3, 1959,a further notification under S. 6 of the Act was published in the Rajasthan Gazette in respect of the said land.	Facts
The Government of Rajasthan, in exercise of the power under S. 3 (c) of the Act, issued a notification , dated September 10, 1955, appointing the Deputy Director of Colonistation, Suratgarh Division with headquarters at Hanumangarh , to perform the functions of a collector under the Act within the local limits of his jurisdiction.	Facts
On July 30, 1959, these said Government published a notification, dated June 4, 1959, in modification of the previous notification, appointing the Deputy Director of Colonisation, Rajasthan Canal Project, then having head quarters at Bikaner to perform the said functions within the districts of Ganganager, Bikaner and Jaisalmer.	Facts
Notwithstanding the said notification, the Deputy Director of Colonisation, Suratgarh, exercising the functions under the Act, continued the acquisition proceedings.	Facts
The appellants filed objections questioning the jurisdiction of the said Deputy Director to proceed with the enquiry and there after they did not take part in the proceedings.	Facts
On December 11, 1959, after making expert enquiries, the said Deputy Director made an award which for convenience of reference may be referred to as Award No. 1.	Facts
In the said award, the appellants, land was valued at Rs. 614 per bigha.	Facts
But on June 27,1960, the said Deputy Collector made another award, hereinafter referred to as Award No. 2, setting aside Award No. 1.	Issue
and giving compensation to the appellants, land at the rate of Rs. 442 instead of at Rs.614 per bigha.	Issue
The appellants filed the writ petition in the High Court of Rajasthan challenging the validity of the said proceedings.3.	Facts
The contentions raised by the parties before the High Court need not be particularised as they are apparent from the following findings given by it (1) The provision of S. 4 in the Act , namely, that a public notice of the substance of the notification should be given at convenient places in the locality of the land in dispute, is mandatory and the Land Acquisition Officer did not comply with the same but as the objection raised by the appellants in that regard was belated it could not be allowed to be taken at that stage.	Facts
(2) The direction given by the Rajasthan Government to the Deputy Director of Colonisation, Suratgarh Division, to exercise the powers of the Land Acquisition Officer under the Act was not withdrawn, either expressly or by necessary implication, by the notification dated, June 4, 1959, by which the Deputy Director of Colonisatin, Rajasthan Canal Project, was authorised to perform the functions of Collector within the three districts mentioned therein.(3) Award	Facts
No. 1 dated December 11, 1959, which related to Khasra No. 158 had become final, and it could not be altered by Award No. 2 in regard to the said Khasra number.	Facts
In effect and substance, the High Court held that both the awards were valid but Award No. 2 should be confined only to Kharsa No. 182/2.	Facts
In the result, the petition was dismisses.	Facts
Hence the appeal.4.	None
The learned counsel for the appellants raised before us the following three points (1) The entire acquisition proceedings were void inasmuch as the mandatory provision of S. 4 of the Act was not complied with.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) After the Deputy Director of Colonisation, Rajasthan Canal Project, had been authorised to perform the functions of a Collector in the districts of Ganganagar, Bikaner and Jaisalmer, the Deputy Director of Colonisation, Suratgarh Division, with headquerters at Hanumangarh who was appointed earlier to perform the functions of a Collector under the Act within the local limits of the said jurisdiction had become functus officio in regard to the instant acquisition and, therefore, the proceedings conducted by him thereafter were null and void.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) Under the Land Acquisition Act, the Collector thereunder could make only one award in respect of a notification and, therefore, when he made the first award in respect of the notification he became functus officio and, therefore, the second award made by him in respect of the same notification was void.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned AdvocateGeneral of Rajasthan questioned the correctness of every one of the said contentions.	None
We shall advert to his contentions in the relevant contexts.	None
Section 4, 5 and 5A of the Act readSection 4.	None
Publication of preliminary notification and powers of officers thereupon (1)	None
Whenever it appears to the Government that land in any locality is needed or is likely to be needed for any public purpose, a notification to that effect shall be published in the Rajasthan Gazette, and the Collector shall cause public notice of the substance of such notification to be given at convenient places in the said locality.(2)	None
Thereupon it shall be lawful for any officer, generally or specially authorised by the Government in this behalf, and for his servants and workmen,(a) to enter upon and survey and take levels of any land in such locality(b) to dig or bore into the subsoil(c) to do all other acts necessary to ascertain whether the land is adapted for such purpose(d) to set out the boundaries of the land proposed to be taken and the intended line of the work (if any) proposed to be made thereon(e) to mark such levels, boundaries and line by placing marks and cutting trenches and where otherwise the survey cannot be completed and the levels taken and the boundaries and line marked, to cut down and clear away any part of any standing crop, fence or Jungle Section 5.	None
Report by Collector.  	None
l)	None
The Collector or a Revenue Officer specially empowered by the Government in this behalf shall forward to the Government with his remarks a report on the result of the survey if any, and other operations described in and taken under .subs.	None
(2) of S. 4.(2) After considering the report, if any, submitted under subs.	None
(1) or, if no such report has been received, at any time after the issue of the notification under subs.	None
(1) of S. 4, the Government shall publish a further notification in the Rajasthan Gazette, giving sufficient description of the land already notified under the said subs.	None
(1) of S. 4 to enable it to be identified and stating the purpose for which it is or is likely to be needed, its approximate area and situation and, where a plan has been made of the land, the place where such plan may be inspected, and the Collector shall cause public notice to be given of the substance of the said further notification at convenient places on or near the land to be acquired.	None
Section 5A. Hearing of objections.	None
(1.)	None
Any person interested in any land which has been notified under S. 5 as being needed or likely to be needed for public purpose or for a company may, within thirty days, after the issue of the notification object to the acquisition of the land or of any land in the locality, as the case may be.	None
The learned AdvocateGeneral argued that a combined reading of Ss.	None
4,5 and 5A indicates that the direction in the second part of S. 4 that the Collector shall cause public notice of the substance of the notification to be given at convenient places in the said locality was only directory.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that S. 4 contemplated only a notification in general terms and that under S. 5 (2), after the Collector ascertained the necessary particulars, the Government had to issue a fresh notification giving sufficient description of the land intended to be acquired along with a plan, if one had been made, and also to cause a public notice to be given of the substance of the said notification at convenient places on or near the land to be acquired.	Arguments of Respondent
As two notices were contemplated by the Actone in general terms and another with specificationsand as both the notices should be published and their substance should be notified at convenient places, the argument proceeded, that the direction to cause a public notice of the substance of the notification to be given at convenient places in the said locality under S. 4 was only directory, for the party would get under the later notification better particulars and thus he would not in any case be prejudiced.6.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument was not accepted by the High Court, and, in our view rightly.	Reasoning
The provisions of a statute conferring power on the Government to compulsorily acquire lands shall be strictly construed.	Reasoning
Section 4 in clear terms says that the Collector shall cause public notice of the substance of such notification to be given at convenient places in the said locality.	Reasoning
The provision is mandatory in terms.	Reasoning
Doubtless, under certain circumstances, the expression shall is construed as may.	Reasoning
The term shall in its ordinary significance is mandatory and the Court shall ordinarily give that interpretation to that term unless such an interpretation leads to some absurd or inconvenient consequence or be at variance with the intent of the legislature, to be collected from ether parts of the Act.	Reasoning
The construction of the said expression depends on the provisions of a particular Act, the setting in which the expression appears, the object for which the direction is given, the consequences that would flow from the infringement of the direction and such other considerations.	Reasoning
The object underlying the said direction in S. 4 is obvious.	Reasoning
Under subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 4 of the Act, after Such a notice was given, the officer authorised by the Government in that behalf could enter the land and interfere with the possession of the owner in the manner prescribed thereunder.	Reasoning
The Legislature thought that it was absolutely necessary that before such officer can enter the land of another, the owner thereof should have a clear notice of the intended entry.	Reasoning
The fact that the owner may have notice of the particulars of the intended acquisition under S. .5 (2) does not serve the purpose of S. 4, for such a notice shall be given after the appropriate officer or officers enter the land and submit the particulars mentioned in S. 4.	Reasoning
The objects of the two sections are different the object of one section is to give intimation to the person whose land is sought to be acquired, of the intention of the officer to enter his land before he does so and that of the other is to enable him to know the particulars of the land which is sought to be acquired.	Reasoning
In the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act 1 of 1894)	Reasoning
there is no section corresponding to S. 5 (2) of the Act.	Reasoning
Indeed subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 5 of the Act was omitted by Act 15 of 1960 and S. 5A was suitably amended to bring the said provision in conformity with those of Central Act 1 of 1894.	Reasoning
Whatever may be said on the question of construction after the said amendmenton which we do not express any opinionbefore the amendment,.	Reasoning
Ss. 4 and 5(2) were intended to serve different purposes.7.	Reasoning
Indeed, the wording of S. 4 (2) of the Act leads to the same conclusion.	Reasoning
It says, thereupon it shall be lawful for any officer generally or specially authorised by the Government in this behalf, and for his servants and workmen to enter upon and survey and take levels of any land in such locality The expressions thereupon and shall be lawful indicate that unless such a public notice is given, the officer or his servants cannot enter the land.	Reasoning
It is a necessary condition for the exercise of the power of entry.	Reasoning
The noncompliance with the said condition makes the entry of the officer or his servants unlawful.	Reasoning
On the express terms of subs.	Reasoning
(2), the officer Or his servants can enter the land to be acquired only if that condition is complied with.	Reasoning
If it is not complied with, he or his servants cannot exercise the power of entry under S. 4 (2), with the result that if the expression shall is construed as may, the object of the subsection itself will be defeated.	Reasoning
The statutory intention is, therefore, clear namely, that the giving of public notice is mandatory.	Reasoning
If so, the notification issued under, S. 4 without complying with the said mandatory direction would be void and the land acquisition proceedings taken pursuant thereto would be equally void.8.	None
Reliance is placed by the learned Advocate General on the decision of this Court in Babu Barkya Thakur v. State of Bombay, 1961l	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 128 at p. 140 (AIR 1960 SC 1203 at p. 1208).	None
There, the notification under S. 4 did not say specifically that the land sought to be acquired was needed for a public purpose, but it gave the necessary details in regard to the purpose for which the land was sought to be acquired.	None
it was argued that the nonmention of the expression public purpose invalidated the notification Dealing with the argument, this Court observed What was a mere proposal under S. 4 becomes the subject matter of a definite proceeding for acquisition under the Act.	None
Hence, it is not correct to say that any defect in the notification under S 4 is fatal to the validity of the proceedings, particularly when the acquisition is for a company and the purpose has to be investigated under S. 5A or S. 40 neessarily after the notification under S. 4 of the Act.	None
In that case a formal defect was sought to be relied upon to invalidate the notice and this Court did not accept the contention.	None
But it cannot be an authority, for the position that, if a public notice of the notification was not given as prescribed by S. 4 it can be ignored.	Reasoning
That would be rewriting the section.9.	None
The decision of this Court in Smt.	None
Somawanti v. State of Punjab, 19632 SCR 774 at pp. 82223 (AIR 1963 SC 151 at p. 171), is also beside the point.	None
The argument advanced therein was that the notification under S.6 should succeed the notification under S. 4 and that it could not be legally published in the same issue of the Gazette.	None
Dealing with that argument, this Court observed In the case before us the preliminary declaration under S. 4 (1) was made on August 18, 1961 and a declaration as to the satisfaction of the Government on August 19, 1961, though both of them were published in the Gazette of August 25, 1961.	None
The preliminary declaration as well as subsequent declaration are both required by law to be published in the official gazette.	None
But the law does not make the prior publication of notification under subs.	None
(1) of S. 4 a condition precedent to the publication of a notification under subs.	None
(1) S. 6.	None
On the said ground the contention was rejected.	None
This decision also has no bearing on the point raised before us.	None
Indeed, the following observation made by this Court in the course of the judgment, to some extent, goes against the contention of the respondentA notification under subs.	None
(1) of S. 4 is a condition precedent to the making of notification under subs.	None
(1) of S. 6.In the present case, the High Court, as we have expressed earlier, rightly held that the provisions for public notice was mandatory, but disallowed the objection on the ground that it was rather belated.	None
We find it difficult to appreciate the said reasoning.	Reasoning
This is not a case where a party, who submitted himself to the jurisdiction of a tribunal, raised the plea of want of jurisdiction when the decision went against him but this is a case where the appellants questioned the jurisdiction of the tribunal from the outset and refused to take part in the proceedings.	Reasoning
Though the notifications under S. 4 was published in the Rajasthan Gazette on February 14, 1957, Award No. 1 was made on December 11, 1959 and Award No. 2 on June 27, 1960.	Reasoning
The appellants say that they came to know that the awards were made only on September 15, 1960, and they filed the petition in October 26, 1960.	Reasoning
It cannot, therefore, be said that there was such an inordinate delay as to preclude the appellants from invoking the jurisdiction of the High Court under Art, 226 of the Constitution.10.	Reasoning
In this view, it is not necessary to express our opinion on the other two questions raised by the learned counsel for the appellants.11.	Decision
In the result, the appellants will be entitled to a writ of prohibition restraining the respondents from giving effect to the said two awards.	Decision
The order of the High Court is set aside and the writ petition filed by the appellants is allowed with costs here and in the Court below.12.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
