 GOSWAMI J. 1.	None
The appellant No. 1 is a registered firm and appellants Nos. 2 and 3 are the only two partners of that firm.	Facts
They are assessees under the Incometax Act.	Facts
Their assessments have been made for a number of years in Nellore District in the usual course.	Facts
On January 23, 1973, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (briefly the Central Board) sent a notice to the appellants under section 127 of the Incometax Act, 1961 (briefly the Act), proposing to transfer their case files for facility of investigation from the respective Incometax Officer at Nellore to the Incometax Officer, B Ward, Special Circle II, Hyderabad.	Facts
By this notice they were also asked to submit in writing if they had any objection to the proposed transfer within 15 days of receipt of the notice.	Facts
The appellants made their representation objecting to the transfer and on July 26, 1973, the Central Board passed the impugned order transferring the cases from Nellore to Hyderabad There is no provision of appeal or revision under the Act against such orders of transfer.	Facts
The appellants, therefore, preferred an application under article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh questioning the validity of the order chiefly on the ground of violation of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as no reasons were given nor communicated in the said order.	Facts
The learned single judge after having called for the relevant file found that certain reasons were recorded by the Central Board prior to the passing of the impugned order and held that mere failure to communicate the reasons to the appellants was not fatal to the order.	Facts
The writ petition was, therefore, dismissed.	None
2.	None
The appellants Letters Patent Appeal before the Division Bench of the High Court also met with the same fate.	None
Hence, this appeal by special leaveThe short question that arises for consideration is whether failure to record the reasons in the order which was communicated to the appellants is violative of the principles of natural justice for which the order should be held to be invalid.	None
3. Section 5(7A) was the corresponding section in the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (briefly the old Act).	None
The section may be set out The Commissioner of Incometax may transfer any case from one Incometax Officer subordinate to him to another, and the Central Board of Revenue may transfer any case from any one Incometax Officer to another.	None
Such transfer may be made at any stage of the proceedings, and shall not render necessary the reissue of any notice already issued by the Incometax Officer from whom the case is transferred.	None
4.	None
The successor section under the Incometax Act, 1961, is section 127 and the same may be set out 127.	None
Transfer of cases from one Incometax Officer to another.(1)	None
The Commissioner may after giving the assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter, wherever it is possible to do so, and after recording his reasons for doing so, transfer any case from one Incometax Officer subordinate to him to another also subordinate to him, and the Board may similarly transfer any case from one Incometax Officer to another.	None
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require any such opportunity to be given where the transfer is from one Incometax Officer to another whose offices are situated in the same city, locality or place.	None
(2) The transfer of a case under subsection (1) may be made at any stage of the proceedings, and shall not render necessary the reissue of any notice already issued by the Incometax Officer from whom the case is transferred.	None
Explanation.	None
In this section and in sections 121 and 125, the word case, in relation to any person whose name is specified in any order or direction issued thereunder, means all proceedings under this Act in respect of any year which may be pending on the date of such order or direction or which may have been completed on or before such date, and includes also all proceedings under this Act which may be commenced after the date of such order or direction in respect of any year.	None
The section was amended by section 27 of Finance (No. 2) Act, 1967, and section 127 since then stands as under (1) The Commissioner may, after giving the assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter, wherever it is possible to do so, and after recording his reasons for doing so, transfer any case from any Incometax Officer or Incometax Officers subordinate to him to any other Incometax Officer or Incometax Officers also subordinate to him and the Board may similarly transfer any case from any Incometax Officer or Incometax Officers to any other Incometax Officer or Incometax Officers.	None
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require any such opportunity to be given where the transfer is from any Incometax Officer or Incometax Officers to any other Incometax Officer or incometax Officers and the offices of all such Incometax Officers are situated in the same city, locality or place.	None
Provided further that where any case has been transferred from any Incometax Officer or Incometax Officers to two or more Incometax Officers, the Incometax Officers to whom the case is so transferred shall have concurrent jurisdiction over the case and shall perform such functions in relation to the said case as the Board or the Commissioner (or any Inspecting Assistant Commissioner authorised by the Commissioner in this behalf) may, by general or special order in writing, specify, for the distribution and allocation of the work to be performed.	None
(2) The transfer of a case under subsection (1) may be made at any stage of the proceedings, and shall not render necessary the reissue of any notice already issued by the Incometax Officer or Incometax Officers from whom the case is transferred.	None
Explanation.	None
In this section and in sections 121, 123, 124 and 125, the word case in relation to any person whose name is specified in any order or direction issued thereunder, means all proceedings under this Act in respect of any year which may be pending on the date of such order or direction or which may have been completed on or before such date, and includes also all proceedings under this Act which may be commenced after the date of such order or direction in respect of any year.	None
Unlike section 5(7A), section 127(1) requires reasons to be recorded prior to the passing of an order of transfer.	None
The impugned order does not state any reasons whatsoever for making the order of transfer.	None
5.	None
It is submitted on behalf of the revenue by Mr. Sharma that reasons were communicated to the assessees in the notice calling for objection against the proposed transfer.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, therefore, mainfest that the reasons given in that show cause notice, namely, facility of investigation can be read as a part of the impugned order although there is no mention of any reasons therein as such.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
We are unable to accede to this submission.	None
It appears that section 5(7A) of the old Act came for consideration in Pannalal Binjraj v. Union of India, and this court observed at page 589 as follows it would be prudent if the principles of natural justice are followed, where circumstances permit, before any order of transfer under section 5(7A) of the Act is made by the Commissioner of Incometax or the Central Board of Revenue, as the case may be, and notice is given to the party affected and he is afforded a reasonable opportunity of representing his views on the question and the reasons of the order are reduced however briefly to writingThere is no presumption against the bona fides or the honesty of an assessee and normally the incometax authorities would not be justified in refusing to an assessee a reasonable opportunity of representing his views when any order to the prejudice of the normal procedure laid down in section 64(1) and (2) of the Act is sought to be made against him, be it a transfer from one Incometax Officer to another within the State or from an Incometax Officer within the State to an Incometax Officer without it, except of course where the very object of the transfer would be frustrated if notice was given to the party affected.	None
If the reasons for making the order are reduced however briefly to writing it will also help the assessee in appreciating the circumstances which make it necessary or desirable for the Commissioner of Incometax or the Central Board of Revenue, as the case may be, to transfer his case under section 5(7A) of the Act and it will also help the court in determining the bona fides of the order as passed if and when the same is challenged in court as mala fide or discriminatory.	None
It is to be hoped that the incometax authorities will observe the above procedure wherever feasible.	None
This judgment was rendered by this court on December 21, 1956, and we find that in the 1961 Act section 127 replaced section 5(7A) where the legislature has introduced, inter alia, the requirement of recording reasons in making the order of transfer.	Reasoning
It is manifest that once an order is passed transferring the case file of an assessee to another area the order has to be communicated.	Reasoning
Communication of the order is an absolutely essential requirement since the assessee is then immediately made aware of the reasons which impelled the authorities to pass the order of transfer.	Reasoning
It is apparent that if a case file is transferred from the usual place of residence or office where ordinarily assessments are made to a distant area, a great deal of inconvenience and even monetary loss is involved.	Reasoning
That is the reason why before making an order of transfer the legislature has ordinarily imposed the requirement of a showcause notice and also recording of reasons.	Reasoning
The question then arises whether the reasons are at all required to be communicated to the assessee.	None
It is submitted, on behalf of the revenue, that the very fact that reasons are recorded in the file, although these are not communicated to the assessee, fully meets the requirement of section 127(1).	None
We are unable to accept this submission.	None
8.	None
The reason for recording of reasons in the order and making these reasons known to the assessee is to enable an opportunity to the assessee to approach the High Court under its writ jurisdiction under article 226 of the Constitution or even this court under article 136 of the Constitution in an appropriate case for challenging the order, inter alia, either on the ground that it is mala fide or arbitrary or that it is based on irrelevant and extraneous considerations.	Reasoning
Whether such a writ or special leave application ultimately fails is not relevant for a decision of the questionWe are clearly of opinion that the requirement of recording reasons under section 127(1) is a mandatory direction under the law and noncommunication thereof is not saved by showing that the reasons exist in the file although not communicated to the assessee 9.	None
Mr. Sharma drew our attention to a decision of the Delhi High Court in Sunanda Rani Jain v. Union of India, where the learned single judge has taken a contrary view.	None
For the reasons, which we have given above, we have to hold that the said decision is not correct.	None
10.	None
The appellant drew our attention to a decision of this court in Shri Pragdas Umer Vaishya v. Union of India, where rule 55 of the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, providing for exercise of revisional power by the Central Government was noticed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was held that under rule 55 the Central Government in disposing of the revision application must record its reasons and communicate these reasons to the parties affected thereby.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further held that the reasons could not be gathered from the notings in the files of the Central Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Recording of reasons and disclosure thereof is not a mere formality.	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	None
Mr. Sharma drew our attention to a decision of this court in Kashiram Aggarwalla v. Union of India.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that this court took the view that orders under section 127(1) are held in that decision to be purely administrative in nature passed for consideration of convenience and no possible prejudice could be involved in the transfer.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also held therein that under the proviso to section 127(1) it was not necessary to give the appellant an opportunity to be heard and there was consequently no need to record reasons for the transfer.	None
This decision is not of any assistance to the revenue in the present case since that was a transfer from one Incometax Officer to another Incometax Officer in the same city, or, as stated in the judgment itself, in the same locality and the proviso to section 127(1), therefore, appliedWhen law requires reasons to be recorded in a particular order affecting prejudicially the interests of any person, who can challenge the order in court, it ceases to be a mere administrative order and the vice of violation of the principles of natural justice on account of omission to communicate the reasons is not expiated.	None
12.	None
Mr. Sharma also drew our attention to a decision of this court in S. Narayanappa v. Commissioner of Incometax, where this court was dealing with section 34 of the old Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is clear that there is no requirement in any of the provisions of the Act or any section laying down as a condition for the initiation of the proceedings that the reasons which induced the Commissioner to accord sanction to proceed under section 34 must also be communicated to the assessee.	None
The Incometax Officer need not communicate to the assessee the reasons which led him to initiate the proceedings under section 34.	Reasoning
The case under section 34 is clearly distinguishable from that of a transfer order under section 127(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
When an order under section 34 is made the aggrieved assessee can agitate the matter in appeal against the assessment order, but an assessee against whom an order of transfer is made has no such remedy under the Act to question the order of transfer.	Reasoning
Besides, the aggrieved assessee on receipt of the notice under section 34 may even satisfy the Incometax Officer that there were no reasons for reopening the assessment.	Reasoning
Such an opportunity is not available to an assessee under section 127(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
The above decision is, therefore, clearly distinguishable.	None
13.	None
We are, therefore, clearly of opinion that noncommunication of the reasons in the order passed under section 127(1) is a serious infirmity in the order for which the same is invalid.	Reasoning
The judgment of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The appeal is allowed and the orders of transfer are quashed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
