 Leave granted.	None
This appeal has been filed against the judgment and order dated 6.7.2017 passed by the High Court.	Issue
By which judgment, the High Court enhanced the compensation granted to the Appellant from Rs. 1.50 lac to Rs. 2.50 lac.	Issue
The Appellant was a fruit seller whose right hand was amputated after the accident.	Facts
In the claim petition, the claimant, at page 24 in para 4, has claimed that he is entitled for compensation of Rs. 9,05,000/ from the Respondents jointly and severally and the claimant is suffering from financial crisis, therefore, he is unable to pay court fees on the said amount.	Facts
Therefore, he had restricted his claim to the tune of Rs. 3,00,000/.	Facts
The Tribunal accepted the case setup by the Appellant and allowed the claim to Rs. 1.50 lacs.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said order, the appeal was filed in the High Court.	Facts
The High Court found substance in the appeal and allowed the appeal by enhancing compensation from Rs. 1.50 lacs to Rs. 2.50 lacs.	Facts
The High Court has observed that the said amount shall be just and fair compensation payable to the Appellant for the injuries suffered.	Facts
Learned Counsel for the Appellant submits that the mere fact that the Appellant has confined his claim to Rs. 3 lacs cannot be a factor in Appellant being not granted the fair and reasonable compensation for injuries suffered by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court having noticed that the Appellant was carrying business of fruits on a handcart, the amputation of right hand has made the business of the Appellant nonfunctional.	Arguments of Petitioner
The amount of Rs. 2.5 lacs awarded by the High Court is neither fair nor just compensation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by learned Counsel for the Appellant that this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction Under Article 142 of the Constitution can award just and reasonable compensation to the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
5. Learned Counsel for the Respondent submits that the Appellant having confined his claim to Rs. 3 lacs before the High Court cannot be allowed to contend that he is entitled for any higher compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered submission of learned Counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
There is no dispute between the parties that in the bus accident, right hand of the Appellant was crushed which had to be amputated.	Reasoning
The Appellant was carrying on the business of selling fruits on a handcart which fact has also been noticed by the High Court.	Reasoning
In para 4 of the claim petition, although the claimant has computed the compensation to Rs. 9,05,000/ on different heads but he confined his claim to Rs. 3 lacs due to the reason he was unable to deposit the court fee on Rs. 9,05,000/.	Reasoning
Para 4 of the claim petition reads as follows That due to the amputation of right hand the claimant has became permanently disabled person, he has lost his earning capacity.	Reasoning
The claimant is unable to do any type of work and is leading a pity miserable life and therefore, the claimant is claiming compensation under following heads.	Reasoning
Thus, the claimant is entitled for compensation of Rs.	Reasoning
9,05,00/ from the Respondents jointly and severally because the claimant has sustained the above loss, expenses because of the accident.	Reasoning
However, the claimant is suffering from financial crises therefore, he is unable to deposit the court fees upon the said amount therefore, he has restricted his claim to the tune of Rs. 3,00,000/ and upon which court fees stamp of Rs.	Reasoning
2,37250 ps. is paid herewith which is sufficient.	Reasoning
If this Honble Court comes to the conclusion the claimant is entitled to get more than Rs. 3,00,000/ towards compensation in that eventuality, the claimant is ready to deposit deficit court fees.	Reasoning
This Court in large number of cases has laid down that it is permissible to grant compensation of any amount in excess to that one which has been claimed.	Reasoning
This Court in exercise of jurisdiction Under Article 142 of the Constitution has awarded just and reasonable compensation.	Reasoning
It is sufficient to refer a recent judgment in Ramla and Ors.	Reasoning
vs. National Insurance Company Limited and Ors.	Reasoning
I (2019)	Reasoning
SLT 428 I (2019)	Reasoning
ACC 346 (SC) (2019) 2 SCC 192 , where this Court in para 5 has laid down Though the claimants had claimed a total compensation of Rs.	Reasoning
25,00,000/ in their claim petition filed before the Tribunal, we feel that the compensation which the claimants are entitled to is higher than the same as mentioned supra.	Reasoning
There is no restriction that the Court cannot award compensation exceeding the claimed amount, since the function of the Tribunal or court Under Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 is to award just compensation.	Reasoning
The Motor Vehicles Act is a beneficial and welfare legislation.	Reasoning
A just compensation is one which is reasonable on the basis of evidence produced on record.	Reasoning
It cannot be said to have become time barred.	Reasoning
Further, there is no need for a new cause of action to claim an enhanced amount.	Reasoning
The courts are duty bound to award just compensation.	Reasoning
Looking to the facts that the Appellant who was fruit seller on a handcart, his right hand having amputated, injury has caused him permanent disability substantially affecting his business.	Reasoning
The award of Rs. 2.5 lacs cannot be held to be a just and reasonable compensation.	Reasoning
The Appellant in his computation has claimed Rs. 8,10,000/ towards loss of future income.	Reasoning
We have no doubt that the amputation of right hand has caused great loss of future income.	Reasoning
There is one more reason due to which the limiting of claim of the Appellant to Rs. 3 lacs cannot come into way in awarding higher compensation.	Reasoning
In the last line of para 4 of the claim petition, the Appellant has stated If this Honble Court comes to the conclusion the claimant is entitled to get more than Rs. 3,00,000/ towards compensation in that eventuality, the claimant is ready to deposit deficit court fees.	Reasoning
The Appellant has expressly stated that if it is entitled to get more than Rs. 3 lacs the claimant is ready to deposit deficient court fee.	Reasoning
This clearly means that neither the Tribunal nor the High Court was precluded from awarding higher than Rs. 3 lacs.	Reasoning
After taking into consideration the entire facts and circumstances of the present case, we are of the view that to grant an amount of Rs. 5 lacs as compensation to the Appellant shall be just and reasonable.	Decision
We, thus, allow the appeal and enhance the compensation amount to Rs. 5 lacs.	Decision
The compensation amount shall also bear 9 interest per annum from the date of claim petition.	Decision
