 K. Das, J. (For himself Sinha C. J. and N. Rajagopala Ayyangar, J.)1.	None
This writ petition by one Mannalal Jain was originally filed on October 17, 1960, and the order complained of was dated September 13, 1960.	None
This was an order made by the Deputy Commissioner, Kamrup, Gauhati, rejecting an application made by the petitioner for the grant of a license for the year 1960 for dealing in rice and paddy under the relevant provisions of the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1960.	None
This writ petition was put up for hearing in this Court on February 2, 1961	None
The hearing was, however, adjourned sine die, because it was stated before us that the period of license for 1960 had already expired and a fresh application would have to made for a license for 1961.	None
A fresh application was accordingly made by the petitioner on February 4, 1961.	None
But before that date a fresh Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1961, was made by the Governor of Assam and the application made by the petitioner had to be dealt with under the new Order.	Facts
No order having been made on this fresh application by the Deputy Commissioner, the petitioner moved this Court by means of a petition (C. M. P. No. 850 of 1961) asking for certain reliefs, one of which was that the respondents, namely, the licensing authorities should be directed to consider the application of the petitioner and grant him a license.	None
On April 11, 1961, an order was made rejecting the application of the petitioner.	None
This order which is impugned before us was in these terms Having regard to the existing licenses in these areas (Mangaldai and Gauhati), and the quantity of foodgrains available therein, any further license would be superfluous.	None
When the petition was again put up for hearing on May 1, 1961, the petitioner asked for time to amend his original petition which related to the order refusing to grant him a license for 1960.	None
This amendment became necessary by reason of the subsequent order passed on April 11, 1961, quoted earlier, by which the petitioners application for a license for 1961 was rejected.	None
This amendment was allowed.	None
Therefore, we have now to deal with the writ petition as amended by the petition dated May 5, 1961 (C. M.P. No. 1140 of 1961).2.	None
It is necessary now to state the relevant facts out of which the petition has arisen.	None
The petitioner states that he is an Indian citizen carrying on a business dealing in rice and paddy in the district of Kamrup in the State of Assam.	Facts
In 1955 was enacted the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (Act 10 of 1955).	Facts
In exercise of the powers conferred by S. 3, of the said Act, read with a notification by which the said powers were delegated by the Central Government to the Government of Assam, the latter Government made an Order called the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1958.	Facts
The result of this was that no dealing in rice and paddy in wholesale quantities was permissible unless the petitioner obtained a license from the relevant licensing authority.	Facts
The petitioner states that he obtained such a license in 1958.	Facts
This license expired on December 31, 1958.	Facts
The case of the petitioner is that in 1959 also he carried on his business though there is some dispute as to whether he obtained a license for that year.	Facts
On November 26, 1959, the petitioner received a letter from the office of the Deputy Director of Supply, Gauhati, which said that his license would not be renewed after December 31, 1959.	Facts
This communication, it is stated, was the result of a decision taken by the Government of Assam on the advice of a body called the Food Advisory Council to give a right of monopoly procurement of paddy to a cooperative society in the district of Kamrup known as the Assam Cooperative Apex Marketing Society Ltd. (respondent No. 6 before us).	Facts
In a letter dated November 13, 1959, the Director of Supply, Assam, indicated the policy to be followed to give effect to the decision aforesaid in these terms The right of monopoly procurement in respect of Kamrup district including Mangaldai Subdivision, Taxpur Sub division, Cachar district, Nowgong district including United Mikir and North Cachar Hills and North Lakhimpur Subdivision has been given to the Cooperative Apex Marketing Society.	Facts
The Society will procure paddy from the growers though various service Cooperative Societies spread over the district or subdivision.	Facts
They will procure all available surplus paddy and deliver to Supply Department the quantity required for the buffer stock for those areas.	Facts
Any paddy procured by them which is not required by us may be delivered to the mills.	None
A copy of the letter was forwarded to all licensing authorities.	None
On January 5, 1960, the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1960, came into force.	Facts
This replaced the earlier Order of 1958.	Facts
Clause 5 of the 1960 Order was in these terms 5.	None
Matters to be taken into consideration for granting a license.  	None
In granting or refusing a license under this Order, the licensing authority shall among other matters have regard to the following, namely (a) the stock of foodgrains available in the locality for which the license is required(b) the number of persons who have applied for and or been granted licenses in respect of the foodgrains under this Order in the locality(c) the business ordinarily carried on by the applicant and(d) the past activities of the applicant as a licensee or business man firm.	Facts
Provided that the State Government may from time to time modify the conditions for granting a license.	None
On January 28, 1960, the petitioner made his application for a license for the year 1960.	None
This application was rejected by an order dated February 17, 1960.	Facts
The reason given for the rejection was in these terms You are hereby informed that as the Cooperative Apex Marketing Society has been given the right of monopoly purchase in the Kamrup district this year, your case cannot be considered for issue of the license.	Facts
This reason was obviously based on the decision as to monopoly procurement which the Government of Assam had adopted.3.	None
Against this order the petitioner moved the High Court of Assam by means of a writ petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution.	Facts
The High Court allowed the petition mainly on the ground that the application of the petitioner for a license for the year 1960 was not considered on merits by the licensing authority in accordance with the provisions of Cl. 5 of the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1960.	Facts
The High Court did not go into the larger question whether the State could or could not create a monopoly in the matter of procurement of paddy under the said provisions by means of executive instructions issued to the licensing authorities.	Facts
It, however quashed the order dated February 17, 1960, and issued a writ of mandamus directing the licensing authority to consider the application of the petitioner on merits and in accordance with the provisions of the aforesaid Control Order.	Facts
Till June 7, 1960, no order was passed by the licensing authority, and on that date the petitioner made two applications to the High Court, one for directing the licensing authority to grant him a license for 1960 and the other for taking action for contempt of court.	Facts
A notice of these applications, it is stated, was served on the respondents.	Facts
On June 8, 1960, the licensing authority made another order refusing to grant a license to the petitioner.	Facts
This order stated thatas the Assam Cooperative Apex Marketing Society Ltd. had already, been granted a license to deal in rice and paddy, with its branches spread all over the district, it was considered unnecessary to grant further dealing licenses to individual dealers for the same area.	Facts
On June 9, 1960, the applications earlier made by the petitioner to the High Court on June 7, 1960, were withdrawn and a fresh application was made on June 15, 1960, which was directed against order dated June 8, 1960.	None
On August 10, 1960, the High Court again set aside the order and directed the licensing authority to act independently of instructions received from the Government and to apply its mind to the merits of the application and decide it in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1960, Again, no orders were made by the licensing authority till September 8, 1960, in accordance with the directions of the High Court, and the petitioner made two applications on that date one for enforcing the direction of the High Court, and the other for initiating proceedings in contempt.	Facts
These applications were admitted and it is stated that notices were served on the respondents, including the licensing authority, on that very date.	Facts
On September 13, 1960, the licensing authority made another order, again rejecting the application of the petitioner.	Facts
This order stated inter aliaFor the areas for which the applications have been made the Assam Cooperative Apex Marketing Society Ltd. has earlier applied for and has been granted license.	Facts
This is a relevant consideration under Clause 5(b) of the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1960, The stock of foodgrains available in the area can easily be procured by the party already given license.	Facts
Being a cooperative, it has better facility in this respect.	Facts
As such, I do not find it necessary to grant license to the applicant.	Facts
The petition is, therefore, rejected.4.	Facts
This time instead of going to the High Court of Assam, the petitioner came here and filed his writ petition on October 17, 1960 (Writ Petition No. 303 of 1960).	Facts
Thereafter, certain proceedings took place in this Court to which we have earlier referred in the first paragraph of this judgment.	Facts
The amended writ petition as it now stands is directed against the order of the licensing authority dated April 11, 1961, by which it rejected the application of the petitioner for a license for 1961.	Facts
The provisions of the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1960, are no longer relevant, because a fresh Order called the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1961, was made by the Governor of Assam.	Facts
We shall hereinafter call this the Control order, 1961.	Facts
It is necessary to read here Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961.5.	None
Matters to be taken into consideration for granting a license.	None
In granting or refusing a license under this Order, the licensing authority shall, among other matters, have regard to the following, namely (a) the stock of foodgrains available in the locality for which the license is required.(b) the number of persons who have applied for and those who have been granted licenses in respect of the foodgrains under this Order in the locality(c) the business ordinarily carried on by the applicant(d) the past activities of the applicant as a licensee or business man firm and(e) whether the applicant is a cooperative society,It should be noticed that the proviso to old Cl. 5 was omitted and a new subcl.	Facts
(e) was added.	Facts
This subclause enables the licensing authority, in granting or refusing a license, to have regard to the consideration whether the applicant is a cooperative society.	Facts
To complete the statement of facts, it may perhaps be observed that on November 10, 1960, the High Court rejected the application for proceeding against the opposite parties by way of contempt, mainly on the ground that the order made on September 13, 1960, was not before it.5.	Facts
On behalf of the petitioner the order dated April 11, 1961, has been impugned on two main grounds.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first ground of attack is that subcl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(e) of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961, is ultra vires, because it goes beyond the powers granted to the State Government under S. 3 read with S. 5 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second ground of attack is that even if subcl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(e) of cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
5 of the Control Order, 1961, is intra vires being within the power granted to the State Government, it merely allows the licensing authority to take into consideration, among other relevant matters, the circumstance that the applicant for a license is a cooperative society it does not say that a monopoly right of procurement should be given in favour of a cooperative society by excluding all others therefore, it was not open to the licensing authority to proceed on the footing as if that subclause had created a right of monopoly in favour of cooperatives.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is that in the present case the licensing authority instead of applying its mind lo the provisions of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961, went by the instructions issued by the State Government to grant a right of monopoly to cooperative societies and based its order on such instructions, in spite of directions to the contrary given by the High Court on earlier applications made by the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, it is contended that the impugned order was a mere colourable exercise of power in the sense that instead of exercising the powers in accordance with the provisions of law by which the licensing authority had to be guided, it acted in accordance with the instructions of the State Government and granted a monopoly in favour of cooperative societies, such monopoly not being contemplated by the provisions of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961 therefore, the impugned order was bad being without any legal authority or jurisdiction, and as it took away the right of the petitioner to carry on his trade, and furthermore made a discrimination against him for the purpose of granting a monopoly to respondent No. 6 not contemplated by law, it violated the petitioners rights under Arts.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 and 19 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
He is accordingly entitled to come to this Court under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32 of the Constitution to have the order quashed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner has also claimed that for the same reasons, the grant of a license in favour of respondent No. 6 should also be quashed.6.	None
On behalf of the respondents, the State of Assam, its officers, and the Assam Cooperative Apex Marketing Society Ltd. (respondent No. 6), it has been urged that neither of the aforesaid two grounds of attack is valid.	Arguments of Respondent
On their behalf the argument is that subcl.	Arguments of Respondent
(e) of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961, is within the authority and power granted to the State Government under S. 3 read with S. 5 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	Arguments of Respondent
Secondly, it is contended that no monopoly has been granted to the Assam Cooperative Apex Marketing Society Ltd., and the order of the licensing authority dated April 11, 1961, is based on the considerations referred to in subcls.	Arguments of Respondent
(a) and (b) of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961, and cannot be assailed on a petition under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 of the Constitution.7.	Arguments of Respondent
We proceed now to a consideration of the grounds of attack and the replies thereto.	None
As to the first ground of attack it must be made clear at the very outset that the vires of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, have not been challenged before us.	None
What has been contended before us is that S. 3 of the Act gives certain powers to the Central Government, which powers the Central Government has delegated to the State Government of Assam.	None
These powers, it is contended, do not authorise the insertion of subcl.	None
(e) of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961 in other words, the argument is that whether the applicant for a license is a cooperative society or not has no relevance whatsoever to the objects for which S. 3 grants the powers to the Central Government or its delegate to make certain Orders.	None
Subsection (1) of S. 3 is relevant to this argument and reads3 (1).	None
If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices, it may by order, provide for regulating or prohibiting the production, supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.	None
Subsection (2) of S. 3 which we need not read enumerates the various categories of Orders which can be made in exercise of the powers conferred by subs.	None
(1), but without prejudice to the generality of those powers.	None
Now, the argument before us is that the powers under S. 3 can be exercised when the Central Government or its delegate is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient to exercise the powers to achieve two objects (a) for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity, or (b) for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.	None
It is contended that the circumstance whether the applicant for a license is a cooperative society or not has no connection whatsoever with the aforesaid two objects and therefore, subcl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(e) of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961, is not within the powers granted by S. 3 of the Act.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
We cannot accept this argument in the very broad terms in which it has been stated.	None
We are satisfied that Cl. 5 of the Control order, 1961, does not provide for a monopoly in favour of cooperative societies.	None
The clause enumerates five matters and states that the licensing authority shall have regard to those matters in granting or refusing a license.	Reasoning
The five matters enumerated in the clause are not exhaustive of the matters which the licensing authority may consider because the clause says that the matters enumerated therein are five among other matters which the licensing authority may consider.	None
Obviously enough it is open to the licensing authority to consider all matters relevant to the grant or refusal of a license and the five matters enumerated in the clause merely highlight some of those matters.	Reasoning
All that can be said is that subcl.(e) enables the licensing authority to prefer a cooperative society in certain circumstances in the matter of granting a license in other words, there may be cases or localities where the consideration set out in subcl.	Reasoning
(e) may override other considerations in the matter of granting a license.	Reasoning
We do not think that subcl.	Reasoning
(e) has any more farreaching effect.	Reasoning
Indeed, the learned AttorneyGeneral appearing for the respondents conceded that subcl.	Reasoning
(e) of Cl. 5 did not have the effect of creating a monopoly in favour of cooperative societies.9.	None
Proceeding, therefore, on the footing that subcl.	None
(e) of Cl. 5 does not provide for the creation of a monopoly can it be said that it is outside the powers conferred on the State Government by S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ?	None
It is not disputed before us that subcls.	None
(a) to (d) fall within the powers conferred by S. 3.	None
Matters such as the stock of foodgrains available in the locality for which the license is required the number of persons who have applied for and those who have been granted licenses in the locality, the business ordinarily carried on by the applicant, and the past activities of the applicant as a licensee or businessman, are undoubtedly matters which have relation to the two objects mentioned in S. 3.	Facts
Can it be said that the fifth matter mentioned in subcl.	None
(e), viz., whether the applicant is a cooperative society, is completely unrelated to those two objects?	None
We are unable to say that it is.	None
In the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the respondents it has been stated that cooperative societies have better facilities for procuring food grains and are in a position to ensure scheduled prices to the farmers who grow paddy.	None
It has been further stated that amongst the cooperative societies are primary societies which consist of the growers of paddy there are also cooperative societies called supply cooperatives, which are in a position to eliminate middlemans profits.	None
In para.	None
4 it was stated that the National Development Council decided that the State should take over wholesale trade in foodgrains with a view to maintaining price levels which are fair to the producer and the consumer and reduce to the minimum the disparity between the prices received by the farmer and the prices paid by the consumer throughout the year.	None
It was also decided that an adequate number of primary marketing societies should be set up and linked with village cooperatives which should serve as agencies for collection and sale of foodgrains at assured prices at the village level.	None
The affidavit then stated In view of the decision of the National Development Council the Government of Assam in consultation with their State Food Advisory Council decided that in making procurement of rice and paddy in the State, preference should be given to the cooperative societies wherever they have resources and facilities.	None
We are of the view that by reason of the position which cooperative societies may occupy in the village economy of a particular area, it cannot be laid down as a general proposition that subcl.	None
(e) of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961, is unrelated to the objects mentioned in S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	None
There may be places or areas where cooperative societies are in a better position for maintaining or increasing supplies of rice and paddy and even for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.	None
We must, therefore, repel the very broadly stated contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner that subcl.	None
(e) of Cl. 5 of the Control Order 1961, can have no relation whatsoever to the two objects mentioned in S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	None
On behalf of the petitioner reliance was placed on the decision in Ramanlal Nagardas v. M. S. Palnitkar, AIR 1961 Gujarat 38.	None
That was a case in which the validity of State action in entrusting wholesale distribution of sugar which is an essential commodity under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, to Cooperative Societies only and excluding other dealers holding similar licenses like the cooperative societies from such distribution, was challenged and arose for consideration.	None
It was held that a State could make a classification for the purpose of achieving particular legislative objects but the classification must satisfy two conditions (1) it must be founded on intelligible differentia, and (2) the differentia must have a rational relation to the objects sought to be achieved.	None
The question was considered from the point of view of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution and it was held that the action of the State Government in entrusting wholesale distribution of sugar to cooperative societies to the exclusion of other licenceholders amounted to a discrimination which violated the right guaranteed under Art.	None
14.	None
The principles underlying Art. 14 of the Constitution are now wellsettled and have been enunciated and explained in a number of decisions of this Court and we consider it unnecessary to refer to those principles it detail.	Reasoning
In the case under our consideration no discrimination has been made between one class of licenseholders and another class of licenseholders as in the case of AIR 1961 Gujarat 38.	Reasoning
What has happened in the present case is that licenses have been granted only to cooperative societies and a license has been denied to the petitioner, the licensing authority proceeding on the footing that a monopoly must be created in favour of cooperative societies.	Reasoning
A discrimination has indeed taken place as against, the petitioner, a discrimination which is not justified by the provisions of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961.	Reasoning
In dealing with the application of the petitioner the licensing authority has made a discrimination which is not justified by Cl. 5.	None
That would take us to the second argument of the learned counsel for the petitioner, but on his first argument the decision in AIR 1961 Guj.	None
38 is of no assistance.	None
Subclause (e) of Cl. 5, we have already stated, enables the licensing authority to give preference to a cooperative society in certain circumstances, but it does not create a monopoly in favour of cooperative societies.	None
The preference given has a reasonable relation to the objects of the legislation set out in S. 3 of the Act therefore, subcl.	None
(e) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) of the Control Order, 1961, cannot be held to be bad on the ground of class legislation, but the passing of an order under the subclause for a purpose not contemplated by it will amount to discrimination and denial of the guarantee of equal protection of the law.10.	None
This brings us to the second argument urged on behalf of the petitioner and here we think that the learned counsel for the petitioner is on much surer ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was open to the licensing authority to give preference to cooperative societies if it was of the opinion that granting a license to a cooperative society in a particular locality would facilitate the objects of S. 3 of the Act.	None
This is not what the licensing authority did.	None
He repeatedly refused a license to the petitioner, for the only reason and purpose of granting a monopoly to cooperative societies.	None
In other words, the discrimination that has been made by the licensing authority is really in the administration of the law.	None
It has been administered in a discriminatory manner and for the purpose of achieving an ulterior object, namely, the creation of a monopoly in favour of cooperatives, an object which, clearly enough, is not within subcl.	None
(e) of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961.	None
We have quoted earlier the various orders which the licensing authority had passed.	None
Those orders clearly show that the licensing authority refused a license to the petitioner not on grounds referred to in subcls.	None
(a) and (b) of Cl. 5	None
but on the ground that the State Government had decided to introduce a right of monopoly procurement of paddy in favour of cooperative societies and therefore, no licenses should be granted to individual dealers other than cooperative societies.	None
Judged against the background of facts to which we have earlier referred in this judgment, the impugned order dated April 11 1961, appears to us to have been based on the same ground, namely, the creation of a monopoly in favour of cooperatives, even though the order refers to existing licenses and the quantity of foodgrains available in the locality.	None
In the course of the hearing before us, the case was adjourned in order to give the parties an opportunity of filing necessary affidavits to show whether individual dealers other than cooperatives have been completely excluded in the whole of the State in the matter of dealing in paddy.	None
The affidavits show that private dealers have been completely excluded.	None
In the affidavit filed on behalf of respondent No. 1, it has been stated in para.	None
4It is not denied that in the year 1961 licenses for the procurement of paddy have been issued to the cooperatives in all the paddy producing districts in Assam.	None
To show however that no monopoly has been created in favour of a particular cooperative society like respondent No. 6, it has been stated that a number of cooperative societies have been or are being granted licenses for the procurement of paddy.	None
In our view these statements in the affidavits filed on behalf of the respondents show only one and one object, viz., creation of a monopoly in favour of cooperatives.	None
To achieve that object the State Government has resorted to an indirect method.	None
Instead of making an order authorising such monopoly (if the State was competent to make such an Order under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, as to which we express no opinion), it has chosen to adopt the indirect method of issuing instructions to the licensing authorities in all the districts to grant licenses to cooperatives only.	None
The vice of the impugned order lies in the licensing authority accepting such instructions and passing an order in accordance therewith.	None
The duty of the licensing authority was to pass orders in accordance with Cl. 5 of the Control order, 1961.	None
Instead of doing that, it passed an order in accordance with the instructions given to it on behalf of the State Government, instructions which appear to us to be not in consonance with subcl.	None
(e) of Cl. 5 because subcl.	None
(e) contemplates a preference to cooperative societies in certain circumstances, but not a monopoly in their favour.11.	None
We accordingly hold that the impugned order is bad as violating the rights of the petitioner guaranteed under Arts.	None
14 and 19 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We must, therefore, quash the order of the licensing authority dated April 11, 1961.	Reasoning
We must also quash the order by which the licensing authority granted a license in favour of respondent No.	Reasoning
6.The licensing authority must now consider the application of the petitioner for a license for the year 1961 on merits along with the application of respondent No. 6 and such other applications as may be still pending.	Reasoning
In dealing with these applications the licensing authority must have regard to the provisions of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961, and such other provisions of law as have a bearing on them, in the light of the observations made in this judgment.	Reasoning
It would be the duty of the licensing authority to ignore all instructions which are not, in consonance with the provisions of law by which it is to be guided.	Reasoning
As the year 1961 will come to an end within a few months, the applications should be dealt with as expeditiously as possible so that the right of the petitioner may not be rendered anfractuous by reason of the delay made in disposing of the applications.12.	Reasoning
Before we part with this case we must express our deep concern over the manner in which the State Government or its officers have issued instructions in the matter of granting of licenses, instructions which clearly enough are not in consonance with the provisions of law governing the grant of such licenses.	Reasoning
We doubt the wisdom of issuing executive instructions in matters which are governed by provisions of law even if it be considered necessary to issue instructions in such a matter, the instructions cannot be so framed or utilised as to override the provisions of law.	Reasoning
Such a method will destroy the very basis of the rule of law and strike at the very root of orderly administration of law.	Reasoning
We have thought it necessary to refer to this matter because we feel that the instructions which the State Government or its officers have issued in the matter of granting of licenses for the procurement of paddy are not in consonance with the provisions of Cl. 5 of the Control Order, 1961.13.	Reasoning
In the result the petition is allowed with costs and the necessary orders should now issue as directed above.	Decision
Sarkar, J.14.	None
The petitioner is a citizen of India and carries on business as dealer in rice and paddy in the State of Assam.	Facts
Since 1958, dealing in rice and paddy was controlled in that State by Orders made by the State Government from time to time under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, by virtue of powers delegated to it by the Central Government under S. 5 of that Act.	None
These orders, hereafter called Licensing Orders, provided that no person could engage in any business involving purchase, sale or storage for sale of any foodgrains, which included rice and paddy, in wholesale quantities except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of a licence issued thereunder.	None
Purchase or sale in wholesale quantities was defined as purchase or sale of quantities exceeding ten maunds in any one transaction.	None
The petitioner had obtained a licence to deal in paddy for the year 1958.	None
It is not clear whether he had obtained a licence to do so for 1959.	None
With these years, however, this case is not concerned.15.	None
On January 28, 1960, the petitioner had applied under the Licensing Order then in force for a licence to deal in paddy in Kamrup district of Assam for the year 1960.	None
His application was refused by an order made on February 17, 1960, on the ground that it could not be considered as the Cooperative Apex Marketing Society had been given the right of monopoly purchase in Kamrup district the petitioner then moved the High Court of Assam under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution to quash this order.	Arguments of Petitioner
On April 27, 1960, the High Court delivered judgment quashing the order on the ground that the authority concerned was bound to consider the petitioners application for licence and had failed to do so.	None
The High Court issued a writ of mandamus directing that the petitioners application be considered on its merits.	None
As the licensing authority did not consider the petitioners application till June 7, 1960, the latter on that date moved the High Court again for enforcement of the writ issued.	None
On receipt of the notice of this motion, the licensing authority passed an order on June 8, 1960, again refusing to grant the petitioner the licence.	Facts
This order stated Your petition is considered.	None
As the Assam Cooperative Marketing Society has already been granted a licence to deal in rice and paddy with branches spread all over this district, it is considered unnecessary to grant further dealing licences to individual dealers for the same area.	None
Hence the petition is rejected.16.	None
The petitioner thereupon dropped his motion to the High Court of Assam of June 7, 1960, and moved the High Court afresh under Art.	None
226 against the order of June 8, 1960, refusing him the licence and the High Court on August 8, 1960, quashed it on the ground that the licensing authority had to act in a quasijudicial capacity and that it had decided the case on the instructions of the State Government without considering for itself the merits of the case in terms of the Licensing Order.	None
The authority was again directed to decide the case in a quasijudicial capacity.17.	None
The licensing authority not having taken up for decision the petitioners case for the grant of licence as directed by the High Court, he moved the High Court on September 8, 1960, for appropriate reliefs.	None
On receipt of the notice of this motion, the licensing authority passed an order on September 13, 1960, again refusing to grant licence to the petitioner and certain other private dealers.	None
The order stated, For the areas for which the applications have been made the Assam Cooperative Apex Marketing Society has earlier applied for and has been granted licence.	Facts
This is a relevant consideration under Cl. 5(b) of the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1960.	None
The stock of foodgrains available in the area can easily be procured by the party already given the licence.	None
Being a Cooperative Society it has better facility in this respect.	Facts
As such I do not find it necessary to grant licence to these applicants.	Facts
The petitions are therefore rejected.	Facts
Thereupon the High Court on November 10, 1960, made an order on the petitioners aforesaid motion of September 8, 1960, discharging the rule as the order asked for had been made.	None
It observed that the order of September 13, 1960, was not before it and it was not competent to say whether that order was in consonance with its order of August 8, 1960.	None
It also observed that it did not find sufficient reason to take any action against the licensing authority for the delay, in the matter of the disposal of the application for licence.18.	None
Before proceeding further I would like to point out that the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1960 being the Licensing Order by which the petitioners application for licence for 1960 was governed did not contain any provision enabling any preference to be given to a Cooperative Society in the matter of the grant of licence.19.	None
I now come to the present petition.	None
It was moved in this Court by the petitioner under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution challenging the validity of the order of the licensing authority dated September 13, 1960, and asking that the licence granted to the Assam Cooperative Apex Marketing Society be declared illegal and for an order directing the licensing authority to consider the applications for licences according to the provisions of the Licensing Order, 1960.	None
The petition came up for hearing on February 2, 1961.	None
By that date the year for which the petitioner had asked for a licence had expired and the Licensing Order, 1960, had been replaced by another Order of 1961.	None
In the result the petition had become substantially infructuous.	None
The petitioner, therefore, suggested to this Court that he would make an application for licence for the year 1961 and in the meantime the petition might stand adjourned.	None
An order was thereupon made adjourning the petition sine die.20.	None
Thereafter the petitioner on February 4, 1961, made a fresh application for licence for dealing in paddy for the year 1961.	None
An order was made by the licensing authority on this application on April 11, 1961, in these terms Having regard to the existing licences in these areas (Mangaldai and Gauhati), and the quantity of foodgrains available therein any further licences would be superfluous.	None
In the result, the petitioner was refused licence for the year 1961.	None
Thereafter, the petitioner under orders obtained from this Court amended his petition and now seeks to challenge the order of April 11, 1961.	None
The respondents to this petition are the State of Assam and some of its officers including the licensing authority concerned, as also the Assam Cooperative Apex Marketing Society, hereafter called the Apex Society.21.	None
As I have already said, the application for licence for 1961 was governed by the Licensing Order, 1961.	None
The dispute in this case mainly turns on cl.	None
(e) of paragraph 5 of this Order.	None
That paragraph is in these termsIn granting or refusing a licence under this order, the licensing authority shall among other matters, have regard to the following, namely (a) the stock of foodgrains available in the locality for which the licence is required(b) the number of persons who have applied for and those who have been granted licences in respect of the foodgrains under this Order in the locality(c) the business ordinarily carved on by the applicant(d) the past activities of the applicant as a licensee or business man firm and(e) whether the applicant is a cooperative society.22.	Facts
It is not in dispute that in the areas to which the Licensing Order, 1961, had been applied, licences to deal in paddy had been given to various cooperative Societies which were subsidiaries of the Apex Society and no licence had been given to any private dealer.	None
The respondents say that these grants were duly made under cl.	None
(e) of paragraph 5 of the Licensing Order, 1961.	None
It is this action which forms the main grievance of the petitioner.	None
He puts his contention on two grounds.	None
First, he says that cl.	None
(e) of paragraph 5 of the Licensing Order, 1961, is ultra vires as it has no relation to the object of the Essential Commodities Act under which it was made.	None
Secondly, he says that in any event the Order has been applied in a discriminatory manner and with a view to create a monopoly in favour of the Apex Society to deal in paddy and the petitioners fundamental rights under Arts.	None
19(1)(g) and 14 have thereby been violated.23.	None
It does not seem to me that either of these two contentions is well founded.	None
I shall first consider whether paragraph 5(e) of the Order is ultra vires the Act.	None
Now it is important to note that the validity of the Act is not challenged.	None
It would follow that if the Order made under the Act is not ultra vires, it would be perfectly valid.	None
It is S. 3 of the Act which enables the Orders to be made.	None
That section so far as relevant is in these termsSection 3(1)If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices, it may by order, provide for regulating or prohibiting the production, supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.	None
The object of the Act, therefore, is to maintain or increase the supplies of essential commodities which include foodgrains and to secure their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices, Clause (e) of paragraph 5 of the Licensing Order, 1961, certainly allows a cooperative society to be preferred in the matter of a grant of licence.	None
The question then is, would the object of the Act be achieved if the trade in paddy is given to cooperative societies?	None
I think it would.	None
A cooperative society is one which has as its object the promotion of the economic interests of its members in accordance with cooperative principles see S. 4 of the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912.	None
A society carries on business in accordance with cooperative principles when it trades with its own members, the profit motive not being paramount in such business.	None
When, therefore, a licence to purchase paddy is given to a Cooperative Society of growers, what happens is that the seller sells to a body of which he is a member.	None
The result is the virtual elimination of the middleman and a consequential reduction in the price.	None
The following observations from the judgment of this Court in Narendra Kumar v. Union of India, (1960) 2	None
SCR 375 (AIR 1960 SC 430 ) are, to my mind, very apposite in the present contextThat middlemans profits increase the price of goods which the consumer has to pay is axiomatic.	None
(p. 389 (of SCR) (p.437 of AIR) ).	None
It has therefore been the endeavour at least in modern times for those responsible for social control to keep middlemens activities to the minimum and to replace them largely by cooperative sale societies of producers and cooperative sale societies of the consumers.	None
(p. 390 of SCR) (p. 437 of AIR).Therefore, I feel no doubt that if the purchase of paddy is left to growers cooperativesand that is what cl.	None
(e) of paragraph 5 aims atrice, which is husked paddy, can reasonably be expected to be made available to the consumers at a fair price.	None
That would serve the object of the Act and the clause cannot, therefore, be said to be ultra vires the Act.24.	None
Then it is said that cl.	None
(e) of paragraph 5 would result in creating a monopoly in favour of Cooperative Societies and that would be illegal and also outside the object of the Act.	None
This contention also seems to me to be illfounded.	None
It seems to me that if paragraph 5 had contained only cl.	None
(e) directing preference being given to Cooperative Societies in the matter of grant of licences and that is the basis on which the present contention is advancedthat would not have made it bad.	None
The question of creating a monopoly does not really arise in such a case.	None
The Order may then allow one class only, namely, Cooperative Societies, to do the business.	None
That would, as I have already stated, advance the object of the Act.	None
It would also however amount to a prohibition of others doing the business.	None
The only question then would be whether such prohibition would be reasonable under Art. 19(6).	None
That is how the matter appears to have been considered by this Court in two cases to which I will now refer.25.	None
The first is the case of Narendra Kumar, (1960) 2	None
SCR 375 (AIR 1960 SC 430 ) earlier mentioned.	None
There an Order called the Nonferrous Metal Control Order, 1958 had been issued under S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, as the Licensing Order now under consideration also was.	None
Clause (4) of the Order there considered provided that no person could acquire any nonferrous metal except under a permit issued by the Controller in accordance with such principles as the Central Government might from time to time specify.	None
Subsequently, the Central Government enunciated certain principles for the grant of these permits in a certain communication to the Chief Industrial Adviser.	None
Under these principles, no permit could be issued to a dealer but it could only be issued to certain manufacturers, The result was that the dealers trade was totally prohibited and only certain manufacturers were eligible for permits to carry on the trade of selling nonferrous metals.	None
Certain dealers moved this Court under Art. 32 for a declaration that cl.	None
(4) read with the principles formulated by the Government was bad as offending Art. 19(1)(f) and (g).	None
This Court held that (p. 387 of SCR) (p. 436 of AIR)	None
It is reasonable to think that the makers of the Constitution considered the word restriction to be sufficiently wide to save laws inconsistent with Art. 19(1), or taking away the rights conferred by the Article, provided this inconsistency or taking away was reasonable in the interests of the different matters mentioned in the clause.	None
There can be no doubt therefore that they intended the word restriction to include cases of prohibition also.	None
The contention that a law prohibiting the exercise of a fundamental right is in no case saved, cannot therefore be accepted.	None
Having considered the facts of the case, the Court came to the conclusion that cl.	None
(3) of the Order, the legality of which also had been challenged, and cl.	None
(4) were valid provisions.	None
It observed that (p. 390 of SCR) (p. 437 of AIR)	None
It must therefore be held that Cl. 3 of the Order even though it results in the elimination of the dealer from the trade is a reasonable restriction in the interests of the general public.	None
Clause 4 read with the principles specified must also be held for the same reason to be a reasonable restriction.	None
I ought here to point out that the principles enunciated by the Government were held to be of no effect as they had not been issued in compliance with subsecs.	None
(5) and (6) of S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act and on that basis the petition was allowed and a writ was issued restraining the Union from giving effect to Cl. 4 of the Order so long as the principles governing the issue of permits were not duly specified.	None
This however does not affect the force of the observations that I have earlier read from the judgment in the case.26.	None
It seems to me that these observations fully apply to the present case.	None
The Order read with the policy statement though it resulted in a complete prohibition in trading by dealers and in the creation of what the petitioner would call a monopoly in favour of certain manufacturers was held to be good as a reasonable restriction on the dealers right to trade under Art. 19(6) and the writ was issued only because the formalities required for specifying the policy statement had not been complied with.	None
There is no defect in the issue of the Licensing Order, 1961, with which the present case is concerned.	None
Therefore, the only question would be whether such a prohibition of the trade of the dealers like the petitioner, if any, by the Licensing Order, 1961, would be reasonable in the circumstances of this case.27.	None
The other case to which I wish to refer is Glass Chatons Importers and Users Association v. Union of India, decided by this Court on April 10, 1961 (AIR 1961 SC 1514 ).	None
That case arose out of a petition under Art.	None
32 by certain importers of glass chatons.	None
There, the Central Government had issued an order under the Import and Export (Control) Act, 1947, called the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, prohibiting the import of grass chatons except under a licence.	None
Paragraph 6 of the Order laid down a number of grounds on which the Central Government or the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports might refuse to grant a licence or direct any other licensing authority not to grant a licence.	None
The ground mentioned in cl.	None
(h) of this paragraph was if the licensing authority decide to canalise imports and the distribution thereof through special or specialised agencies or channels.	None
It appears that since 1958, licences had been granted to the State Trading Corporation.	None
No applications for licences had been made by the petitioners or any other trader at any time since 1957.	None
It was however contended that so long as paragraph 6(h) of the Order remained, it was useless for the private traders to apply for licences.	None
The argument advanced on behalf of the petitioners was that paragraph 6(h) was void being in contravention of Art. 19(1)(f) and (g).	None
In regard to this argument this Court observed It is obvious that if a decision has been made that imports shall be by, particular agencies or channels the granting of licence to any applicant outside the agency or channel would frustrate the implementation of that decision.	None
If therefore a canalization of imports is in the interests of the general public the refusal of imports licences to applicants outside the agencies or channels decided upon must necessarily be held also in the interests of the general public.	None
The real question therefore is Is the canalization through special or specialized agencies or channels in the interests of the general public.	None
The Court held that it was unable to accept the argument that a decision that imports shall be canalised is per se not a reasonable restriction on the right to trade.	None
On the facts of the case, the Court took the view that a decision to canalise imports of glass chatons was in the interest of the general public.	None
In this case, it had been contended that the Government was creating a monopoly in favour of the State Trading Corporation.	None
The Court held that the period of permits granted to the State Trading Corporation having already expired, the question did not really arise.	None
But, as would have been noticed earlier, the Court really dealt with the same contention in deciding the validity of paragraph 6(h) of the Order.	None
This decision lends equally strong support to the view that preference directed to be given by cl.	None
(e) of paragraph 5 of the Licensing Order with which we are concerned to cooperative societies would not necessarily render it invalid.28.I feel no doubt on the facts of the present case that a preference to cooperative societies even that resulted in the dealers being prevented altogether from dealing in paddy, would be a reasonable restriction on the latters right of trade.	None
Assam is a deficit State in foodgrains.	None
It is the duty of the State Government to see that the people living within its boundaries are supplied with adequate foodgrains and that at a reasonable price.	None
If paddy is procured for the use of the consumers in the State through a cooperative society, there is good reason, as already stated, to think that rice at a reasonable price would be available to the people of Assam.	None
I will later in detail discuss the structure and the activities of the cooperative societies to whom licences had been granted.	None
What I will have to say there will amply establish that it was a reasonable step to have taken to put the trade in charge solely of the cooperative societies.29.	None
I turn now to the petitioners second contention, namely, that cl.	None
(e) of paragraph 5 has been worked in a discriminatory manner so as to create a monopoly in favour of the Apex Society.	None
The first thing that I wish to observe is that licences have not been given for the year 1961 to the Apex Society but they have been given to a large number of primary cooperative societies of growers.	None
I find it difficults in any case, to appreciate how this can be said to create a monopoly.	None
It may amount to a prohibition of trade by some persons.	None
That however is a different matter with which I have already dealt.	None
I may state here that it appears that in 1960 the licences had been issued to the Apex society, but that it not the situation now.	None
Whether what was done in 1960 was strictly legal or not is not a question that now arises, for we are no longer concerned with the licences for 1960.Before proceeding further, I think it right to say a few things about the cooperative societies with which we are concerned.	None
About 1957, the Assam Government sponsored the formation of the Apex Society.	None
I would like to remind here that it is one of the directive principles of the Constitution that cooperative societies should be encouraged.	None
Now, the structure of the Apex Society is like a pyramid.	None
It appears to have three tiers.	None
On the top is the Apex Society.	None
Under it come various primary marketing cooperative societies.	None
At the bottom rung are a large number of primary cooperative service societies.	None
The membership of the marketing societies consists mostly of cultivators and service societies, and of the service societies, mostly of cultivators.	None
The function of the Apex Society appears to be to coordinate the working of the subsidiary societies and to obtain moneys from the Cooperative Apex Bank and there out make advances to the cultivators through the subsidiary societies, to help them in their cultivation.	None
The service societies procure from the growers the paddy grown by them which they can spare and realise the moneys advanced to them out of the price of the paddy purchased.	None
The money realised is duly passed on to the Apex Society.	None
The paddy collected is sold by the service societies to the marketing societies.	None
The marketing societies in then turn deliver part of the paddy to the Government for creating a buffer stock and the remaining quantity to mills for milling into rice, in both cases according to the directions of the Government.	None
The benefits derived from the whole scheme are obviously very large.	None
The middlemen are eliminated.	None
The growers being themselves members of the societies, participate in their profits whatever they are.	None
This helps to keep down the price because a service society in passing on the paddy to the marketing society charges very little by way of profit and that profit is shared by the growers who are its members.	None
This enables the growers to sell at a comparatively lower price.	None
The growers have further the advantage of loans from the Apex Society to help them in the work of cultivation these loans can be easily advanced and on liberal terms because their repayment is secured by the process of purchase of the produce through the service societies.	None
It would be reasonable to think that this would encourage cultivation and result in larger quantities of foodgrains being produced.	None
That would also help to achieve the object of the Act.	None
It may further be pointed out that each of these societies is a body corporate see S. 18 of the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912.	None
The societies form a net work over the entire surplus grain producing area of Assam, each working in its own area.	None
A vast number of growers of foodgrains are the members of the primary marketing and service societies.	None
It to these societies that the licences had been issued of which a grievance is being made by the petitioner.	None
It appears that after the Apex and the subsidiary societies had been formed, the State Government with the concurrence of the Central Government decided on a policy of procuring paddy in certain specified areas only through these societies.	None
The State Government thereupon issued instructions to certain officers at the end of 1959 that procurement of paddy for the Kharif year 195960 would be made through the cooperative societies.	None
It may be that it was for this reason that the licensing authority had stated in its order of February 17, 1960, earlier mentioned, that the petitioners application for a licence could not be considered.	None
I have now to remind that the Licensing Order, 1960 did not contain any provision enabling preference being given to a cooperative society in the grant of a licence.	None
This case however is not concerned any more with regard to a licence for the year 1960 or the validity of any order of the licensing authority refusing to grant the petitioner any licence for that year.	None
Returning to the contention that the power under paragraph 5(e) of the Licensing Order had been exercised in a discriminatory manner, I wish first to observe that under the Order which I have already held to be good, the authority concerned in granting the licences was entitled to prefer a cooperative society, and this is what it has done.	None
Though the result may have been to prevent the petitioner from carrying on the trade of purchasing and selling paddy, that in my view is, in the circumstances of this case, a reasonable restriction on his right to trade for that was necessary to secure for the people of Assam supply of foodgrains at a reasonable price and in adequate quantities.30.	None
I have very grave doubts if the licensing authority was intended to act in a quasijudicial capacity in the matter of granting licences.	None
It has to be remembered that the question before it was not so much of the competing rights of various applicants or of any lis between an applicant and the State.	None
The duty of the licensing authority was to advance the object of the Act in terms of the Licensing Order.	None
Its main consideration has to be to see that the licences granted by it helped to make foodgrains available at a fair price to the people of Assam.	None
The Act gave the powers for that purpose.	None
It is because this purpose is legitimate that the resultant prohibition of trading by private dealers is also legitimate.	None
I believe that the two cases I have earlier mentioned proceeded on the basis that the licensing authority was not a quasijudicial officer.	None
It is not necessary for me however to pronounce finally on this question.31.	None
It was contended that the licensing authority in granting the licence to the cooperative society had only carried out the directions of the Government and had not acted independently.	None
I find no basis for this contention apart from the bald allegation of the petitioners which is denied by the respondent.	None
No directions by the Assam Government for the year 1961 have been produced.	None
The instructions to which I have earlier referred requiring the licence to be given to the cooperative societies were confined to the year 195960.	None
That had no force in regard to the year 1961 with which we are concerned.	None
Those instructions cannot be taken as operating for all time to come for then the licensing authoritys order granting licences to a cooperative society in future years will always have to be held to have been made under these instructions.	None
I am unable to take such a view of the matter.	None
As already stated the High Court had by its Order of August 10, 1960, asked the licensing authority to proceed in a quasijudicial manner.	None
There is no reason to think that the licensing authority had not observed this direction of the High Court.32.	None
It also seems to me reasonable to think that the Assam Government inserted cl.	None
(c) in paragraph 5 of the Licensing Order, 1961, in view of the judgments of the High Court of Assam to which I have earlier referred.	None
The Assam Government obviously intended that the licensing authority would in view of cl.	None
(e) give preference to the cooperative societies.	None
Furthermore, S. 4 of the Act provides that an order made under S. 3 conferring powers on any officer or authority may contain directions to him as to the exercise of such powers.	None
In my view, for the reasons earlier stated, a direction in the Licensing Order to give preference to cooperative societies would not be bad.	None
It seems to me that cl.	None
(e) of paragraph 5 of the Licensing Order, 1961, really amounts to such a direction.	None
It was not necessary after the Licensing Order, 1961, for the Government of Assam therefore to give any other direction to the licensing authority.33.	None
I do not think any question of violation of Art.	None
14 can be seriously pressed.	None
If the duty of the licensing authority was quasijudicial in its nature, then it is difficult to appreciate how it can be said that its decision would offend Art. 14.	None
In any case, it seems to me quite clear that the cooperative societies form a class by themselves and a provision giving preference to such a class, would be a good provision because the object of the Act would be better served thereby for the reasons earlier mentioned such provision would have a clear nexus with the object of the Act and therefore satisfy the test of Art. 14.34.	None
Looking at the matter from any point of view, it seems to me that the Order of the licensing authority giving preference to the cooperative societies is not open to any objection.	None
In my view, that was a fair Order to have been made in the circumstances of this case.35.	None
I would for these reasons dismiss this petition.36.	None
Mudholkar, J.I agree with the judgment delivered by Sarkar J.Order37.	None
By the CourtIn accordance with the opinion of the majority this Writ Petition is allowed with costs.38.	None
Petition allowed.	None
