Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by learned single Judge of Rajasthan High Court at Jodhpur refusing to grant leave against the judgment of acquittal passed by learned Special Judge, NDPS cases, Udaipur.	Issue
The accused faced trial for alleged commission of offences punishable under Sections 8 and 18 of Narcotic Drugs and Psycotropic Substances Act, 1985 ( in short NDPS Act) for being in illegal possession of a large quantity of opium.	Facts
The trial Court directed acquittal only on the ground that there was noncompliance with requirements of Section 50 of the Act.	Facts
The State filed an application for grant of leave to file appeal against such judgment.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the application holding that since there was noncompliance of mandatory requirement of Section 50 of the Act and there was no need for grant of leave.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that in fact the recovery was made from a polythene bag and therefore Section 50 has no application.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no appearance on behalf of the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
The position relating to applicability of Section 50 of the Act when the search is of a bag, brief case or an article it was considered by a three Judge Bench of this Court in (2005) 4 SCC 350 (State of H.P. vs. Pawan Kumar and State of Rajastha vs. Bhanwar Lal) in para 7, 8 10, 11 and 27 in Pawan Kumars case it was held as follows The word person has not been defined in the Act.	Reasoning
Section 2(xxix) of the Act says that the words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code.	Reasoning
The Code of Criminal Procedure, however, does not define the word person.	Reasoning
Section 2(y) of the Code says that the words and expressions used therein and not defined but defined in the Indian Penal Code have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code.	Reasoning
Section 11 of the Indian Penal Code says that the word person includes any Company or Association or body of persons whether incorporated or not.	Reasoning
Similar definition of the word person has been given in Section 3(42) of the General Clauses Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, these definitions render no assistance for resolving the controversy in hand.8 One of the basic principles of interpretation of Statutes is to construe them according to plain, literal and grammatical meaning of the words.	Reasoning
If that is contrary to, or inconsistent with, any express intention or declared purpose of the Statute, or if it would involve any absurdity, repugnancy or inconsistency, the grammatical sense must then be modified, extended or abridged, so far as to avoid such an inconvenience, but no further.	Reasoning
The onus of showing that the words do not mean what they say lies heavily on the party who alleges it.	Reasoning
He must advance something which clearly shows that the grammatical construction would be repugnant to the intention of the Act or lead to some manifest absurdity (See Craies on Statute Law, Seventh Edn. page 8385).	Reasoning
In the well known treatise  Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, the learned author has enunciated the same principle that the words of the Statute are first understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense and phrases and sentences are construed according to their grammatical meaning, unless that leads to some absurdity or unless there is something in the context or in the object of the Statute to suggest the contrary (See the Chapter  	Reasoning
The Rule of Literal Construction  page 78, Ninth Edn.).	None
This Court has also followed this principle right from the beginning.	Reasoning
In Jugalkishore Saraf v.	Reasoning
M s Raw Cotton Co. Ltd.	Reasoning
AIR 1955 SC 376 , S.R. Das, J. said (SCR p.1374)	None
The cardinal rule of construction of statutes is to read the statute literally, that is, by giving to the words used by the legislature their ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning.	None
If, however, such a reading leads to absurdity and the words are susceptible of another meaning the Court may adopt the same.	Reasoning
But if no such alternative construction is possible, the Court must adopt the ordinary rule of literal interpretation.	None
A catena of subsequent decisions have followed the same line.	None
It, therefore, becomes necessary to look to dictionaries to ascertain the correct meaning of the word person.	Reasoning
We are not concerned here with the wide definition of the word person, which in the legal world includes corporations, associations or body of individuals as factually in these type of cases search of their premises can be done and not of their person.	Reasoning
Having regard to the scheme of the Act and the context in which it has been used in the Section it naturally means a human being or a living individual unit and not an artificial person.	Reasoning
The word has to be understood in a broad commonsense manner and, therefore, not a naked or nude body of a human being but the manner in which a normal human being will move about in a civilized society.	Reasoning
Therefore, the most appropriate meaning of the word person appears to be  the body of a human being as presented to public view usually with its appropriate coverings and clothings.	Reasoning
In a civilized society appropriate coverings and clothings are considered absolutely essential and no sane human being comes in the gaze of others without appropriate coverings and clothings.	Reasoning
The appropriate coverings will include footwear also as normally it is considered an essential article to be worn while moving outside ones home.	Reasoning
Such appropriate coverings or clothings or footwear, after being worn, move along with the human body without any appreciable or extra effort.	Reasoning
Once worn, they would not normally get detached from the body of the human being unless some specific effort in that direction is made.	Reasoning
For interpreting the provision, rare cases of some religious monks and sages, who, according to the tenets of their religious belief do not cover their body with clothings, are not to be taken notice of.	Reasoning
Therefore, the word person would mean a human being with appropriate coverings and clothings and also footwear.	Reasoning
A bag, briefcase or any such article or container, etc. can, under no circumstances, be treated as body of a human being.	Reasoning
They are given a separate name and are identifiable as such.	Reasoning
They cannot even remotely be treated to be part of the body of a human being.	Reasoning
Depending upon the physical capacity of a person, he may carry any number of items like a bag, a briefcase, a suitcase, a tin box, a thaila, a jhola, a gathri, a holdall, a carton, etc. of varying size, dimension or weight.	Reasoning
However, while carrying or moving along with them, some extra effort or energy would be required.	Reasoning
They would have to be carried either by the hand or hung on the shoulder or back or placed on the head.	Reasoning
In common parlance it would be said that a person is carrying a particular article, specifying the manner in which it was carried like hand, shoulder, back or head, etc.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is not possible to include these articles within the ambit of the word person occurring in Section 50 of the Act.27.	Reasoning
Coming to the merits of the appeal, the High Court allowed the appeal on the finding that the report of the Chemical Examiner had to be excluded and that there was non compliance of Section 50 of the Act.	Reasoning
The learned Judges of this Court, who heard the appeal earlier, have recorded a unanimous opinion that the report of the Chemical Examiner was admissible in evidence and could not be excluded.	Reasoning
In view of the discussion made earlier, Section 50 of the Act can have no application on the facts and circumstances of the present case as opium was allegedly recovered from the bag, which was being carried by the accused.	Reasoning
The High Court did not examine the testimony of the witnesses and other evidence on merits.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the matter has to be remitted back to the High Court for a fresh hearing of the appeal.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the High Court has not considered the true effect of Section 50 of the Act.	Decision
It would be appropriate to direct the High Court to hear the appeal on merits.	Decision
Leave to appeal is granted to the appellantState to file the appeal which shall now be heard by the High Court on merits.	Decision
The appeal is allowed.	None
