 Ruma Pal, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal raised the issue whether a fixed deposit jointly owned with an either or survivor clause can be pledged by one of the account holders with the Bank and whether the Bank can adjust the amount of fixed deposit against such pledge, without the authority, knowledge or concurrence of the other account holder.	Issue
The appellant and her husband Mam Chand made a fixed deposit of Rs.20,000/ with the respondent bank on 31st May, 1988 for a period of 84 months (i.e. seven years).	Facts
The fixed deposit would have matured on 31.5.1995 and the amount payable on maturity was Rs.39,930/	Facts
According to the appellant half of the deposited amount belonged to her and the other half belonged to her husband.	Facts
On 24th June, 1988, a loan was taken by one Khem Chand in his sole proprietary business of M s. Verma Agro Industries.	Facts
In 1991 the respondent bank filed a suit against M s. Verma Agro Industries, Khem Chand and the appellant husband Mam Chand.	Facts
In the suit it was alleged that M s. Verma Agro Industries and Khem Chand had executed various agreements with regard to the loan and credit facilities made available by the Bank to them.	Facts
It was also pleaded in the suit that Khem Chand and Mam Chand had secured the amount of the loan by creating a mortgage in respect of immoveable property consisting of agricultural land.	Facts
According to the plaint a total sum of Rs.2,57,625/ inclusive of interest was payable by M s. Verma Agro Industries and Khem Chand to the respondent Bank.	Facts
It was further pleaded that Mam Chand and one Nanak Chand had executed guarantee agreements on 24th June, 1988.	Facts
The Bank prayed for a decree for Rs.2,57,625/ together with the additional interest and for enforcement of the claim against the hypothecated and the mortgaged properties with a further prayer that if the aforesaid securities were found insufficient for realization of the amount payable under the decree, it be given the liberty to recover the balance from the persons and other properties of the defendants.	Facts
While the suit was pending, a legal notice was given on 28th November, 1992, to the respondent Bank by the appellant and Mam Chand through their advocate, asking for premature encashment of the fixed deposit receipt.	Facts
It was alleged in that letter that the Bank had kept the original receipt and only issued a photocopy of the same to Mam Chand and the appellant with the assurance that the amount deposited would be encashable whenever required.	Facts
It was also stated that both Mam Chand and the appellant were illiterate and had relied upon such representation made by the Bank.	Facts
It does not appear that the Bank had responded to this notice.	Facts
A second notice was sent through an advocate by Mam Chand and the appellant on 26.5.1995, again demanding the amount payable on maturity of the fixed deposit stating that the original FDR receipt had been lost by the appellant and her husband.	Facts
This letter also does not appear to have been replied to by the respondent Bank.	None
On 3rd July, 1995 the respondent Bank filed an application in the Court before which the suit was pending seeking to inform the Court that the fixed deposit receipt had been mortgaged as security towards the disputed loan and that it had after taking permission of higher officials deposited the amount covered by the fixed deposit in the disputed loan account.	Facts
Mam Chand filed an objection to the Banks application saying that he had never given any such guarantee and that the fixed deposit receipt had never been mortgaged to the Bank.	None
The Trial Court allowed the Banks application holding that the amount of fixed deposit account had rightly been adjusted in the account of the disputed loan.	None
Mam Chand challenged this order by way of a revision application under Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Facts
The Revisional Court held that the application was not maintainable under Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure as amended by UP Act No.31/1978.	Facts
It was held by the Revisional Court that it was open to Mam Chand and his wife to initiate legal actions proceedings for the recovery of the amount deposited, against the Bank.	Facts
It was further held that the order of the Trial Court would not in any way inhibit the appellant from initiating such proceedings since she was not a party either in the suit or to any other proceedings initiated by Bank.	Facts
The Revisional Court found as a fact that the fixed deposit receipt did not bear the thumb impression of the appellant and the only thumb impressions appearing thereon were that of Mam Chand.	Facts
It was also held that since the FDR was not mortgaged as guarantee for the loan taken by Verma Agro Industries or Khem Chand, the dispute regarding the FDR was not in issue in the suit filed by the Bank.	Facts
It was therefore held that the Trial Court should not have passed any order regarding the right of the Bank to adjust the amount of the fixed deposit towards the recovery of the loan alleged to have been taken by M s. Verma Agro Industries and Khem Chand.	Facts
Despite having come to the conclusion that the Trial Courts order was without jurisdiction, totally irrelevant and unwarranted, the Revisional Court did not interfere with the order of the Trial Court on the basis of the UP Amendment to Section 115 of the Civil Procedure Code.	Facts
The appellant then filed a complaint before the District Forum under the Consumer Protection Act.	None
It was contended by the respondent Bank before the District Forum that both the Trial Court as well as the Revisional Court had held that the fixed deposit receipt had been mortgaged by Mam Chand as security for the loan granted by the Bank to M s. Verma Agro Industries and that Mam Chand was entitled to do so because the fixed deposit receipt had specified that it was payable to either or survivor.	Facts
The District Forum, however, came to the conclusion that the appellant was entitled to recover half of the amount of the FDR i.e Rs. 19,965/ together with interest from 1.6.1995 because she had never mortgaged her share of the fixed deposit in favour of any party.	Facts
It was held that since the receipt was in the joint name of the appellant and her husband, the respondent Bank should not have accepted any pledge of the account without informing the appellant and getting her consent.	Facts
Since it had not done so, the service rendered by the Bank to the appellant was deficient.	Facts
The Bank was therefore directed to pay the appellant a sum of Rs. 19,967/ together with interest at 17 per annum thereon as well as Rs.3,000/ towards mental agony suffered by the appellant and costs of Rs.1,000/. The Bank preferred an appeal to the State Commission.	Facts
The State Commission proceeded on the basis that Mam Chand had validly pledged the FDR with the respondentBank.	Facts
It held that since the fixed deposit receipt was payable to either or survivor it showed that the Bank could have got discharge by making payment to either of the account holders.	Facts
According to the State Commission when payment could have been made to a single individual in terms of the directions of the depositors then the Bank was at liberty to accept mortgage of the fixed deposit receipt on behalf of one of the depositors and the consent of the other depositor was not necessary.	Facts
The appeal was accordingly allowed and the complaint of the respondent was rejected.	Facts
The National Commission merely reproduced the view of the State Commission with which it concurred.	Facts
It also held that financial institutions had every right to protect their interest by taking conscious decisions.	Facts
Since the Bank had taken a conscious decision in this case, it could not be faulted and there was no deficiency of services.	Facts
Before us learned counsel for the appellant has claimed that the Bank had no right to adjust the amount of the fixed deposit receipt when there was no claim with regard thereto and when the liability of the defendants in the suit was yet to be quantified.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the Bank had in any event no claim against the appellant and could not have acted on the basis of any pledge alleged to have been created by the husband of the appellant of the fixed deposit receipt without the knowledge, concurrence or consent of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of the Division Bench of the Lahore High Court in Simla Banking and Industrial Company Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ambala City vs. Mt. Bhagwan Kaur AIR 1928	Arguments of Petitioner
Lahore 316 and a passage from Tannans Banking Law and Practices in India have been cited as authorities in support of this submission.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent has submitted that since the account was admittedly an either or survivor one, it was open to Mam Chand to pledge the account with the Bank and the consent of the appellant was unnecessary.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the appellant had come with an inconsistent case with regard to the loss of the original fixed deposit receipt.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that Mam Chand had created the pledge by executing a discharge on the fixed deposit receipt on the same date that the fixed deposit was pledged by Mam Chand with the Bank.	Arguments of Respondent
Although it is admitted that the fixed deposit had not been mentioned in the plaint as one of the Banks securities nor any claim raised in respect thereof, it is contended that this was not necessary in view of the discharge granted by Mam Chand on the fixed deposit receipt.	Arguments of Respondent
On the question of legality of the adjustment of the fixed deposit account, it is submitted that it had already been decided by the Civil Courts that this was validly done.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent Bank relied upon the decision of this Court in Punjab National Bank and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
vs. Surendra Prasad Sinha reported in 1993(1) suppl.	Arguments of Respondent
SCC 499 to contend that the Bank had a general lien on the account.	Arguments of Respondent
Parties to a joint account are not automatically authorized to pledge each others credit.	None
According to Sheldon and Fidlers Practice and Law of Banking IIth Edition Page 71, a Banker should not lend money to the parties to a joint account, either by means by an overdraft or in any other way, without obtaining from each of the parties an undertaking to be severally as well as jointly liable to pay the loan.	None
The Banker has no right to set off the credit balance in the joint account except in respect of another joint account of the same parties (ibid).	None
The difference between the Joint Fixed Deposit account and a joint Savings, Current or other account, is that there is no right in the depositors to operate such account and withdraw the moneys except upon maturity.	None
A fixed deposit in the joint names of two persons is nothing but a joint account which, as the name itself suggests, is repayable on the expiration of the agreed period.	None
The fixed deposit receipt is merely a written acknowledgement by the Bank that it holds a certain sum to the use of its customers.	None
The Bank is thus a debtor to the account holders in respect of the amount deposited  a debt which is repayable by the bank to the account holders with interest on the expiry of an agreed period.	None
An either or survivor clause in such an account means that the amount payable by the Bank on maturity of the fixed deposit may be paid to either of the account holders by the Bank in order to obtain a valid discharge.	None
In other words under a tripartite agreement between the joint account holders inter se and the Bank, the Bank may, on maturity, make payment only to either of them.	None
This tripartite agreement cannot be bilaterally modified by one of the joint account holders for example by pleading the account with any third party including the Bank itself in its capacity of creditor, so that the amount becomes payable to such third party, without the consent of the joint account holder.	None
Thus in Tannans Banking Law and Practice in India (20th Edn.)	None
2001	None
Volume 1, Chapter VIII page 259 the legal position has been summarized thus On the view that the terms of operation of a joint account constitute a term of the contract of deposit, any variation or revocation of instructions in a joint account, whether the operation is by either or survivor or former or survivor can be effected only under the joint signatures of all persons entitled to operate the joint account.	None
One of the joint account holders thus cannot unilaterally instruct the Bank not to honour cheques signed by the others, issue duplicate deposit receipt, premature repayment or loan, against Fixed Deposit.	None
This was also held by a Division Bench of the Lahore High Court (Shadi Lal, C.J. and Broadway, J.) in Simla Banking and Industrial Company Limited, Ambala City vs. Mt. Bhagwan Kuar AIR 1928 Lahore, 316.	None
In that case Bhagwan Kuar and her son Raghunandan Singh had deposited an amount with the Bank against a Fixed Deposit Receipt which was payable to either or survivor.	None
Raghunandan had borrowed money from the Bank.	None
The Bank credited the amount due under the Fixed Deposit Receipt to the overdraft account of Raghunandan.	None
Bhagwan Kuar thereupon filed a suit against the Bank for recovery of the amount due.	None
The Bank pleaded a general lien and claimed to have acted within its rights in appropriating the amount as it had done.	None
The Division Bench was of the view that the action of the Bank was neither supported by authority nor in law nor in equity.	None
The decision in Simla Banking and Industrial Company Ltd. vs. Mt. Bhagwan Kaur (supra) was followed by the Calcutta High Court in the case of Nath Bank Ltd. vs. Sisir Kumar Sarkar AIR 1954 Cal. 303 .	Reasoning
In that case, there was a fixed deposit made by two persons, one of whom was indebted to the plaintiffcompany.	Reasoning
The fixed deposit receipt was repayable after a period of 12 months to either or survivor.	Reasoning
The Calcutta High Court was of the view that during the joint lives of the two account holders or at least until due demand for repayment of the money was made by the Bank to the debtor  account holder the debt in the form of a fixed deposit receipt was that of the bank to the joint account holders and the bank could not set off a debt due from one of the joint account holders against such a joint debt.	Reasoning
In Hirschorn vs. Evans (Barclays Bank Ltd., Garnishees), 1938 (2) KB 801 (L) a joint deposit account was opened by A and B (who were husband and wife) and the bank was authorized to accept the signature of either A or B or of the survivor as a sufficient discharge for the repayment of the moneys deposited.	None
This debt was attached by the third party in execution of a decree against A, the husband.	Reasoning
Pursuant to the garnishee summons, the Bank paid As decretal debt to the decree holder.	Reasoning
The Court of Appeal held that inasmuch as the debt which the bank owed was not a debt due to the husband alone, but to him jointly with his wife, it could not be attached to answer the judgment against the husband.	Reasoning
In our view, these decisions correctly set out the law.	None
In the present case the contract in respect of the joint account was between the respondent bank and the husband and wife.	Reasoning
The fixed deposit was not a debt due by the bank to Mam Chand alone which could be set off by the bank against any claim that the bank may have had against Mam Chand.	Reasoning
Besides the right of Mam Chand was to receive the money deposited only after it matured, if he survived.	Reasoning
Supposing Mam Chand had died before the fixed deposit matured, the only person entitled to get the money would be the appellant.	Reasoning
This right of the appellant could not have been taken away without her consent.	None
The decision cited by learned counsel on behalf of the respondents i.e. Punjab National Bank vs. Surendra Prasad Sinha 1993 (1) SCC 499 was not rendered in connection with a joint fixed deposit account in which only one of the account holders was a debtor.	Reasoning
In that case, both the account holders stood guarantors to the principal debtor and had jointly executed the security bond and entrusted the fixed deposit receipt as security to adjust the outstanding debt from it at maturity.	None
We have our doubts regarding the validity of the order of the Trial Court allowing the Banks information application.	None
But it is unnecessary to pronounce on it as it does not bind the appellant as was correctly held by the Revisional Court.	Reasoning
Nor does anything turn on the supposedly shifting stances taken by the appellant in the two legal notices as there is no dispute that there was in fact a fixed deposit.	None
The State and National Commission both erred in proceeding on the basis that the Civil Courts decision was that the FDR had in fact been pledged by Mam Chand to the bank.	None
We have already quoted the observation of the Revisional Court earlier.	Reasoning
In fact, the Revisional Court also held that the decision of the trial Court did not in any fashion bind the appellant.	Reasoning
There is no independent finding by any of the fora that the pledge had indeed been created of the fixed deposit receipt by Mam Chand as claimed by the bank.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, the Bank had no right to refuse payment of the amount deposited to the appellant.	None
The refusal as disclosed to this Court, was contrary to banking norms.	Reasoning
We are therefore of the view that the District Forum was correct in accepting, and the State Commission and the National Commission erred in rejecting, the appellants complaint.	Reasoning
The appeal is accordingly allowed and the decisions of the State Commission and the National Commission are set aside and the order of the District Forum is confirmed with costs.	Decision
