 K. Sikri, J. The petitioner herein had filed Writ Petition under Article 226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Principal Seat at Jabalpur, in the nature of Public Interest Litigation.	Facts
In that petition, the petitioner has challenged the validity of Section 3 of the M.P. State Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) to the extent this provision permits the State Government to appoint the Registrar of the Cooperative Society, as well as Additional Registrar, Joint Registrar, Deputy Registrar, Assistant Registrar etc.	Facts
The petitioner also challenged proviso added to Section 77 (3)(b) and Section 77 (6) of the Act as unconstitutional.	Facts
To put it succinctly, the grievance of the petitioner was that these provisions provide for appointment of persons not having any education in law, though discharging the judicial function, which was impermissible and exfacie violative of Art.	Facts
14 and 21 of the Constitution.	Facts
The petitioner had even given suggestion to the effect that the appointments of these presiding officers be made in manner presiding officers of the labour courts are appointed.2.	Facts
The Writ Petition was contested by the respondents on various grounds.	Facts
In the first place, the very maintainability of the Writ Petition was assailed on the ground that the petitioner had not approached the High Court with clean hands and had suppressed the fact that he was a chronic litigant whose various cases were pending before the Cooperative Court.	Facts
Therefore, he had personal interest in the matter.	Facts
As such, he was not competent to file the Writ Petition in the nature of PIL.	Facts
On merits, it was submitted that such Registrar, Addl.	Facts
Registrar etc. function under the supervision of M.P. State Cooperative Tribunal (in short the Tribunal).	Facts
The Chairman of the Tribunal is a judicial officer.	None
Again, both these authorities function under the over all superintendence of the High Court under Art.227 of the Constitution.	Facts
In several other enactments the administrative officers perform such quasi judicial functions.3.	Facts
After considering the submissions of both the parties, the High Court repelled the challenge of the petitioner to the vires of the aforesaid provisions of the Act and dismissed the Writ Petition filed by the petitioner.4.	Facts
Against the aforesaid judgment, present Special Leave Petition is preferred under Art.	Facts
136 of the Constitution.	Facts
The petitioner has appeared in person and filed written submissions.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the time of arguments, he referred to and read out certain portion of those written submissions and submitted that he did not have to say anything more than what is contained therein.	None
The learned counsel for the respondents on the other hand relied upon the reasoning given by the High Court in the impugned judgment to justify the said order.	Arguments of Respondent
We have perused the judgment minutely and have also gone through the written submissions of the petitioner.	None
Before adverting to these submissions, we would like to reproduce the provisions of the Act which are subject matter of the present challenge Registrar and other officers.(1)	None
The State Government shall appoint a person to be the Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the State and may appoint one or more officers of the following categories to assist him, namely(a) Additional Registrar of Cooperative Societies(b) Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies(c) Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies(d) Assistant Registrar of Cooperative Societies(e)	None
Such other categories of officers as may be prescribed.xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx77.	None
Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Tribunal.(3) (b) Of the other two members, one shall be an officer of Cooperative Department not below the rank of Joint Registrar and the other shall be nonofficial closely associated with co operative movement or an Advocate or a Pleader having practical experience for a period of not less than fifteen yearsProvided that if the State Government thinks fit, the Tribunal may consist of a single person.xxxxxxxxx xxxxx(6)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (4) the State Government may terminate at any time, the appointment of the Chairman or a member if, in its opinion, such Chairman or member is unable or unfit to constitute to perform the duties of his officeProvided that no appointment shall be terminated under this subsection unless the person whose appointment is proposed to be terminated is given reasonable opportunity of showing cause against such termination.	Reasoning
With this, now let us first deal with the argument pertaining to the validity of Section 3 of the Act.	None
As is clear from the above, Section 3 deals with appointment of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies as well as Additional Registrar, Joint Registrar, Deputy Registrar, Assistant Registrar etc.	None
As mentioned above, the plea of the petitioner is that since Registrar and other officers are performing judicial function under the Act, any person to be appointed as Registrar, Joint Registrar etc. has to be necessarily a law person, namely, a person who has education in law and is well equipped to discharge such adjudicatory functions.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to appreciate this contention, we will have to look into the functioning of the Office of Registrar under the Act.	None
It is elaborately explained in the impugned judgment of the High Court and no quarrel was made by the petitioner in respect of that portion of the judgment explaining the scheme of the Act.	None
Therefore, we can briefly restate the same.	Reasoning
Registrar under the provisions of the Act is the executive head of the cooperative movement which is intended to provide strength to the weaker sections of the community and is based on contribution through an open door policy.	Reasoning
The Registrar is supposed to be the friend philosopher and guide and is required to see that the cooperative movement remains within prescribed limit.	Reasoning
Sections 8 and 9 of the Act empower the Registrar to deal with the question of registration of a society.	Reasoning
Under Section 10 of the Act, the Registrar has the power to classify the societies whereas Sections 11 and 12 of the Act deal with the power of Registrar with regard to amendment of byelaws of the society.	Reasoning
Section 18 empowers the Registrar to direct cancellation of registration of the society whereas under Section 18A of the Act the Registrar can order deregistration of societies.	Reasoning
Under Section 19A of the Act, the Registrar may declare a person ineligible for membership of the society.	Reasoning
Section 49D of the Act deals with the power of the Registrar to give direction to the society to make regulations.	Reasoning
Section 53 of the Act empowers the Registrar to order suppression of the committee of the society in the contingencies mentioned in subsection (1) of Section 53.	Reasoning
Under the aforesaid provisions, thus, the Registrar is discharging pure administrative functions.	Reasoning
Section 57 of the Act deals with the power of Registrar to seize records of the society in the circumstances which have been specified in subsection (1) of Section 57.	Reasoning
Section 58 deals with the power of Registrar to audit or cause to be audited by a person authorized by Section 59 of the Act empowers the Registrar to conduct an enquiry into the affairs of the society in the circumstances enumerated in Section 59(1).8.	Reasoning
However, limited powers are given to the Registrar to entertain certain kinds of disputes and take decision thereupon as well.	Reasoning
One such provision is Section 55 of the Act which, interalia, provides that regarding terms of employment, working conditions and disciplinary action taken by a Society, if a dispute arises between a Society and its employees, the Registrar or any officer appointed by him (not below the rank of Assistant Registrar) shall decide the dispute.	Reasoning
Likewise, Section 64 of the Act provides that the Registrar shall decide the dispute touching upon the Constitution, management or business, terms and conditions of employment of a Society or the liquidation of the Society.	Reasoning
The question that falls for consideration is whether it becomes imperative to appoint a Registrar with legal and or judicial backdrop keeping in view the aforesaid Scheme of the Act?	Issue
In an endeavour to justify the appointment of a legal person to man this office, the petitioner submitted that the very nature and significance of the functions discharged by the Registrar or his nominee, would manifest that knowledge of law and practice is dispensable to effectively carry out those functions inasmuch as such presiding officer is supposed to be conversant with the provisions of Civil Procedure Code, Law of Evidence, Indian Penal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the functions are such that authority discharging such function is to be classified as court and it is so held by this Court in the case of Thakur Jugal Kishore v. Sitamarhi Central Cooperative Bank Ltd. AIR 1967 SC 1494 .	Arguments of Petitioner
This decision is followed subsequently in Mukri Gopalan v. Cheppilat Puthampurayil	Arguments of Petitioner
Aboobacker AIR 1995 SC 2272 and P.Sarathy v. State Bank of India AIR 2000 SC 2023 .10.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner also submitted that the Bombay High Court in the case of Maharashtra Cooperative Courts Bar Association, Bombay Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Maharashtra	Arguments of Petitioner
Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
1990 Mah.L.J. 1064 has held that presiding officer of the cooperative court form cadre of subordinate courts as understood by Art.234 of the Constitution of India and State Government will have to take action to make appointment of these presiding officer in accordance with the direction contained in the said Article.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, it would mean that they can be selected by the Maharashtra Public Service Commission in consultation with the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that basis, the petitioner pleads that State Government should not be given right to appoint any person as the Registrar etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner also went to the extent of describing these functionaries as the Cooperative Courts while discharging these duties through no such nomenclature is provided in the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that in the State of M.P. functioning of these authorities was dismal, creating unfortunate and painful situation which was because the reason that persons appointed were blissful ignorant about the legal aspects.	Arguments of Petitioner
They were not functioning independently as well, though independence of judiciary was the hallmark of the basic structure of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that with such appointments impartiality, independence, fairness and reasonableness is threatened and compromised.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this argument, the petitioner has referred to the following judgments.(2010) 11 SCC 11 UOI v. R.Gandhi President Madras Bar Assn.(2012) 10 SCC 353 State of Gujarat v.	Arguments of Petitioner
Gujarat Revenue Tribunal Bar Assn.(2013)	Arguments of Petitioner
1 SCC 745 Namit Sharma v. UOI.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already taken note of the Scheme of the Act and the role and functioning of the office of the Registrar under the said Scheme.	Reasoning
Most of the powers of the Registrar are administrative in nature.	Reasoning
While exercising those powers the Registrar is not deciding any lis.	Reasoning
He is one of the main administrative functionaries for the purposes of carrying out the objectives of the said Act.	Reasoning
At the same time, the Registrar is also give some quasijudicial powers.	Reasoning
He, also for that matter Additional Joint Deputy Assistant Registrar are, therefore, wearing two hats, with predominant role of the administrators.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the petitioner that the judicial function should be taken away from the Registrar and assigned to some other authority.	Reasoning
The petitioner has pleaded for appointment of a person with legal background as Registrar etc. to enable him to decide the dispute between the parties more effectively, as according to him, any person with no legal judicial background is incapable of deciding those cases.	Reasoning
However, same arguments can be pressed by other side in a reverse situation.	Reasoning
If a person with legal background is appointed to any of these posts, then his appointment can be challenged on the ground that such a person though would be fit to discharge the quasi judicial duties, but totally unfit to discharge other administrative duties which are the primary and day to day duties attached to the said office.12.	Reasoning
We would have still given some weightage to the argument of the petitioner, had it been a case where order of the Registrar, deciding the dispute, was made final.	Reasoning
That is not so.	Reasoning
In fact, under Chapter X of the Act, M.P. State Cooperative Tribunal is constituted.	Reasoning
This Tribunal consists of the Chairman and two other Members.	Reasoning
In so far as Chairman is concerned, Section 77 (3) (a) unambiguously provides that no person shall be qualified to be the Chairman of the Tribunal unless he had been a Judge of a High Court or has held the office of a District Judge for not less than 5 years.	Reasoning
Likewise, in respect of two Members of the Tribunal, Section 77 (3) (b) contains a clear stipulation that one of them shall be an officer of Cooperative Department not below the rank of Joint Registrar, and the other shall be nonofficial closely associated with the cooperative movement or an Advocate or a pleader having practical experience for a period of not less than 15 years.	Reasoning
With such a composition of the Tribunal, which is given power to hear appeals from the orders of the Registrar or his nominee, the apprehension of the petitioner is adequately taken care of .	Reasoning
We find that in addition to hearing the appeals from the orders of the Registrar, the Tribunal is also given power of revision and review.	Reasoning
Similar schemes are provided in various other statutes wherein at the first ladder of the lis, powers are given to the administrative authorities to decide the same with provision for appeal against those orders.	Reasoning
One example is Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorized Occupants) Act 1971.	Reasoning
In such cases the orders are passed by the Estate Officer and the order of the Estate Officer is made amenable to challenge before the District Judge under Section 9 of that Act.	Reasoning
Similar position can be found under the Land Reforms Act and various other Acts.13.	Reasoning
We emphasize, at the cost of repetition, that most of the functions are in the sphere of administration and governance with few additional duties having quasi judicial character.	Reasoning
In such a situation and more particularly when a Tribunal is constituted with all the trappings of a court, we do not find any fault with the provision of Section 3 of the Act empowering the Government to appoint persons as Registrars, Joint Registrars, Deputy Registrars and Assistant Registrars etc. necessarily with legal judicial background.	Reasoning
Challenge to the vires of Section 3 of the Act is, therefore, rejected, upholding the judgment of the High Court on this issue for our own reasons given hereinabove.14.	Reasoning
In so far as the provisions of Section 77 (3) (b) and Section 77 (6) of the Act are concerned, we hardly see any reason to hold these provisions as unconstitutional.	Reasoning
Section 77 deals with the Cooperative Tribunal.	Reasoning
As already pointed out above, this tribunal consists of a Chairman and two other Members.	Reasoning
Chairman is to be a person with judicial background.	Reasoning
No person is qualified to be the Chairman of the Tribunal unless he had been a Judge of a High Court or who held the office of the District Judge for not less than 5 years.	Reasoning
Two Members of the tribunal are to be appointed as per the impugned provisions namely Section 77 (3) (b) of the Act.	Reasoning
Scheme shows that out of the two, one would be administrative member and other may be a judicial member though such nomenclature is not specifically assigned.	None
However, it becomes clear from the provision which provides that one of the members would be the person not below the rank of Joint Registrar.	Reasoning
It clearly shows that he would be a person who would have worked as Joint Registrar and in that capacity gained experience on administrative side about the functioning of the cooperative societies.	Reasoning
In that capacity, he would have also gained some experience of deciding the disputes between the parties which could be assigned to him.	Reasoning
Other member is to be nonofficial and he she could be the person who is closely associated with the cooperative movement or an Advocate or a pleader with practical experience for a period of not less than 15 years.	Reasoning
Therefore, other members can be a person with legal background.	Reasoning
In nutshell, the tribunal consists of a former Judge as Chairman, one member who has held high office of Joint Registrar in the department and the other member either with the legal background or a person closely associated with cooperative movement.	Reasoning
We, thus, do not find any fault with this provision as well.15.	Reasoning
In so far as Section 77 (6) of the Act is concerned, it gives power to the State Government to terminate the appointment of the Chairman or a member if, in its opinion, such Chairman or Member is unable or unfit to perform the duty of his office.	Reasoning
Thus, this power is given only when the State Government forms such an opinion about the inability or unfitness of such Chairman or Member to perform the duties of his office.	Reasoning
This opinion may be subjective but has to be based on objective consideration material on record.	Reasoning
Since the State Government is the appointing authority, power to remove has to necessarily vest in the appointing authority.	Reasoning
It is not an omnibus or unguided uncanalyzed power conferred upon the Government.	Reasoning
Further, the decision is always subject to judicial review.	Reasoning
In a given case if the power is exercised arbitrarily or without any material on the basis of which such an opinion is formed, it can be remedied by the court of law.	Reasoning
It is further significant to mention that proviso to this subsection (6) of Section 77 provides an additional safeguards which mandates following procedure in consonance with principle of natural justice by giving reasonable opportunity of show cause against such termination.	Reasoning
Thus, when such an action is contemplated, the Government is under an obligation to issue show cause notice which would necessarily contain the reasons material on the basis of which, a belief is nurtured that such Chairman or Member would be unable or unfit to continue to perform the duties of his office.	Reasoning
It would be open to the noticee to refute the same by giving suitable reply.	Reasoning
Final opinion would be formed only after eliciting and considering the defence.	Reasoning
Therefore, we see no reason to hold such a provision as unconstitutional.	Reasoning
In fact, in the written submissions filed by the petitioner, there is no plea or ground taken by the petitioner on the basis of which the petitioner seeks to condemn these provisions.	Reasoning
We, therefore, reject the prayer of the petitioner qua on Section 77 (3) (b) and Section 77 (6) of the Act as well.16.	Reasoning
Having regard to our aforesaid discussion, various arguments raised by the petitioner based on the judgments cited by him are of no benefit as those judgments have no applicability.	Reasoning
No doubt the Registrar exercising powers under Section 48 of the Bihar and Orissa Cooperative Societies Act is held to be a Court.	Reasoning
It was so stated in the following manner It will be noted from the above that the jurisdiction of the ordinary civil and revenue Courts of the land is ousted under S.57 of the Act in case of disputes which fell under S.48.	Reasoning
A Registrar exercising powers under S.48 must, therefore, be held to discharge the duties which would otherwise have fallen on the ordinary civil and revenue Courts of the land.	Reasoning
The Registrar has not merely the trappings of a Court but in many respects he is given the same powers as are given to ordinary civil Courts of the land by the Code of Civil Procedure including the power to summon and examine witnesses on oath, the power to order inspection of documents, to hear the parties after framing issues, to review his own order and even exercise the inherent jurisdiction of Courts mentioned in S.151 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
In such a case there is no difficulty in holding that in adjudicating upon a dispute referred under S.48 of the Act, the Registrar is to all intents and purposes, a Court discharging the same functions and duties in the same manner as a Court of law is expected to do.	Reasoning
However, it does not necessarily follow from that the Registrar exercising such powers has to be necessarily a person with judicial legal background.	None
That was not even an issue in the aforesaid case.17.	Reasoning
In so far as judgment in the case of Mukrigopalan is concerned, the Court therein discussed the power of the appellate authority constituted under Section 18 under Kerala Building Lease Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the appellate authority is the tribunal which is headed by a judicial person.	Reasoning
The judgment in R.Gandhi (supra) again pertains to the National Company Law Tribunal and the law stated therein, emphasizing the need for person with judicial background, is in the context of a tribunal.	Reasoning
Same is the position in the matter of Gujarat Revenue Tribunal Bar Association case (supra).	Reasoning
In so far as Namit Sharma (supra) is concerned, much of what is stated therein is watered down in the decision dated September 3, 2013 rendered in the Review Petition (C) No. 2309 of 2012 titled Union of India v. R.Gandhi.	Reasoning
The Court has gone to the extent of holding that CIC is not discharging judicial duties.18.	Reasoning
We would like to point out that such quasi judicial powers are given even to the Election Commission under the Representation of People Act, 1951 in a matter where it decides as to whether to register a political party or not.	Reasoning
This was so made clear in the case of Indian National Congress (I) vs. Institute of Social Welfare Ors. 2002	Reasoning
(5) SCC 685.	Reasoning
Notwithstanding that Election Commission under Section 29A of the said Act is required to act judicially and the act of Commission, in that capacity, is quasi judicial, nobody has ventured to say that such functions be discharged only by a person with judicial legal background.19.	Reasoning
Having determined the question raised, we would like to emphasize the need for appointment of suitable persons not only as Registrar, Joint Registrar etc.	Reasoning
but as Chairman and members of the tribunal as well.	Reasoning
While discharging quasijudicial functions Registrar, Joint Registrars etc. have to keep in mind that they have to be independent in their functioning.	Reasoning
They are also expected to acquire necessary expertise to effectively deal with the disputes coming before them.	Reasoning
They are supposed to be conscious of competing rights in order to decide the case justly and fairly and to pass the orders which are legally sustainable.	Reasoning
In this behalf, we would like to refer to judgment dated 3.9.2013 passed in the Review Petition (C)	Reasoning
No.2309/2012	Reasoning
(Namit Sharma case).	Reasoning
In that case, one unfortunate feature that was noted was that experience over the years has shown that the orders passed by Information Commissions have, at times, gone beyond the provisions of the Right to Information Act and that Information Commissions have not been able to harmonise the conflicting interests indicated in the preamble and other provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
The reasons for this experience about the functioning of the Information Commissions could be either that the persons who do not answer the criteria mentioned in Sections 12(5) and 15(5) have been appointed as Chief Information Commissioner or that the persons appointed even when they answer the aforesaid criteria, they do not have the required mind to balance the interests indicated in the Act.	Reasoning
It was therefore insisted that experienced suitable persons should be appointed who are able to perform their functions efficiently and effectively.	Reasoning
In this behalf certain directions were given and one of the directions was that while making recommendation for appointment of CIC and Information Commissioners the Selection Committee must mention against name of each candidate recommended the facts to indicate his eminence in public life ( which is the requirement of the provision of that Act), his knowledge and experience in the particular field and these facts must be accessible to the citizens as part of their right to information under that Act, after the appointment is made.	Reasoning
Taking clue from the aforesaid directions, and having gone through the similar dismal state of affairs expressed by the petitioner in the instant petition about the functioning of the cooperative societies, we direct that the State Government shall, keeping in mind the objective of the Act, the functions which the Registrar, Joint Registrar etc. are required to perform and commensurate with those, appointment of suitable persons shall be made.	Decision
Likewise, having regard to the fact that the Chairman of the Tribunal is to be a judicial person, namely, Former Judge of the High Court or the District Judge, we are of the opinion that for appointment of the Chairman and the Members of the Tribunal, the respondent State is duty bound to keep in mind and follow the mandate of the Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in R.Gandhi (supra).	Decision
Thus, for appointment of the Chairman and Members of the Tribunal, the selection to these posts should preferably be made by the Public Service Commission in consultation with the High Court.21.	Decision
As a result, subject to the aforesaid directions, this Special Leave Petition is dismissed.	Decision
