 Bhargava, J.1.	None
This appeal arises out of a suit brought for possession of some land which was admittedly owned at one time by one Labhu.	Facts
Labhu died in the year 1917 and, on his death, his widow, Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur, who filed the suit as plaintiff came into possession of the land.	Facts
She continued in possession of the land until the year 1954 when, on an application made by the collaterals of Labhu, the NaibTahsildar, by his order dated 26th June 1954, effected mutation in favour of those collaterals.	Facts
These collaterals were defendants 1 to 4 Mangal Singh.	Facts
Amar Singh, Santa Singh and Ishar Singh.	Facts
These collaterals, on the basis of the order of the NaibTehsildar, dispossessed Smt.	None
Harnam Kaur.	Facts
Harnam Kaurs appeal against the order of the NaibTehsildar was dismissed by the Collector.	Facts
The claim of these collaterals was that Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur had entered into karewa marriage with one of these collaterals, Isher Singh, defendant No. 4 and, consequently, she had lost her right to hold the land of her first husband Labhu.	Facts
Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
Harnam Kaur denied that she had entered into any karewa marriage with Ishar Singh and.	Facts
on the basis of this denial, instituted the suit claiming possession of that land.	Facts
She pleaded that the four defendants had no right to this land and had wrongfully dispossessed her, so that they were mere trespassers.	Facts
This suit was instituted on 1st March 1956.	Facts
After the institution of the suit, the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 (No. 30 of 1956) (hereinafter referred to as the Act) came into force on 17th June 1956.	Facts
The suit was at that time, pending and it continued to remain pending until the year 1958 when Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur died.	Facts
Thereupon, Smt.	Facts
Rattno applied to be substituted as plaintiff in place of Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur as her legal representative.	Facts
This application was allowed, though it was opposed by defendants 1 to 3.	Facts
In the trial of the suit, defendants 1 to 3 took the plea that Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur, the original plaintiff, had lost her right to the land because of her karewa marriage with Ishar Singh, defendant No. 4.	Facts
Defendant No. 4, however, admitted the claim of Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur in his written statement, denied that he had dispossessed her and also denied the allegation of her karewa marriage with him.	Facts
In these circumstances, two main questions came up for decision by the trial Court.	Facts
The first question was whether Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur had entered into a karewa marriage with Ishar Singh, defendant No. 4, so as to lose her right to the disputed land as widow of the previous male owner, Labhu?	Facts
The second question that arose was whether Smt.	Facts
Rattno, who was substituted as the legal representative of Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur, was entitled to succeed to the property of Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur?	Facts
This second question depended on whether Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur had, or had not, become full owner of the land under S. 14 of the Act.	Facts
The trial Court held that Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur had contracted karewa marriage with Ishar Singh, defendant No. 4, and had lost her rights.	Facts
The further finding of the trial Court was that Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur had been dispossessed before the Act came into force and, consequently, S. 14 of the Act did not apply, with the result that Smt.	Facts
Rattno could not claim succession to Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur under that provision of law.	Facts
On these findings, the trial Court dismissed the suit.2.	Facts
On appeal, the Additional District Judge, Patiala, recorded the finding that Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur had not entered into karewa marriage with Ishar Singh, defendant No. 4, and, further, that S. 14 of the Act was applicable to the present case, as the land in suit was possessed by Smt.	Facts
Harnam Kaur so as to make her full owner of this land under that provision of law.	Facts
On these findings, the first appellate Court decreed the suit against defendants 1 to 3 with costs in both Courts, after making a comment that Ishar Singh, defendant No. 4, was a pro forma defendant.	Facts
Defendants 1 to 3, thereupon, came up in second appeal to the High Court of Punjab and impleaded as respondents Smt.	Facts
Rattno as well as Ishar Singh.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the appeal and, thereupon, defendants l to 3 have come up to this Court in appeal under special leave granted to them.	Facts
In this appeal also, defendants 1 to 3 impleaded both Smt.	Facts
Rattno and Ishar Singh as respondents.3.	Facts
During the pendency of this appeal, one of the defendantsappellants died and his legal representatives were brought on the record as appellants.	None
Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
Rattno also died and her legal representatives were impleaded as respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, Ishar Singh, defendant No. 4 who was a respondent in this appeal, also died.	Arguments of Respondent
The application to bring his legal representatives on record was dismissed by the order of this Court dated 14th September 1965 in Civil Miscellaneous Petition No. 1589 of 1965.In view of this order, a preliminary objection was raised at the time of hearing of this appeal by learned counsel for the respondents, who had been impleaded as legal representatives of Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
Rattno, that the appeal had abated on account of the failure of the appellants to implead the legal representatives of Ishar Singh respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
It, however, appears that, on the pleadings of parties and the nature of the dispute that came to be settled by the lower Courts, it cannot be held that this appeal must abate as a whole, or must fail because of its abatement against Ishar Singh on his death.	Reasoning
We have already mentioned that, though the plaintiff, Smt.	Reasoning
Harnam Kaur, had come forward with the allegation that she had been dispossessed by all the four defendants 1 to 4, Ishar Singh, defendant No. 4, in his written statement repudiated this claim.	Reasoning
He put forward the plea that he had not dispossessed the plaintiff and, further, supported the claim of the plaintiff by pleading that there had been no karewa marriage between them.	Reasoning
The suit was dismissed by the trial Court.	Reasoning
It was decreed by the first appellate Court only against defendants 1 to 3, treating Ishar Singh as a pro forma defendant.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, it is obvious that, when the case came up before the High Court, the dispute was confined between Smt.	Reasoning
Rattno, legal representative of the original plaintiff on the one side, and defendants 1 to 3 on the other.	Reasoning
Defendants 1 to 3 sought vacation of the decree for possession which had been granted against them in favour of Smt.	Reasoning
Rattno.	Reasoning
Ishar Singh, against whom the suit had not been decreed at all, thus became an unnecessary party.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, even if Ishar Singh had not been impleaded as respondent in the High Court, the relief claimed by defendants 1 to 3 in that Court against Smt.	Reasoning
Rattno could have been granted without bringing into effect any contradictory decrees.	Reasoning
In the appeal in this Court also, in these circumstances, Ishar Singh was an unnecessary party and, consequently, the failure to implead his legal representatives as respondents in the appeal after his death does not affect the right of defendants 1 to 3 to claim the relief for which they have come up to this Court in appeal.	Reasoning
The preliminary objection, therefore, fails and is rejected.4.	None
On merits, we are of the opinion that the decision given by the High Court against the defendantsappellants must be upheld.	Reasoning
The first appellate Court, which was the final Court for deciding questions of fact, clearly recorded a finding that the Karewa marriage alleged to have been entered into by the plaintiff, Smt.	Reasoning
Harnam Kaur, with Ishar Singh, defendant No. 4, was not proved.	Reasoning
That finding of fact was binding on the High Court and was rightly accepted by it.	Reasoning
It is no longer open to the appellants to challenge that finding of fact in this CourtOn this Finding, it has to he held that the rights to the land, to which Smt.	Reasoning
Harnam Kaur had succeeded as widow of Labhu were not lost by her until her death, and that her dispossession by defendants 1 to 3 in the year 1954 was illegal.	Reasoning
They had no right to this land in preference to Smt.	Reasoning
Harnam Kaur.5.	Facts
It was, however, urged on behalf of the appellants that, when Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Harnam Kaur died, she was not in actual possession of this land.	Arguments of Petitioner
She had been dispossessed in the year 1954 and, at the time of her death in 1958, this suit instituted by her for possession of that land was still pending.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the suit, her own pleading was there that the land was in actual possession of defendants 1 to 3 as trespassers, and, in such circumstances, it should be held that the land was not possessed by Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Harnam Kaur at any time after the Act came into force, so that S. 14 of the Act never became applicable and she lever became full owner of that land.	Facts
It may be mentioned that there was no dispute in the High Court, nor was it disputed before us that, if it be held that S.14 of the Act had become applicable and Smt.	Reasoning
Harnam Kaur became full owner of this land, her rights would pass on her death to Smt.	Reasoning
Rattno and, subsequently, Oil the latters death, to the present respondents in this appeal.	None
The only question for decision in this appeal, therefore, is whether it can be held that this property was possessed by Smt.	None
Harnam Kaur as envisaged by S. 14 of the Act, so that she became full owner of this land.6.	Issue
Section 14 (l) of the Act is as follows14.	None
(1) Any property possessed by a female Hindu, whether acquired before or after the commencement of this Act, shall be held by her as full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.	Reasoning
Explanation.	None
In this subsection, property includes both movable and immovable property acquired by a female Hindu by inheritance or devise, or at a partition, or in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance, or by gift from any person, whether a relative or not, before, at or after her marriage, or by her own skill or exertion, or by purchase or by prescription, or in any other manner whatsoever, and also any such property held by her as stridhana immediately before the commencement of this Act.	None
The dispute in the case has arisen, because this section confers the right of full ownership on a Hindu female only in respect of property possessed by her, whether acquired before or after the commencement of the Act and, in the present case, admittedly, the plaintiff had been dispossessed in the year 1954 and was not able to recover possession from the defendantsappellants until her death in the year 1958	None
It was urged on behalf of the appellants that, in order to attract the provisions of S. 14 (1) of the Act, it must be shown that the female Hindu was either in actual physical possession, or constructive possession of the disputed property.	None
On the other side, it was urged that even if a female Hindu be in fact, out of actual possession, the property must be held to be possessed by her, if her ownership rights in that property still exist and, in exercise of those ownership rights, she is capable of obtaining actual possession of it.	None
It appears to us that, on the language used In S. 14 (1) of the Act, the latter interpretation must be accepted.7.	None
It is significant that the Legislature begins S. 14 (1) with the words any property possessed by a female Hindu and not any property in possession of a female Hindu.	None
If the expression used had been in possession of instead of possessed by, the proper interpretation would probably have been to hold that, in order to apply this provision, the property must be such as is either in actual possession of the female Hindu or in her constructive possession.	None
The constructive possession may be through a lessee, mortgagee, licensee, etc.	None
The use of the expression possessed by instead of the expression in possession of, in our opinion, was intended to enlarge the meaning of this expression.	None
It is commonly known in English language that a property is said to be possessed by a person, if he is its owner, even though he may, for the time being, be out of actual possession or even constructive possession.	None
The expression possessed by is quite frequently used in testamentary documents, where the method of expressing the property, which is to pass to the legatee, often adopted is to say that all property I dispossessed (Sic) of shall pass to In such documents, wills, etc., where this language is used, it is clear that whatever rights the testator had in the property would pass to the legatee, even though, at the time when the will is executed or when the will becomes effective, the testator might not be in actual, physical or constructive possession of it.	None
The legatee will, in such a case, succeed to the right to recover possession of that property in the same manner in which the testator could have done.	None
Stroud in his Judicial Dictionary of Words and Phrases Vol. 3, at p. 2238, has brought out this aspect when defining the scope of the words possess and possessed.	None
When dealing with the meaning of the word possession Stroud defines possession as being in two ways, either actual possession or possession in law.	None
He goes on to say that actual possession is when a man enters in deed into lands or tenements to him descended, or otherwise.	None
Possession in law is when lands or tenements are descended to a man, and he has not as yet really, actually, and in deed, entered into them.	None
In Whartons Law Lexicon, 14th Edn., at p. 777, the word possession is defined as being equivalent to the state of owning or having a thing in ones own hands or power.	None
Thus, three different meanings are given one is the state of owning, the second is having a thing in ones own hands, and the third is having a thing in ones own power.	None
In case where property is in actual physical possession, obviously it would be in ones own hands.	None
If it is in constructive possession, it would be in ones own power.	None
Then, there is the third case where there may not be actual, physical or constructive possession and, yet, the person still possesses the right to recover actual physical possession or constructive possession that would be a case covered by the expression the state of owning.	None
In fact, elaborating further the meaning of the word possession, Wharton goes on to say thatit is either actual, where a person enters into lands or tenements descended or conveyed to him apparent, which is a species of presumptive title where land descended to the heir of an abator, intruder, or disseisor, who died seised in law, when lands, etc., have descended to a man, and he has not actually entered into them or naked, that is, mere possession, without colour of right.	None
It appears to us that the expression used in S. 14 (1) of the Act was intended to cover cases of possession in law also, where lands may have descended to a female Hindu and she has not actually entered into them.	None
It would, of course, cover the other cases of actual or constructive possession.	Reasoning
On the language of S. 14 (1), therefore, we hold that this provision will become applicable to any property which is owned by a female Hindu, even though she is not in actual, physical or constructive possession of that property.8.	Reasoning
Section 14 (1) came up for interpretation in various cases before a number of High Courts, and was considered by this Court also in several cases.	None
In none of those cases, however, did the question directly arise as to whether S. 14 (1) will be applicable, if the female Hindu is out of actual physical or constructive possession and the property happens to have been wrongfully taken into possession by a trespasser.	None
Most of those cases were cases where the female Hindu had either alienated her rights by a deed of transfer or had made a gift, and it was only incidentally that, in some of those cases, comments were made on the question whether S. 14 (1) of the Act will be attracted or not in cases where the female Hindu had been dispossessed by a trespasser.9.	None
So far as this Court is concerned, the earliest case is that of G. T. M. Kotturuswami v. Veeravva, (1959) Supp (1)	None
SCR 968 (AIR 1959 SC 577 ).	None
Dealing with the scope of S. 14 (1) of the Act in that case, this Court cited from a decision of Viswanatha Sastri J. in G. Venkayamma v. G. Veerayya, AIR 1957 Andh Pra 280 and noticed the fact that in that case it was held that the word possessed is used in S. 14 in a broad sense and, in the context, possession means the state of owning or having in ones hands or power.	None
It was also noticed that the learned Judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in that case had expressed the view that even if a trespasser were in possession of the land belonging to a female owner, it might conceivably be regarded as being in possession of the female owner, provided the trespasser had not perfected his title.	None
Since in that case this Court was not concerned with a situation where a trespasser had actually dispossessed the female owner, the Court went on to holdWe do not think that it is necessary in the present case to go to the extent to which the learned Judges went.	None
It is sufficient to say that possessed in S. 14 is used in a broad sense and, in the context, means the state of owning or having in ones hand or power.	None
Thus, in that case decided by this Court, the broad meaning of the word possessed was accepted as even including cases where the state of owning the property exist.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants, when bringing to our notice the views expressed by this Court in that case, also drew our attention to another part of the judgment, where this Court remarkedReference to property acquired before the commencement of the Act certainly makes the provisions of the section retrospective, but even in such a case, the property must be possessed by a female Hindu at the time the Act came into force in order to make the provisions of the section applicable.	None
There is no question in the present case that Veerayya acquired the property of her deceased husband before the commencement of the Act.	None
In order that the provisions of S. 14 may apply to the present case, it will have to be further established that the property was possessed by her at the time the Act came into force.	None
Learned counsel from these words, tried to draw an inference that this Court had laid down that S. 14 (1) will only apply to cases where the property was possessed by the Hindu female at the commencement of the Act.	None
We do not think that any such interpretation can be placed on the words used by this Court.	None
Section 14 (1) covers any property possessed by a female Hindu, whether acquired before or after the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
On the face of it, property acquired after the commencement of the Act by a female Hindu could not possibly be possessed by her at the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
This Court when it made the comments relied upon by learned counsel, was in fact.	Reasoning
concerned with a case of a female Hindu, who had acquired the right to the property before the commencement of the Act, but was alleged to be no longer possessed of it because of having adopted a son before the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
It was in these circumstances that the Court in that particular case was concerned with the question whether the female Hindu was possessed of the property in dispute or not at the time the Act came into force.	Reasoning
The Court was not laying down any general principle that S. 14 (1) will not be attracted at all to cases where the female Hindu was not possessed of the property at the date of the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
In fact, there are no words used in S. 14 (1) which would lead to the interpretation that the property must be possessed by the female Hindu at the date of the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
It appears to us that the relevant date, on which the female Hindu should be possessed of the property in dispute must be the date on which the question of applying the provisions of S. 14 (1) arises.	Reasoning
If, on that date, when the provisions of this section are sought to be applied, the property is possessed by a female Hindu, it would be held that she is full owner of it and not merely a limited owner.	Reasoning
Such a question may arise in her own lifetime, or may arise subsequently when succession to her property opens on her death.	Reasoning
The case before us falls in the second category, because Smt.	Reasoning
Harnam Kaur was a limited owner of the property before the commencement of the Act, and the question that has arisen is whether Smt Rattno was entitled to succeed to her rights in this disputed property on her death which took place in the year 1958 after the commencement of the Act.10.	Reasoning
The next case in which S. 14 was considered by this Court was Brahamdeo Singh v. Deomani Missir, Civil Appeal No. 130 of 1960, D/15101962	None
(SC).	None
In that case, the female Hindu, who had succeeded to the property as the widow of her husband, Ramdeo Singh, had transferred the property under two saledeeds.	None
It was held that the saledeeds were not for legal necessity and the question arose whether, in those circumstances, when the Act came into force, it could be held that the widow was possessed of that property.	None
This Court after citing the judgment in the case of G. T. M. Kotturuswami.	None
(1959)	None
Supp (1) SCR 968 (AIR 1959 SC 577 ) (supra), held that the conflict of judicial opinion on this question had already been resolved in that earlier case, where the Court had observedThe provisions in S. 14 of the Act were not intended to benefit alienees who, with their eyes open, purchased the property from a limited owner without justifying necessity before the Act came into force and at a time when the vendor had only a limited interest of a Hindu woman.	None
The Court further dealt with the contention that the possession of the alienees is the possession of the widow herself who is still alive, and heldWe are unable to accept this contention as correct.	None
It is well settled that an alienation made by a widow or other limited heir of property inherited by her, without legal necessity and without the consent of the next reversioners, though not binding on the reversioners, is, nevertheless, binding on her so as to pass her own interest (i. e life interest) to the alienee.	None
It was, thus, made clear in that case that the property was held not to be possessed by the widow, because, the alienation made by her being binding on her, she had no longer any legal right left in that property even in the sense of being in the state of owning it.	None
The case, thus, explains why, in cases of alienation or a gift made by a widow, even though that alienation or gift may not be binding on a reversioner, the property will not be held to be possessed by the widow, because the alienation or the gift would be binding on her for her lifetime and she, a least, would not possess any such rights under which she could obtain actual or constructive possession from her transferee or donee.	None
Having completely parted with her legal rights in the property, she could not be said to be possessed of that property any longer.11.	None
The third case of this Court brought to our notice is that of S. S. Munna Lal v. S. S. Rajkumar, 1962 Supp (3) SCR 418 (AIR 1962 SC 1493 ).	Reasoning
In that case, a Digamber Jain of the Porwal sect died in 1934 leaving behind his widow, his son and three grandsons.	Reasoning
His son died in 1939.	None
In 1952 a son of one of the grandsons filed a suit for partition of the joint family properties, while the widow was still alive.	Reasoning
While the suit was still pending, the widow died.	Reasoning
Amongst other questions arising in the partition suit one question that arose was whether the 1/4th share of the widow declared in the preliminary decree was possessed by her and whether, on her death, it descended to her grandsons in accordance with the provisions of Sections 15 and 16 of the Act.	Reasoning
Dealing with this question, this Court explained the scope of S. 14 (1) by stating that, by S. 14 (1), the Legislature sought to convert the interest of a Hindu female which, under the Sastric Hindu law, would have been regarded as a limited interest into an absolute interest.	Reasoning
It was held that, by S. 14 (1), manifestly, it was intended to convert the interest, which a Hindu female has in property, however restricted the nature of that interest under the Sastric Hindu law may be, into absolute estate.	Reasoning
It was also noticed thatunder the Sastric Hindu law, the share given to a Hindu widow on partition between her sons or her grandsons was in lieu of her right to maintenance, and she was not entitled to claim partition.	Reasoning
But the Legislature, by enacting the Hindu Womens Right to Property Act, 1937, made a significant departure in that branch of the law the Act gave a Hindu widow the same interest in the property which her husband had at the time of his death, and if the estate was partitioned, she became owner in severally of her share, subject, of course, to the restrictions on disposition and the peculiar rule of extinction of the estate on death actual or civil.	Reasoning
Applying these principles to the facts of that case, it was remarkedIn the light of the scheme of the Act and its avowed purpose, it would be difficult, without doing violence to the language used in the enactment, to assume that a right declared in property in favour of a person under a decree for partition is not a right to property.	None
If, under a preliminary decree, the right in favour of a Hindu male, be regarded as property, the right declared in favour of a Hindu female must also be regarded as property.	Reasoning
The High Court was, therefore, in our judgment, in error in holding that the right declared in favour of Khilonabai was not possessed by her, nor are we able to agree with the submission of the learned counsel for Rajkumar that it was not property within the meaning of S. 14 of the Act.	Reasoning
In that case, it will be noticed that the widow died, while the suit for partition was still pending, and she was not in actual physical or constructive possession of the property which was held to be possessed by her at the time of her death.	None
Only a preliminary decree declaring her right to the share had been passed.	Reasoning
That decree was passed before the Act came into force and the widow died after the Act came into force.	Reasoning
On these facts, the Court came to the finding that the disputed property was possessed by the widow and this finding was given despite the circumstance that she was not in actual possession or constructive possession of the property, but had merely obtained the right to the property under the preliminary decree.	Reasoning
The principle laid down in that case, thus, supports the broader meaning given to the expression possessed by indicated by us earlier.12.	Reasoning
The last case of this Court brought to our notice is Eramma v. Veerupana, AIR 1966 SC 1879.	None
That was a converse case in which the female Hindu, in fact, did not possess any legal right or title to the property, though she was actually in physical possession of it.	None
It was heldThe property possessed by a female Hindu, as contemplated in the section, is clearly property to which she has acquired some kind of title whether before or after the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
It may be noticed that the Explanation to S. 14 (1) sets out the various modes of acquisition of the property by a female Hindu and indicates that the section applies only to property to which the female Hindu has acquired some kind of title however restricted the nature of her interest may be.	Reasoning
The words as full owner thereof and not as a limited owner as given in the last portion of subsection (1) of S. 14 clearly suggest that the legislature intended that the limited ownership of a Hindu female should be changed into full ownership.	None
In other words S. 14 (1) of the Act contemplates that a Hindu female who, in the absence of this provision, would have been limited owner of the property, will now become full owner of the same by virtue of this section.	None
The object of the section is to extinguish the estate called limited estate or widows estate in Hindu Law and to make a Hindu woman, who, under the old law, would have been only a limited owner, a full owner of the property with all powers of disposition and to make the estate heritable by her own heirs and not revertible to the heirs of the last male holder.	None
In the concluding part, it was heldIt follows, therefore, that the section cannot be interpreted so as to validate the illegal possession of a female Hindu and it does not confer any title on a mere trespasser.	None
In other words, the provisions of S. 14 (1) of the Act cannot be attracted in the case of a Hindu female who is in possession of the property of the last male holder on the date of the commencement of the Act when she is only a trespasser without any right to property.	None
This case also, thus, clarifies that the expression possessed by is not intended to apply to a case of mere possession without title, and that the legislature intended this provision for cases where the Hindu female possesses the right of ownership of the property in question.	Reasoning
Even mere physical possession of the property without the right of ownership will not attract the provisions of this section.	None
This case also, thus, supports our view that the expression possessed by was used in the sense of connoting state of ownership and, while the Hindu female possesses the rights of ownership, she would become full owner if the other conditions mentioned in the section are fulfilled The section will, however, not apply at all to cases where the Hindu female may have parted with her rights so as to place herself in a position where she could?	Reasoning
in no manner, exercise her rights of ownership in that property any longer.13.	None
In this view that we have taken.	Reasoning
it does not appear to be necessary for us to refer to the decisions of the various High Courts which were cited before us by learned counsel, for the appellants.	Reasoning
The cases mentioned were Patelin v. Satvabati Naikani, AIR 1958 Ori 75 Ganesh Mahanta v. Sukria Bewa, AIR 1963 Ori 167 Harak Singh v. Kailash Singh.	Reasoning
AIR 1958 Pat 581 Ram Gulam Singh v. Palakdhari Singh, AIR 1961 Pat 60 , Nathuni Prasad Singh v. Mst.	Reasoning
Kachnar Kuer, AIR 1965 Pat 160 and Mst.	Reasoning
Mukhtiar Kaur v. Mst.	Reasoning
Kartar Kaur, AIR 1966 Punj 31.	Reasoning
All these were cases relating to situations where the widow had made some alienation of her rights in the property and none of them was concerned with a case where the female Hindu might have been dispossessed by a trespasser.	Reasoning
The reasons given by the High Courts in those cases are, therefore, of no assistance in deciding the applicability of S. 14 (1) of the Act to a case of the nature before us.14.	Reasoning
On the interpretation of S. 14 (1) of the Act that we have accepted above, it must be held that the property involved in the present suit was possessed by Smt.	Reasoning
Harnam Kaur when she died in the year 1958 and, consequently, Smt.	Reasoning
Rattno and, after her, the present respondents must be deemed to have succeeded to those rights.	Reasoning
We have already mentioned above that it was not disputed that, if it is held that Smt.	Reasoning
Harnam Kaur had become full owner of this property, it would pass on her death to Smt.	Reasoning
Rattno.	Reasoning
As a result, the decision given by the High Court must be upheld.	None
The appeal is dismissed with costs.15.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
