 FAZAL ALI, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal from a decision of a Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal, reversing the judgment of a single Judge of the said High Court.	Issue
The facts of the case, in so far as they bear on the point to be decided in the appeal, are briefly these.	Facts
2.	None
The Lothian Jute Mills Co., Ltd. (which will hereinafter be referred to as the company) is a joint stock company of which Messrs. Andrew Yule Co. are the managing agents.	Facts
In October, 1944, the directors of the company were Mr. Cumberbatch, Sir David Ezra, Dr. Satya Charan Law and Mr. Champalal Jatia.	Facts
At a general meeting of the company held on the 9th March, 1945, Mr. Rameshwar Prosad Bajoria, the 1st Plaintiff, was elected a director of the company, and Sir David Ezra, who had retired by rotation and offered himself for reelection, was not elected.	Facts
On the 28th December, 1945, Dr. Satya Charan law, Mr. Cumberbatch and Mr. Champalal Jatia requested Mr. Bajoria in writing, in terms of Art. 116 (k) of the Articles of Association of the company, to resign his directorship of the company and appointed Sir David Ezra in his place.	Facts
Art. 116	None
(k) runs thus  	None
The office of a director shall ipso facto be vacated if  (k) (not being an ex officio Director) he be requested in writing by all his coDirectors to resign or if he be removed from office by an Extraordinary Resolution of the Company.	None
3.	None
The suit, which has given rise to this appeal, was instituted on the 14th January, 1946, by Mr. Bajoria and three others, against the four directors of the company, including Sir David Ezra (who has since died), and, in this suit, the company was also made a coPlaintiff.	Facts
The substance of the allegations made in the plaint was that the three directors, Dr. Satya Charan law, Mr. Cumberbatch and Mr. Jathia, has acted wrongfully, illegally and mala fide, in asking Plaintiff No. 1, Mr. Bajoria, to resign, that they had exercised their power under Art. 116 (k) of the Articles of Association not in the interest of or for the benefit of the company and its shareholders but for their own ends, that their act was a mere contrivance for excluding the majority of the shareholders from having an effective control or voice in the management of the company, that Sir David Ezra, who was appointed in place of Plaintiff No. 1, did not enjoy the confidence of the majority of the shareholders and his appointment was made with the object or representative of one group of shareholders who were acting in the interests of the managing agents whose aim was to perpetuate their control of the affairs of the company to the detriment of the company and its shareholders, and the exclusion or removal of Plaintiff No. 1 from his office as a director was a wrong done to him and also to the company.	Facts
On the basis of these allegations, the Plaintiffs asked for a declaration that Plaintiff No. 1 was still a director of the company, that the act of the Defendants purporting to remove Mr. Bajoria from the office of director was void and inoperative, and that the appointment of Defendant No. 4, Sir David Ezra, as a director of the Company was illegal and should be cancelled.	Facts
The Plaintiffs further asked for an injunction restraining the Defendants from preventing Plaintiff No. 1 from acting as a director of the company and restraining Defendant No. 4 from acting as a director in the place of Plaintiff No.	Facts
1.On the 2nd February, 1946, the Defendants put in a written statement, denying the allegations made by the Plaintiffs and stating among other things that the company had been wrongfully impleaded as Plaintiff and its name should be struck out from the plaint.	Facts
Later on, a number of issues were framed in the suit, the first issue being in these terms Has the company been properly impleaded as Plaintiff ?	Facts
This issue was set down by Edgley, J., before whom the case ultimately came for hearing on the Original Side, as a preliminary issue, and the learned Judge, after hearing the parties, answered it in favour of the Defendants and directed the name of the company to be struck off from the plaint.	Facts
The learned Judge, however, observed that it was open to the Plaintiffs to make the company a Defendant.	Facts
The decision of Edgley, J., was subsequently reversed on appeal by a Division Bench of the High Court, which held that the suit had been properly filed and the company had been correctly made a coPlaintiff in the suit.	Facts
The sole question which we have to decide is which of the views taken by the Courts below is correct.	None
4.	None
For the purpose of answering this question, it is, as will appear presently, material to refer to Arts.	None
148 and 149 (6) of the Articles of Association of the Company.	None
Art.	None
148 provides as follows  The control of the Company shall be vested in the directors and the business of the Company shall be managed by the directors who in addition to the powers and authorities by these presents or otherwise, expressly conferred upon them, may exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Company and are not hereby or by statute law expressly directed or required to be exercised or done by the Company in General Meeting but subject nevertheless to the provisions of any statute law and of these presents and to any regulations not being inconsistent with these presents from time to time made by the Company in General Meeting provided that no regulation so made shall invalidate any prior act of the directors which would have been valid if such regulation had not been made.	None
Art 149 (6) runs thus  Without prejudice to the general powers conferred by the last preceding article and to any other powers or authorities conferred by these presents on the Directors or on the Managing Agents, it is hereby expressly declared that the Directors shall have the following powers, that is to say, power  (6) subject to the provisions of sec.	None
86H (b) of the Act, to institute, conduct, defend, compound or abandon any legal proceedings by or against the Company or its officers or otherwise concerning the affairs of the Company and also to compound and allow time for payment or satisfaction of any debts due and of any claims or demands by or against the Company.	None
5.	None
It is contended on behalf of the Appellants that, on the basis of the above articles, the directors alone are authorized to use the name of the company in any litigation concerning the company and if the majority of the ordinary shareholders are dissatisfied with the policy adopted by the directors, the only course open to them is to change the Articles of Association or remove the directors by a special resolution and to appoint other directors in their place by an ordinary resolution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that, by adopting these articles, the shareholders must be taken to have divested themselves of the control and management of the company and, even if they are in a majority, they have no right to conduct any litigation on behalf of the company, not can a numerical majority of the shareholders, at a general meeting of the company, impose its will upon the directors, who can be deprived of their control and management of the company only by a statutory majority which can alter the articles.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the main contention put forward on behalf of the Respondents is that in order to redress a wrong done to the company and its shareholders by the directors in whom power is vested under Arts.	Arguments of Respondent
148 and 149 (6), the ultimate control vests in the majority of the ordinary shareholders, and as the PlaintiffsRespondents admittedly command a majority of votes of these shareholders, it is proper that the suit should proceed with the name of the company as coPlaintiff.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be stated here that though no meeting of the ordinary shareholders was held for the purpose of authorizing the Plaintiffs to file the present suit on behalf of the Company, it was conceded by for the Defendants before Edgley, J., that it would be unnecessary that such a meeting should be held in order to ascertain the wishes of the majority of the shareholders inasmuch as the Plaintiffs commanded a majority of the votes of the ordinary shareholders.	Reasoning
The case has, therefore, proceeded in both the Courts below on the footing that at a meeting of the ordinary shareholders, the Plaintiffs would be able by a majority to assure the passage of a resolution empowering them to continue the suit.	Reasoning
The case has also proceeded on the footing that whatever the ultimate decision in regard to the Plaintiffs allegations might be, for the purpose of deciding the preliminary issue, it must be assumed that the acts complained of by the Plaintiffs, namely, the removal of Plaintiff No. 1 from the board of directors and the appointment of Sir David Ezra, were due to the fraudulent conduct of the Defendants, were illegal and were detrimental to the interests of the company.	Reasoning
It seems to be wellsettled now that in order to redress a wrong done to a company or to recover monies or damages alleged to be due to the company, the action should prima facie be brought by the company itself.	Reasoning
See Fose v. Harbottle, Mozley v. Alston and MacDougall v. Gardiner.	Reasoning
The following observations made by James, L. J., in the lastmentioned case seems to be pertinent to the point  If the majority of the company really are in favour of any particular shareholder has been interfered with improperly, by misconduct of a director, by misconduct of a chairman, by miscarriage of a meeting, or of certain shareholders at a particular date if the company think that any shareholder has anything which ought to be made the subject of complaint, there is never any difficulty whatever arising from the apparent possession of the seal by the directors, or from any such cause in filing a bill in the name of the company, if the majority of the company desire it to be filed.	None
Any one of the shareholders might have filed his bill in the name of the company, and then if the directors had said, you are not the company the majority do not act with you, but with us  the Court would, as it has done in other cases, have taken the means of ascertaining which party it is, the Plaintiffs or Defendants, which really represents the majority of the company.	None
6.	None
To the same effect are the following observations of Mellish, L. J., in the above case  Looking at the nature of these companies, looking at the way in which their articles are formed, and that they are not all lawyers who attend these meetings, nothing can be more likely than that there should be something more or less irregular done at them  some directors may have been irregularly appointed, some directors are irregularly turned out, or something or other may have been done which ought not to have been done according to the proper construction of the articles.	None
Now, if that gives a right to every member of the company to file a bill to have the question decided, then if there happens to be one cantankerous member, or one member who loves litigation, everything of this kind will be litigated whereas if the bill must be filed in the name of the company, then, unless there is a majority who really wish for litigation, the litigation will not go on.	None
Therefore, holding that such suits must be brought in the name of the company does certainly greatly tend to stop litigation.	None
7.	None
A similar view has been taken in Pender v. Lushington.	None
In that case, an action was brought be a shareholder whose vote had been rejected on behalf of himself and all others who has voted with him, namely the company as coPlaintiff, against the directors, for an injunction to restrain them from acting on the footing of the votes being bad, and Jessel, M. R., dealing with the objection that the company ought not to be Plaintiff, observed as follows  It is said that the company ought not to have been made Plaintiffs.	None
The reasons given were reasons of some singularity, but there is no doubt of this, that under the articles the directors are the custodians of the seal of the company, and the directors, who in fact are Defendants, have certainly not given any authority to the solicitor for the Plaintiffs on this record to institute this suit in the name of the company as Plaintiffs.	None
It is equally clear, if I am right in the conclusion of which I have come as to the impropriety of the decision of the Chairman in rejecting these votes, that it is a case in which the company might properly sue as Plaintiffs to restrain the directors from carrying out a resolution which had not been properly carried, and then comes the question whether I ought or ought not to allow the company now to remain as Plaintiffs.	None
The first point to be considered is this Supposing there was no objection to the right of a general meeting to direct an action to be brought, could I, even in that case, allow the company to sue ?	None
I think I could.	None
In that case the general meeting, having a right to direct an action to be brought, would act by the majority of the members.	None
The majority wish their rights to be protected.	None
A meeting could be called, and, if the Court was satisfied that the majority would direct an action to be brought, the companys name would not be taken away.	None
In the meantime, the Court must act.	None
It being decided that the company is a proper Plaintiff, that the grievance is one of which the company could complain, that the majority of the company are of the opinion, and that there is no time to call a formal meeting, what is the Court to do?	None
Is it to refuse justice altogether, and say, it being a case for an injunction, that the directors are to have for several weeks (for the articles require three weeks notice at least of a general meeting) the power of destroying the property and rights of the company altogether.	None
Such as course in cases of injunction would be equivalent to saying that there shall be no justice at all administered.	None
It would be an absolute denial of justice, and it appears to me that the Court of Appeal in the case of MacDougall v. Gardner, have deliberately adopted that view of the matter.	None
8.	None
Again, the law on the subject was summed up by Lord Davey in Burland v. Earle in these words  It is an elementary principle of the law relating to joint stock companies that the Court will not interfere with the internal management of companies acting within their powers, and in fact has no jurisdiction to do so.	None
Again, it is clear law that in order to redress a wrong done to the company or to recover moneys or damages alleged to be due to the company, the action should prima facie be brought by the company itself.	Reasoning
These cardinal principles are laid down in the well known cases of Foss v. Harbottle and Mozley v. Alston and in numerous later cases which it is unnecessary to cite.	None
But an exception is made to the second rule, where the persons against whom the relief is sought themselves hold and control the majority of the shares in the company, and will not permit an action to be brought in the name of the company.	None
In that case the Courts allow the shareholders complaining to bring an action in their own names.	None
9.	None
These cases make it quite clear that ordinarily the company would be a proper Plaintiff in a case like the present, but, as has been already stated, the Appellants rely upon the Articles of Association governing the company in so far as they vest the management of the affairs of the company in the directors and empower them to conduct litigation on its behalf and use its name as Plaintiffs, and contend that these specific provisions take the present case out of the ordinary rule and the correct view on the facts of the present case should be that even though the Plaintiffs may be in a position to command a majority of votes at an ordinary meeting of the company, they cannot use the companys name as Plaintiffs in the suit, so long as Arts.	Arguments of Petitioner
148 and 149 stand.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention, they rely principally on three cases.	None
The first of these cases is Automatic SelfCleansing Filter Syndicate Company, Limited v. Cunninghame in which the facts were these.	None
A company had power under its memorandum of association to sell its undertaking to another company having similar objects, and by its Articles of Association the general management and control of the company were vested in the directors, subject to such regulations as might from time to time be made by extraordinary resolution, and particular, the property of the company on such terms as they might think fit.	Arguments of Petitioner
At a general meeting of the company a resolution was passed by a simple majority of the shareholders for the sale of the companys assets on certain terms to a new company formed for the purpose of acquiring them, and directing the directors to carry the sale into effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
The directors, being of opinion that a sale on those terms was not for the benefit of the company, declined to carry the sale into effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
Upon these facts, it was held by Warrington, J., that, upon the construction of the articles, the directors could not be compelled to comply with the resolution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of Warrington, J., was upheld by the Court of Appeal, and the view taken by that Court is set out by CozensHardy, L. J., in these words It seems to me that the shareholders have by their express contract mutually stipulated that their common affairs should be managed by certain directors to be appointed by the shareholders in the manner described by other articles, such directors being liable to be removed only be special resolution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It you once get a stipulation of that kind in a contract made between the parties, what right is there is king in a contract made between the parties, what right is there to interfere with the contract, apart, of course, from any misconduct on the part of the directors ?	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no such misconduct in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Is there may analogy which supports the case of the Plaintiffs ?	Arguments of Petitioner
I think not.	Arguments of Petitioner
It seems to me the analogy is all the other way Your are dealing here, as in the case of a partnership, with parties having individual rights as to which there are mutual stipulations for their common benefit, and when you once get that, it seems to me that there is no ground for saying that the mere majority can put an end to the express stipulations contained in the bargain which they have made.	Arguments of Petitioner
Still less can that be so when you find in the contract itself provisions which show an intention that the powers conferred upon the directors can only varied by an extraordinary resolution, that is to say, by a threefourths majority at one meeting, and that the directors themselves when appointed shall only be removed by special resolution, that is to say, by threefourths majority at one meeting and a simple majority at a confirmatory meeting.	Arguments of Petitioner
That being so, if you once get clear of the view that the directors are mere agents of the company, I cannot see anything in principle to justify the contention that the directors are bound to comply with the votes or the resolutions of a simple majority at an ordinary meeting of the share holders.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second case to which reference was made is Gramophone and Typewriter, Limited v. Stanley.	Arguments of Petitioner
That was a case under the Incometax Act of 1853, but the Appellants relied upon the following observations of Fletcher Moulton, L. J.  	Arguments of Petitioner
The legal proposition that the legal corporator cannot be held to be wholly or partly carrying on the business of the corporation is not weakened by the fact that the extent of his interest in it entitles him to exercise a greater or less amount of control over the manner in which that business is carried on and in is a wholly different thing both in fact and in law from carrying on the business itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
The directors and employees of the corporation are not his agents, and he had no power of giving directions to them which they must obey.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been decided by this Court, in the case of Automatic SelfCleansing Filter Syndicate Co., Ltd. v. Cunninghame, that in an English company, by whose Articles of Association certain powers are placed in the hands of the directors, shareholders cannot interfere with the exercise of those powers by the directors, even by a majority at a general meeting.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their course is to obtain the requisite majority to remove the directors and put persons in their place who agree to their policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
This shows that the control of individual corporators is something wholly different from the management of the business itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	Arguments of Petitioner
The last case was John Show Sons (Salford), Ltd. v. Shaw.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, the question arose as to whether in a case in which the management of the business of the company had been entrusted to directors, a resolution by the shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting was effective for the purpose of directing the discontinuance of certain legal proceedings started by the directors against the Defendants who were indebted to the PlaintiffCompany.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of the pleas taken by the Defendants was that they had been brought into Court without proper authority, but this contention was rejected for reasons which are set out in the judgment of Greer, L. J., in these words I am, therefore, of opinion that the learned Judge was right in refusing to dismiss the action on the plea that it was commenced without the authority of the Plaintiff company.	Arguments of Petitioner
I think, the Judge was also right in refusing to give effect to the resolution of the meeting of the shareholders requiring the Chairman to instruct the companys solicitors not to proceed further with the action.	Arguments of Petitioner
A company is an entity distinct alike from its shareholders and its directors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Some of its powers may, according to its articles, be exercised by directors, certain other powers may be reserved for the shareholders in general meeting.	Arguments of Petitioner
If powers of management are vested in the directors, they and they alone can exercise these powers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The only way in which the general body of the shareholders can control the exercise of the powers vested by the articles in the directors is by altering their articles, or, if opportunity arises under the articles, by refusing to reelect the directors of whose action they disapprove.	Arguments of Petitioner
They cannot themselves usurp the powers which by the articles are vested in the directors any more than the directors can usurp the powers vested by the articles in the general body of shareholders.	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	None
The effect of these cases is summarized by Buckley in his book on Companies (11th Edition, p. 723) in these words  Even a resolution of a numerical majority at a general meeting of the company cannot impose its will upon the directors when the articles have confided to them the control of the companys affairs.	None
The directors are not servants to obey directions given by the share holders as individuals they are not agents appointed by and bound to serve the shareholders as their principals.	None
They are persons who may by the regulations be entrusted with the control of the business, and if so entrusted they can be dispossessed from that control only by the statutory majority which can alter the articles.	None
Directors are not, I think, bound to comply with the directions even of all the corporators acting as individuals.	None
This statement of the law cannot be questioned, but, as the learned author has himself pointed out, there may be exceptions, such as when the directors are acting mala fide and the case of Marshalls Valve Gear Company, Limited v. manning, Wardle Co., Limited has been cited by him as a possible illustration of the exception.	None
In that case, the directors of a company had the entire management of the company and their powers were defined in almost the same terms as the powers of the directors in the present case.	None
One of these directors, Marshall, held 42, 900 shares, the other three directors held 28, 000 shares, and the remaining 600 shares were held by others.	None
The three directors who held Defendant company.	None
At a directors meeting Marshall proposed a suit against the Defendant company for infringement of patent rights.	None
The other three directors overruled his proposition.	None
He, therefore, brought a suit against the Defendant in name of the company.	None
Thereafter, at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Plaintiff company, which Marshall did not attend, a resolution was passed that a Marshall had instituted a suit in the name of the company without the sanction of the Board of Directors, the solicitors of the company should be instructed to apply to the Court to have the name of the company struck out.	None
The matter ultimately came up before Neville, J., who dismissed the motion for striking out the name of the company and observed The company is of course the owner of Marshalls patent, and alone able to litigate for the protection of that patent.	None
The three directors had, in what I will assume to be the exercise of their discretion, refused on behalf of the company to oppose the grant of the patent to themselves or to those from whom they acquired it, and they have refused to commence, or to allow to proceed so far as they can help it, any action for the purpose of establishing that the new patent is an infringement of the patent of the company.	None
New it is obvious that in the position in which they have placed themselves on this question their duty and their interest are in direct conflict.	None
On the one hand it is their duty as directors to protect the interests of the original patent, which is the property of the company on the other hand their personal interests are clearly to maintain the validity of the patent which belongs to them, and which, it is alleged, is an infringement.	None
Mr. Marshall has commenced an action in the name of the company for the purpose of restraining an alleged infringement on the part of the owners of the new patent, and the other directors come to the Court and ask to have the writ in that action taken off the file on the ground that the action was commenced without the authority of the company.	None
It admitted that the calling of a meeting of shareholders to ascertain the wishes of the company would be useless because the position of the voting power is perfectly well understood.	None
It is divided between the persons concerned, and undoubtedly the managing director, who has commenced this action, would have the majority of votes at a general meeting, and, therefore, if it is right that effect should be given to the wishes of the majority of the company in the present case, it is admitted that no object is to be gained by calling a meeting because the result of that meeting is a foregone conclusion.	None
Under these circumstances ought the Court to direct the removal of the writ ?	None
The learned Judge answered the question posed by him, in the negative, and, while referring to the case of Automatic SelfCleansing Filter Syndicate Co. v. Cunninghame expressed the view that the decision in that case was not inconsistent with any of the decisions that had preceded it, though some of the observations made by the learned Judge in that case extended beyond any of the decisions in the previous cases and appeared to be inconsistent with the law as it stood at the time when that case was decided.	None
12.	None
The correct position seems to us to be that ordinarily the directors of a company are the only persons who can conduct litigation in the name of the company, but when they are themselves the wrongdoers against the company and have acted male fide or beyond their powers, and their personal interest is in conflict with their duty in such a way that they cannot or will not take steps to seek redress for the wrong done to the company, the majority of the shareholders must in such a case be entitled to take steps to redress the wrong.	Reasoning
There is no provision in the Articles of Association to meet the contingency, and, therefore, the rule which has been laid down in a long line of cases that in such circumstances the majority of the shareholders can sue in the name of the company must apply.	Reasoning
In MacDougall v. Gardiner and Pender v. Lushington, specific reference was made to the fact that the directors, being the custodians of the seal of the company, were the persons who should normally sue in the name of the company, but nevertheless it was held that the majority of the shareholders were entitled to sue in the name of the company when relief was sought against the directors themselves.	Reasoning
Even in Automatic SelfCleansing Filter Syndicate Company, Ltd. v. Cunninghame, it was recognised that misconduct on the part of the directors provided an exception to the rule laid down in that case.	Reasoning
In the result, we uphold the view taken in the appellate Court judgment and dismiss the appeal with costs.	Decision
