 P. Naolekar, J. These appeals by special leave have been preferred against the common judgment of a Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi involving the analogous question and are, therefore, decided together by this judgment.	Issue
Appellant No. 1  Eastern Book Company is a registered partnership firm carrying on the business of publishing law books.	Facts
Appellant No. 2  EBC Publishing Pvt. Ltd. is a company incorporated and existing under the Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
The said appellants are involved in the printing and publishing of various books relating to the field of law.	Facts
One of the wellknown publications of appellant No. 1  Eastern Book Company is the law report Supreme Court Cases (hereinafter called SCC).	None
The appellant publishes all reportable judgments along with nonreportable judgments of the Supreme Court of India.	Facts
Yet another category included in SCC is short judgments, orders, practice directions and record of proceedings.	Facts
The law report SCC was commenced in the year 1969 and has been in continuous publication ever since.	Facts
The name Supreme Court Cases has been coined by the appellants and they have been using the same continuously, exclusively and extensively in relation to the law reports published by them.	Facts
For the purpose of publishing the judgments, orders and proceedings of the Supreme Court, the copies of judgments, orders and proceedings are procured from the office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court of India.	Facts
After the initial procurement of the judgments, orders and proceedings for publication, the appellants make copyediting wherein the judgments, orders and record of proceedings procured, which is the raw source, are copyedited by a team of assistant staff and various inputs are put in the judgments and orders to make them user friendly by making an addition of crossreferences, standardization or formatting of the text, paragraph numbering, verification and by putting other inputs.	Facts
The appellants also prepare the headnotes comprising of two portions, the short note consisting of catch lead words written in bold and the long note, which is comprised of a brief discussion of the facts and the relevant extracts from the judgments and orders of the Court.	Facts
Headnotes are prepared by appellant No. 3Surendra Malik.	Facts
As per the said appellant (plaintiff No. 3 in the suits filed in the Delhi High Court), the preparation of the headnotes and putting the various inputs in the raw text of the judgments and orders received from the Supreme Court Registry require considerable amount of skill, labour and expertise and for the said work a substantial amount of capital expenditure on the infrastructure, such as office, equipment, computers and for maintaining extensive library, besides recurring expenditure on both the management of human resources and infrastructural maintenance, is made by the plaintiffappellants.	Facts
As per the appellants, SCC is a law report which carries case reports comprising of the appellants version or presentation of those judgments and orders of the Supreme Court after putting various inputs in the raw text and it constitutes an original literary work of the appellants in which copyright subsists under Section 13 of the Copyright Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and thus the appellants alone have the exclusive right to make printed as well as electronic copies of the same under Section 14 of the Act.	Facts
Any scanning or copying or reproduction done of or from the reports or pages or paragraphs or portions of any volume of SCC by any other person, is an infringement of the copyright in SCC within the meaning of Section 51 of the Act.3.	Facts
The defendantrespondent No. 2 Spectrum Business Support Ltd. (in Civil Appeal No. 6472/2004) has brought out a software called Grand Jurix published on CDROMs and the defendantrespondent No. 2	None
Regent Data Tech Pvt. Ltd. (in Civil Appeal No. 6905/2004) has brought out software package called The Laws published on CDROMs.	None
As per the appellants, all the modules in the defendantrespondents software packages have been lifted verbatim from the appellants work the respondents have copied the appellants sequencing, selection and arrangement of the cases coupled with the entire text of copyedited judgments as published in the plaintiffappellants law report SCC, along with and including the style and formatting, the copyediting paragraph numbers, footnote numbers, crossreferences, etc. and such acts of the defendantrespondents constitute infringement of the plaintiffappellants exclusive right to the same.4.	Facts
The plaintiffappellants herein moved the Court for temporary injunction by filing applications in Suit No.758/2000 against Spectrum Business Support Ltd. and in Suit No. 624/2000 against Regent Data Tech Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. before a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi.	Facts
The interim orders of injunction were passed in the suits from time to time.	Facts
However, the defendantrespondents filed application for vacation of the stay order.	Facts
By a common judgment dated 17.1.2001, the Single Judge of the High Court dismissed the appellants applications for interim injunction and allowed the respondents application for vacation of stay.	Facts
However, before the Single Judge, the respondents conceded that the appellants have copyright in the headnotes and as such they undertook not to copy these headnotes in their CDROMs.5.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said order dated 17.1.2001 refusing to grant interim injunction, the appellants preferred appeals before a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court and the applications praying for interim relief were also filed in both the appeals.	Facts
The applications praying for the interim relief were disposed of by the Division Bench on 9.3.2001 directing that during the pendency of the appeals the respondents will be entitled to sell their CDROMs with the text of the judgment of the Supreme Court along with their own headnotes which should not in any way be a copy of the headnotes and the text of the plaintiffappellants.6.	Facts
The Division Bench of the Delhi High Court heard the matters finally and has held that the appellants are not right in submitting that although the respondents have a right to publish the raw judgments they could do so only after obtaining the same from the original source, i.e. after obtaining certified copy of the judgment.	Facts
The Division Bench did not agree with the submission of the appellants that by making certain corrections in the judgments or putting paragraph numbers or arranging the said judgments in a particular manner while printing, the appellants can claim that the copyedited judgments become their original literary work.	Facts
If the right of a person like the appellants who are merely reporting the judgments of the courts is stretched to this extent, then after a judgment is reported by a particular journal, others would be barred from doing the same and the very purpose of making these judgments in public domain, therefore, would be frustrated.	None
The Court has further held that the appellants are not the author of the Supreme Court judgments and by merely making certain corrections therein or giving paragraph numbers, the character of a judgment does not change and it does not become materially different from the original judgment.	Facts
Once a person has a right to obtain certified copy of the judgment from the Registry of the Court and to publish it, it cannot be said that he has no right to take text of the judgment from the journal where it is already reported.	Facts
The act of reproduction of any judgment or order of the Court, Tribunal or any other judicial authority under Section 52(1)(q) of the Act, is not an infringement of the copyright.	Facts
Any person can, therefore, publish judgments of the Courts.	Facts
The appellants may have happened to have first published the judgments, but the same will not mean that they can have a copyright therein.	Facts
It is the considered opinion of the Division Bench that no person can claim copyright in the text of the judgment by merely putting certain inputs to make it user friendly.	Facts
The appellants cannot claim copyright in the judgment of the Court.	Facts
But it has been held by the Court that reading the judgment and searching the important portions thereof and collecting sentences from various places for the purposes of making headnotes would involve labour and skill and that there is originality and creativity in preparation of the headnotes, but not when they are verbatim extracts from the judgment and, therefore, there would be copyright in the headnotes to the judgments prepared by the appellants.	Facts
So far as footnotes and editorial notes are concerned, it cannot be denied that these are the publishers own creations and based on publishers own research and thus will have a copyright of the appellants.	Facts
The Division Bench modified the judgment of the Single Judge by directing the respondents that they shall be entitled to sell their CDROMs with the text of the judgments of the Supreme Court along with there own headnotes, editorial notes, if any, which should not in any way be copy of the headnotes of the appellants.	Facts
The respondents shall also not copy the footnotes and editorial notes appearing in the journal of the appellants.	Facts
Thus, the Court has not accepted the case of the appellants that they have a copyright in the copyedited judgments of the Supreme Court.	Facts
Aggrieved by the decision of the Division Bench of Delhi High Court, the appellants have filed these appeals by special leave.	Facts
The appellants have claimed that the copyright subsists in SCC as a law report as a whole based cumulatively and compendiously on all the substantial contributions of skill, labour and capital in the creation of various parts of SCC, i.e., headnotes, editorial notes, footnotes, the version of the copyedited text of judgments as published in the appellants law report SCC, the selection of cases as published in SCC, the sequence and arrangement of cases as published in SCC and the index, table of cases, etc. which are published in each volume of SCC, that give it the SCC volumes and thereby complete SCC set, its character as a work as a whole.	Facts
The appellants claim that the copyright subsists in the copyedited version.	None
The appellants do not claim copyright in the raw text of the judgments, certified copies of which are obtained from the Registry.	None
The appellants do not claim a monopoly in publishing judgments of the Supreme Court as they are being published by other publishers also without copying from each other publication.	None
The appellants claim that their copyright is in the copyedited version of the text of judgments as published in SCC which is a creation of the appellants skill, labour and capital and there are contributions inputs additions of the appellants in creating their version of the text of judgments as published in SCC.	Issue
The appellants placed before us the following contributions, inputs and additions made by them to the text in the certified copies of the judgments received by them from the Registry.	None
The appellants assert that originality inheres in the following aspects of its editorial process which are selected, coordinated and arranged in such a way that the resulting work as a whole constitutes an original work of the appellants.	None
MATTER ADDED PER SE TO THE RAW TEXT OF THE JUDGMENTS1.	None
Crosscitations are added to the citations(s) already given in the original textFor example,a. SCC AIR LLJ citations added in addition to the SCR citation given in the text and crosscitations separated by Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageCorresponding citations from SCCPageR. Chitralakha and Anr.	None
v. State of Mysore Ors.	None
1964(6)	None
SCR 368 at 388 and Triloki Nath v. J. K State 1969 (1) SCR 103 at 105 and K.C.Vasanth Kumar v. Karnataka 1985 Supp.	None
(1) SCR 352 R. Chitralakha v. State of Mysore and Triloki Nath v. State of J K(II) and K. C. Vasanth Kumar v. State of Karnataka.(1964) 6 SCR368, 388 AIR1964 SC 1823 (1969) 1 SCR103, 105 AIR1969 SC 1 (1970) 1 LLJ 629 1985 Supp SCC 7141985 Supp 1 SCR 352b.	None
FCR, IA, Bom LR citations added in addition to the AIR citation given in raw text and crosscitations separated by Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageCorresponding citations from SCCPageDr Hori Ram Singh vs. Emperor (AIR 1938 FC 43), Gokulchand Dwarkadas Morarka vs. The King (AIR 1948 PC 82 ), Shreekantiah Ramayya Munipalli vs. State of Bombay (AIR 1955 SC 287 )	None
Hori Ram Singh (Dr) v. Emperor, Gokulchand Dwarkadas Morarka v. R.,Shreekantiah Ramayya Munipalli v. State of Bombay.	None
AIR 1939 FC 431939 FCR 159AIR 1948 PC 82 75 IA 30AIR 1955 SC 287 57	None
Bom LR 6322.	None
(a) Names of cases and crosscitations are added where only the citation of the case is given in the original text.	None
For example,Citation alone given in text replaced with full case name  M.P. Oil Extraction (P) Ltd. v. State of M.P.  and Jab LJ crosscitation added to AIR citation already in raw text, and separated by Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageCorresponding citation from SCCPageThe said decision has been reported in AIR 1982 M.P. 1.The said decision has been reported in M.P. Oil Extraction (P) Ltd. v. State of M.P.AIR 1982 MP 1 1982Jab LJ 7952(b).	None
Citations and crosscitations are added where only name of the case is given in the original text.	None
For exampleName of case in text replaced with full case reference and cross citations added as per SCC style.	None
Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageCorresponding citation from SCCPageDivision Bench of this Court in Kishan Lal Sharma (supra).Division Bench of this Court in Kishan Lal Sharma.	None
Kishan Lal Sharma v. Prem Kishore, AIR 1983 Raj 100 1983 Raj LR 164d)	None
Among the pensioners also, the above anomaly will prevail as pointed out in Janaki Prasad.(d)	None
Among the pensioners also, the above anomaly will prevail as pointed out in Janaki Prasad.	None
Janaki Prasad Parimoo v. State of J K, (1973) 1 SCC 420 2(c).	None
Citation inserted in casehistory where only the title and year of the impugned earlier orders are given.	None
For example,From the Judgment and Order dated June 17, 1980 of Gujarat High Court in Special Civil Application No. 2711 of 1999 AIR 1981 Guj 15 3.	None
SCC style of presenting (repeatedly) cited casesFor example,Changes have been made in the name of the cited cases as per SCC style as Rattan Singhs case (supra)  Mohammads case (supra)  and Range Forest Officers case in the raw text consecutively changed to Ratan Singh case Mohammed case and Range Forest Officer case in SCC.Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageIn Rattan Singhs case (supra), the High Court of Madhya Pradesh finding certain illegalities in the prosecution relating to setting asideIn Mohammads case (supra), the observation of the Kerela High Court that if a clear illegality or injustice comes to the notice of the High CourtIn the third case relied on by Justice M.K. Chawla, namely, Range Forest Officers case, a vehicle belonging to the respondent was confiscated.140.	None
In Ratan Singh case the High Court of Madhya Pradesh finding certain illegalities in the prosecution relating to setting aside141.	None
In Mohammed case, the observations of the Kerela High Court that  if a clear illegality or injustice comes to the notice of the High Court142.	None
In the third case relied on by Justice M.K. Chawla, namely, Range Forest Officer case a vehicle belonging to the respondent was confiscated.	None
The changes have been underlined.4.	None
Precise references to quoted matter are providedFor example,a.	None
The exact page and paragraph number as in the original case source is inserted.	None
Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageIn	None
Balaji it is statedIt seems fairly clear that the backward classes of citizens for whom special provisionAfter referring to the provisions of Articles 338(3), 340 (1), 341 and 342, the Court proceeded to hold as followsIt would thus be seen that this provision contemplates that some Backward Classes may by the Presidential order be includedIn Balaji it is stated (SCR p. 458)It seems fairly clear that the backward classes of citizens for whom special provisionAfter referring to the provisions of Articles 338(3), 340(1), 341 and 342, the Court proceeded to hold as follows (SCR p.458)It would thus be seen that this provision contemplates that some Backward Classes may by the Presidential order be includedIt may be appropriate to quote the relevant holding from the judgmentWhen Art. 15(4) refers to the special provision for the advancement of certain classes or scheduled castes or scheduled tribes, it must not be ignored that the provision which is authorised to be madeIt may be appropriate to quote the relevant holding from the judgment (SCR pp.467, 470)When Article 15(4) refers to the special provision for the advancement of certain classes or Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, it must not be ignored that the provision which is authorised to be madeThe Privy Council observedIt may be well to add that their Lordships judgment does not imply that every sum paid under mistake is recoverable The Privy Council observed(IA p.302, para 17)It may be well to add that their Lordships judgment does not imply that every sum paid under mistake is recoverable The changes have been highlightedb.	None
The exact page and paragraph number as in the original treatises reference material is inserted.	None
Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageIs very instructive, Supposing, for instance, reservations were made for a community or a collection of communities, the total of which is very instructive (CAD, Vol. 7, pp.	None
70102)Supposing, for instance, reservations were made for a community or a collection of communities, the total of which is a community which is backward in the opinion of the Government.	None
is a community which is backward in the opinion of the Government.	None
(CAD, Vol. 7, pp. 702)	None
The changes have been highlighted.5.	None
Margin headings are added to quoted extracts from statutes rules etc.	None
when missing.	None
For example,Section number and Margin Heading of the Section have been supplied.	None
Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageDeals with sovereignty over, and limits of, territorial waters and says(1)	None
The sovereignty of India extends and has always extended to the territorial waters of India (hereinafter referred to as the territorial waters) and to the seabed and subsoil underlying, and the air space over such waters.	None
deals with sovereignty over, and limits of, territorial waters and says3.	None
Sovereignty over, and limits of, territorial waters.(1)	None
The sovereignty of India extends and has always extended to the territorial waters of India (hereinafter referred to as the territorial waters) and to the seabed and subsoil underlying, and the air space over such waters.	None
It says(1) All lands, minerals and other things of value underlying the ocean within the territorial waters, or the continental shelf, or the exclusive economic zone, of India shall vest in the Union and be held for the purpose of the Union.	None
It says297.	None
Things of value within territorial waters or continental shelf and resources of the exclusive economic zone to vest in the Union.(1) All lands, minerals and other things of value underlying the ocean within the territorial waters, or the continental shelf, or the exclusive economic zone, of India shall vest in the Union and be held for the purpose of the Union.	None
That article reads as under19(1)	None
All citizens shall have the right That Article reads as under19.	None
Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc. (1) All citizens shall have the right6.	None
Number of the section rule article paragraph is added to the extract quoted in the original textFor example,The subsection numbers have been added to the text.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
PageThe said provision reads as underWhere a landlord has acquired his interest in the premises by transfer, no suit for the recovery of possession of the premises on any of the grounds mentioned in clause (f) or clause (ff) of The said provision reads as under13.	None
(3A) where a landlord has acquired his interest in the premises by transfer, no suit for the recovery of possession of the premises on any of the grounds mentioned in clause (f) or clause (ff) of The said subsection reads as underIf, in the course of any trial under this Act of any offence, it is found that the accused person has committed any other offence under this Act or any rule made thereunder or under any other law, The said subsection reads as under12.	None
(2) If, in the course of any trial under this Act of any offence, it is found that the accused person has committed any other offence under this Act or any rule made thereunder or under any other law,For convenience, we reproduce the subsection hereAny person who is a member of a terrorists gang or a terrorists organization, which is For convenience, we reproduce the subsection here3.	None
(5) Any person who is a member of a terrorists gang or a terrorists organization, which is Subsection (4) of Section 3 of TADA reads thuswhoever harbours or conceals, or attempts to harbour or conceal, any terrorist shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years butSubsection (4) of Section 3 of TADA reads thus3.	None
(4) Whoever harbours or conceals, or attempts to harbour or conceal, any terrorist shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but Section 2 (1) (i) of the TADA which reads thusWords and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the code shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the CodeIndian Penal Code by the following words in clause y of Section 2 of the Codewords and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Indian Penal Code Section 2 (1) (i) of TADA which reads thus2.	None
(1) (i) words and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the Code shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the CodeIndian Penal Code by the following words in clause y of Section 2 of the Code2.	None
(y) words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Indian Penal Code7.	None
Phrases like concurring, partly concurring, partly dissenting, dissenting, supplementing, majority expressing no opinion etc. are added to the original text.	None
For example,Words like partly dissenting and partly concurring have been added as per the application of Editors judgement regarding the opinions expressed by the Judges.	None
Raw text obtained from RegistrySCC	None
PageD.P.	None
Wadhwa JI agree that the appeal be dismissed.	None
However, I D. P. WADHWA, J. (partly concurring) I agree that the appeal be dismissed.	None
However, IS.C. AGRAWAL J.Special leave granted.	None
AGRAWAL, J. (partly dissenting)	None
Special leave granted.	None
KOSHAL, J.On a perusal of the judgment prepared by my learned brother, Krishna Iyer, J., I agree respectfully with findings (2) to (11), (13) and (14) enumerated by himKoshal, J. (partly dissenting)	None
On a perusal of the judgment prepared by my learned brother, Krishna Iyer, J., I agree respectfully with findings (2) to (11), (13) and (14) enumerated by him8.	None
Judges on whose behalf opinion given Expression such as for himself and Pathak, C.J., or Fazal Ali and Rangnath Mishra, JJ. etc. are added to the original text.	None
For example,A uniform style has been mentioned by SCC to take care of the fact that which judges have signed the Judgment.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC PageRANGANATH MISRA, J.We have had the benefit of reading the judgment passedThe Judgments of the Court were delivered byRANGANATH MISRA, J. (for himself and Pathak, C.J.)RANGANATHAN, J.The seeds of the present controversy were sown as early as in 1946.	None
The Judgments of the Court were delivered byRANGANATHAN, J. (for himself and Ramaswami, J.)  	None
The seeds of the present controversy were sown as early as in 1946.9.	None
Existing paragraphs in the original text are broken up and separate paragraph numbers are given.	None
For example,Existing paragraph broken up into two paragraphs and separate paragraph number added on application of editorial judgment.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
Pagebut the risk involved in sacrificing efficiency of administration must always be borne in mind when any State sets about making a provision for reservation of appointments of posts.	None
We see no justification to multiply the risk, which would be the consequence of holding that reservation can be provided even in the matter of promotion.	None
but the risk involved in sacrificing efficiency of administration must always be borne in mind when any State sets about making a provision for reservation of appointments or posts.	None
(SCR p.606)828.	None
We see no justification to multiply the risk, which would be the consequence of holding that reservation can be provided even in the matter of promotion.weaker segments of We, the people of India.	None
No other understanding can reconcile the claim of a radical present and hangover of the unjust past.	None
A similar view was expressed in Vasant Kumar by Chinnappa Reddy, J.	None
The learned Judge said  the mere securing of high marks at an examination may not necessarily mark out a good administrator.weaker segments of We, the people of India.	None
No other understanding can reconcile the claim of a radical present and hangover of the unjust past.833.	None
A similar view was expressed in Vasanth Kumar by Chinnappa Reddy, J.	None
The learned Judge said (SCC p. 739, para 36)The mere securing of high marks at an examination may not necessarily mark out a good administrator.	None
MATTER ADDED UPON VERIFICATION10.	None
Internal referencing Use of paragaraph numbering for internal referencing within a judgment.	None
For example,Internal paragraph numbering has been added after uniform paragraph numbering have been provided to the multiple judgments.	None
Para 86, 85, 89, 90, 91 and 92 have been changed respectively to Paras 790793, 794 and 797, 798, 799, 800 and 801 to 803.Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC Page(d)	None
Creamy layer can be, and must be excluded.	None
(Para 86)(e)	None
It is not correct to say that the backward class, social, educational and economic backwardness are closely intertwined in the Indian context.	None
(Para 85)(f)	None
The adequacy of representation of a particular class in the services under the State is a matter within the subjective satisfaction of the appropriate Government.	None
The judicial scrutiny in that behalf is the same as in other matters within the subjective satisfaction of an authority.	None
(Para 89)(4) (a) A backward class of citizens cannot be identified only and exclusively with reference to economic criteria.	None
(Para 90)(b)	None
It is, of course, permissible for the Government or other authority to identify a backward class of citizens on the basis of occupationcumincome, without reference to caste, if it is so advised.	None
(Para 91)(5)	None
There is no constitutional bar to classify the backward classes of citizens into backward and more backward categories.	None
(Para 92)(d)	None
Creamy layer can be, and must be excluded.(Paras 790793)(e)	None
It is not necessary for a class to be designated as a backward class that it is situated similarly to the Scheduled Castes Scheduled Tribes.	None
(Paras 794 and 797)(f) The adequacy of representation of a particular class in the services under the State is a matter within the subjective satisfaction of the appropriate Government.	None
The judicial scrutiny in that behalf is the same as in other matters within the subjective satisfaction of an authority.	None
(Para 798)(4) (a) A backward class of citizens cannot be identified only and exclusively with reference to economic criteria.	None
(Para 799)(b)	None
It is, of course, permissible for the Government or other authority to identify a backward class of citizens on the basis of occupationcumincome, without reference to caste, if it is so advised.	None
(Para 800)(5)	None
There is no constitutional bar to classify the backward classes of citizens into backward and more backward categories.	None
(Para 801 to 803)11.	None
Verification of first word of quoted extract and emphasis supplied on verification.	None
For example,Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
PageThe Rajasthan High Court in CIT v Rangnath Bangur opinedthat once a reassessment proceeding is initiated, the original order of assessment is set aside or ceases to be operative.	None
The finality of such an assessment order is wiped out and a fresh order of assessment would take the place of and completely substitute the initial order of assessment.	None
It is, therefore, clear that whenThe Rajasthan High Court in CIT v. Rangnath Bangur opined (p.498)That once a reassessment proceeding is initiated, the original order of assessment is set aside or ceases to be operative.	None
The finality of such an assessment order is wiped out and a fresh order of assessment would take the place of and completely substitute the initial order of assessment.	None
It is, therefore, clear that when and saidreassessment proceedings cannot be contained only to such income which has escaped assessment, but the entire assessment and said (p. 503)Reassessment proceedings cannot be confined only to such income which has escaped assessment, but the entire assessment Five Judgesthe Constitution is the fundamental law of the land and it is wholly unnecessary to provide in any law made by the legislature that anything done in disregard of the Constitution is prohibited.	None
Such a prohibition is to be read in every enactment.	None
The Constitution is the fundamental law of the land and it is wholly unnecessary to provide in any law made by the legislature that anything done in disregard of the Constitution is prohibited.	None
Such a prohibition is to be read in every enactment.(emphasis supplied)12.	None
Ellipsis  is added to indicate breaks in quoted extract.	None
For example,Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
Pagehe has said that the word caste appearing after scheduled is really a misnomer and has been used only for the purpose of identifying this 165), he has said thatthe wordcaste appearing after scheduled is really a misnomer and has been used only for the purpose of identifying this Gajendragadkar, J observedThough castes in relation to Hindus may be a relevant factor to consider in determining the social backwardness of groups or classes of citizens, it cannot be the sole or the dominant test in that behalf.	None
Gajendragadkar, J. observedthough castes in relation to Hindus may be a relevant factor to consider in determining the social backwardness of groups or classes of citizens, it cannot be made the sole or the dominant test in that behalf.manner as may be prescribed duties of excise on all excisable goods which are produced or manufactured in India as, and at the rates, set forth in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985.	None
manner as may be prescribed duties of excise on all excisable goods which are produced or manufactured in India as, and at the rates, set forth in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985.13.	None
Matter inadvertently missed in quoted extracts is supplied.	None
For example,Incorporation of matter missing in quotations from cases.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
PageWhere there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to find out the intendment becomes necessary to see if the statute creates a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to find out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may be decisive.	None
In the latter case Mr Justice M.K. Chawla holding that parties have no locus standi.	None
Mr Justice M.K. Chawla holding that Mr. H.S. Chowdhary and other intervening parties have no locus standi.38.	None
State to secure a social order for the promotion of welfare of the people.	None
(1) The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national life.38.	None
State to secure a social order for the promotion of welfare of the people.	None
(1) The State The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social order in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national life.	None
The inputs of efficiency include a sense of belonging and of accountability (not pejoratively used) if its composition takes in also the weaker segments of we, the people of India.	None
The inputs of efficiency include a sense of belonging and of accountability which springs in the bosom of the bureaucracy (not pejoratively used) if its composition takes in also the weaker segments of We, the people of India.	None
It is no doubt true that the Act was amended by U.P. Act 26 of 1975 which came into force on August 18, 1975 taking away the power of the Director to make an appointment under Section 16 F (4) of the Act in the case of minority institutions.	None
The amending Act did not, however, provide proceedings under Section 16 F of the Act.	None
It is no doubt true that the Act was amended by U.P. Act 26 of 1975 which came into force on August 18, 1975 taking away the power of the Director to make an appointment under Section 16F(4) of the Act in the case of minority institutions.	None
The amending Act did not, however, provide expressly that the amendment in question would apply to pending proceedings under Section 16F of the Act.	None
The changes have been underlined.14.	None
Incomplete incorrect case names or citations are completed corrected.	None
For example,Corrections in the case names.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC PageIn	None
R v. Greater London Council 1976 (3) ALL ER 184, one Albert Raymond Blackburn 73.	None
In R v. Greater London Council, ex parte Blackburn, one Albert Raymond Blackburn Ray, C.J. in State of Uttar Pradesh v. Pradeep Tandon and Ors. 1975 (2) SCR 761 at 766 has gone to the extent of saying that47.	None
Ray, CJ in State of U.P. v. Pradip Tandon has gone to the extent of saying that (SCC pp.	None
27374, para 15) Reference may be made to (1)	None
Hindustan Zinc V. A.P.	None
State Electricity Board 1991 (3) SCC 299 (2) Sitaram Sugars V. Union of India and Others 1990 (3) SCC 223 (3) D.C.M. v. S. Paramjit Singh 1990 (4) SCC 723 (4) Minerva Talkies V. State of Karnataka and Others 1988 Suppl SCC 176 (5) State of Karnataka V. Ranganath Reddy 1978 (1) SCR 641 (6) Kerala State Electricity Board V. S.N. Govind Prabhu 1986 (4) SCC (7) Prag Ice Company V. Union of India and Others 1978 (2) SCC 458 (8) Sarawaswati Industries Syndicate Ltd. V. Union of India 1975 (1) SCR 956 (9) Murti Match Works V. Assistant Collector, Central Excise and Others 1974 (3) SCR 121 (10) T. Govindraja Mudaliar V. State of Tamil Nadu and Others 1973 (3) SCR 222 and (11) Narender Kumar V. Union of India and Others 1969 (2) SCR 375.	None
Reference may be made to (1) Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. A.P.	None
State Electricity Board (2) Shri Sitaram Sugar Co. Ltd. v. Union of India (3) Delhi Cloth and General Mills Ltd. v. S. Paramjit Singh (4) Minerva Talkies v. State of Karnataka (5) State of Karnataka v. Ranganath Reddy (6) Kerela State Electricity Board v. S.N.Govinda Prabhu and Bros. (7) Prag Ice and Oil Mills v. Union of India (8) Saraswati Industries Syndicate Ltd. v. Union of India (9) Murthy Match Works v. Assistant Collector, Central Excise (10) T. Govindaraja Mudaliar v. State of T.N. and (11) Narender Kumar v. Union of India.	None
The changes have been underlined.15.	None
Other correctionsFor example,a. Clauses numbered in terms of answers to questions framed by learned Judge have been renumbered correctly in terms of questions framed, as (3)(e) actually has been found to be answer to (3) (c) and viceversa.a1.	None
Similarly, clause has been changed to subclause.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC Page(c)	None
It is not necessary for a class to be designated as a backward class that it is situated similarly to the Schedule Castes Tribes.	None
(Paras 87 and 88)(d)	None
Creamy layer can be, and must be excluded.	None
(Para. 86)(e)	None
It is not correct to say that the backward class of citizen contemplated in Article 16 (4) is the same as the socially and educationally backward classes referred to in Article 15(4).	None
It is much wider.	None
The accent in Article 16(4) is on social backwardness.	None
Of course, social, educational and economic backwardness are closely intertwined in the Indian context.(c)	None
It is not correct to say that the backward class of citizen contemplated in Article 16 (4) is the same as the socially and educationally backward classes referred to in Article 15(4).	None
It is much wider.	None
The accent in Article 16(4) is on social backwardness.	None
Of course, social, educational and economic backwardness are closely intertwined in the Indian context.	None
(Paras 786789)(d)	None
Creamy Layer can be, and must be excluded.	None
(790793)(e) It is not necessary for a class to be designated as a backward class that it is situated similarly to the Schedule Castes Schedule Tribes.	None
(Paras 794 and 797) that no better formula could be produced than the one that is embodied in clause (3) of Article 10 of the Constitution they will find that the view of those who believe and hold that there shall be that no better formula could be produced than the one that is embodied in subclause (3) of Article 10 of the Constitution they will find that the view of those who believe and hold that there shall be16.	None
Text has been changed as per corrigenda issued, which have been issued upon SCC Editors request and suggestions.	None
For example,SUPREME COURT OF INDIACorrigendumThis Courts order dated October 25, 1996 in CA 14553/96 SLP )	None
No. 5570/93 in the matter of Smt.	None
Indira Sohan Lal (Dead) by LRs.	None
Vs. Union of IndiaPage No. Line No.	None
For Read1 bottom line and deducted 2 78 from bottom developed to bring developed to on par with levelled bring them on land and huge levelled land and a huge 3 1213 from bottom compelling material, compelling nor the High Court material and refused to advert High Courts to refusal to advert to it,OTHER ADDITIONS INSERTIONS MADE TO THE RAW TEXT17.	None
Compressing simplification of information relating to case history.	None
For exampleRaw text obtained from RegistrySCC PageCIVIL APPEAL NOS. 9991005 OF 1997 ARISING OUT OF S.L.P. (C) NOS. 1838086 OF 1996 WITH CIVIL APPEAL NOS.	None
10061316 OF 1997 ARISING OUT OF S.L.P. (C) NOS.	None
20293/96, 20662/96, 21726/96, 2182426/96, 22224502/96, 22771/96, 2319697/96, 23199/96, 23700703/96, 23744/96,2374748/96, 23761/96, 23763/96, 23766/96, 2377576/96, 24285/96,24315/96,2432022/96, 2432526/96, 2432829/96 24224/96 WITH INTERLOCUTORY APPLICATION NO.1	None
IN CIVIL APPEALS ARISING OUT OF S.L.P.(C)NOS.	None
24224/96,24285/96,24315/96,2432022/96, 2432526/96 2432829/96.Civil Appeals Nos. 999 to 1316 of 1997 with I.A.	None
No. 1 in C.As.	None
arising out of SLPs.	None
(C) Nos. 24224, 24285, 24315, 2432022, 2432526 and 2432829 of 1996, decided on February 20, 1997.Passed by Madhya Pradesh High Court respectively in Misc.	None
Petitions No. 1371 of 1992 M.P. No. 1980 of 1992 and M.P. No. 2315 of 1992.	None
All the said Misc.	None
Petitions were filed before the Madhya Pradesh High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
Passed by Madhya Pradesh High Court respectively in Miscellaneous Petitions Nos. 1371, 1980 and 2315 of 1992.	None
All the said miscellaneous petitions were filed before the Madhya Pradesh High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution	None
The changes have been underlined.(SCC HAS UNIQUE STYLE)18.	None
There are certain norms followed at SCC for giving case names.	None
For example,Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
PageBudh Prakash Jai Prakash v. Sales Tax Officer, Kanpur 1952 A.L.J. 332 Budh Prakash Jai Prakash v. STO Indian Aluminium Cables Limited vs. State of Haryana Indian Aluminium Cables Ltd. v. State of Haryana Trilok Nath Tiku Another v. State of Jammu Kashmir and Others Triloki Nath Tiku v. State of J K (I) R. Chitralekha and Anr.	None
v. State of Mysore Ors. 1964	None
(6) SCR 368 at 388 and Triloki Nath v. J K State 1969 (1) SCR 103 at 105 and K.C. Vasanth Kumar v. Karnataka 1985 Supp.	None
(1) SCR 352 R. Chitralekha v. State of Mysore and Triloki Nath v. State of J K (II) and K.C. Vasanth Kumar v. State of KarnatakaMinor P. Rajendran V. State of Madras Ors. 1968 (2) SCR 786 at 790 P. Rajendran v. State of MadrasState of Andhra Pradesh V. P. Sagar 1968 (3) SCR 595 State of A.P. v. P. Sagar K.S. Venkataraman and Bharat Kala Bhandar Ltd. v. M.C. Dhamangaon K.S. Venkataramanan and Bharat Kala Bhandar Ltd. v. Municipal Committee19.	None
Words like Section, Sec., Rule etc. are omitted, and only the number of the Section Rule is given at the beginning of the quoted extract.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC PageSec 2 (h).	None
terrorist act has the meaning assigned to it in subsection (1) of Section 3, and the expression terrorist shall be construed accordingly 2 (h) terrorist act has the meaning assigned to it in subsection (1) of Section 3, and the expression terrorist shall be construed accordingly  Rule 11.	None
No refund of duties or charges erroneously paid, unless claimed within three months  No duties or charges which have been paid or have been adjusted in an account current maintained with the Collector11.	None
No refund of duties or charges erroneously paid, unless claimed within three months.	None
No duties or charges which have been paid or have been adjusted in an account current maintained with the CollectorRULE 233B. Procedure to be followed to cases where duty is paid under protest.	None
(1) Where an assessee desires to pay duty under protest he shall deliver to the proper officer a letter to this233B. Procedure to be followed in cases where duty is paid under protest.	None
(1) Where an assessee desires to pay duty under protest he shall deliver to the proper officer a letter to this20.	None
Margin heading and the first clause subsection or initial matter of section rule etc. is made to runon, instead of being let to start from a fresh line.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
PageLiability of person to whom money is paid or thing delivered by mistake or under coercion 72.	None
A person to whom money has been paid, or anything delivered, by mistake or under coercion, must repay or return it.  	None
72.	None
Liability of person to whom money is paid or thing delivered, by mistake or under coercion.	None
A person to whom money has been paid, or anything delivered, by mistake or under coercion, must repay or return it.	None
Sec 424.	None
Refund of automobile accessories tax.(a)	None
No refund shall be made of any amount paid by or collected from any manufacturer, producer, or importer in respect424.	None
Refund of automobile accessories tax.	None
(a) No refund shall be made of any amount paid by or collected from any manufacturer, producer, or importer in respectSection 3, which is the charging Section, reads3.	None
Duties specified in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 to be levied.(1)	None
There shall be levied and collected in such manner as may be prescribedduties 175.	None
Section 3, which is the charging section, reads3.	None
Duties specified in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 to be levied.  	None
(1) There shall be levied and collected in such manner as may be prescribed duties21.	None
Compressing of unquoted referends and use of for such parts.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
Pagesix months, the wordsfive years were substituted.	None
Explanation(ii) relevant date means,(a) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid(c) in any other case, the date on which the duty is to be paid under this Act or the rules made thereundersix months, the wordsfive years weresubstituted.Explanation.(1)(2)	None
(3) (i) (ii) relevant date means,(a) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid (c) in any other case, the date on which the duty is to be paid under this Act or the rules made thereunder,(i)(ii)(iii) where the landlord ofany building is(1) a serving or retired Indian Soldier as defined in the Indian Soldiers (Litigation) Act, 1925 (IV of 1925) and such building was let out at any time before his retirement, or(2)and such landlord needs such building for occupation by himself or the members of his family for residential purposes,(i)(ii) (iii) where the landlord of any building is(1) a serving or retired Indian Soldier as defined in the Indian Soldiers (Litigation) Act, 1925 (IV of 1925), and such building was let out at any time before his retirement, or(2) and such landlord needs such building for occupation by himself or the members of his family for residential purposes,22.	None
Series of dots in the raw texts (i.e., ) are replaced with ellipsis (i.e., ).Raw	None
text obtained fromRegistrySCC PageSo to say into the administration.	None
That no better formula could be produced than the one that is embodied in clause (3) of Article 10 of the Constitution they will find that the view of those who believe and hold that there shall be equality of opportunity has been embodied in subclause (1) of Article 10.	None
It is a generic principle Supposing for instance, we are to concede in full the demand of those communities who have not been so far employed in the public services to the fullest extent, what would really happen is, we shall be completely destroying the first proposition upon which we are all agreed, namely, that there shall be in an equality of opportunity.	None
I am sure they will agree that unless you use some such qualifying so to say into the administration that no better formula could be produced than the one that is embodied in subclause (3) of Article 10 of the Constitution they will find that the view of those who believe and hold that there shall be equality of opportunity, has been embodied in subclause (1) of Article 10.	None
It is a generic principle.	None
Supposing for instance, we are to concede in full the demand of those communities who have not been so far employed in the public services to the fullest extent, what would really happen is, we shall be completely destroying the first proposition upon which we are all agreed, namely, that there shall be in an equality of opportunity.	None
I am sure they will agree that unless you use some such qualifying23.	None
Removal of abbreviations sec., R. and cl. are substituted respectively with Section, Rule or clause.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
PageHaving regard to the object and language of s. 34 of the I.T. Act, 1922, s. 147 of the I.T. Act, 1961, and s. 8 of the Surtax Act, 1964, the reopening of an assessment can only be for the benefit of the Revenue subject to one exception,Having regard to the object and language of Section 34 of the I.T. Act, 1922, Section 147 of the I.T. Act, 1961, and Section 8 of the Surtax Act, 1964, the reopening of an assessment can only be for the benefit of the Revenue subject to one exception, it would not be in accordance either with cl.	None
(1) of Art. 15 or cl.	None
(2) of Art.	None
29 to require the consideration of the castes of persons to be borne in mind for determining what are socially and educationally backward classes.	None
It is true that cl.	None
(4) of Art.	None
15 contains a nonobstante clause with the result  it would not be in accordance either with clause (1) of Article 15 or clause (2) of Article 29 to require the consideration of the castes of persons to be borne in mind for determining what are socially and educationally backward classes.	None
It is true that clause (4) of Article 15 contains a nonobstante clause with the result The changes have been underlined.24.	None
Hyphenation has been added after the section rule numbers, which have alphabets, suffixed to them.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC PageSCOPE OF SECTIONS 11B, 11D, 12A, 12B, 12C AND 12D OF THE CENTRAL EXCISE ACT, 1944Sections 11B and 11D in Chapter II and Sections 12A, 12B, 12C and 12D in Chapter IIA are now to be considered11B. Claim for refund of duty(1)	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise before the Scope of Sections 11B, 11D, 12A, 12B, 12C and 12D of The Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944Sections 11B and 11D in Chapter II and Sections 12A, 12B, 12C and 12D in Chapter IIA are now to be considered11B. Claim for refund of duty.	None
(1) Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the The changes have been underlined.25.	None
IndentationFor exampleSCC style of presentation of quoted extracts in separate indented paragraphs applied to raw text.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC PageAs Chinnappa Reddy, J. in Vasanth Kumar has rightly observed, Always one hears the word efficiency as if it is sacrosanct and the sanctorum has to be fiercely guarded.	None
Efficiency is not a mantra which is whispered by the Guru in the Sishyas ear.57.	None
As Chinnappa Reddy, J. in Vasanth Kumar has rightly observed (SCC p.739, para 36) Always one hears the word efficiency as if it is sacrosanct and the sanctorum has to be fiercely guarded.	None
Efficiency is not a mantra which is whispered by the Guru in the Sishyas ear.26.	None
Removal of full stops or removal of word NoRaw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
PageThe appellant says that each of these R.S.Os.	None
maintains an office, a stock yard and other necessary paraphernalia for receiving, stocking, repairing and delivering motor vehicles to their customers.	None
The appellant says that almost seventy percent of its sales are to parties other than State Transport Undertakings S.T.Us.	None
The sales to S.T.Us., are in the region of thirty percent of its production.	None
The R.S.Os., the appellant says, contact the local purchasers and the S.T.Us., book the order and also deliver the vehicles to them pursuant to sales effected by them.	None
The appellant always keeps the R.S.Os.	None
well stocked having regard to their requirements.	None
By way of illustration, it is stated, the R.S.O. at Hyderabad The appellant says that each of these RSOs maintains an office, a stock yard and other necessary paraphernalia for receiving, stocking, repairing and delivering motor vehicles to their customers.	None
The appellant says almost seventy per cent of its sales are parties other than State Transport Undertakings (STUs).	None
The sales to STUs are in the region of thirty per cent of its production.	None
The RSOs, the appellant says, contact the local purchasers and the STUs book the orders and also deliver the vehicles to them pursuant to sales effected by them.	None
The appellant always keeps the RSOs well stocked having regard to their requirements.	None
By way of illustration, it is stated, the RSO at HyderabadAll the three special leave petitions namely S.L.P. (Civil) No. 19279 of 1995, S.L.P. (Civil )	None
No. 20137 of 1995 and S.L.P. (Civil )	None
No. 19796 of 1995 are directed against common judgment dated 9.5.19952.	None
All the three special leave petititions namely SLP (Civil) No. 19729 of 1995, SLP (Civil ) No. 20137 of 1995 and SLP (Civil )	None
No. 19796 of 1995 are directed against common judgment dated 951995 The changes have been underlined.27.	None
Giving full forms of abbreviations to enhance readability and clarity.	None
Raw text obtained fromRegistrySCC	None
Pagefrom legal consequences and therefore, they are also guilty of the offence u s 201 IPC.from legal consequences and therefore, they are also guilty of the offence underSection 201 IPC.	None
The changes have been underlined.	None
In addition to the above, capitalization and italicization is made wherever necessary in the raw text and punctuation, articles, spellings and compound words are also checked and corrected, if required, in the original text.	None
The copyright protection finds its justification in fair play.	Reasoning
When a person produces something with his skill and labour, it normally belongs to him and the other person would not be permitted to make a profit out of the skill and labour of the original author and it is for this reason the Copyright Act, 1957 gives to the authors certain exclusive rights in relation to the certain work referred in the Act.	Reasoning
The object of the Act is to protect the author of the copyright work from an unlawful reproduction or exploitation of his work by others.	Reasoning
Copyright is a right to stop others from exploiting the work without the consent or assent of the owner of the copyright.	Reasoning
A copyright law presents a balance between the interests and rights of the author and that of the public in protecting the public domain, or to claim the copyright and protect it under the copyright statute.	Reasoning
One of the key requirements is that of originality which contributes, and has a direct nexus, in maintaining the interests of the author as well as that of public in protecting the matters in public domain.	Reasoning
It is a wellaccepted principle of copyright law that there is no copyright in the facts per se, as the facts are not created nor have they originated with the author of any work which embodies these facts.	Reasoning
The issue of copyright is closely connected to that of commercial viability, and commercial consequences and implications.	Reasoning
The development of copyright law in India is closely associated with the British copyright law.	None
Statute of Anne, the first Copyright Act in England, was passed in 17th century which provided that the author of any book already printed will have the sole right of printing such book for a term mentioned therein.	None
Thereafter, came the Act of 1814, and then the Act of 1842 which repealed the two earlier Acts of 1709 and 1814.	None
The Copyright Act of 1911 in England had codified and consolidated the various earlier Copyright Acts on different works.	None
Then came the Copyright Act of 1956.	None
In India, the first Copyright Act was passed in 1914.	None
This was nothing but a copy of the Copyright Act of 1911 of United Kingdom with suitable modifications to make it applicable to the then British India.	None
The Copyright Act of 1957, which is the current statute, has followed and adopted the principles and provisions contained in the U.K. Act of 1956 along with introduction of many new provisions.	None
Then came the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1983 which made a number of amendments to the Act of 1957 and the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1984 which was mainly introduced with the object to discourage and prevent the widespread piracy prevailing in video films and records.	None
Thereafter, the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1994 has effected many major amendments in the Copyright Act of 1957.	None
In the present case, the questions which require determination by the Court are (1) What shall be the standard of originality in the copyedited judgments of the Supreme Court which is a derivative work and what would be required in a derivative work to treat it the original work of an author and thereby giving a protected right under the Copyright Act, 1957 to the author of the derivative work ?	Issue
and (2) Whether the entire version of the copyedited text of the judgments published in the appellants law report SCC would be entitled for a copyright as an original literary work, the copyedited judgments having been claimed as a result of inextricable and inseparable admixture of the copyediting inputs and the raw text, taken together, as a result of insertion of all SCC copyediting inputs into the raw text, or whether the appellants would be entitled to the copyright in some of the inputs which have been put in the raw text ?	Issue
Copyright is purely a creation of the statute under the 1957 Act.	Reasoning
What rights the author has in his work by virtue of his creation, are defined in Sections 14 and 17 of the Act.	Reasoning
These are exclusive rights, but subject to the other provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
In the first place, the work should qualify under the provisions of Section 13, for the subsistence of copyright.	Reasoning
Although the rights have been referred to as exclusive rights, there are various exceptions to them which are listed in Section 52.	None
We are mainly concerned for the purpose of these appeals with Sections 2 clauses (k), (o), (y), 13(1), 14(1)(a), 17, proviso (d) and 52(1)(q)(iv) of the Copyright Act, 1957.	None
The relevant provisions of these Sections are as under Interpretation.	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, xxx xxx xxx(k) Government work means a work which is made or published by or under the direction or control of (i) the Government or any department of the Government(ii) any Legislature in India(iii) any Court, Tribunal or other judicial authority in Indiaxxx xxx xxx(o) literary work includes computer programmes, tables and compilations including computer databasesxxx xxx xxx(y) work means any of the following works, namely(i) a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work(ii) a cinematograph film(iii) a sound recording13.	None
Works in which copyright subsists.  	None
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section and the other provisions of this Act, copyright shall subsist throughout India in the following classes of works, that is to say, (a) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works(b) cinematograph films and(c) sound recording,(2)	None
Copyright shall not subsist in any work specified in subsection (1), other than a work to which the provisions of section 40 or section 41, apply, unless (i) in the case of a published work, the work is first published in India, or where the work is first published outside India, the author is at the date of such publication, or in a case where the author was dead at that date, was at the time of his death, a citizen of India(ii) in the case of an unpublished work other than a work of architecture, the author is at the date of the making of the work a citizen of India or domiciled in India and(iii) in the case of a work of architecture, the work is located in India.	None
Explanation.	None
In the case of a work of joint authorship, the conditions conferring copyright specified in this subsection shall be satisfied by all the authors of the work.(3)	None
Copyright shall not subsist (a) in any cinematograph film if a substantial part of the film is an infringement of the copyright in any other work(b) in any sound recording made in respect of a literary, dramatic or musical work, if in making the sound recording, copyright in such work has been infringed.xxx xxx xxx14.	None
Meaning of copyright.  	None
(1) For the purposes of this Act, copyright means the exclusive right, subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or authorise the doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work or any substantial part thereof, namely(a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being a computer programme, (i) to reproduce the work in any material form including the storing of it in any medium by electronic means(ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in circulation(iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public(iv) to make any cinematograph film or sound recording in respect of the work(v) to make any translation of the work(vi) to make any adaptation of the work(vii) to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, any of the acts specified in relation to the work in subclauses (i) to (vi)xxx xxx xxx17.	None
First owner of copyright.	None
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the author of a work shall be the first owner of the copyright thereinProvided that xxx xxx xxx(d) in the case of a Government work, Government shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the first owner of the copyright thereinxxx xxx xxx52.	None
Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright.	None
(1) The following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright, namely (a)xxx xxx xxx(q) the reproduction or publication of (i)xxx xxx xxx(iv) any judgment or order of a Court, Tribunal or other judicial authority, unless the reproduction or publication of such judgment or order is prohibited by the Court, the Tribunal or other judicial authority, as the case may bexxx xxx xxx Subject to the provisions of Section 13 and the other provisions of the Act, there shall be a copyright throughout India in original literary work, dramatic, musical and artistic works, cinematograph films and sound recording, subject to the exceptions provided in subsections (2) and (3) of Section 13.	None
For copyright protection, all literary works have to be original as per Section 13 of the Act.	None
Broadly speaking, there would be two classes of literary works (a) primary or prior works These are the literary works not based on existing subjectmatter and, therefore, would be called primary or prior works and (b) secondary or derivative works These are literary works based on existing subjectmatter.	None
Since such works are based on existing subjectmatter, they are called derivative work or secondary work.	None
Work is defined in Section 2(y) which would be a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work a cinematograph film and a sound recording.	None
Under Section 2(o), literary work would include computer programmes, tables and compilations including computer databases.	None
For the purposes of the Act, Section 14(1) enumerates what shall be a copyright which is an exclusive right, subject to the provisions of the Act, to do or authorize the doing of the acts provided in clauses (i) to (vii) in respect of a work or any substantial part thereof in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being a computer programme.	None
Section 2(k) defines the government work which would be a work which is made or published by or under the direction or control of, amongst others, any Court, Tribunal or other judicial authority in India.	None
By virtue of this definition, the judgments delivered by the Supreme Court would be a government work.	None
Under Section 17(d), the Government shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the first owner of the copyright in a government work.	None
In the absence of any agreement to the contrary, the government shall be the first owner of the copyright in the judgments of the Supreme Court, the same being a government work under Section 2(k).	Arguments of Respondent
Section 52(1) expressly provides that certain acts enumerated therein shall not constitute an infringement of copyright and subclause (iv) of clause (q) excludes the reproduction or publication of any judgment or order of a Court, Tribunal or other judicial authority, unless the reproduction or publication of such judgment or order is prohibited by the Court, the Tribunal or other judicial authority from copyright.	Reasoning
The judicial pronouncements of the Apex Court would be in the public domain and its reproduction or publication would not infringe the copyright.	Reasoning
The reproduction or publication of the judgments delivered by the Supreme Court by any number of persons would not be infringement of a copyright of the first owner thereof, namely, the Government, unless it is prohibited.	None
The question, therefore, is whether by introducing certain inputs in a judgment delivered by a court it becomes original copyedited judgment and the person or authority or company who did so could claim to have embodied the originality in the said judgment and the judgment takes the colour of original judgment having a copyright therein of its publisher.	None
In many cases, a work is derived from an existing work.	None
Whether in such a derivative work, a new copyright work is created, will depend on various factors, and would one of them be only skill, capital and labour expended upon it to qualify for copyright protection in a derivative literary work created from the preexisting material in the public domain, and the required exercise of independent skill, labour and capital in its creation by the author would qualify him for the copyright protection in the derivative work.	Reasoning
Or would it be the creativity in a derivative work in which the final position will depend upon the amount and value of the corrections and improvements, the independent skill labour, and the creativity in the endproduct is such as to create a new copyright work to make the creator of the derivative work the author of it and if not, there will be no new copyright work and then the original author will remain the author of the original work and the creator of the derivative work will have been the author of the alterations or the inputs put therein, for their nature will not have been such as to attract the protection under the law of copyright.	Reasoning
It is submitted by Shri Raju Ramachandran, learned senior counsel for the appellants that Section 52(1)(q)(iv) of the Act does not bar the recognization of copyright in the copyedited version of the text of judgments of the courts as published in law reports.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Government is the first owner of copyright in the judgments of the courts as per Section 2(k) read with Section 17 and Section 52(1)(q)(iv) of the Act provides that any person wanting to reproduce or publish judgments would not infringe the copyright of the Government, but Section 52(1)(q)(iv) does not imply that in case a person has expended independent skill, labour and capital on the judgments of the courts to create and publish his version of the judgments, any other person is free to copy that persons version of the judgments, substantially or in its entirely.	Arguments of Petitioner
Copyright subsists in the copyedited version of the text of judgments of the courts as published in law reports, which have been created by the application of skill, labour and capital which is not trivial or negligible.	Arguments of Petitioner
The inputs put in the copyedited judgments in SCC, is a derivative literary work created from preexisting material of the judgments of the court which is in public domain.	Arguments of Petitioner
The exercise of independent skill, labour and capital in its creation by the author of such work, and the derivative literary work created by the expenditure of the independent skill, labour and capital of the appellants gives them copyright in such creations.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not necessary that work created should have a literary merit.	Arguments of Petitioner
The courts can only evaluate whether the skill, labour and capital actually employed, required in creating the work, is not trivial or negligible.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further urged by the learned senior counsel that in deciding whether a derivative work qualifies for copyright protection, it must be considered as a whole, and it is not correct to dissect the work into fragments and consider the copyright ability of each such fragment piecemeal and individually apart from the whole.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the respondents if wish to reproduce or publish a work already in public domain is obliged to go to the public domain common source of such work rather than misappropriating the effort and investment of the appellants by copying the version of such work which was created by them by independent expenditure of skill, labour and capital.	Arguments of Petitioner
To buttress his submissions, the learned senior counsel placed reliance on various foreign judgments and judgments of the Indian High Courts which are considered hereinafter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ladbroke (Football) Ltd. v. Willim Hill (Football) Ltd., 1964 1 WLR 273 (HL), is a case where the concept of originality was considered on the basis of skill, judgment and or labour in the context of compilation.	None
Since 1951 the respondents, who were wellknown bookmakers, had sent their customers each week fixed odds football betting coupons arranged in a certain general form.	None
In 1959 the appellants, who were also bookmakers, started sending out coupons closely resembling the respondents coupons.	None
A coupon was a sheet of paper on which were printed several lists of forthcoming matches.	None
Beside each list were columns of squares on which the punter could indicate his forecast of the result of each match.	None
Some of the lists included all the matches to be played others included only a selection of them.	None
The bets varied in character.	None
A great variety of bets was offered and the odds offered differed widely from 52 to 20,0001.	None
The respondents coupon contained 16 lists, each with an appropriate name.	None
The appellants coupon, which contained 15 lists, closely resembled the respondents.	None
The lists offered by the appellants were almost identical with those offered by the respondents in their corresponding lists.	None
The respondents brought action claiming copyright in the coupons.	None
The House of Lords was called upon to determine whether or to what extent copyright attached to these coupons.	None
The respondents said that a coupon must be regarded as a single work and that as such it was protected by copyright.	None
The appellants sought to dissect the coupon.	None
It was contended by the respondents that there had been a breach of copyright by the appellants, since the respondents compilation, which must be regarded as a single work, was original and protected by copyright and the part taken by the appellants from the respondents work was substantial.	None
It did not follow that because the fragments of the compilation, taken separately, would not be copyright, the whole could not be copyright.	None
It was submitted by the appellants that the derivative work of the respondents not being original, no copyright can be claimed and the inputs put, if considered separately, are of insignificant value and thus the respondents could not claim copyright.	None
The word original does not mean that the work must be the expression of original or inventive thought.	None
Copyright Acts are not concerned with the originality of ideas, but with the expression of thought, and in the case of literary work, with the expression of thought in print or writing.	None
The originality which is required relates to the expression of the thought.	None
But the Act does not require that the expression must be in an original or novel form, but that the work must not be copied from another work  that it should originate from the author and as regards compilation, originality is a matter of degree depending on the amount of skill, judgment or labour that has been involved in making the compilation.	None
The words literary work cover work which is expressed in print or writing irrespective of the question whether the quality or style is high.	None
The commonplace matter put together or arranged without the exercise of more than negligible work, labour and skill in making the selection will not be entitled to copyright.	None
The word original does not demand original or inventive thought, but only that the work should not be copied but should originate from the author.	None
In deciding, therefore, whether a work in the nature of a compilation is original, it is wrong to consider individual parts of it apart from the whole.	None
For many compilations have nothing original in their parts, yet the sum total of the compilation may be original.	None
In such cases the courts have looked to see whether the compilation of the unoriginal material called for work or skill or expense.	None
If it did, it is entitled to be considered original and to be protected against those who wish to steal the fruits of the work or skill or expense by copying it without taking the trouble to compile it themselves.	None
In each case, it is a question of degree whether the labour or skill or ingenuity or expense involved in the compilation is sufficient to warrant a claim to originality in a compilation.	None
While considering the question whether the copyright protection is available to the work created as a whole or the fragment of the work would be considered piecemeal and individually apart from the whole, the House of Lords said as under One test may be whether the part which he has taken is novel or striking, or is merely a commonplace arrangement of ordinary words or wellknown data.	None
So it may sometimes be a convenient short cut to ask whether the part taken could by itself be the subject of copyright.	None
But, in my view, that is only a short cut, and the more correct approach is first to determine whether the plaintiffs work as a whole is original and protected by copyright, and then to inquire whether the part taken by the defendant is substantial.	None
A wrong result can easily be reached if one begins by dissecting the plaintiffs work and asking, could section A be the subject of copyright if it stood by itself, could section B be protected if it stood by itself, and so on.	None
To my mind, it does not follow that, because the fragments taken separately would not be copyright, therefore, the whole cannot be.	None
In the case of Walter and Another v. Lane, 1900 AC 539 (HL), the Earl of Rosebery on five occasions in 1896 and 1898 delivered to the public audience speeches on subjects of public interest.	None
The Reporter of The Times took down the speeches in shorthand, wrote out their notes, corrected, revised and punctuated them and the reports were published in The Times, the speeches being given verbatim as delivered by Lord Rosebery.	None
The reporters were employed under the terms that the copyright in all reports and articles composed by The Time magazine should belong to the proprietors.	None
In the year 1899, the respondent published a book called Appreciations and Addresses Lord Rosebery, which contained the reports of the above speeches of Lord Rosebery and it was admitted that these reports were taken from the reports in The Times.	None
Lord Rosebery made no claim.	None
The appellants brought an action against the respondent claiming a declaration that a copyright of the articles and reports was vested in the proprietors of The Times.	None
The issue involved in the case was whether a person who makes notes of a speech delivered in public, transcribes them and publishes in the newspaper a verbatim report of the speech, is the author of the report within the meaning of the Copyright Act, 1842, and is entitled to the copyright in the report.	None
The House of Lords held that each reporter is entitled to report and each undoubtedly would have a copyright in his own published report.	None
It was of course open to any other reporter to compose his own report of Lord Roseberys speech, and to any other newspaper and book to publish that report but it is a sound principle that a man shall not avail himself of anothers skill, labour and expense by copying the written product thereof and copyright has nothing to do with the originality or the literary merits of the author or composer.	None
It may exist in the information given by a street dictionary.	None
If a person chooses to compose and write a volume devoid of the faintest spark of literary or any other merit, there is no legal reason why he should not, if he desires, become the first publisher of it and register his copyright, worthless and insignificant as it would be.	None
In the case of Designers Guild Ltd. v. Russell Williams (Textiles) Ltd., 2000 1 WLR 2416 (HL), the plaintiff brought proceedings claiming that the defendant had infringed the plaintiffs copyright by copying one of its fabric designs, i.e. for the fabric design Ixia.	None
The infringement of which the plaintiff complained was that for the purpose of creating its own design Marguerite by the defendant.	None
The defendant had copied a substantial part of Ixia.	None
There were mainly two main issues at the trial.	None
First, what, if anything had the designer of Marguerite copied from Ixia.	None
Secondly, did what had been copied amount to the whole or a substantial part of Ixia?	None
It was said by the House of Lords that the law of copyright rests on a very clear principle that anyone who by his or her own skill and labour creates an original work of whatever character shall enjoy an exclusive right to copy that work.	None
No one else may for a season reap what the copyright owner had sown.	None
University of London Press Limited v. University Tutorial Press Limited, 1916 2 Ch 601, is perhaps the most cited judgment regarding originality.	None
Originality was held to be not required to be noval form but the work should not be copied from other work, that is, it should be original.	None
The judgment was based on the following facts Certain persons were appointed as examiners for matriculation examination of the University of London on a condition that any copyright in the examination papers should belong to the University.	None
The University assigned the copyright to the plaintiff company.	None
After the examination, the defendant company brought out a publication containing a number of the examination papers, including three which had been set by two examiners appointed by the University.	None
The plaintiff company brought a case of copyright infringement against the defendant company.	None
It was argued that since the setting of the papers entailed the exercise of brainwork, memory, and trained judgment, and even the selection of passages from other authors work involved careful consideration, discretion and choice they constituted original literary work.	None
On the other and, the defendants claimed that what they had done was fair dealing for the purposes of private study which was permissible under the law.	None
The court agreed that the material under consideration was a literary work.	None
The words literary work cover work which is expressed in print or writing, irrespective of the question whether the quality or style is high.	None
The word literary seems to be used in a sense somewhat similar to the use of the word literature in political or electioneering literature and refers to written or printed matter.	None
With respect to the originality issue, the Court held that the term original under the Act does not imply original or novel form of ideas or inventive thought, but the work must not be copied from another work  that it should originate from the author.	None
In Kelly v. Morris, (1866)	None
LR 1 Eq. 697, School of thought propounded is that, at least in respect of compilations, only time and expenses are necessary which is industrious collection.	None
The plaintiff was the owner and publisher of the first directory.	None
The defendant came out with another directory.	None
The plaintiff sought an injunction against the defendant to restrain the publication of the defendants directory on the allegations that the defendant was guilty of appropriating the information contained in the plaintiffs directory and obtained the benefit of many years of incessant labour and expense.	None
The defendant, on the other hand, contended that there had been no unfair or improper use of the plaintiffs work.	None
Information which was given in the plaintiffs directory was entitled to be used and adopted as long as he did not servilely copy it.	None
The defendant had bestowed his independent time, labour and expense on the matter and thus had in no way infringed the copyright of the plaintiff.	None
Granting injunction, the Court held that in the case of a directory when there are certain common objects of information which must, if described correctly, be described in the same words, a subsequent compiler is bound to set about doing for himself that which the first compiler has done.	None
In case of a roadbook, he must count the milestones for himself.	None
In the case of a map of a newly discovered island he must go through the whole process of triangulation just as if he had never seen any former map, and, generally he is not entitled to take one word of the information previously published without independently working out the matter for himself, so as to arrive at the same result from the same common sources of information, and the only use that he can legitimately make of a previous publication is to verify his own calculations and results when obtained.	None
The compiler of a directory or guidebook, containing information derived from sources common to all, which must of necessity be identical in all cases if correctly given, is not entitled to spare himself the labour and expense of original inquiry by adopting and republishing the information contained in previous works on the same subject.	None
In the case of Parry v. Moring and Gollancz, Cop Cas (19011904) 49, the plaintiff, after obtaining permission from the representatives of the owner of certain letters, updated, chronologically arranged and translated them into modern English for their inclusion in his book.	None
Later, the defendant published, as one of the series, an edition of the letters prepared by the plaintiff.	None
The plaintiff, therefore, brought an action against the defendant alleging infringement of his copyright.	None
The plaintiff maintained his copyright in his version of the text apart from the copyright in the text.	None
It was held that there is copyright in the work of editing the text of a noncopyright work.	None
The editor of a noncopyright work is not entitled to take the text from the edition of a rival editor and use it as a copy for the purpose of his own work.	None
In Gopal Das v. Jagannath Prasad and Another, AIR 1938 All. 266, the plaintiffs were the printers and publishers of the books.	None
The book titled Sachitra Bara Kok Shastra was printed for the first time in 1928 and had run into four editions since.	None
The defendants printed and published another book titled Asli Sachitra Kok Shastra in 1930.	None
The plaintiffs case was that the book published by the defendants was a colorable imitation of their book and an infringement of plaintiffs copyright.	None
It was held by the Court that the plaintiffs compiled their book with considerable labour from various sources and digested and arranged the matter taken by them from other authors.	None
The defendant instead of taking the pains of searching into all the common sources and obtaining his subject matter from them, obtained the subject matter from the plaintiffs book and availed himself of the labour of the plaintiffs and adopted their arrangement and subject matter and, thus, such a use of plaintiffs book could not be regarded as legitimate.	None
It was held that a person whose work is protected by copyright, if he has collected the material with considerable labour, compiled from various sources of work in itself not original, but which he has digested and arranged, the defendant could not be permitted to compile his work of like description, instead of taking the pains of searching into all the common sources and obtaining the subjectmatter from them and to adopt his arrangement with a slight degree of colourable variation thereby saving pains and labour which the plaintiff has employed.	None
The act of the defendant would be illegitimate use.	None
The Court held that no one is entitled to avail himself of the previous labour of another for the purpose of conveying to the public the same information, although he may append additional information to that already published.	None
In V. Govindan v. E.M. Gopalakrishna Kone and Another, AIR 1955 Madras 391, the respondents had published an EnglishEnglish Tamil Dictionary in 1932.	None
The appellants were the publishers of similar Dictionary in 1947.	None
An action was brought regarding the publication and sale of the dictionary by the appellants which was alleged to be constituting an infringement of the respondents copyright.	None
The lower court went through both the books minutely and found,  page after page, word after word, slavishly copied, including the errors, and found the sequence, the meanings, the arrangement and everything else practically the same, except for some  deliberate differences introduced here and there to cover up the piracy.	None
The High Court referred to Copinger and James on Law of Copyright wherein the law has been neatly summarized that In the case of compilations such as dictionaries, gazetteers, grammars, maps, arithmetics, almanacs, encyclopaedias and guide books, new publications dealing with similar subjectmatter must of necessity resemble existing publications, and the defence of common source is frequently made where the new publication is alleged to constitute an infringement of an earlier one.	None
The Court held that in law books and in books as mentioned above there is very little amount of originality but the same is protected by law and no man is entitled to steal or appropriate for himself the result of anothers brain, skill or labour even in such works.	None
The Court further clarified that where there is a common source, the person relying on it must prove that he actually went to the common source from where he borrowed, employing his own skill, labour and brains and that he did not merely copy.	None
In C. Cunniah Co. v Balraj Co., AIR 1961 Madras 111, the appellant firm was carrying on the business in pictures, picture frames, etc.	None
One Sri T.M. Subramaniam drew a picture of Lord Balasubramanya and gave it the title of Mayurapriya and a copyright was assigned to the appellant.	None
It came to the knowledge of the appellant firm that the respondent firm was printing and selling copies of a close and colourable imitation of the appellants picture under the style of Bala Murugan.	None
The case of the defence was that their picture was an independent production and that the appellant had not acquired copyright in the picture and the subject dealt with in that picture was a common subject, in which no copyright could be acquired by anyone.	None
The Court held that in order to obtain copyright production for literary, domestic, musical and artistic works, the subject dealt with need not to be original, nor the ideas expressed be something novel.	None
What is required is the expenditure of original skill or labour in execution and not originality of thought.	None
In Agarwala Publishing House v. Board of High School and Intermediate Education and Another, AIR 1967 All. 91 , a writ petition was filed by a publisher firm challenging an amendment of the Regulations of the Board declaring that copyright of the question papers set at all examinations conducted by the Board shall vest in the Board and forbidding the publication of such question papers without the Boards permission.	None
The question involved in the case was whether the question papers are original literary work and come within the purview of Section 13 of the Copyright Act, 1957.	None
It was urged that no copyright can exist in examination papers because they are not original literary work.	None
It was held that the original literary works referred to in Section 13 of the Copyright Act, 1957, are not confined to the works of literature as commonly understood.	None
It would include all works expressed in writing, whether they have any literary merits or not.	None
This is clear from the definition given in Section 2(o) of the Act which states that literary work includes tables and compilations.	None
The Court further held that the word original used in Section 13 does not imply any originality of ideas but merely means that the work in question should not be copied from some other work but should originate in the author, being the product of his labour and skill.	None
In the case of Gangavishnu Shrikisondas v. Moreshvar Bapuji Hegishte and Others, ILR 13 Bom 358, the plaintiff, a book seller, in 1984 brought out a new and annotated edition of a certain wellknown Sanskrit work on religious observances entitled Vrtraj, having for that purpose obtained the assistance of the pandits, who recast and rearranged the work, introduced various passages from other old Sanskrit books on the same subject and added footnotes.	None
Later on, the defendant printed and published an edition of the same work, the text of which is identical with that of the plaintiffs work, which moreover contained the same additional pages and the same footnotes, at the same places, with many slight differences.	None
The foundation of both plaintiffs and defendants books is an old Sanskrit work on Hindu ceremonial, which could have been published by anyone.	None
The copyright claimed by the plaintiff was on the additions and alterations to the original text, which the parties admit to be material and valuable, and in which the copyright is claimed of its prior publication.	None
The defendants argued that there was nothing really original in the plaintiffs book and, therefore, he was not entitled to copyright in the book.	None
It was held by the Court that a new arrangement of old matters will give a right to the protection afforded by the law of copyright.	None
If anyone by pains and labour collects and reduces it as a systematic compilation in the form of a book it is original in the sense that that entitles the plaintiff to the copyright.	None
The plaintiff worked for such a new arrangement of old matters as to be an original work and was entitled to the protection and that as the defendants had not gone to independent sources of the material but had pirated the plaintiffs work, they were restrained by injunction.	None
In Rai Toys Industries and Others v. Munir Printing Press, 1982 PTC 85, the plaintiff had published a Tambola ticket book containing 1500 different tickets in 1929.	None
The plaintiffs alleged that the defendants had brought out another ticket book which the plaintiffs claimed to have written in 1929 and registered as copyright.	None
The ticket book brought out by the defendants was alleged to contain 600 different tickets and the same had been copied identically from the books of the plaintiff.	None
On this basis, a suit for injunction and rendition of account was filed by the plaintiff.	None
The question before the court was whether the ticketbooks in the form of tables constitute literary work and whether copyright has been violated or not?	None
It was held by the High Court that preparation of tickets and placing them in tables required a good deal of skill and labour and would thus satisfy the test of being original literary work.	None
It was recognized that the arrangement of numbers is individual work of a person who prepares it it bears his individuality and long hours of labour.	None
It is not information which could be picked up by all and sundry.	None
The preparation of tickets is an individualized contribution and the compilation eminently satisfies the test of being an original literary work.	None
Hence it was held to be a clear case of copyright violation when the defendant decided to pick and choose 600 tables on the sly and publish them as his individual work.	None
In Macmillan and Another v. Suresh Chandra Deb, ILR 17 Cal 952, the plaintiffs were proprietors of the copyright of a selection of songs and poems composed by various authors, which was published in 1861.	None
In 1889, the defendants published a book containing same selection of poems and songs as was contained in plaintiffs book, the arrangement, however, being different.	None
The plaintiffs claimed copyright in the selection made by them.	None
The defendants, on the other hand, contended that there could be no copyright in such selection.	None
The Court held that in the case of works not original in the proper sense of the term, but composed of, or compiled or prepared from material which are open to all, the fact that one man has produced such a work does not take away from any one else the right to produce another work of the same kind, and in doing so to use all the materials open to him.	None
But, as the law is concisely stated by Hall, V.C., in Hogg v Scott, L.R. 18	None
Eq. 444,  the true principle in all these cases is, that the defendant is not at liberty to use or avail himself of the labour which the plaintiff has been at for the purpose of producing his work, that is, in fact, merely to take away the result of another mans labour, or, in other words, his property.	None
It is enough to say that this principle has been applied to maps, to road books, to guide books, to compilations on scientific and other subjects.	None
This principle seems to be clearly applicable to the case of a selection of a poem.	Reasoning
It was held that for such a selection as the plaintiff had made obviously required extensive reading, careful studying and comparison and the exercise of taste and judgment to make a selection for himself.	Reasoning
But, if one spares himself this trouble and adopts some other persons selection, he offends against the principle.	Reasoning
The Court was of the opinion that the selection of poems made by the plaintiff and embodied in the Golden Treasury was the subject of copyright and that the defendants book had infringed that right.30.	Reasoning
These decisions are the authority on the proposition that the work that has been originated from an author and is more than a mere copy of the original work, would be sufficient to generate copyright.	Reasoning
This approach is consistent with the sweat of the brow standards of originality.	Reasoning
The creation of the work which has resulted from little bit of skill, labour and capital are sufficient for a copyright in derivative work of an author.	Reasoning
Decisions propounded a theory that an author deserves to have his or her efforts in producing a work, rewarded.	Reasoning
The work of an author need not be in an original form or novel form, but it should not be copied from anothers work, that is, it should originate from the author.	Reasoning
The originality requirement in derivative work is that it should originate from the author by application of substantial degree of skill, industry or experience.	Reasoning
Precondition to copyright is that work must be produced independently and not copied from another person.	Reasoning
Where a compilation is produced from the original work, the compilation is more than simply a rearranged copyright of original, which is often referred to as skill, judgment and or labour or capital.	Reasoning
The copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.	Reasoning
Copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his skill, labour and investment of capital, maybe it is derivative work.	Reasoning
The courts have only to evaluate whether derivative work is not the endproduct of skill, labour and capital which is trivial or negligible but substantial.	None
The courts need not go into evaluation of literary merit of derivative work or creativity aspect of the same.	None
Mr. P N Lekhi, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents in C.A. No. 6472/2004 has submitted that the judgment of the court is a government work as defined under Section 2(k)(iii) and on account of Section 17 (d), the Government in the absence of any agreement to the contrary be the first owner of the copyright therein.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 52(1)(q)(iv) provides that the publication of any judgment or order of a court, tribunal or other judicial authority, unless the reproduction of publication of such judgment or order is prohibited, would not constitute an infringement of the copyright.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, publication of the judgments of the apex court by the respondents would not tantamount to infringement of the copyright of the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further urged that the judgments published in the Supreme Court Cases is nothing but merely a derivative work based upon the judgments of the court, which lacks originality as it does not depict independent creation even a modicum of creativity.	Arguments of Respondent
The inputs put by the appellants is nothing but expressing an idea which can be expressed in a limited way and as such there cannot be a copyright.	Arguments of Respondent
Filling the blanks or gaps by providing names of the parties or citations of the judgments, both of which are well known and unchangeable parts of that idea, are not original work.	Arguments of Respondent
These are not creative at all to warrant copyright protection, either singly or in combination.	Arguments of Respondent
The additions made in the reported judgment by the editors of the Supreme Court Cases are only the well known extensions of the reported decision.	Arguments of Respondent
These extensions lack even the minimal degree of authors creativity or originality or intellectual labour.	Arguments of Respondent
These additions do not create additional knowledge, the protection of which is the very basis of the copyright protection.32.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted by Ms. Pratibha M. Singh, learned counsel for the respondents in C.A. No.	Arguments of Respondent
6905/2004, that in the present case, the journals of the appellants, including SCC, are printed and published on the basis of preexisting judgments.	Arguments of Respondent
Journals are, therefore, a derivative work.	Arguments of Respondent
There is a distinction between a law report as understood in England and a law journal as printed in India.	None
The appellants journal SCC is not a law report in the strict sense, inasmuch as the appellants journal reproduces the judgments of the court verbatim along with inputs.	None
However, a law report known in the traditional English sense is when a law reporter present in the court would record in his own words and language the arguments of the counsel on both sides, give a summary of the facts and incorporate into the said report his transcript of the speech of the Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the appellants work could only be a law journal and not a law report.	Arguments of Respondent
The judgments were specifically made a part of the exception to copyright infringement and thus find place in Section 52(1)(q) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The underlying purpose is that it is in public interest to place judgments in public domain.	Arguments of Respondent
The work for which the copyright protection is claimed is a derivative work.	Arguments of Respondent
For claiming protection of copyright in a derivative work, under the Indian law originality is a precondition and originality means only that the work was independently created by the author as opposed to copied from other works, and that it possesses at least some minimal degree of creativity.	Arguments of Respondent
There is a distinction between creation and discovery.	Arguments of Respondent
The first person to find a particular fact has not created the fact, he or she has merely discovered its existence.	Arguments of Respondent
Reporting of the judgments of the Supreme Court with certain inputs could only be said to be a discovery of facts already in existence.	Arguments of Respondent
Though for the purposes of creativity neither novelty nor invention is requisite for copyright protection, but at least some minimal creativity is a must.	Arguments of Respondent
To create a copyright by alterations of the text, these must be extensive and substantial practically making a new version.	Arguments of Respondent
The English decisions relied upon by the appellants would not apply to the facts of the present case as all the said authorities are under the old 1842 Act in U.K. wherein the word original was conspicuously missing in the statute.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further urged that the copyediting inputs of the appellants are only discoveries facts and there are limited ways unique of expressing the various copyediting inputs and thus no copyright can subsist in such limited unique expressions.	Arguments of Respondent
The facts which are discovered could be expressed in limited ways and as such ways adopted cannot give copyright protection to the inputs or the judgments as a whole.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged that recognizing the copyright in the copyedited version of the law reports would amount to giving the appellants a monopoly in the judgments of the courts which is against the intendment of Section 52(1)(q)(iv) and would defeat the purpose of putting judgments in the public domain.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted by the learned counsel for the respondents that for a derivative work, the originality test as applied in United States Supreme Court should be made applicable whereby the author of a derivative work would satisfy that the work has been produced from his exercise of skill and judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
The exercise of skill and judgment required to produce the work must not be so trivial that it could be characterized a purely mechanical exercise.	Arguments of Respondent
The work should be independently created by the author as opposed to copied from the other works and that it possesses at least some minimal degree of creativity.	Arguments of Respondent
The case law relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondents is considered hereinafter.	None
In Feist Publications Inc. v. Rural Telephone Service Co. Inc., 18 USPQ 2d.	None
1275, Rural Telephone Service Co. publishes a typical telephone directory consisting of white pages and yellow pages.	None
The white pages list in alphabetical order the names of rural subscribers together with their towns and telephone numbers.	None
The yellow pages list Rurals business subscribers alphabetically by category and feature classified advertisements of various sizes.	None
To obtain white pages listings for its areawide directory, Feist Publications Inc. approached different telephone companies operating in North West Kansas and offered to pay for the right to use their white pages listings.	None
Of them, only Rural refused.	None
Unable to license Rurals white pages listings, Feist used them without Rurals consent.	None
Rural sued for copyright infringement in the District Court taking the position that Feist, in compiling its own directory, could not use the information contained in Rurals white pages.	None
Rural asserted that Feists employees were obliged to travel door to door or conduct a telephone survey to discover the same information for themselves.	None
Feist responded that such efforts were economically impractical and, in any event, unnecessary because the information copied was beyond the scope of copyright protection.	None
The United States Supreme Court held that the sine qua non of copyright is originality.	None
To qualify for copyright protection, a work must be original to the author.	None
Original, as the term is used in copyright, means only that the work was independently created by the author (as opposed to copied from other works), and that it possesses at least some minimal degree of creativity.	None
The requisite level of creativity is extremely low even a slight amount will suffice.	None
The vast majority of works make the grade quite easily, as they possess some creative spark, no matter how crude, humble or obvious it might be.	None
Originality does not signify novelty a work may be original even though it closely resembles other works so long as the similarity is fortuitous, not the result of copying.	None
The Court further held that no one claim originality as to the facts.	None
This is because facts do not owe their origin to an act of authorship.	None
The distinction is one between creation and discovery the first person to find and report a particular fact has not created the fact he or she has merely discovered its existence.	None
Factual compilations, on the other hand, may possess the requisite originality.	None
The compilation author typically chooses which facts to include, in what order to place them, and how to arrange the collected data so that they may be used effectively by readers.	None
These choices as to selection and arrangement, so long as they are made independently by the compiler and entail a minimal degree of creativity, are sufficiently original.	None
Thus, if the compilation author clothes facts with an original collocation of words, he or she may be able to claim a copyright in this written expression.	None
The Court goes on to hold that the primary objective of copyright is not to reward the labour of authors, but to promote the progress of science and useful arts.	None
To this end, copyright assures authors the right to their original expression but encourages others to build freely upon the ideas and information conveyed by a work.	None
Only the compilers selection and arrangement may be protected however, the raw facts may be copied at will.	None
The Court rejected the doctrine of the sweat of the brow as this doctrine had numerous flaws, the most glaring being that it extended copyright protection in a compilation beyond selection and arrangement  the compilers original contributions  to the facts themselves.	None
A subsequent compiler was not entitled to take one word of information previously published, but rather had to independently work out the matter for himself, so as to arrive at the same result from the same common sources of information.	None
Sweat of the brow courts thereby eschewed the most fundamental axiom of copyright law that no one may copyright facts or ideas.	None
The sweat of the brow doctrine flouted basic copyright principles and it creates a monopoly in public domain materials without the necessary justification of protecting and encouraging the creation of writings by authors.	None
The judgment in Matthew Bender Co., Inc. v. West Publishing Co., 158 F.3d 674 (2nd Cir. 1998), is of United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, which directly covers the reports of the judgments of the courts.	None
The facts involved in the case are that the West Publishing Co. and West Publishing Corp.	None
(West) obtain the text of judicial opinions directly from courts.	None
It alters these texts into (i) independently composed features, such as syllabus, headnotes which summarize the specific points of law recited in each opinion and key numbers which categorize points of law into different legal topics and subtopics and (ii) additions of certain factual information to the text of the opinions, including parallel or alternative citations to cases, attorney information, and data on subsequent procedural history.	None
West publishes the case reports in different series of case reporters collectively known as National Reporter System.	None
Two series of case reporters at issue in that case were the Supreme Court Reporter and the Federal Reporter.	None
HyperLaw publishes and markets CDROMs which are compilations of the Supreme Court and the United States Court of Appeals that cover approximately the same ground.	None
HyperLaw intends to expand its CDROM product taking the material from the West publications.	None
HyperLaw intervened and sought a judgment declaring that the individual West case reports that are left after redaction of the first category of alterations do not contain copyrightable material.	None
It was held by the Court that for copyright protection, the material does not require novelty or invention, but minimal creativity is required.	Arguments of Respondent
All of Wests alterations to judicial opinions involve the addition and arrangement of facts, or the rearrangement of data already included in the opinions, and, therefore, any creativity in these elements of Wests case reports lies in Wests selection and arrangement of this information.	None
Wests choices on selection and arrangement can reasonably be viewed as obvious, typical and lacking even minimal creativity.	None
Copyright protection is unavailable for both derivative works and compilations alike unless, when analysed as a whole, they display sufficient originality so as to amount to an original work of authorship.	None
Originality requires only that the author makes the selection or arrangement independently and that it displays some material with minimal level of creativity.	None
While a copy of something in the public domain will not, if it be merely a copy, support a copyright, a distinguishable variation will.	None
To support a copyright there must be at least some substantial variation, not merely a trivial variation such as might occur in the translation to a different medium.	None
Creativity in selection and arrangement, therefore, is a function of (i) the total number of options available, (ii) external factors that limit the viability of certain options and render others noncreative, and (iii) prior uses that render certain selections garden variety.	None
In the case of Key Publications, Inc. v. Chinatown Today Publishing Enterprises, Inc., 945 F.2d.509, Key Publication published an Annual Classified Business Directory for New York Citys ChineseAmerican community.	None
In 1990, Galore Publication published the Galore Directory, a classified directory for the New York Chinese American community.	None
Key brought a suit against Galore Directory charging that Galore Directory infringed Keys copyright in the 198990 Key Directory.	None
The United States Court of Appeal held that individual components of compilation are generally within the public domain and thus available for public.	None
There are three requirements for a compilation to qualify for copyright protection (1) the collection and assembly of preexisting data (2) selection, coordination or arrangement of the data and (3) the resulting work that comes into being is original, by virtue of the selection, coordination or arrangement of the data contained in the work.	None
For originality, the work is not required to contain novelty.	None
The doctrine of sweat of the brow, rewarded compilers for their efforts in collecting facts with a de facto copyright to those facts and this doctrine would prevent, preclude the author absolutely from saving time and effort by referring to and relying upon prior published material.	None
It extended copyright protection in compilation beyond selection and arrangement  the compilers original contribution  to the facts themselves drawn on sweat of the brow is a copyright protection to the facts discovered by the compiler.	None
The court discarded sweat of the brow notion of copyright law.	None
In Macmillan and Company v. K. and J. Cooper, 1924 Privy Council 75, action was brought by McMillan and Company to restrain the respondentfirm who was carrying on the trade and business of publishers of educational books, from printing, distributing or otherwise disposing of copies of the book published by the appellants.	None
The ground on which the relief was claimed was that the appellants had a copyright in the book entitled Plutarchs Life of Alexander, Sir Thomas Norths Translation and that the respondent published subsequently a book entitled Plutarchs Life of Alexander the Great, Norths Translation, as it had infringed the copyright to which the appellants were entitled in the earlier compilation.	None
The Court noted the contents of the book of the appellants as also that of the respondent.	None
As per the Court, the text of the appellants book consisted of a number of detached passages, selected from Sir Thomas Norths translation, words being in some instances introduced to knit the passages together so that the text should as far as possible, present the form of an unbroken narrative.	None
The passages so selected were, in the original translation, by no means contiguous.	None
Considerable printed matter in many instances separated the one from the other.	None
The opinion of the Privy Council was that for the work done by the appellants, great knowledge, sound judgment, literary skill or taste in the inputs brought to bear upon the translation was not required, as the passages of the translation which had been selected are reprinted in their original form, not condensed, expanded, modified or reshaped to any extent whatever.	None
The Court observed that the Norths translation of Plutarchs Life of Alexander does not and never did, as the law stands, never can enjoy the protection of copyright and the questions which arise for decision must be dealt with upon that assumption.	None
The Court said that in all cases where the reprint with the text of it consisted merely of a reprint of passages selected from the work of any author, would never have a copyright.	None
There may be cases where selecting and reprinting the passages would require the appreciation upon what has been laid down or established in the book and labour, accurate scientific knowledge, sound judgment, touching the purpose for which the selection is made, and literary skill would all be needed to effect the object in view.	None
In such a case, the copyright might well be acquired for the print of the selected passages.	None
The Court said that it is the product of the labour, skill and capital of one man which must not be appropriated by another, not the elements, the raw material, upon which the labour and skill and capital of the first have been expended.	None
To secure copyright for this product, it is necessary that the labour, skill and capital expended should be sufficient to impart to the product some quality or character which the raw material did not possess and which differentiates the product from the raw material.	None
The Court approved the principles enunciated in the case of University of London Press, Ltd. v. University Tutorial Press, Ltd., 1916 2 Ch. 601, dealing with the meaning of the words original literary work that the original does not mean expression of original or inventive thought.	None
The Copyright Act is not concerned with the original ideas, but with the expression of thought.	Reasoning
The originality which is required relates to expression of thought and the Act does not require that the expression must be in original or novel form.	None
The work must not be copied from another work  that it should originate from the author.	Reasoning
The Supreme Court of Canada in the matter of CCH Canadian Ltd. v. Law Society of Upper Canada, 2004 (1) SCR 339 (Canada) has noticed the competing views on the meaning of original in copyright law wherein some courts have held that a work which has originated from an author and is more than a mere copy of a work, is sufficient to give copyright.	None
This approach is held to be consistent with the sweat of the brow or industriousness standard of originality on the premise that an author deserves to have his or her efforts in producing a work rewarded.	None
Whereas the other courts have held that a work must be creative to be original and thus protected by the copyright Act, which approach is consistent with a natural rights theory of property law however, it is less absolute in that only those works that are the product of creativity will be rewarded with copyright protection and it was suggested in those decisions that the creativity approach to originality helps ensure that copyright protection is extended to the expression of ideas as opposed to the underlying ideas or facts.	None
The Court has also noticed that those cases which had adopted the sweat of the brow approach to originality should not be interpreted as concluding that labour, in and of itself, would be a ground for finding of originality.	None
The question for consideration of the copyright has arisen on the following fact foundation.	None
The appellant, Law Society of Upper Canada, has maintained and operated the Great Library at Osgoode Hall in Toranto, a reference and research library.	None
The Great Library provides a requestbased photocopy service for Law Society members, the judiciary and other authorized researchers.	None
Under the custom photocopy service, legal materials are reproduced and delivered to the requesters.	None
The Law Society also maintains selfservice photocopiers in the Great Library for use by its patrons.	None
The respondents, CCH Canadian Ltd., Thomson Canada Ltd. and Canada Law Book Inc. publish law reports and other legal materials.	None
The law book publishers commenced copyright infringement action against the Law Society claiming ownership of copyright in 11 specific works on the ground that the Law Society had infringed copyright when the Great Library reproduced a copy of each of the works.	None
The publishers further sought permanent injunction prohibiting the Law Society from reproducing these 11 works as well as any other works that they published.	None
The Law Society denied liability and submitted that the copyright is not infringed when a single copy of a reported decision, case summary, statute, regulation or a limited selection of text from a treatise is made by the Great Library staff or one of its patrons on a selfservice photocopier for the purpose of research.	None
The Court was called upon to decide the question as to what shall be the originality in the work of compilation.	None
On consideration of various cases, it was held that to be original under the Copyright Act the work must originate from an author, not be copied from another work, and must be the product of an authors exercise of skill and judgment.	None
The exercise of skill and judgment required to produce the work must not be so trivial that it could be characterized as a purely mechanical exercise.	Arguments of Respondent
Creative works by definition are original and are protected by copyright, but creativity is not required in order to render a work original.	None
The original work should be the product of an exercise of skill and judgment and it is a workable yet fair standard.	None
The sweat of the brow approach to originality is too low a standard which shifts the balance of copyright protection too far in favour of the owners right, and fails to allow copyright to protect the publics interest in maximizing the production and dissemination of intellectual works.	None
On the other hand, the creativity standard of originality is too high.	None
A creative standard implies that something must be novel or nonobvious  concepts more properly associated with patent law than copyright law.	None
By way of contrast, a standard requiring the exercise of skill and judgment in the production of a work avoids these difficulties and provides a workable and appropriate standard for copyright protection that is consistent with the policy of the objectives of the Copyright Act.	None
Thus, the Canadian Supreme Court is of the view that to claim copyright in a compilation, the author must produce a material with exercise of his skill and judgment which may not be creativity in the sense that it is not novel or nonobvious, but at the same time it is not the product of merely labour and capital.38.	None
It is the admitted position that the reports in the Supreme Court Cases (SCC) of the judgments of the Supreme Court is a derivative work in public domain.	Reasoning
By virtue of Section 52(1) of the Act, it is expressly provided that certain acts enumerated therein shall not constitute an infringement of copyright.	Reasoning
Subclause (iv) of clause (q) of Section 52(1) excludes the reproduction or publication of any judgment or order of a Court, Tribunal or other judicial authority, unless the reproduction or publication of such judgment or order is prohibited by the Court, the Tribunal or other judicial authority from copyright.	Reasoning
The judicial pronouncements of the Apex Court would be in the public domain and its reproduction or publication would not infringe the copyright.	Reasoning
That being the position, the copyedited judgments would not satisfy the copyright merely by establishing amount of skill, labour and capital put in the inputs of the copyedited judgments and the original or innovative thoughts for the creativity are completely excluded.	Reasoning
Accordingly, original or innovative thoughts are necessary to establish copyright in the authors work.	Reasoning
The principle where there is common source the person relying on it must prove that he actually went to the common source from where he borrowed the material, employing his own skill, labour and brain and he did not copy, would not apply to the judgments of the courts because there is no copyright in the judgments of the court, unless so made by the court itself.	Reasoning
To secure a copyright for the judgments delivered by the court, it is necessary that the labour, skill and capital invested should be sufficient to communicate or impart to the judgment printed in SCC some quality or character which the original judgment does not possess and which differentiates the original judgment from the printed one.	Reasoning
The Copyright Act is not concerned with the original idea but with the expression of thought.	Reasoning
Copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.	Reasoning
Copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill, labour and investment of capital, maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.	Reasoning
The copyright work which comes into being should be original in the sense that by virtue of selection, coordination or arrangement of preexisting data contained in the work, a work somewhat different in character is produced by the author.	Reasoning
On the face of the provisions of the Indian Copyright Act, 1957, we think that the principle laid down by the Canadian Court would be applicable in copyright of the judgments of the Apex Court.	Reasoning
We make it clear that the decision of ours would be confined to the judgments of the courts which are in the public domain as by virtue of Section 52 of the Act there is no copyright in the original text of the judgments.	Reasoning
To claim copyright in a compilation, the author must produce the material with exercise of his skill and judgment which may not be creativity in the sense that it is novel or nonobvious, but at the same time it is not a product of merely labour and capital.	Reasoning
The derivative work produced by the author must have some distinguishable features and flavour to raw text of the judgments delivered by the court.	Reasoning
The trivial variation or inputs put in the judgment would not satisfy the test of copyright of an author.	Reasoning
On this touchstone, we shall take into consideration the inputs put by the appellants in their journal SCC.	None
The appellants have added in the copyedited version the crosscitations to the citation(s) already given in the original text added names of cases and crosscitations where only the citation of the case is given added citation and crosscitations where only name of the case is given inserted citation in case history where only the title and year of the impugned earlier order is given presented in their own style the cases when they are cited repeated in the judgment provided precise references to the quoted matter in the judgment by giving exact page and paragraph number as in the original case source treatise reference material added margin headings to quoted extracts from statutes rules, etc., when they are missing from the original text of the judgment added the number of the Section Rule Article paragraph to the extract quoted in the original text added the names of Judges on whose behalf opinion given by giving expressions such as for himself and Pathak, C.J. etc. done verification of first word of the quoted extract and supplied emphasis on such verification added ellipsis  to indicate breaks in quoted extract provided and supplied the matter inadvertently missed in quoted extracts in the original text of the judgment completed corrected the incomplete incorrect case names or citations renumbered correctly the clauses subclauses in terms of the questions framed which were numbered in terms of answers to questions framed by learned Judge changed the text as per corrigenda issued, which has been issued upon SCC Editors request and suggestions done compressing simplification of information relating to the case history followed certain norms at SCC for giving case names omitted the words like Section, Sec., Rule, etc. and given only the number of the Section rule at the beginning of the quoted extract made margin heading and the first clause subsection or initial matter of section rule etc. to runon instead of being let to start from a fresh line done compressing of unquoted referends and use of for parts replaced the series of dots in the raw text with ellipsis removed abbreviations such as sec., R., cl. and substituted them with full word, i.e. Section, Rule, clause added hyphenation after the section rule numbers which have alphabets suffixed to them applied indentation of quoted extracts removed full stops or word No. and given full forms of abbreviations to enhance readability and clarity.	None
In addition to the above, capitalization and italicization is also made wherever necessary in the raw text and punctuation, articles, spellings and compound words are also checked and corrected, if required, in the original text.	None
The aforesaid inputs put by the appellants in the judgments would have had a copyright had we accepted the principle that any one who by his or her own skill and labour creates an original work of whatever character, shall enjoy an exclusive right to copy that work and no one else would be permitted to reap the crop what the copyright owner had sown.	Reasoning
No doubt the appellants have collected the material and improved the readability of the judgment by putting inputs in the original text of the judgment by considerable labour and arranged it in their own style, but that does not give the flavour of minimum requirement of creativity.	Reasoning
The exercise of the skill and judgment required to produce the work is trivial and is on account of the labour and the capital invested and could be characterized as purely a work which has been brought about by putting some amount of labour by the appellants.	Reasoning
Although for establishing a copyright, the creativity standard applies is not that something must be novel or nonobvious, but some amount of creativity in the work to claim a copyright is required.	Reasoning
It does require a minimal degree of creativity.	Reasoning
Arrangement of the facts or data or the case law is already included in the judgment of the court.	Reasoning
Therefore, creativity of SCC would only be addition of certain facts or material already published, case law published in another law report and its own arrangement and presentation of the judgment of the court in its own style to make it more user friendly.	Reasoning
The selection and arrangement can be viewed as typical and at best result of the labour, skill and investment of capital lacking even minimal creativity.	Reasoning
It does not as a whole display sufficient originality so as to amount to an original work of the author.	Reasoning
To support copyright, there must be some substantive variation and not merely a trivial variation, not the variation of the type where limited ways unique of expression available and an author selects one of them which can be said to be a garden variety.	Reasoning
Novelty or invention or innovative idea is not the requirement for protection of copyright but it does require minimal degree of creativity.	Reasoning
In our view, the aforesaid inputs put by the appellants in the copyedited judgments do not touch the standard of creativity required for the copyright.41.	Reasoning
However, the inputs put in the original text by the appellants in (i) segregating the existing paragraphs in the original text by breaking them into separate paragraphs (ii) adding internal paragraph numbering within a judgment after providing uniform paragraph numbering to the multiple judgments and (iii) indicating in the judgment the Judges who have dissented or concurred by introducing the phrases like concurring, partly concurring, partly dissenting, dissenting, supplementing, majority expressing no opinion, etc., have to be viewed in a different light.	Reasoning
The task of paragraph numbering and internal referencing requires skill and judgment in great measure.	Reasoning
The editor who inserts para numbering must know how legal argumentation and legal discourse is conducted and how a judgment of a court of law must read.	Reasoning
Often legal arguments or conclusions are either clubbed into one paragraph in the original judgment or parts of the same argument are given in separate paragraphs.	Reasoning
It requires judgment and the capacity for discernment for determining whether to carve out a separate paragraph from an existing paragraph in the original judgment or to club together separate paragraphs in the original judgment of the court.	Reasoning
Setting of paragraphs by the appellants of their own in the judgment entailed the exercise of the brain work, reading and understanding of subject of disputes, different issues involved, statutory provisions applicable and interpretation of the same and then dividing them in different paragraphs so that chain of thoughts and process of statement of facts and the application of law relevant to the topic discussed is not disturbed, would require full understanding of the entire subject of the judgment.	Reasoning
Making paragraphs in a judgment could not be called a mechanical process.	Reasoning
It requires careful consideration, discernment and choice and thus it can be called as a work of an author.	Reasoning
Creation of paragraphs would obviously require extensive reading, careful study of subject and the exercise of judgment to make paragraph which has dealt with particular aspect of the case, and separating intermixing of a different subject.	Reasoning
Creation of paragraphs by separating them from the passage would require knowledge, sound judgment and legal skill.	Reasoning
In our opinion, this exercise and creation thereof has a flavour of minimum amount of creativity.	Reasoning
The said principle would also apply when the editor has put an input whereby different Judges opinion has been shown to have been dissenting or partly dissenting or concurring, etc.	Reasoning
It also requires reading of the whole judgment and understanding the questions involved and thereafter finding out whether the Judges have disagreed or have the dissenting opinion or they are partially disagreeing and partially agreeing to the view on a particular law point or even on facts.	Reasoning
In these inputs put in by the appellants in the judgments reported in SCC, the appellants have a copyright and nobody is permitted to utilize the same.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated in the aforesaid discussion, the appeals are partly allowed.	Decision
The High Court has already granted interim relief to the plaintiffappellants by directing that though the respondentdefendants shall be entitled to sell their CDROMS with the text of the judgments of the Supreme Court along with their own head notes, editorial notes, if any, they should not in any way copy the head notes of the plaintiffappellants and that the defendantrespondents shall also not copy the footnotes and editorial notes appearing in the journal of the plaintiffappellants.	Decision
It is further directed by us that the defendantrespondents shall not use the paragraphs made by the appellants in their copyedited version for internal references and their editors judgment regarding the opinions expressed by the Judges by using phrases like concurring, partly dissenting, etc. on the basis of reported judgments in SCC.	Decision
The judgment of the High Court is modified to the extent that in addition to the interim relief already granted by the High Court, we have granted the abovementioned additional relief to the appellants.43.	Decision
In view of the decision rendered by us in the civil appeals, we do not think it necessary to pass any order on the contempt petition.	Decision
The contempt petition stands disposed of accordingly.44.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
