Ruma Pal, J. All these appeals are disposed of by this common judgment.	None
The assessees who are in appeal before us are companies who have been subjected to imposition of tax on 30 of their book profits in accordance with section 115J(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (referred to as the Act).	None
Section 115J is in Chapter XIIB of the Act which is entitled Special Provisions Relating to Certain Companies.	None
It was inserted by the Finance Act, 1987 with effect from the Assessment Year 198889 and remained in operation till the Assessment Year 199091.	None
The relevant extract of section 115J reads as follows 115J. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, where in the case of an assessee being a company other than a company engaged in the business of generation of distribution of electricity, the total income, as computed under this Act in respect of any previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, 1988 but before the 1st day of April 1991 (hereinafter in this section referred to as the relevant previous year, is less than thirty per cent of its book profit, the total income of such assessee chargeable to tax for the relevant previous year shall be deemed to be an amount equal to thirty per cent of such book profit.(1A)	None
Every assessee, being a company, shall, for the purposes of this section, prepare its profit and loss account for the relevant previous year in accordance with the provisions of Parts II and III of Schedule VI to the Companies Act, 1956.(Z) Nothing contained in subsection (1) shall affect the determination of the amounts in relation to the relevant previous year to be carried forward to the subsequent year or years under the provisions of subsection (2) of Section 32 or subsection (3) of Section 32A or clause (ii) of subsection (1) of Section 72 or section 73 or section 74 or subsection (3) of section 74A or subsection (3) of section 80J.	None
The question to be determined in all these appeals is whether the deductions which are permissible under the provisions of the Act can be considered to have been actually allowed when the assessee has been made liable to pay 30 per cent of its book profits in terms of section 115J of the Act.	Issue
The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Bangalore Bench held that in determining the total income of the assessee under other provisions of the Act, depreciation actually considered for calculating the taxable income shall be the depreciation which is deemed to have been actually allowed.	Facts
According to the Tribunal, this depreciation has to be considered while determining the written down value of the assets for the subsequent assessment year even though the taxable income of the assessee was determined with reference to book profit pursuant to section 115J(1) of the Act.	Facts
It also held that the scheme for levying tax by considering 30 of the book profit under section 115J(1) to be the deemed total income, as an artificial process superimposed on the regular process of determination of the total income of the assessee in the usual manner.6.	Facts
The Tribunal at the instance of the assessee formulated the following questions under section 256(1) of the Act and referred the same to the High Court for its opinion.	Facts
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the amounts of business loss, unabsorbed depreciation, unabsorbed investment allowance etc., as at the beginning of the accounting year are required to be adjusted and set off to the extent of such brought forward business loss, unabsorbed depreciation etc, would have been adjusted and set off had the assessee been assessed to tax in the regular way in accordance with the provisions of Sec.	Facts
28 to 43 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and not way of application of the provisions of Sec. 115J(1) and that the resultant amounts of losses, unabsorbed depreciation, unabsorbed investment allowance etc. only will be required to be carried forward to the next year?2.	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the written down values of the assets will have to be adjusted by deducting therefrom the amounts of depreciation which would have been allowed on such assets in the regular method of assessment in accordance with the provisions of Section 28 to 43 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 without applying the provisions of Section 115J(1), and the resultant amounts of written down values will only have to be carried forward to the next year.	Facts
Similar orders were passed by the Tribunal in the case of other appellants.	Facts
The High Court by a common order and judgment upheld the reasoning of the Tribunal and answered the references in favour of the Revenue and against the assessees.8.	Facts
According to Ms. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of one of the appellants, an assesseecompany which was otherwise entitled to various deductions under the provisions of the Act from its total income, in computing its total income, was liable under section 115J to pay tax of 30 per cent of the companys book profit irrespective of the actual deductions claimed by it for the period when section 115J was in operation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in such circumstances it cannot be said that the benefits of deduction which the assessee had claimed had been actually allowed and, therefore, the assessee appellant should have been permitted to carry forward the unabsorbed investment allowance or depreciation claimed by its for the relevant previous year, under the provisions of subsection (2) of section 115J read with sections 32A and 32A (3) (iii).	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on section 43(6) which defines written down value as meaning the actual cost of the asset less depreciation actually allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore, in computing the income for the next assessment year the assessee who had paid 30 per cent of the book profit in the preceding assessment year could claim to adjust the depreciation and investment allowance since the depreciation and the investment allowance claimed in the preceding year had not been actually allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has been placed on the decisions reported in Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City I vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dharampur Leather Co. Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
60 ITR 165 and Madeva Upendra Sinai vs. Union of India and others 98 ITR 209 in support of this submission.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Mr. Ganesh, the entire investment allowance and unabsorbed depreciation as on April 1998 remained intact and was not written off or obliterated by computation of income of 30 per cent of the book profit under section 115J.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Dhruv Mehta, learned counsel for the another appellant assessee has adopted these arguments and has further submitted that the fiction of the assessable income under section 115J could not be extended to include the fictional deductions.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was stated that where deductions were sought to be adjusted, this has been expressly provided for, as for example under section 44AD, subsection (2) (3) and section 44 AF, subsections (2) (3).	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference has been made to the decisions of this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax, Kanpur vs. Mother India Refrigeration Industries 1985 (4) SCC 1 (Para 10) and Mancheri Puthusseri Ahmed vs. Kuthiravattam Estate Receiver 1996 (6) SCC 185 to contend that a statutory fiction must be limited strictly to the purpose for which it is introduced.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, it is submitted by learned counsel that if there were any doubt in the interpretation of the provisions, the doubt must be resolved in favour of the assessee on the basis of the principles enunciated in Commissioner of Income Tax, Bangalore vs. A.H.	Arguments of Petitioner
Gotla 56 ITR 323.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. R.P. Bhat, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Revenue has submitted that section 115J was aimed at those companies which were in fact profit making but submitted nil assessments of their total income by virtue of the deductions permitted under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In the case of such zerotax companies, the intention of section 115J was to levy tax on such companies by fixing a notional assessable income which was 30 per cent of the book profit.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel has relied upon the reasoning of the decision of the Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Suryalatha Spg.	Arguments of Respondent
Mills Ltd. vs. Union of Union of India (223 ITR 713) and has submitted that the assessee cannot under section 115J(Z), be permitted to carry forward those deductions which had already been claimed and allowed by the Department in arriving at the zero assessment figure.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Bhat, had the deductions not been actually allowed as claimed by the appellant, then the assessee would not have been liable to pay only the tax on the book profit but tax on the actual income.	Arguments of Respondent
The constitutional validity of section 115J of the Act is not in dispute before us.	None
The only issue is its interpretation.	None
Section 115J(1) commences with a non obstante clause.	None
Plainly read, it provides for two stages (a) computation of income of the assessee under the Act in respect of any previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on or after 1st April 1988 and before 1st July, 1991(b) If the income as computed under the Act in respect of the relevant previous year is less than 30 per cent of its book profit, then the deemed total income of the assessee chargeable to tax for the relevant previous year would be equal to 30 per cent of the book profit.	None
The first stage referred to above envisages computation of income under the Act, that is, after taking into consideration all deductions allowable under the Act.	Reasoning
It is only after the deductions are given effect to, and if the resultant income is less than 30 per cent of the book profit, that the assessees total income would be deemed to have a notional income fixed at 30 per cent of its book profit.	Reasoning
It may be that the assessees are not required to pay tax on the figure of the assessable income arrived at after deducting the amounts permissible under the Act.	Reasoning
However, it cannot be said that therefore the deductions are not taken into account.	Reasoning
If the deductions had not in fact been allowed then the assessee would not have had an assessable income lesser than 30 per cent of its book profit, entitling it to pay tax only on 30 per cent of its book profit.	Reasoning
In deeming that total income to be 30 per cent of the book profit, the deductions claimed are not ignored as contended by the appellants but are a necessary ingredient of the formula for applying the fictional total income.	Reasoning
The decisions cited in the context of the operation of statutory fictions are not apposite as there is no notional or fictional but actual deduction.	Reasoning
Once the deductions are taken into consideration and the assessee is put into the category of those companies covered by section 115J(1) only then is the assessee required to pay on a notional income of 30 per cent of its book profits.14.	Reasoning
Had sections 115J not been introduced, the assessee would have been entitled under the provisions of section 32(2), 32(A)(3), 72(I)(ii), 73, 74, 74A(3) and 80(J)(3) to carry forward only the unabsorbed depreciation allowance under section 32, investment allowance under section 32A, losses under sections 72, 72A, 73, 74 and permissible deductions under section 80J to the following assessment year to be set off against the profits and gains of that assessment year.	Reasoning
All that section 115J(2) does is to preserve this right viz.	Reasoning
to carry forward the balance of the unabsorbed deductions in the relevant previous year to the next assessment year.	Reasoning
Section 115J does create any right nor does it serve to allow all the deductions taken into consideration for determining whether the total income should be quantified under section 115J(1), to be carried forward under subsection 2 of section 115J. It allows only the unabsorbed losses, depreciation, investment allowance etc. which otherwise could have been carried forward, to be carried forward.	Reasoning
This construction of subsections (1) and (2) section 115J is in keeping with the avowed purpose for which Chapter XIIB was introduced in the Act by the Finance Act, 1987.	None
This was stated by the Finance Minister in his budget speech Reported in 1987 (165) ITR (St) 14 in the following manner It is only fair and proper that the prosperous should pay at least some tax.	None
The phenomenon of so called zerotax highly profitable companies deserves attention.	None
In 1983, a new section 80VVA was inserted in the Act so that all profitable companies pay some tax.	None
This does not seem to have helped and is being withdrawn.	None
I now propose to introduce a provision whereby every company will to have to pay a minimum corporate tax on the profits declared by it in its own accounts.	None
Under this new provision, a company will pay tax on at least 30 per cent, of its book profit This measure will yield a revenue gain of approximately Rs. 75 crores.16.	None
In addition, a contemporaneous exposition of the purport of section 115J is contained in Circular No. 495 dated 22nd September 1987 issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes Reported in 168 ITR (St.) p.87 at page 111.	None
The Circular gives explanatory notes on the provisions relating to direct tax in the Finance Act.	None
With reference to section 115J, it was saidSection 115J, therefore, involves two processes.	None
Firstly, an assessing authority has to determine the income of the company under the provisions of the Incometax Act.	None
Secondly, the book profit is to be worked out in accordance with the Explanation to section 115J(1) and it is to be seen whether the income determined under the first process is less than 30 per cent of the book profit.	None
Section 115J would be invoked if the income determined under the first process is less than 30 per cent of the book profit.	None
The Explanation to subsection (1) of section 115J gives the definition of the book profit by incorporating the requirement of section 205 of the Companies Act in the computation of the book profit.	None
Brought forward losses or unabsorbed depreciation whichever is less would be reduced in arriving at the book profits.	None
Subsection (2), however, provides that the application of this provision would not affect the carry forward of unabsorbed depreciation, unabsorbed investment allowance, business losses to the extent not set off, and deduction under section 80J, to the extent not set off as computed under the incometax Act.	None
The Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Suryalatha Spg.	None
Mills Ltd. (supra) had construed section 115J in favour of the Revenue inter alia because the very object of the provision of section 115J is to tax such companies which are making huge profits and also declaring substantial dividends, but are managing their affairs in such a way as to avoid payment of income tax, as a result of various tax concessions and incentives and for that purpose the taxable income is determined under subsection (1) of section 115J, if any loss equal to the income thus determined is allowed to be adjusted, then that would frustrate and nullify the very object of enacting the provision.	None
The reasoning appears to us to be unexceptionable.	None
In Lallcherra Tea Co. (O) Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Taxs 239 ITR 611 relied upon by the appellant, the Guwahati High Court was considering a case of an assessee company which had filed a return in which the total income computed was less than 30 per cent of its book profit.	None
After computing its book profit, in terms of section 115J(1), a sum of Rs. 74,477/ was deemed to be the total income chargeable to tax for the assessment year, namely, 198788.	None
In the assessment year 198889, the company sought to deduct the sum of Rs. 74,477/ rounded off to Rs.	None
74,450/ from its total income.	None
The Revenue opposed this.	None
The submission of the assessee was that the tax would not have been demanded against the amount which was adjusted.	None
Upsetting the finding of the Tribunal, the Court held in favour of the assessee on the basis of a hypothetical example which, in our view, proceeds on a complete misappreciation of section 115J. The decision of this Court in Madeva Upendra Sinai vs. Union of India (supra) related to the constitutional validity of the Taxation Laws (Extension to Union Territories) (Removal of Difficulties) Order No. 2 of 1970 by which the provisions of the Act were extended with certain amendments to the Union Territories of Goa, Daman and Diu w.e.f. 1st April, 1963.	None
The decision turned on the wording of section 43(6) of the 1961 Act which defines written down value in so far as it is relevant (a) in the case of assets acquired in the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee(b) in the case of assets acquired before the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee less all depreciation actually allowed to him under this Act, or under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), or any Act repealed by that Act, or under any executive orders issued when the Indian Incometax Act, 1886 (2 of 1886) was in force.	None
Under the laws in force in the former Portuguese territory, no allowance in the nature of depreciation was permitted in computing the gross income.	Reasoning
According to the assessees since there was no depreciation allowed under the Portuguese law in the said relevant previous year, it could not be said to have been actually allowed and that, therefore, they were entitled to adjust the entire depreciation in the accounting year.	Reasoning
This was more than what was available to assessee who had all along been covered by the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
Parity amongst the assessees was sought to be brought about by the impugned Order by providing notional depreciation in prior years for the new assessee.	Reasoning
This was held to be unconstitutional.	Reasoning
In this context, the Court held that The word depreciation actually allowed in section 43(6)(b) connote depreciation that has actually been taken into account and given effect to by the income tax authorities in the computation of the profits and gains of the business in assessing income tax for earlier years.	None
Since there was no law between the date the territories were merged in India and the date when the Income Tax Act was extended to those territories under which the income of those prior could be computed, there was no question of any depreciation being claimed, allowed or carried forward by the assessee for any year prior to 1963.	Reasoning
A similar decision was taken by this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax,	Reasoning
Bombay City I V. Dharampur Leather Co. Ltd. (supra).	Reasoning
Both decisions are distinguishable since, for the reasons stated we have held that there is no notional but actual deduction in this case.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforesaid, we have no hesitation in confirming the decision of the High Court and dismissing these appeals with costs.	Decision
