 Sathasivam, CJI.	None
Writ Petition (C) No. 410 of 2012 The above writ petition, under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, has been filed by the petitioner seeking a writ of quo warranto against Mr. Justice N.K. Mehrotra (retd.), Lokayukta for the State of Uttar Pradesh, Respondent No. 2 herein, for continuing as Lokayukta after 15.03.2012.	Issue
The petitioner is also challenging the constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas (Amendment) Act, 2012 (for short the Amendment Act) to the extent being ultra vires to the provisions of the Constitution of India.	Issue
Brief facts Mr. Justice N.K. Mehrotra (retd.), Respondent No. 2 herein, was appointed as Lokayukta for the State of Uttar Pradesh on 16.03.2006 under the Uttar Pradesh Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas Act, 1975 (for short the Act).(b) Section 5(1) of the Act provides that the term for which Lokayukta shall hold office is six years from the date on which he enters upon his office.	Facts
Further, Section 5(3) provides that on ceasing to hold office, the Lokayukta or UpLokayukta shall be ineligible for further appointment, whether as a Lokayukta or UpLokayukta or in any other capacity under the Government of Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
Respondent No. 2 completed his term of six years on 15.03.2012.(c)	Facts
On 15.03.2012, the new government formed after the Uttar Pradesh State Assembly elections.	Facts
On the same day, an Ordinance for amending the Act was passed by the Cabinet and sent to the Governor of Uttar Pradesh for assent.	Facts
However, the same did not receive the assent of the Governor.(d) On 18.03.2012, another Ordinance on the same subject matter was sent for the assent of the Governor and after receiving the assent of the Governor, the same was published which came into effect from 22.03.2012.	Facts
Under the said Ordinance, Section 5(1) of the Act was amended and the term of the Lokayukta was extended to eight years with effect from 15.03.2012.(e)	Facts
Subsequently, Respondent No. 1	Facts
State of Uttar Pradesh enacted the Amendment Act which received the assent of the Governor on 06.07.2012.	Facts
By the said Amendment Act, the term of the U.P. Lokayukta and UpLokayukta was extended from six years to eight years or till the successor enters upon his office.	Facts
The said Amendment Act also seeks to limit the ineligibility of the Lokayuktas or UpLokayuktas for further appointment under the Government of Uttar Pradesh only on ceasing to hold office as such, and for making the said provisions applicable to the sitting Lokayukta or UpLokayukta, as the case may be, on the date of commencement of the said ordinance, i.e., 15.03.2012.(f)	Facts
Challenging the said Amendment Act, the petitioner is before us by way of writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
Similar prayers have been made by the petitioners in Writ Petitions (C) Nos. 228 of 2012 and 289 of 2013.	None
Similar petitions were also filed in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad.	Facts
In view of the similarity of the issues involved in these petitions, transfer petitions, viz., T.P. (C) Nos. 1228 1230 of 2012, T.P. (C) Nos. 1248 1250 of 2012, T.P. (C) No. 1425 of 2012 and T.P. (C) Nos. 14121413 of 2012 have been filed before this Court.	Facts
However, T.P.(C) No. 1229 of 2012 was directed to be transferred to this Court by an order dated 01.02.2013 and, accordingly, the same is numbered as T.C.(C) No. 74 of 2013.Civil Appeal SLP (C) No.27319 of 20124)	Facts
Leave granted in Special Leave Petition.5)	Facts
This appeal is directed against the order dated 27.08.2012 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in Civil Misc.	Facts
Writ Petition No. 24905 of 2012 whereby the High Court, while allowing the amendment application to the writ petition and holding the writ petition to be maintainable, directed to list the petition on 27.09.2012 for hearing on merits.6)	Facts
By way of the said amendment application, the writ petitioner sought to add two grounds in the writ petition, viz., the Amendment Act is violative of the provisions of the Constitution of India and the same was wrongly introduced as a Money Bill in clear disregard to the provisions of Article 199 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
Accordingly, it was prayed to issue a writ, order or direction in the nature of mandamus declaring the Amendment Act as ultra vires the provisions of the Constitution of India.7) Being aggrieved of the judgment and order dated 27.08.2012, the State of U.P. has filed the aforesaid appeal by way of special leave.8)	Facts
By an order dated 24.09.2012, this Court stayed the further proceedings in CMWP No. 24905 of 2012.	Facts
Heard Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel for the petitioners in W.P.(C) Nos. 228 and 410 of 2012, Mr. Ashok H. Desai, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel for the State of Uttar Pradesh and Dr. Rajeev Dhawan, learned senior counsel for Mr. Justice N.K. Mehrotra (retd.)	None
, Respondent No. 2 herein in W.P.(C) Nos. 228 and 410 of 2012.	None
Contentions Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel for the petitioner, submitted that, by way of the Amendment Act, the State of U.P. has, in substance and effect, reappointed Justice N.K. Mehrotra (retd.), Respondent No. 2 herein, as Lokayukta of the State of U.P. notwithstanding the fact that his six years term had already expired on 15.03.2012.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a statutory bar against the reappointment of the Lokayukta in terms of Section 5(3) of the Act.11)	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Venugopal further submitted that by passing the Amendment Act, the State Government handpicked a person who they believe would ensure that the Chief Minister, his Ministers and political supporters would be protected, despite the acts of corruption in which they may indulge in.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reappointment of Justice Mehrotra (retd.), who had demitted the office and was prohibited from holding any post, bypassed the safeguards contained in Section 3 of the Act, which stands unamended.12)	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the Amendment Act was not even passed by the State Legislature in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of India and is, thus, a mere scrap of paper in the eyes of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Bill in question was presented as a Money Bill when, on the face of it, it could never be called as a Money Bill as defined in Articles 199(1) and 199(2) of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the procedure for an Ordinary Bill was not followed and the assent of the Governor was obtained to an inchoate and incomplete Bill which had not even gone through the mandatory requirements under the Constitution of India, the entire action was unconstitutional and violative of Article 200 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ashok H. Desai, learned senior counsel for the State of U.P., submitted that the writ petition itself is not maintainable in law or on facts.	Arguments of Respondent
In the absence of any violation of fundamental rights of the petitioner himself, the present writ petition under Article 32 is not maintainable.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, the present writ petition has not been filed with clean hands.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Desai pointed out that the petitioner has merely stated, in a passing manner, that he is a practicing Advocate, which is not a fair and candid statement.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioner has filed the writ petition as a proxy of Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui, exCabinet Minister, U.P. (presently the Leader of Bahujan Samaj Party Leader of Opposition in the U.P. Legislative Council), against whom, along with others, Respondent No. 2 has recommended action on grave charges of corruption.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioner herein, Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Saeed Siddiqui, was the agent representative (pairokar) of the son of Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui in the complaint against Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui before Respondent No. 2 and he has filed the present writ petition, as also his earlier writ petition, as a proxy of Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui.14)	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the petitioner, for oblique motives, is questioning the valid legislative and executive actions.	Arguments of Respondent
The writ petition, which has been filed under the guise of redressing a public grievance, is lacking in bona fides and is an outcome of malice and illwill, which the petitioner nurses against Respondent No. 2 for making the reports specifically those against Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui.	Arguments of Respondent
In the present writ petition as also in his earlier writ petition, the petitioner has made yet another collateral attack by questioning the title of Respondent No. 2 to the office of Lokayukta in order to stall the action enquiry in respect of the grave charges of corruption that has been ordered pursuant to the reports of Respondent No. 2.15)	Arguments of Respondent
Besides, learned senior counsel for the State submitted that the petitioner has made a collateral attack by seeking a writ of quo warranto to enquire by what authority Respondent No. 2 is holding the office of the Lokayukta, Uttar Pradesh and at the same time, he has challenged the validity of that very law under which the Respondent No. 2 is holding the said office, which is impermissible under the settled law.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the stand of the State that in a writ of quo warranto, while enquiring by what authority a person holds a public office, it is impermissible to make a collateral attack on the validity of law or statutory provision under which that office is being held.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the scope of a writ of quo warranto is a limited one, by virtue of which it may be enquired by what authority a person holds a public office, but the validity of that authority cannot be questioned.	Arguments of Respondent
In this light, it is submitted that the writ petition is not maintainable for making such a collateral attack.16)	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Desai also submitted that the Bill in question was manifestly a Money Bill in view of Article 199(1) of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Respondent
Furthermore, the claim of the petitioner is barred by the constitutional provisions, such as Articles 199(3) and 212 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The claim of the petitioner that the Bill was passed only by the Legislative Assembly and not by both the Houses, is misconceived.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioner has overlooked that since the Bill in question was a Money Bill, therefore, the contention that it was passed by the Legislative Assembly alone is per se misconceived.	Arguments of Respondent
Finally, Mr. Desai submitted that Respondent No. 2 is duly holding the office of the Lokayukta under a valid law enacted by the competent legislature, viz., the Amendment Act.17) Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi reiterated the submission made by Mr. Desai and also pointed out the relevant provisions.18)	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Rajeev Dhawan, learned senior counsel for Justice N.K. Mehrotra (retd.), Respondent No. 2 herein, reiterated the contentions raised by Mr. Desai.	Arguments of Respondent
In addition to the same, it is submitted that the real purpose of filing the writ petition and other connected matters is to stall action on the reports of Respondent No. 2 in respect of grave charges of corruption against several exMinisters, Government of U.P., one of whom is Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui, exCabinet Minister, U.P.19) Dr. Dhawan further submitted that the petitioner is a proxy of Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, both Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui and his wife were members of the U.P. Legislature when the Amendment Act was enacted.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, any challenge to the said Amendment Act by Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui or his wife would not be maintainable as they, as sitting members of the State Legislature, cannot assail and disown an action of the same State Legislature.20)	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Dhawan submitted that Respondent No. 2 was appointed as the Lokayukta, U.P. on 16.03.2006 and he is continuing as such after 15.03.2012 under a valid law, viz., the Amendment Act, which has been duly enacted by the competent legislature.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that the contentions of the petitioner regarding Money Bill is baseless and pointed out that the earlier two amendments to the Act in the year 1981 and 1988 were also by way of Money Bills, which is concealed by the petitioner.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it was submitted that the finality of the Speakers decision and the legislative process cannot be challenged in a Court of law.21)	None
We have carefully considered the rival contentions and perused all the relevant materials.	None
Discussion Among all the contentions issues raised, the main challenge relates to the validity of U.P. Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas (Amendment) Act, 2012.	None
In order to consider the claim of both the parties, it is useful to refer the relevant provisions.	Reasoning
The State of U.P. has brought an Act called the U.P. Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas Act, 1975 (U.P. Act 42 of 1975).	Reasoning
The said Act was enacted in order to make provision for appointment and functions of certain authorities for the investigation on grievances and elections against Ministers, legislators and other public servants in certain cases.	Reasoning
The Act came into force on 12.07.1977.	None
Section 2(e) defines Lokayukta which reads as under Lokayukta means a person appointed as the Lokayukta and UpLokayukta means a person appointed as an UpLokayukta, under Section 3.	None
Section 3 relates to appointment of Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas which reads as under Appointment of Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas (1) For the purpose of conducting investigations in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the Governor shall, by warrant under his hand and seal, appoint a person to be known as the Lokayukta and one or more persons to be known as the UpLokayukta or UpLokayuktasProvided that(a) the Lokayukta shall be appointed after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad and the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and if there be no such Leader a person elected in this behalf by the members of the opposition in that House in such manner as the Speaker may direct(b) the UpLokayukta or UpLokayuktas shall be appointed after consultation with the LokayuktaProvided further that where the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly is satisfied that circumstances exist on account of which it is not practicable to consult the Leader of the Opposition in accordance with clause (a) of the preceding proviso, he may intimate the Governor the name of any other member of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly who may be consulted under that clause instead of the Leader of the Opposition.(2)	None
Every person appointed as the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta shall before entering upon his office, make and subscribe before the Governor or some person appointed in that behalf by him, an oath or affirmation in the form set out for the purpose in the First Schedule.(3)	None
The UpLokayuktas shall be subject to the administrative control of the Lokayukta and in particular for the purpose of convenient disposal of investigations under this Act, the Lokayukta any issue such general or special direction as he may consider necessary to the UpLokayuktaProvided that nothing in this subsection shall be construed to authorize the Lokayukta to question any finding conclusion or recommendation of an UpLokayukta.	None
Section 5 speaks about terms of office and other conditions of service of Lokayukta and UpLokayukta which reads as under Terms of office and other conditions of service of Lokayukta and UpLokayukta.(1)	None
Every person appointed as the Lokayukta or UpLokayukta shall hold office for a term of six years from the date of which he enters upon his officeProvided that,(a) the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta may, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his office (b) the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta may be removed from office in the manner specified in section 6.xxx xxx xxx(3)	None
On ceasing to hold office, the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta shall be ineligible for further employment (Whether as the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta) or in any other capacity under the Government of Uttar Pradesh or for any employment under or office in any such local authority corporation.	Facts
Government, company or society as is referred to in subclause (v) of clause (1) of section 2.(4)	None
There shall be paid to the Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas such salaries as are specified in the Second Schedule.	None
Section 20A speaks about salary and allowances which reads as under 20A. Expenditure to be charged on Consolidated Fund.	None
It is hereby declared that the salary, allowances and pension payable to or in Expenditure to be respect of the Lokayukta or the UpLokayuktas, the charged on expenditure relating to their staff and office and other consolidated expenditure in respect of the implementation of this Act shall be expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of the State of Uttar Pradesh.	None
It is highlighted by the State that under the said Act, Justice N.K. Mehrotra (retd.) was appointed as a Lokayukta vide notification dated 09.03.2006.	None
It is also highlighted that since the term of Justice Mehrotra (retd.)	None
was expired on 15.03.2012 after the completion of the period of six years under the provisions of subsection (1) of Section 5 of the said Act and no decision had been taken for the appointment of another person as the Lokayukta and also taking note of the fact that since the decision to appoint another person would take time, it has been decided to amend the said Act to provide for increasing the term of Lokayukta and Up Lokayukta from six years to eight years or till his successor enters upon his office.	Facts
Initially, the State Government promulgated an Ordinance, namely, U.P. Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas (Amendment) Ordinance 2012 (U.P. Ordinance No. 1 of 2012).	None
The same was replaced by the Act, namely, U.P. Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas (Amendment) Act, 2012 (U.P. Act 4 of 2012).	None
As per the said ordinance and Act, the amendment relating to Section 2 shall be deemed to have come into force on 15.03.2012 and the remaining provisions shall come into force at once.	None
It is also relevant to refer the amendments brought in by this Amendment Act, which are as under Amendment of Section 5 of U.P. Act No. 42 of 19752.	None
In Section 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas Act, 1975 hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act.(a) for subsection (1) the following subsection shall be substituted and be deemed to have been substituted on March 15, 2012 namely(1)	None
Every person appointed as the Lokayukta or UpLokayukta shall hold office for a term of eight years from the date on which he enters upon his officeProvided that the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta shall, notwithstanding the expiration of his term continue to hold office until his successor enters upon his office.	Facts
Provided further that,(a) the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta may, by writing under his hand addressed to the Governor, resign his office(b) the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta may be removed from office in the manner specified in Section 6.(b) for subsection (3) the following subsection shall be substituted and be deemed to have been substituted on March 15, 2012 namely(3)	None
On ceasing to hold office, the Lokayukta or an UpLokayukta shall be ineligible for further employment under the Government of Uttar Pradesh(c)	Facts
After subsection (5) the following subsection shall be inserted, namely(6)	None
The amendment made by the Uttar Pradesh Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas (Amendment) Act, 2012 shall be applicable to the sitting Lokayukta or UpLokayuktas as the case may be, on the date of commencement of the said Act.	None
Amendment of Section 13 (5b)	None
After the investigation of any allegation under this Act, if the Lokayukta or the UpLokayukta is satisfied that such investigation has resulted in injustice or caused defamation to the concerned public servants, he may on their application, award compensation recording reasons therefore not exceeding the maximum amount of the cost, out of the cost as imposed on the complainant under subsection (5a) to such public servant, who has suffered any loss by reason of injustice or defamation, and such compensation shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund of the State.	None
Amendment of Section 20A	None
For section 20A of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely20A. It is hereby declared that the salary, allowances and the pensions payable to or in respect of the Lokayukta or the UpLokayuktas, the expenditure relating to their staff and office and the amount of compensation awarded to the Public Servant under subsection (5b) of section 13 by reason of injustice or defamation and other expenditure, in respect of implementation of the provisions of this Act, shall be an expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of the State.	None
We have already noted the object of bringing the ordinance and the Act for amendment of certain provisions.	None
In order to further understand the intention of the Government for bringing such amendment, it is useful to refer the statement of objects and reasons, which is as under Statement of objects and reasonsThe Uttar Pradesh Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas Act, 1975 (U.P. Act no.	None
42 of 1975) has been enacted to make provision for the appointment and functions of certain authorities for the investigation grievances and allegations against minister, Legislators and other public servants in certain cases.	None
Under the said Act Shri Narendra Kishor Mehrotra was appointed as Lokayukta vide notification no.	None
40 Lo.Aa/394200615(5) 2006, dated March 9, 2006 from the date he resumes office.	None
Shri Mehrotra resumed his office after taking oath on March 16, 2006.	None
The term of Shri Mehrotra as such was expired on March 15, 2012 after the completion of the period of six years under the then provisions of subsection (1) of Section 5 of the said Act and no decision had been taken for the appointment of another person as the Lokayukta.	None
Since the decision to appoint another person would take time, it has been decided to amend the said Act to provide for increasing the term of Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas from six years to eight years or till his successor enters upon his office, to limit the ineligibility of the Lokayukta or UpLokayuktas for further appointment under the Government of Uttar Pradesh only on ceasing to hold office as such and for making the said provisions applicable to the sitting Lokayukta or UPLokayuktas as the case may be, on March 15, 2012.Since the State Legislature was not in session and immediate Legislative action was necessary, the Uttar Pradehs Lokayukta or UpLokayuktas (Amendment) Ordinance, 2012 (U.P. Ordinance No. 1 of 2012) was promulgated by the Governor on March 22, 2012.	Facts
Though elaborate arguments have been made by Mr. K.K. Venugopal as well as Mr. Desai about the merits of the various recommendations orders passed by Respondent No. 2  Lokayukta in respect of former Ministers and persons connected with the government in these matters, we are primarily concerned about the validity of the Amendment Act and continuance of Respondent No. 2 as Lokayukta even after expiry of his term.	None
The main apprehension of the petitioner is that the Bill that led to the enactment of the Amendment Act was passed as a Money Bill in violation of Articles 197 and 198 of the Constitution of India which should have been passed by both the Houses, viz., U.P. Legislative Assembly and U.P. Legislative Council and was wrongly passed only by the U.P. Legislative Assembly.	Facts
During the course of hearing, Mr. Desai, learned senior counsel appearing for the State of U.P., placed the original records pertaining to the proceedings of the Legislative Assembly, decision of the Speaker as well as the Governor, which we are going to discuss in the later part of our judgment.	None
Article 199 of the Constitution defines Money Bills, which reads as under 199  Definition of Money Bills(1)	None
For the purposes of this Chapter, a Bill shall be deemed to be a Money Bill if it contains only provisions dealing with all or any of the following matters, namely(a) the imposition, abolition, remission, alteration or regulation of any tax(b) the regulation of the borrowing of money or the giving of any guarantee by the State, or the amendment of the law with respect to any financial obligations undertaken or to be undertaken by the State(c) the custody of the Consolidated Fund or the Contingency Fund of the State, the payment of moneys into or the withdrawal of moneys from any such Fund(d) the appropriation of moneys out of the Consolidated Fund of the State(e) the declaring of any expenditure to be expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of the State, or the increasing of the amount of any such expenditure(f) the receipt of money on account of the Consolidated Fund of the State or the public account of the State or the custody or issue of such money or(g) any matter incidental to any of the matters specified in subclauses (a) to (f).(2)	None
A Bill shall not be deemed to be a Money Bill by reason only that it provides for the imposition of fines or other pecuniary penalties, or for the demand or payment of fees for licences or fees for services rendered, or by reason that it provides for the imposition, abolition, remission, alteration or regulation of any tax by any local authority or body for local purposes.(3)	None
If any question arises whether a Bill introduced in the Legislature of a State which has a Legislative Council is a Money Bill or not, the decision of the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of such State thereon shall be final.(4)	Reasoning
There shall be endorsed on every Money Bill when it is transmitted to the Legislative Council under article 198, and when it is presented to the Governor for assent under article 200, the certificate of the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly signed by him that it is a Money Bill.	None
It is also useful to refer Article 212 which reads as under 212  Courts not to inquire into proceedings of the Legislature(1)	None
The validity of any proceedings in the Legislature of a State shall not be called in question on the ground of any alleged irregularity of procedure.(2) No officer or member of the Legislature of a State in whom powers are vested by or under this Constitution for regulating procedure or the conduct of business, or for maintaining order, in the Legislature shall be subject to the jurisdiction of any court in respect of the exercise by him of those powers.	Reasoning
The above provisions make it clear that the finality of the decision of the Speaker and the proceedings of the State Legislature being important privilege of the State Legislature, viz., freedom of speech, debate and proceedings are not to be inquired by the Courts.	Reasoning
The proceeding of the Legislature includes everything said or done in either House in the transaction of the Parliamentary Business, which in the present case is enactment of the Amendment Act.	Reasoning
Further, Article 212 precludes the Courts from interfering with the presentation of a Bill for assent to the Governor on the ground of noncompliance with the procedure for passing Bills, or from otherwise questioning the Bills passed by the House.	Reasoning
To put it clear, proceedings inside the Legislature cannot be called into question on the ground that they have not been carried on in accordance with the Rules of Business.	Reasoning
This is also evident from Article 194 which speaks about the powers, privileges of the House of Legislatures and of the members and committees thereof.34)	Reasoning
We have already quoted Article 199.	Reasoning
In terms of Article 199(3), the decision of the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly that the Bill in question was a Money Bill is final and the said decision cannot be disputed nor can the procedure of State Legislature be questioned by virtue of Article 212.	Reasoning
We are conscious of the fact that in the decision of this Court in Raja Ram Pal vs. Honble Speaker Lok Sabha and Others (2007) 3 SCC 184 , it has been held that the proceedings which may be tainted on account of substantive or gross irregularity or unconstitutionality are not protected from judicial scrutiny.35) Even if it is established that there was some infirmity in the procedure in the enactment of the Amendment Act, in terms of Article 255 of the Constitution the matters of procedures do not render invalid an Act to which assent has been given to by the President or the Governor, as the case may be.36)	Reasoning
In the case of M.S.M. Sharma vs. Shree Krishna Sinha AIR 1960 SC 1186 and Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works vs. State of Mysore and Another AIR 1963 SC 589 , the Constitution Benches of this Court held that (i) the validity of an Act cannot be challenged on the ground that it offends Articles 197 to 199 and the procedure laid down in Article 202 (ii) Article 212 prohibits the validity of any proceedings in a Legislature of a State from being called in question on the ground of any alleged irregularity of procedure and (iii) Article 255 lays down that the requirements as to recommendation and previous sanction are to be regarded as a matter of procedure only.	Reasoning
It is further held that the validity of the proceedings inside the Legislature of a State cannot be called in question on the allegation that the procedure laid down by the law has not been strictly followed and that no Court can go into those questions which are within the special jurisdiction of the Legislature itself, which has the power to conduct its own business.37)	Reasoning
Besides, the question whether a Bill is a Money Bill or not can be raised only in the State Legislative Assembly by a member thereof when the Bill is pending in the State Legislature and before it becomes an Act.	Reasoning
It is brought to our notice that in the instant case no such question was ever raised by anyone.	None
Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also raised another contention that the Bill was passed only by the Legislative Assembly and not by both the Houses.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, according to him, it was not passed by the Legislative Council and, therefore, the Amendment Act is bad.	Arguments of Petitioner
Chapter III of Part VI of the Constitution deals with the State Legislature.	None
Article 168 relates to constitution of Legislatures in States.	Reasoning
The said Article makes it clear that the State Legislature consists of the Governor, the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council.	Reasoning
After the Governors assent to a Bill, the consequent Act is the Act of the State Legislature without any distinction between its Houses, as projected by the petitioner.	Reasoning
We have also gone through the original records placed by the State and we are satisfied that there is no infirmity in passing of the Bill and the enactment of the Amendment Act, as claimed by the petitioner.40)	Reasoning
Though it is claimed that the Amendment Act could not have been enacted by passing the Bill as a Money Bill because the Act was not enacted by passing the Bill as a Money Bill, as rightly pointed out, there is no such rule that if the Bill in a case of an original Act was not a Money Bill, no subsequent Bill for amendment of the original Act can be a Money Bill.	Reasoning
It is brought to our notice that the Act has been amended earlier by the U.P. Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas (Amendment) Act, 1988 and the same was enacted by passing the Money Bill.	Reasoning
By the said Amendment Act of 1988, Section 5(1) of the Act was amended to provide that the term of the Lokayukta and UpLokayukta shall be six years instead of five years.41)	Facts
With regard to giving effect to the Amendment Act retrospectively, as rightly pointed out by the State, a deeming clause legal fiction must be given full effect and shall be carried to its logical conclusion.	None
As observed in K. Kamaraja Nadar vs. Kunju Thevar AIR 1958 SC 687 , the effect of a legal fiction is that a position which otherwise would not obtain is deemed to obtain under those circumstances.	Reasoning
The materials placed clearly show that the Amendment Act has been enacted by a competent legislature with legislative intent to provide a term of eight years to Lokayukta and UpLokayukta, whether present or future, to ensure effective implementation of the Act.	Reasoning
We are also satisfied that the aforesaid extension of the term of Lokayukta and UpLokayukta from six years to eight years is a matter of legislative policy and it cannot be narrowed down by saying that the same was enacted only for the benefit of Respondent No. 2.	Reasoning
As discussed above, the decision of the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly that the Bill in question was a Money Bill is final and the said decision cannot be disputed nor can the procedure of the State Legislature be questioned by virtue of Article 212.	Reasoning
Further, as noted earlier, Article 252 also shows that under the Constitution the matters of procedure do not render invalid an Act to which assent has been given to by the President or the Governor, as the case may be.	Reasoning
Inasmuch as the Bill in question was a Money Bill, the contrary contention by the petitioner against the passing of the said Bill by the Legislative Assembly alone is unacceptable.	Reasoning
In the light of the above discussion, we hold that Respondent No. 2 is duly holding the office of Lokayukta, U.P. under a valid law enacted by the competent legislature, viz., the Uttar Pradesh Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas Act, 1975 as amended by the Uttar Pradesh Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas (Amendment) Act, 2012.	Decision
However, we direct the State to take all endeavors for selecting the new incumbent for the office of Lokayukta and UpLokayuktas as per the provisions of the Act preferably within a period of six months from today.44)	Decision
Under these circumstances, all the writ petitions filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India before this Court are dismissed.	Decision
The appeal filed by the State of U.P. and the T.C.(C) No. 74 of 2013 are disposed of on the above terms.	Decision
Inasmuch as we have not gone into the merit of the decisions taken by Respondent No. 2 Lokayukta, the matters questioning those decisions which are pending in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad Lucknow Bench are to be disposed of on merits in the light of the above conclusion upholding the Amendment Act of 2012.	Decision
Accordingly, the transfer petitions are disposed of.	Decision
