 T. Thomas,	None
J. Special leave granted.	None
A subtenant, who was not party to a decree for eviction, resisted execution of the decree and the court ordered an inquiry under Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Code for short).	Issue
The High Court of Calcutta upheld that order and that is challenged in this appeal.	Issue
The suit property is a flat in Harrington Mansion situated on an important road at Calcutta.	Facts
It was in the ownership of one Arun Kumar Jalan.	Facts
He tenanted the premises to Rajiv Trust (first respondent) on 15.5.1975, who sublet the building to a company M s. Accounting and Secretarial Service Private Limited (which will hereinafter be referred to as the first sub tenant).	Facts
Subsequently the first subtenant created another subtenancy under it in favour of second respondent M s. Capstain Shipping Estate Private Limited.3.	Facts
Ownership of the building changed from Arun Kumar Jalan and it now vests with the Silverline Forum Private Limited, (the appellant herein) as per registered conveyance deed dated 24.1.1995.	Facts
Appellant filed a suit for ejectment of the tenant against first respondent under the provisions of West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the W.B. Act) on two grounds.	Facts
First is that the tenant respondent had sublet the building without the consent of the landlord and second is that the tenant used it in such a manner as to impair its condition.	Facts
A decree for ejectment was passed exparte on 12.12.1995.	Facts
Before appellant set out with execution proceedings second respondent subtenant filed a suit (O.S. No. 2997/97) against appellant and some others for a declaration and consequential injunction orders.	Facts
Though initially second respondent got an interim order injunction against ejectment it was subsequently vacated on 15.12.1995, but that suit is still pending.4.	Facts
In the meanwhile appellant moved for execution of the decree of ejectment.	Facts
On 20.3.1996, bailiff of the court went to the premises for effecting delivery of possession, but he was resisted by the representatives of the second respondent and he reported the matter to the court.	Facts
When he was again directed by the court to effect delivery of possession with police help, he was unable to dispossess second respondent as the execution court had stayed dispossession in the meantime.	Facts
Second respondent filed Miscellaneous Case 556 of 1996 before the execution court quoting Order 21 Rule 101 and Section 151 of the Code, raising a contention that the decree was passed without making him a party and alleging that the decree was obtained in collusion between appellant and first respondent Rajiv Trust.	Facts
Execution court, however, held that second respondent being a third party resistor cannot avail himself of the remedy provided in Order 21 Rule 101 of the Code.	Facts
Nevertheless the court ordered an inquiry to be conducted under Section 151 of the Code into the allegations made by the second respondent, as per its order dated 26.4.1976.	Facts
Both sides, appellant and second respondent, were aggrieved by that order and hence both of them challenged it in revision before the High Court.5.	Facts
A learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court concurred with the view of the execution court that grievances of the second respondent cannot be canalized through Order 21 Rule 101 presumably because the decreeholder has not moved the application for police help to remove the resistance under Order 21 Rule 97 of the Code.	Facts
Nonetheless, learned Single Judge observed that the application of second respondent could be gone into by the court in accordance with the inherent powers of the court as recognised in Section 51 of the Code.	Facts
On the said view of the matter both revisions were dismissed by the order which is under challenge now.6.	Facts
Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray, learned senior counsel who argued for the contesting parties, did not choose to defend the view of the learned Single Judge of the High Court regarding nonavailability of the remedy under Order 21 Rule 97 of the Code.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel though he could not agree with that reasoning of the High Court there is no warrant for the stand of the decreeholder that the respondent had no legal right to assail the decree in execution proceedings.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Kapil Sibal, leaned senior counsel for the appellantdecreeholder, on the other hand contended that since second respondent has admitted that he is a subtenant under the first subtenant he cannot even he heard that the decree for ejectment is a nullity or a collusive decree.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that even the first subtenant has never assailed that decree and hence second respondent, who is a subtenant under the first subtenant, has no competence to question the decree for ejectment.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the outset, we may observe that it is difficult to agree with the High Court that resistance or obstructions made by a third party to the decree of execution cannot be gone into under Order 21 Rule 97 of the Code.	None
Rules 97 to 106 in Order 21 of the Code are subsumed under the caption Resistance to delivery of possession to decreeholder or purchaser.	None
Those rules are intended to deal with every sort of resistance or obstructions offered by any person.	None
Rule 97 specifically provides that when the holder of a decree for possession of immovable property is resisted or obstructed by any person in obtaining possession of the property such decreeholder has to make an application complaining of the resistance or obstruction.	None
Subrule (2) makes it incumbent on the court to proceed to adjudicate upon such complaint in accordance with the procedure laid down.	None
It is true that Rule 99 of Order 21 is not available to any person until he is dispossessed of immovable property by the decreeholder.	Reasoning
Rule 101 stipulates that all questions arising between the parties to a proceeding on an application under Rule 97 or Rule 99 shall be determined by the executing court, if such questions are relevant to the adjudication of the application.	Reasoning
A third party to the decree who offers resistance would thus fall within the ambit of Rule 101 if an adjudication is warranted as a consequence of the resistance or obstruction made by him to the execution of the decree.	Reasoning
No doubt if the resistance was made by a transferee pendente lite of the judgment debtor, the scope of the adjudication would be shrunk to the limited question whether he is such transferee and on a finding in the affirmative regarding that point the execution court has to hold that he has no right to resist in view of the clear language contained in Rule 102.	Reasoning
Exclusion of such a transferee from raising further contentions is based on the salutary principle adumbrated in Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Reasoning
When a decreeholder complains of resistance to the execution of a decree it is incumbent on the execution court to adjudicate upon it.	None
But while making adjudication, the court is obliged to determine only such questions as may be arising between the parties to a proceeding on such complaint and that such questions must be relevant to the adjudication of the complaint.	None
The words all questions arising between the parties to a proceeding on an application under Rule 97 would envelops only such questions as would legally arise for determination between those parties.	None
In other words, the court is not obliged to determine a question merely because the resistor raised it.	None
The questions which executing court is obliged to determine under Rule 101, must possess two adjuncts.	None
First is that such questions should have legally arisen between the parties, and the second is, such questions must be relevant for consideration and determination between the parties, e.g. if the obstructor admits that he is a transferee pendente lite it is not necessary to determine a question raised by him that the was unaware of litigation when he purchased the property.	None
Similarly, a third party, who questions the validity of a transfer made by a decreeholder to an assignee, cannot claim that the question regarding its validity should be decided during execution proceedings.	None
Hence, it is necessary that the questions raised by the resistor or the obstructor must legally arise between him and the decreeholder.	None
In the adjudication process envisaged in Order 21 Rule 97(2) of the Code, execution court can decide whether the question raised by a resistor or obstructor legally arises between the parties.	None
An answer to the said question also would be the result of the adjudication contemplated in the subsection.	None
In the above context we may refer to Order 21 Rule 35(1) which reads thus Where a decree is for the delivery of any immovable property, possession thereof shall be delivered to the party to whom it has been adjudged, or to such person as he may appoint to receive delivery on his behalf, and, if necessary, by removing any person bound by the decree who refuses to vacate the property.	None
It is clear that executing court can decide whether the resistor or obstructor is a person bound by the decree and he refuses to vacate the property.	Reasoning
That question also squarely falls within the adjudicatory process contemplated in Order 21 Rule 97(2) of the Code.	Reasoning
The adjudication mentioned therein need not necessarily involve a detailed enquiry or collection of evidence.	Reasoning
Court can make the adjudication on admitted facts or even on the averments made by the resistor.	Reasoning
Of course the Court can direct the parties to adduce evidence for such determination if the Court deems if necessary.	Reasoning
In Bhanwar Lal v. Satyanarain and anr., 1995(1) SCC 6, a three Judge Bench has stated as under A reading of Order 21, Rule 97 CPC clearly envisages that any person even including the judgmentdebtor irrespective whether he claims derivative title from the judgmentdebtor or set up his own right, title or interest de hors the judgmentdebtor and he resists execution of a decree, then the court in addition to the power under Rule 35(3) has been empowered to conduct an enquiry whether the obstruction by that person in obtaining possession of immovable property was legal or not.	None
The degreeholder gets a right under Rule 97 to make an application against third parties to have his obstruction removed and an enquiry thereon could be done.	None
In Brahmdeo Chaudhary v. Rishikesh Prasad Jaiswal and another, 1997(1) RCR (Rent) 332 1997(3) SCC 694, this Court, following the aforesaid decision, made the underquoted observation It is pertinent to note that the resistance and or obstruction to possession of immovable property as contemplated by Order 21, Rule 97 CPC could have been offered by any person.	None
The words any person as contemplated by Order 21, Rule 97, subrule (1) are comprehensive enough to include apart from judgmentdebtor or anyone claiming through him even persons claiming independently and who would, therefore, be total strangers to the decree.	None
Consequently it must be held that Respondent 1s application dated 6.5.1991 though seeking only reissuance of warrant for delivery of possesson with aid of armed force in substance sought to bypass the previous resistance and obstruction offered by the appellant on the spot.	None
Thus it was squarely covered by the sweep of Order 21, Rule 97, subrule (1) CPC.	None
Once that happened the procedure laid down by subrule (2) thereof had to be followed by the executing court.	None
The Court had to proceed to adjudicate upon the application in accordance with the subsequent provisions contained in the said order.	None
We are in respectful agreement with the aforesaid statement of law.17.	Reasoning
We, therefore, agree with the contention of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray, learned senior counsel for the second respondent that the High Court went wrong in holding that the contention of second respondent cannot be considered under Order 21 Rule 97 of the Code.	Reasoning
But the aforesaid finding is not sufficient to dispose of this appeal.18.	Reasoning
Shri Kapil Sibal contended that second respondent being a subtenant under the first subtenant he is bound by the decree of ejectment albeit his not being made a party to the suit in which the decree was passed.	Reasoning
It is quite clear that second respondent is a tenant under the first subtenant.	Reasoning
This can be gathered from paragraph 6 of the application which second respondent filed in the execution court.	Reasoning
Such a subtenant as the second respondent is bound by the decree of ejectment.	None
Section 16 of the W.B. Act deals with creation and termination of subtenancies to be notified.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 16 relates to sub tenancies created after the commencement of the W.B. Act.	None
Subsection (2) and (3) deal with subtenancies created before the commencement of the W.B. Act.	None
As all the subtenancies in this cae were created after the commencement of the W.B. Act it is not necessary to consider the latter two subsections.	None
Hence Section 16(1) alone is extracted below Where after the commencement of this Act, any premises are sublet either in whole or in part by the tenant with the previous consent in writing of the landlord, the tenant and every subtenant to whom the premises are sublet shall give notice to the landlord in the prescribed manner of the creation of the subtenancy within one month from the date of such subletting and shall in the prescribed manner notify the termination of such subtenancy within one month of such termination.	None
A reading of the subsection reveals that three additional requisites are also necessary for a subtenant to get wiggled into the contours of the sub section.	None
They are (1) the subtenancy should have been created after the commencement of the W.B. Act (2) the landlord of the premises should have given written permission to the tenant to create such subtenancy (3) the tenant and the subtenant should have notified the landlord of the creation of subtanancy within one month of such creation.	None
Section 16(2) and 16(3) deal with subtenants who got into possession before commencement of the West Bengal Act, and they too are obliged to notify the landlord within the time specified.	None
The subtenants who secure perch in Section 16 are afforded with two advantages during any action which the landlord may launch for eviction of the tenant.	None
Those advantages are incorporated in Section 13(2) of the W.B. Act.	None
One of them is that such subtenant is entitled to be made a party to the suit for recovery of the premises by the landlord.	None
Second is that no decree or order for ejectment shall be passed against such subtenant except under certain specified conditions.	None
Thus subsection (2) of Section 13 and Section 16 of the W.B. Act are inextricably intertwined with each other.	None
Subsection (4) of section 13 of the W.B. Act has no relevance in the present case as it only deals with the claim of a landlord for eviction on the ground that he reasonably requires the premises either for his own occupation or for the purposes of renovation, rebuiliding etc.	None
Now, we may refer to subsection (3) of Section 13 of the W.B. Act.	None
It read thus Save as provided in subsection (2) and subsection (4), a degree or order of the delivery of possession of any premises shall be binding on every sub tenant.	None
It is the statutory mandate that the decree for ejectment shall be binding on every subtenant unless he falls within the ambit of either subsection (2) or subsection (4) of Section 13.	Reasoning
There is no case for the second respondent that he has given any notice to the landlord before the expiry of the time schedule fixed in Section 16 of the Act.	Reasoning
Nor has he a case that he would fall within the purview of the aforesaid two subsections in Section 13 of the W.B. Act.24.	Reasoning
Of course, learned counsel for second respondent contended that the instrument of lease as between Arun Kumar Jalan and M s. Rajiv Trust contained a term permitting the tenant to create subtenancy.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellant argued that such permission cannot be overborrowed by subtenants to create further subtenancies, and he pointed out that even second respondent has no claim that he has notified the landlord as envisaged in Section 16(1) of the W.B. Act.25.	Reasoning
It is clear from Section 16(1) of the W.B. Act that the previous consent of the landlord contemplated therein can on be availed of by his tenant.	Reasoning
In other words, the tenant under the landlord can use that consent to sublet the premises to another person.	Reasoning
A lease between the tenant and his subtenant would be governed by the terms agreed upon between them and the tenant cannot bind his landlord by any such terms.	Reasoning
In Shantilal Rampuria and ors.	None
v. M s. Vega Trading Corporation and ors., 1989(1) R.C.R. (Rent) 268 1989(3) SCC 552, a twoJudge Bench of this Court considered the scope of Section 16 of the W.B. Act and held that previous consent in writing of the landlord with respect to each subletting separately is essential and a general authority to the tenant in this regard will not be sufficient in law.	None
In that case, none of the subtenants was impleaded as party, and this Court held that since notice under Section 16 was not served on the landlord the nonimpleadment will not affect validity of the proceedings for eviction.	None
Their Lordships sought support from another two Judge Bench decision of this Court in M s. Shalimar Tar Products Ltd. v. H.C. Sharma and ors.	None
1988(1)	Reasoning
SCC 70 1987(2) RCR (Rent) 671, in which similar provisions in the Delhi Rent Control Act were considered.	None
In Juthika Mulick and anr.	None
v. Dr. Mahendra Yashwant Bali and ors., 1995(10) SCC 560 1995(1) RCR 81, provisions of W.B. Act were the subject matter for consideration, but nothing contrary to the decision in Shantilal Rampuria (supra) has been stated by this Court.	None
Reference was also made to the decision in Mahabir Prasad Verma v. Dr. Surinder Kaur, 1982(1) RCR (Rent) 615 1982(2) SCC 258.	None
Though it related to the provisions of East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949, the question considered was whether a subtenancy created with the consent of the landlord during the subsistence of the tenancy would continue to be lawful even after the expiry of the period of lease.	None
The answer was in the affirmative.	None
At any rate that decision does not run counter to the view adopted by the twoJudge Bench in Shantilal Rampuria (supra).	None
Thus, without any difficulty, it can be held that consent given by the landlord to his tenant for creation of the subtenancy is valid only between the landlord and his tenant.	Reasoning
Such consent cannot be used by a subtenant to create another subtenancy under him so as to bind the landlord.	Reasoning
For the aforementioned reasons, we allow this appeal and set aside the order under challenge.	Decision
We hold that appellant is entitled to delivery of possession by removing the obstruction resistance made by the second respondent.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
