 K. Goswami, J.1.	None
This Judgment will govern Writ Petitions Nos. 517 of 1972 and 240 of 1973.2.	Issue
The applications are directed against what is described as a Housing Accommodation Scheme sanctioned by the Indore Improvement Trust (briefly the Trust) under the Madhya Pradesh Town Improvement Trust Act 1960 (briefly the Act).	Issue
Brief facts of Writ Petition No. 517 of 1972 may alone be sufficient.	Facts
There was an earlier attempt to acquire the land of the petitioner by sanctioning a scheme in July 1961 but the same was cancelled some time in September 1962.	Facts
The petitioner personally wanted to develop his land for industrial purposes and with that end in view obtained No Objection Certificates from various Government Departments as well as from the Trust.	Facts
The petitioner also succeeded in converting his patta from agricultural purpose to industrial purpose subject inter alia to the limitation that the construction work on the land shall be carried out in accordance with the plans sanctioned by the same Improvement Trust (Annexure G).	Facts
Later, however, the petitioner found from a letter for the Trust of October 26, 1964 that a scheme was being approved for his land and other neighbouring lands and, therefore, the Trust was unable to issue the No Objection Certificate for development of his land on individual basis.	Facts
The Trust framed a Scheme No. 62 under Section 46 (1) of the Act and published a notice to that effect in the Gazette and in local newspapers in January 1965.	Facts
The Scheme includes the land of the petitioner.	Facts
The representations which the petitioner made against the Scheme were of no avail.	Facts
The trust served a notice dated February 10, 1965, upon the petitioner under Section 48 (1) of the Act proposing to acquire his land for the purpose of the Scheme.	Facts
The petitioner submitted his objections on April 15, 1965, stating inter alia that the land was being developed into industrial area and several small scale industries were functioning there and as such development was already in progress.	Facts
It was also stated that the land having been put to the use of industrial purposes could not be reconverted for the purposes of housing accommodation.	Facts
It was further stated that the land was mortgaged to the State Bank for about Rs. 2 lakhs and the compensation that would be required to be paid by the Trust would be necessarily higher than in the case of other suitable vacant lands.	Facts
The petitioner was given a hearing but ultimately the representations were rejected.	Facts
The Trust duly applied to the State Government for sanction of the Scheme which was accorded on April 19, 1968, under Sec.	Facts
51 of the Act.	Facts
The Trust published a notice dated July 12, 1968, under Sec.	Facts
68 (1) of the Act declaring its intention to acquire the land.	Facts
The petitioner filed his objections under Section 68 (2) against the proposed acquisition of the land but these were rejected and the Trust obtained sanction of the State Government (respondent No. 2) to acquire the land under Sec.	Facts
70 of the Act.	Facts
and the Notification was duly published on September 27, 1968.	Facts
Thereafter the Trust published a Notification in the Government Gazette dated September 8, 1972, acquiring the said land and under Section 71 (2) of the Act the land vested absolutely with the Trust free from encumbrances from the date of the publication.	Facts
Before the Trust could take possession of the petitioners land, he filed the writ application under Art.	Facts
32 of the Constitution and obtained Rule Nisi and interim stay of dispossession was granted pending disposal of the matter.3.	Facts
The following are the common submissions made on behalf of the petitioners1.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Housing Accommodation Scheme is invalid because it does not specify the class of inhabitants for whom the same has been made.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Scheme being a Housing Accommodation Scheme, it is for residential occupation only and it is not competent to include plans for industrial purposes.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 31 of the Act does not empower the Trust to frame a scheme for industrial purposes at all4.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no application of the mind in terms of Section 45 in making the Scheme.5.The acquisition of the land for the purpose of the Scheme is mala fide.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the Act makes no provision for payment of interest from the date of delivery of possession of the land to the Trust to the determination of compensation by the Tribunal, acquisition of the land is violative of Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the very outset it should be pointed out that the petitioners have not challenged the vires of any provisions of the Act.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to appreciate the first three submissions, which may be taken up together, we may note a few relevant provisions of the Act.6.	None
Chapter IV of the Act describes the contents of improvement schemes.	None
Section 30 provides that an improvement scheme may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely xx xx	None
xx.(j) the provision for accommodation for any class of inhabitants Section 31 may be set out in full31.	None
Types of improvement schemes.	None
An improvement scheme shall be of one of the following types or may combine any two or more of such types or any special features thereof.that is to say .(a)	None
a general improvement scheme(b) a rebuilding scheme(c) a rehousing scheme(d) a street scheme(e) a deferred street scheme(f) a development scheme(g) a housing accommodation scheme(h) a town expansion scheme(I) a drainage or drainage including sewage disposal scheme and(j) a playground, stadium and recreation ground schemeSection 38.	None
Housing accommodation scheme.	None
Whenever the Trust is of opinion that it is expedient.	None
and for the public advantage to provide housing accommodation for any class of the inhabitants within the Trust area, the Trust may frame a housing accommodation scheme for such purpose.	None
Section 39.	None
Town expansion scheme  (1)	None
Whenever the Trust is of opinion that it is expedient and for the public advantage to control and provide for the future improvement or expansion of a town to which this Act is applicable, the Trust may frame a town expansion scheme for such town.	None
(3) Such scheme shall show the methods in which it is proposed to lay out the area to be developed and the purposes for which the particular areas are to be utilised.x x x x7.	None
It is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that the impugned Scheme is not a housing accommodation scheme under Section 38 but a scheme purely for industrial purposes.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that there is no reference in the Scheme to the class of inhabitants within the Trust area for whose accommodation the Scheme has been framed under Section 38.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since it is a housing accommodation scheme it cannot include plans for industrial purposes.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument fails to take count of Section 31 which permits in terms for combining two or more schemes or supplementing some special features of a particular scheme in another scheme.	Reasoning
In other words Sec.	Reasoning
31 envisages composite schemes.	Reasoning
Section 39 which provides for a town expansion scheme authorises under subsection (3) to indicate the method of layout as well as the purposes for which particular areas under the scheme may be utilised.	Reasoning
This Section goes to show that there is no legal bar in framing a housing accommodation scheme with some of the features of a town expansion scheme which will even indicate the purposes for which particular areas may be utilised.	Reasoning
There is nothing in the Act to ban industrial purposes from consideration under Section 39 (3).	Reasoning
The fact that a scheme is described merely as housing accommodation scheme does not prevent the adaptation of the scheme to the incidental requirements which may be overlapping in another scheme.	Reasoning
We are also not satisfied that housing accommodation scheme must necessarily be a residential scheme only and that it cannot admit of providing housing accommodation for any other purpose or object.	Reasoning
The Madhya Pradesh High Court took the same view in Beni Prasad Tandan v. Jabalpur Improvement Trust.	None
Jabalpur, 1970 MPLJ 292  (AIR 1970 Madh Pra 191).9.	None
Again it is difficult to appreciate how Section 31 prevents the Trust from framing an industrial scheme.	Reasoning
We do not find anything in section 31 or in any of the provisions of the Act disabling the Trust from framing a scheme for industrial purposes.	Reasoning
To mention only Section 39, it is clear that under that section a town expansion scheme may be framed even without the limits of the town and that would indicate that a town expansion scheme may envisage industrial expansion to meet the growing needs of the community.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not see any substance in the aforesaid three submissions on behalf of the petitioners.10.	Reasoning
With regard to the fourth submission of the petitioners, it is difficult to accept the same.	Reasoning
Section 45 requires certain matters specified in (a) to (c) therein to be considered when framing an improvement scheme.	Reasoning
The specified matters touch on the inherent utility, efficiency and adequacy of the scheme and the objections and representations of the persons affected will be directed to negative such assumptions.	Reasoning
The Scheme in question was open to inspection.	Reasoning
There was no ambiguity or vagueness about the Scheme or its purposes.	Reasoning
From even the nature of the representations and objections it is apparent that the Trust did have all relevant matters in their mind in framing the Scheme.	Reasoning
Indeed without actually taking into consideration the various matters specified in Sec.	Reasoning
45 it may not be possible to frame a scheme and finally to obtain sanction of the Government in the teeth of objections and representations against the same.	Reasoning
Where factual satisfaction is evident formal recitals being omitted may not matter.	Reasoning
At any rate subsection (2) of Section 52 puts a final seal of imprimatur on the scheme after publication of the sanction of the Government.	Reasoning
The submission is, therefore, devoid of merit.11.	Reasoning
With regard to the fifth submission, which is actually urged by the petitioner in Writ Petition No. 517 of 1972, we are not satisfied that the acquisition of the land for the purpose of the present Scheme is mala fide.	Reasoning
It is submitted that the Trust by formulating the present Scheme had an oblique motive to change the ownership of the land already under a private scheme for development to let it out to tenants who will run the existing enterprises already started on the land.	Reasoning
We are not satisfied that any oblique motive can be attributed to the Trust in making the impugned Scheme.	Reasoning
It is clear that the land was originally owned by the petitioner for agricultural purpose and when he obtained a patta converting it to industrial purpose, it was clearly made subject to a condition that construction work on the land shall be carried out in accordance with the plans sanctioned by the Trust.	Reasoning
The petitioner had been given reasonable opportunity to submit representations and was given a hearing by a Committee constituted under the Act.	Reasoning
The State Government on the application of the Trust examined the Scheme and sanctioned the acquisition of the land under Sec. 70 when it was satisfied that the acquisition was in public interest.	Reasoning
There is no particular allegation of mala fide against the State Government whose sanction was a prerequisite for the acquisition.	Reasoning
The order of acquisition cannot, therefore, be characterised as mala fide and the submission fails.12.	Reasoning
With regard to the sixth and last submission there was a good deal of argument at the bar.	Reasoning
The respondents urged that this point was not specifically taken in the petitions Under Section 72 (1) of the Act where any land is acquired by the Trust it shall pay for such acquisition compensation the amount of which shall be determined in accordance with the provisions hereinafter contained.	Reasoning
Under Section 73 a Tribunal is constituted for the purpose of determining the amount of compensation.	Reasoning
Section 77 provides for matters to be considered for determining compensation, namely, firstly, the market value of the land at the date of the publication of the notification under subsection (1) of Section 68 and six other factors.	Reasoning
It is also provided in the same section that the Tribunal shall not take into consideration certain factors mentioned under eight heads.	Reasoning
Under subsection (2) of Section 77 in addition to the market value of the land as above provided the Tribunal, shall in every case award a sum of fifteen per centum on such marketvalue in consideration of the compulsory nature of the acquisition.	Reasoning
There being no provision for payment of interest from the date of compulsory acquisition of the land up to the date of payment, acquisition, it is submitted, is invalid in law.13.	Reasoning
It is true that there is no provision for awarding interest unlike under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (see Sections 28 and 34 of that Act).	None
It is, however, submitted on behalf of the respondents that there is no bar under the Act against awarding interest by the Tribunal even though there is no enabling express provision to that effect under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that the Tribunal under Section 78 exercises powers for summoning witnesses and enforcing attendance etc.	Arguments of Respondent
in the same manner as provided in the case of civil courts under the Code of Civil Procedure.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Section 147 an appeal from the Tribunal lies to the High Court in cases where the value of the claim exceeds Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
500/	Arguments of Respondent
and in any other case to the District Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, therefore, submitted that the Tribunal is empowered even as a civil court to award interest under Section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code, however, authorises the court to award interest from the date of the suit to the date of the decree and thereafter to the date of payment Section 34 therefore, would not come to the aid of the Tribunal to award interest from the date of delivery of possession of the land to the date of determination of compensation.14.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents relied upon the decision of this Court in Satinder Singh v. Amrao Singh, (1961) 3	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 676 (AIR 1961 SC 908 ).	Arguments of Respondent
In this case this Court had to deal with Section 5 (e) of the East Punjab Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property (Temporary Powers) Act, 1948 (briefly the Punjab Act) which, provided that an Arbitrator in making his award shall have regard to the provisions of subsection (1) of Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act 1894 so far as the same can be made applicable.	None
The submission in that case was that since subsection (1) of Section 23 is alone mentioned, subsection (2) of Section 23 is impliedly excluded and necessarily also section 28 and section 34 stand excluded.	None
The argument, therefore, was that the Tribunal was not empowered to award interest under the Punjab Act.	None
Repelling the said argument this Court held as followsIt would be legitimate to hold that by the application of Section 23 (1) in terms the provisions of S. 23 (2) are by necessary implication excluded.	None
If the Legislative has provided that only one part of Section 23 should be applied it would be reasonable to hold that the other part of Section 23 was not intended to be applied but we do not see how it would be reasonable to hold that by the application of Section 23 (1) the principles underlying the provisions of Ss. 28 and 34 are also excluded.	None
Therefore, it is necessary to examine this question on general grounds and principles without assuming that the application of these general considerations is excluded by any of the provisions of the Act.	None
This Court finally held as followsThe power to award interest on equitable grounds or under any other provisions of the law is expressly saved by the proviso to Section 1 (of the Interest Act 1839)We have already seen that the right to receive interest in lieu of possession of immovable property taken away either by private treaty or by compulsory acquisition is generally regarded by judicial decisions as an equitable right and so, the proviso to Sec.	None
1 of the Interest Act saves the said right.	None
The Court in that case, therefore awarded interest to the claimants.15.	None
The petitioners on the other hand drew our attention to a decision of this Court in the Godhra Electricity Co. Ltd. v. The State of Gujarat.	Arguments of Petitioner
AIR 1975 SC 32 where one of us.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mathew J. speaking for the Court held as followsThere can be no doubt about the correctness of the general rule under which a purchaser who takes possession is charged with interest on his purchase money from that time until it is paid.	None
This rule has been applied to compulsory purchases (see (1961) 3	None
SCR 676 (AIR 1961 SC 908 ) (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
But the question is whether the arbitrator has power under the Act to award interest on the purchase Price.	None
In Toronto City Corpn.	None
v. Toronto Rly.	None
Corpn.1925 AC 177 at pp.	None
193194	None
the Privy Council held that the general rule under which a purchaser who takes possession is charged with interest on his purchase money from that time until it is paid was well established and had on many occasions been applied to compulsory purchases but the duty of the arbitrators in that case was not to determine all the rights of the company, but only to ascertain the actual value of certain property at a certain time and that it was a truism to say that such value could not include interest upon it and that the liability for interest lay outside of the arbitration for its enforcement.16.	None
Although in the Godhra Electricity Cos case AIR 1975 SC 32 (supra) the Court has noticed the decision in Satinder Singhs case (1961) 3	None
SCR 676 (AIR 1961 SC 908 ) (supra), it may be observed that the Courts attention in the latter case was not drawn to Section 5 (g) of the Punjab Act to the following effectSave as provided in this section and in any rules thereunder nothing in any law for the time being in force shall apply to arbitration under this section.	None
And the Court, therefore, in that case rendered the decision without assuming that the application of these general considerations is excluded by any of the provisions of the Act.	None
In view of the Godhra Electricity Cos case (supra) it is not possible to hold that the Compensation Tribunal, which is at par with an Arbitrator, will be entitled to award interest without any express provision in the Act.	None
This is particularly so since under the Act the Tribunal is entitled to take into consideration some given factors and to peremptorily ignore certain other specified factors in determining the compensation.	None
It has also been empowered to grant solatium as similarly provided for under the Land Acquisition Act.	None
In the entire scheme of the selfcontained Act, in absence of a provision to authorise the Tribunal to award interest, it is not possible to hold that it can award interest on the amount of compensation determined by the Tribunal subsequent to the acquisition of the land.	None
The petitioners are, therefore, right in their contention that this Act does not provide for awarding interest from the date of taking possession of the property to the date of determination of compensation, which will always be on a later date under the provisions of the Act (see Sections 72 and 73).17.	None
The petitioners, however, have an indirect object.	Reasoning
They are not interested in the interest as such but want the land back and will not be satisfied unless the order of acquisition is quashed.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, however, it is not possible for this Court to quash the acquisition in these cases in absence of a challenge of the vires of the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Presumption of constitutionality will forbid casting an evil eye on the Act in absence of a clear challenge.	Reasoning
The Act must be assumed to be valid for the purpose of these petitions and we will proceed on that basis.	Reasoning
Then law being valid the attack will reverberate upon the quantum of compensation, pure and simple.	Reasoning
It is sufficient to point out that the quantum of compensation which may be determined according to the provisions of the Act for acquisition of the land cannot be challenged under Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter this submission of the learned counsel also fails.18.	Reasoning
In Writ Petition No. 240 of 1973.	Arguments of Petitioner
, Mr. Patel additionally urged that publication of the notice of the Scheme was not made in accordance with Section 46 (2) of the Act which requires weekly publication in the Gazette for three consecutive weeks.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from the fact in this case, that the petitioner was well aware of the Scheme and submitted objections and representations, Section 52 (2) appears to be conclusive on the question.	Reasoning
That subsection provides that the publication of notification by the State Government sanctioning the scheme shall be conclusive evidence that the scheme has been duly framed and sanctioned.	Reasoning
In view of this, ticklish skirmishes over publication on technical grounds at a distant date are completely out of place.	Reasoning
The submission is devoid of merit.19.	Reasoning
In the result both the Writ Petitions fail and are dismissed with no order as to costs.20.	Decision
We should observe that Mr. Shroff pointed out that in view of the decision of the Supreme Court in Satinder Singhs case (1961) 3	Decision
SCR 676 (AIR 1961 SC 908 (supra) and another decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Lakhanlal, v. Town Improvement Trust, Jabalpur 1970 MPLJ 316 , the Tribunal has been always awarding interest in acquisition cases under the Act and he undertakes on behalf of the respondents, irrespective of our decision, to pay interest to the petitioners at 6 per annum from the date of actual delivery of possession upto the date of payment of the compensation.21.	Decision
Petitions dismissed.	None
