Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 20.1.2004 in C.M.W.P.	Issue
No. 22420 of 2001 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, by which it has affirmed the judgment and orders passed by the Board of Revenue and other revenue officials in respect of the recovery of bank dues from the appellants as their predecessorininterest was the guarantor of bank loan.	Issue
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this case are that One Ganga Prasad had taken an agricultural loan to the tune of Rs.8,425/ from the Union Bank of India (Banda Branch) on 20.3.1982 and Chuni Lal, father of the appellants stood guarantor.	Facts
Ganga Prasad, debtor died in 1985 and Chuni Lal died in 1986.	Facts
Chuni Lal could not pay the loan during his life time.	Facts
Therefore, the bank initiated the proceedings for recovery and ultimately sent the matter to the District Collector, Banda for realisation of the loan amount as an arrear of land revenue.	Facts
B.	Facts
The Collector issued citation recovery certificate on 13.1.19986 for an amount of Rs.10,574.45 plus 10 collection charges against Ganga Prasad.	Facts
C.	Facts
In order to make the recovery, land measuring 3 bigha 2 biswas belonging to said Ganga Prasad was put to auction and it could fetch only a sum of Rs.6,000/.	Facts
In order to recover the balance amount the proceedings were initiated against the appellants as their father stood guarantor.	Facts
It is evident from the record that the appellants raised objections that instead of putting their property to auction, the loan amount be recovered from legal heirs of Ganga Prasad as he had left movable immovable properties and livestocks and other assets to meet the recovery of the bank loan.	Facts
Their objections were not accepted and the land of the appellants measuring 1 bigha and 10 biswas was put to auction on 15.3.1993.	Facts
Respondent No. 4 purchased the said land for Rs.25,000/. In respect of the same, sale was confirmed and sale certificate was issued by the Collector in favour of respondent No.4 and he was put in possession.	Facts
D. Appellants raised various objections under the provisions of U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1952 before the Commissioner, Jhansi, but their objections stood rejected vide order dated 27.7.1992 only on the ground of delay as the objections were not filed within limitation and no sufficient cause could be shown for inordinate delay.	Facts
E. Aggrieved, the appellants approached the Board of Revenue, U.P. by filing Revision No. 2 Cell/9293.	Facts
However, the same was dismissed vide order dated 20.3.2001 as the Revisional Authority did not accept the explanation for condonation of delay.	Facts
F. Aggrieved, the appellants approached the High Court challenging the said revisional order of the Commissioner by filing Writ Petition No. 22420 of 2001 which has been dismissed vide impugned judgment dated 20.1.2004.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	None
Shri D.K. Garg, learned counsel appearing for the appellants has submitted that no recovery could have been made from the appellants as Ganga Prasad debtor had left huge movable immovable properties and other livestocks which could satisfy the demand of the bank loan.	Arguments of Petitioner
More so, there were two guarantors and father of the appellants was not the only guarantor.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the entire liability of the remaining unpaid amount could not have been fastened upon them.	Arguments of Petitioner
The properties of the appellants were worth rupees two lakhs which had been sold in auction at a throwaway price of Rs.25,000/ only, that too, without following procedure prescribed by law.	Arguments of Petitioner
For recovery of the balance amount of loan, only a part of the suit land could be sold.	Arguments of Petitioner
The objections filed by the appellants had been rejected by all the authorities courts below on the ground of delay without considering the same on merit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the said orders are liable to be set aside and appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Mr. T.N. Singh, learned counsel appearing for respondent No.4 has submitted that the grievance of the appellants that they could not be fastened with the total liability of unpaid loan amount had not been raised before the courts below.	Arguments of Respondent
The liability of the guarantor is coextensive with that of debtor.	Arguments of Respondent
The auction sale has been confirmed and sale certificate has been issued in favour of respondent No.4.	Arguments of Respondent
He had been put in possession more than two decades ago and since then he has made a lot of developments and improved the land.	Arguments of Respondent
The auction was held fairly and the property had fetched a fair price.	Arguments of Respondent
Real brother of the appellant No.1 himself had participated in the auction and given the bid for Rs.20,000/, though respondent No.4 had purchased it for Rs.25,000/. Thus, it is not permissible that the appellants should canvass that the auction has not been conducted fairly or appellants had not been given chance to bring the best buyer or a part of the property could be sold to meet the demand.	Arguments of Respondent
The appeal lacks merit and is liable to be dismissed.5.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
There can be no dispute to the settled legal proposition of law that in view of the provisions of Section 128 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter called the Contract Act), the liability of the guarantor surety is coextensive with that of the debtor.	None
Therefore, the creditor has a right to obtain a decree against the surety and the principal debtor.	None
The surety has no right to restrain execution of the decree against him until the creditor has exhausted his remedy against the principal debtor for the reason that it is the business of the surety guarantor to see whether the principal debtor has paid or not.	None
The surety does not have a right to dictate terms to the creditor as how he should make the recovery and pursue his remedies against the principal debtor at his instance.	None
(Vide The Bank of Bihar Ltd. v. Dr. Damodar Prasad Anr., AIR 1969 SC 297 MaharashtraState Electricity Board, Bombay v. The Official Liquidator, High Court, Ernakulam Anr., AIR 1982 SC 1497 Union Bank of India v. Manku Narayana, AIR 1987 SC 1078 and State Bank of India v. Messrs.	None
Indexport Registered Ors., AIR 1992 SC 1740 ).	None
In State Bank of India v. M s. Saksaria Sugar Mills Ltd.	None
Ors., AIR 1986 SC 868 , this Court while considering the provisions of Section 128 of the Contract Act held that liability of a surety is immediate and is not deferred until the creditor exhausts his remedies against the principal debtor.	None
(See also Industrial Investment Bank of India Ltd. v. Biswasnath Jhunjhunwala, (2009) 9 SCC 478 and United Bank of India v. Satyawati Tondon Ors., AIR 2010 SC 3413 ).	None
Section 146 of the Contract Act provides that cosureties are liable to contribute equally.	None
Thus, in case there are more than one surety guarantor, they have to share the liability equally unless the agreement of contract provides otherwise.	None
RECOVERY OF PUBLIC DUES Undoubtedly, public money should be recovered and recovery should be made expeditiously.	None
But it does not mean that the financial institutions which are concerned only with the recovery of their loans, may be permitted to behave like property dealers and be permitted further to dispose of the secured assets in any unreasonable or arbitrary manner in flagrant violation of statutory provisions.	None
A right to hold property is a constitutional right as well as a human right.	None
A person cannot be deprived of his property except in accordance with the provisions of statute.	None
(Vide Lachhman Dass v. Jagat Ram Ors., (2007) 10 SCC 448 and Narmada Bachao Andolan v. State of Madhya Pradesh Anr., AIR 2011 SC 1589).	None
Thus, the condition precedent for taking away someones property or disposing of the secured assets, is that the authority must ensure compliance of the statutory provisions.	None
In case the property is disposed of by private treaty without adopting any other mode provided under the statutory rules etc., there may be a possibility of collusion fraud and even when public auction is held, the possibility of collusion among the bidders cannot bee ruled out.	None
In The State of Orissa Ors. v. Harinarayan Jaiswal Ors., AIR 1972 SC 1816 , this Court held that a highest bidder in public auction cannot have a right to get the property or any privilege, unless the authority confirms the auction sale, being fully satisfied that the property has fetched the appropriate price and there has been no collusion between the bidders.	None
In Haryana Financial Corporation Anr.	None
v. Jagdamba Oil Mills Anr.,	None
AIR 2002 SC 834 , this Court considered this aspect and while placing reliance upon its earlier judgment in Chairman and Managing Director, SIPCOT Madras Ors.	None
v. Contromix Pvt.	None
Ltd. by its Director (Finance) Seeetharaman, Madras Anr., AIR 1995 SC 1632 held that in the matter of sale of public property, the dominant consideration is to secure the best price for the property to be sold.	None
This can be achieved only when there is maximum public participation in the process of sale and everybody has an opportunity of making an offer.	None
Therefore, it becomes a legal obligation on the part of the authority that property be sold in such a manner that it may fetch the best price.	None
Thus essential ingredients of such sale remain a correct valuation report and fixing the reserve price.	None
In case proper valuation has not been made and the reserve price is fixed taking into consideration the inaccurate valuation report, the intending buyers may not come forward treating the property as not worth purchase by them, as a moneyed person or a big businessman may not like to involve himself in small sales deals.	None
VALUATION RESERVE PRICE	None
The word value means intrinsic worth or cost or price for sale of a thing property.	None
(Vide Union of India Ors., v. Bombay Tyre International Ltd.	None
Ors., (1984) 1 SCC 467 and Gurbachan Singh Anr.	None
v. Shivalak Rubber Industries Ors., AIR 1996 SC 3057 ).	None
In State of U.P. v. Shiv Charan Sharma Ors., AIR 1981 SC 1722 , this Court explained the meaning of reserve price explaining that the price with which the public auction starts and the auction bidders arenot permitted to give bids below the said price, i.e. the minimum bid at auction.	None
In Anil Kumar Srivastava v. State of U.P. Anr., AIR 2004 SC 4299 , this Court considered the scope of fixing the reserve price and placing reliance on its earlier judgment in Duncans Industries Ltd. v. State of U.P. Ors., AIR 2000 SC 355 , explained that reserve price limits the authority of the auctioneer.	None
The concept of the reserve price is not synonymous with valuation of the property.	None
These two terms operate in different spheres.	None
An invitation to tender is not an offer.	None
It is an attempt to ascertain whether an offer can be obtained with a margin.	None
The valuation is a question of fact, it should be fixed on relevant material.	None
The difference between the valuation and reserve price is that, fixation of an upset price may be an indication of the probable price which the property may fetch from the point of view of intending bidders.	None
Fixation of the reserve price does not preclude the claimant from adducing proof that the land had been sold for a low price.	None
In Desh Bandhu Gupta v. N. L. Anand Rajinder Singh, (1994) 1 SCC 131 , this Court held that in an auction sale and in execution of the Civil Courts decree, the Court has to apply its mind to the need for furnishing the relevant material particulars in the sale proclamation and the records must indicate that there has been application of mind and principle of natural justice had been complied with (See also Gajadhar Prasad Ors.	None
v. Babu Bhakta Ratan Ors., AIR 1973 SC 2593 S.S. Dayananda v. K.S. Nagesh Rao Ors., (1997) 4 SCC 451	None
D.S. Chohan Anr.	None
v. State Bank of Patiala, (1997) 10 SCC 65 and Gajraj Jain v. State of Bihar Ors., (2004) 7 SCC 151 ).	None
In view of the above, it is evident that there must be an application of mind by the authority concerned while approving accepting the report of the approved valuer and fixing the reserve price, as the failure to do so may cause substantial injury to the borrower guarantor and that would amount to material irregularity and ultimately vitiate the subsequent proceedings.	None
DECISION TO SELL WHOLE OR PART OF THE SECURED ASSETS In Ambati Narasayya v. M. Subba Rao Anr., AIR 1990 SC 119 , this Court dealt with a case where in execution of a money decree for Rs.2,400/ the land was sold for Rs. 17,000/.	None
The Court set aside the sale observing that there is a duty cast upon the Court to sell only such property or a portion thereof as necessary to satisfy the decree.	None
(See also Takkaseela Pedda Subba Reddi v. Pujari Padmavathamma Ors., AIR 1977 SC 1789 and S. Mariyappa (Dead) By LRs.	None
Ors.	None
v. Siddappa Anr., (2005) 10 SCC 235 ).	None
Thus, in view of the above, it is evident that law requires a proper valuation report, its acceptance by the authority concerned by application of mind and then fixing the reserve price accordingly and acceptance of the auction bid taking into consideration that there was no possibility of collusion of the bidders.	None
The authority is duty bound to decide as to whether sale of part of the property would meet the outstanding demand.	None
Valuation is a question of fact and valuation of the property is required to be determined fairly and reasonably.	None
SETTING ASIDE AUCTION SALE  AFTER CONFIRMATION In Navalkha Sons v. Sri Ramanya Das Ors., AIR 1970 SC 2037 , this Court while dealing with the confirmation of sale by Court, held that there must be a proper valuation report, which should be communicated to the judgment debtor and he should file his own valuation report and the sale should be conducted in accordance with law.	None
After confirmation of sale, there should be issuance of sale certificate.	None
Court cannot interfere unless it is found that some material irregularity in the conduct of sale has been committed.	None
The Court further held that it should not be a forced sale.	None
A valuers report should be as good as the actual offer and the variation should be within limit.	None
Such estimate should be done carefully.	None
The Court further held that unless the Court is satisfied about the adequacy of the price the fact of confirmation of the sale would not be a proper exercise of judicial discretion.	None
(See also M s. Kayjay Industries (P) Ltd. v. M s. Asnew Drums (P) Ltd.	None
Ors., AIR 1974 S 1331 Union Bank of India v. Official Liquidator High Court of Calcutta Ors., AIR 2000 SC 3642 B. Arvind kumar v. Govt. of India Ors., (2007) 5 SCC 745 and M s. Transcore v. Union of India Anr., AIR 2007 SC 712 ).	None
In Divya Manufacturing Co. (P) Ltd. Anr.	None
v. Union Bank of India Ors., AIR 2000 SC 2346 , this Court held that a confirmed sale can be set aside on the ground of material irregularity or fraud.	None
The court does not become functus officio after the sale is confirmed.	None
In Valji Khimji and Company v. Official Liquidator of Hindustan Nitro Product (Gujarat) Ltd.	None
Ors., (2008) 9 SCC 299 , the Court held that auction sale should be set aside only if there is a fundamental error in the procedure of auction e.g. not giving wide publication or on evidence that property could have fetched more value or there is somebody to offer substantially increased amount and not only a little over the auction price.	None
Involvement of any kind of fraud would vitiate the auction sale.	None
In FCS Software Solutions Ltd. v. La Medical Devices Ltd. Ors., (2008) 10 SCC 440 , this Court considered a case where after confirmation of auction sale it was found that valuation of movable and immovable properties, fixation of reserve price, inventory of Plant and Machineries had not been made in proclamation of sale, nor disclosed at time of sale notice.	None
Therefore, in such a factsituation, the sale was set aside after its confirmation.	None
In view of the above, the law can be summarised to the effect that the recovery of the public dues must be made strictly in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law.	None
The liability of a surety is coextensive with that of principal debtor.	None
In case there are more than one surety the liability is to be divided equally among the sureties for unpaid amount of loan.	None
Once the sale has been confirmed it cannot be set aside unless a fundamental procedural error has occurred or sale certificate had been obtained by misrepresentation or fraud.	None
Learned counsel for the parties are not in a position to point out the specific rules under which the recovery was to be made.	None
Thus, the aforesaid legal principles have been considered on general principles of law as argued by them.	None
The instant case is required to be examined in the light of the aforesaid settled legal propositions.	None
Admittedly, the father of the appellants stood guarantor when Ganga Prasad took loan from the bank.	Reasoning
Though there are some documents to show that there were two guarantors but who was the other guarantor is not evident from the record, nor such a plea had ever been taken by the appellants before the courts below.	Reasoning
As the appellants had inherited the estate of the guarantor, they are liable to meet the liability of unpaid amount.	None
The appellants land admeasuring 1 bigha and 10 biswas was sold for Rs.25,000/. It cannot be held, even by any stretch of imagination, that the land had been sold at a heaper rate, for the reasons, that the land belonging to Ganga Prasad (principal debtor) measuring 3 bighas and 2 biswas in the same village in a close proximity of time had been sold for a sum of Rs.6,000/ only.	Reasoning
More so, elder brother of the appellant no.1 Ram Swaroop had participated in the auction and given the bid of Rs.20,000/ for the land in dispute.	Reasoning
In view of the above, the submission made by Shri Garg that property worth Rs.2,00,000/ had been sold at a throw away price of Rs.25,000/ is not worth acceptance.25.	Reasoning
No fundamental procedural error had been pointed out which would vitiate the order of confirmation of sale and issuance of sale certificate.26.	Reasoning
The total amount of loan sanctioned in favour of Ganga Prasad was Rs.4,425/.	Reasoning
The Collector issued citation for recovery of Rs.10,574/ on 13.1.1986 and the total amount to be recovered including principal amount, interest, collection charges etc. came to Rs.14,483.15P. The property of Ganga Prasad had been sold for a sum of Rs.6,000/. So, the total amount to be recovered remained about Rs.8,500/.	Reasoning
The appellants land had been sold for Rs.25,000/ i.e., three times the amount which was to be recovered.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstances of this case, instead of putting this whole land admeasuring 1 bigha and 10 biswas, the sale of 1/3rd of this land could have served the purpose.	Reasoning
Therefore, there had been material irregularity in putting the entire property to auction.27.	Reasoning
In case, the auctioning authority had received Rs.25,000/ from the respondent no.4 as a sale consideration after adjusting the outstanding dues of Rs.8,500/, the balance amount of Rs.16,500/ ought to have been paid to the appellants.	Reasoning
There is nothing on record to show that authorities had ever adopted such a course.28.	Reasoning
In view of the above, the auction sale stood vitiated and all the consequential proceedings are liable to be quashed.	None
However, for the reasons best known to the appellants, they have neither impleaded the Bank (creditor) nor any of the legal heirs of Ganga Prasad (principal debtor).	None
In such a factsituation, it becomes difficult to proceed with the case any further.29.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, the respondent No.4 had been put in possession of the land more than two decades ago and he had made improvements.	None
This Court has consistently held that such a possession should not be disturbed at a belated stage for the reason that such a person would have spent his whole life savings in improving the land and making developments thereon which may include the construction of residences etc.	Reasoning
(See State of Gujarat v. Patel Raghav Natha Ors., AIR 1969 SC 1297 and Brij Lal v. Board of Revenue Ors., AIR 1994 S 1128).	Reasoning
The courts below have rejected the case of the appellants only on the ground of delay.	Decision
Nothing had been pointed out before us as to on what basis the aforesaid judgment and orders warrant any interference.	Decision
In view of the above, the appeal lacks merit and is accordingly dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the appellants may move an application before the Collector, Banda concerned authority, in case the excess amount had not been paid to them, for recovery of the same.	None
If such an application is filed and the authority comes to the conclusion that excess amount had not been paid to them, it shall be refunded within a period of 3 months from the date of making the application with 9 interest.	Decision
