Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.2.	None
Challenge in this appeal is the order passed by a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court dismissing the Writ Petition filed by Shiv Kant Yadav, the appellant herein.	Issue
Background facts in a nutshell are as followsIndian Oil Corporation (in short the Corporation) invited applications from desirous persons by offering advertisements through publication in newspapers to select suitable persons and grant Letter of Intent (in short LOI) to award dealership of SKO LDO at Jaleshar, Distt.	Facts
Etah.	Facts
Appellant and several others applied for the same.	Facts
The Selection Board scrutinized the applications on 28th and 29th November, 2003.	Facts
Names of the applicants in order of preference were indicated in the panel of selected candidates, on the basis of which the Corporation proposed to award dealership.	Facts
They are as follows (i) appellant Shiv Kant Yadav (ii) respondent No.4 Smt.	Facts
Usha Sharma and (iii) Hari Om Singh who was not impleaded in the writ petition.	Facts
Usha and Hari Om Singh filed complaints inter se between themselves against aforesaid selection contending that candidates did not disclose the correct information in their applications and, therefore, were not qualified to get dealership.	Facts
The Corporation held an inquiry on the basis of the complaint made against the appellant and relying on the report received after inquiry passed the order cancelling the selection of the appellant.	Facts
Consequently, the Head Office of the Corporation directed the concerned authority to cancel the selection of the appellant and to issue LOI in favour of respondent No. 4 after ensuring that there was no complaint Court case pending against the proposed allottee.	None
The order was challenged by the appellant by filing a writ petition.	None
Appellant in the Writ Petition took the stand that as per the inquiry report the total income of the appellant had been fixed at Rs.1,64,000/ per annum visavis Rs. 84,000/ as disclosed in his application form.	None
The discrepancy has no bearing as the eligibility criteria was that the income should not be above rupees two lakhs in the last financial year.	Facts
The complaint made by Hari Om Singh against Smt.	Facts
Usha was pending and no LOI could be issued without holding an inquiry.	None
The Corporation took the stand that the Executive Summary report discloses that incorrect information had been given and it has been specifically made clear that any concealment of facts misinformation would result in rejection of the application.	None
The decision not to allot the dealership to the appellant was on account of the fact that he did not correctly disclose the income and thus violated his own declaration in his undertaking incorporated in the application.	None
With reference to the application form and the undertaking the High Court held that it was obviously clear that the income was not fully disclosed.	None
The plea that the income was less than rupees two lakhs, did not materially affect the eligibility of the appellant was not accepted and accordingly, the writ petition was dismissed.	Facts
In support of the appeal, it is submitted that there was no mens rea and mere mistake and unintended omission cannot be a ground for cancellation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The income of S.K. Fertilizers was not necessary to be disclosed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the affidavit before the Selection Board it was clearly stated that S.K. Constructions may have come into existence in 20022003.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel for the respondents on the other hand supported the order saying that once there is suppression in view of the undertaking the allotment was to be cancelled.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact of making a wrong statement in the application form and the effect of the undertaking though rendered in different context in Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and Ors. v. Ram Ratan Yadav, II (2003) SLT 2362003 (3) SCC 437	None
State of A.P. and Anr.	None
v. T. Suryachandra Rao, V (2005)	None
SLT 5312005 (6) SCC 149 , and Bhaurao Dagdu Paralkar v. State of Maharashtra and Ors., VI (2005)	None
SLT 5502005 (7) SCC 605 , need to be noted.	None
In Kendriya Vidyalayas case (supra) it was noted as follows It is not in dispute that a criminal case registered under Sections 323, 341, 294, 506B read with Section 34, IPC was pending on the date when the respondent filled the attestation form.	None
Hence, the information given by the respondent as against columns 12 and 13 as No is plainly suppression of material information and it is also a false statement.	None
Admittedly, the respondent is holder of BA, BEd and MEd degrees.	None
Assuming even his medium of instruction was Hindi throughout, no prudent man can accept that he did not study English language at all at any stage of his education.	None
It is also not the case of the respondent that he did not study English at all.	None
If he could understand columns 111 correctly in the same attestation form, it is difficult to accept his version that he could not correctly understand the contents of columns 12 and 13.	None
Even otherwise, if he could not correctly understand certain English words, in the ordinary course he could have certainly taken the help of somebody.	None
This being the position, the Tribunal was right in rejecting the contention of the respondent and the High Court committed a manifest error in accepting the contention that because the medium of instruction of the respondent was Hindi, he could not understand the contents of columns 12 and 13.	None
It is not the case that columns 12 and 13 are left blank.	None
The respondent could not have said No as against columns 12 and 13 without understanding the contents.	None
Subsequent withdrawal of criminal case registered against the respondent or the nature of offences, in our opinion, were not material.	None
The requirement of filling columns 12 and 13 of the attestation form was for the purpose of verification of character and antecedents of the respondent as on the date of filling and attestation of the form.	None
Suppression of material information and making a false statement has a clear bearing on the character and antecedents of the respondent in relation to his continuance in service.12.	None
The object of requiring information in columns 12 and 13 of the attestation form and certification thereafter by the candidate was to ascertain and verify the character and antecedents to judge his suitability to continue in service.	Reasoning
A candidate having suppressed material information and or giving false information cannot claim right to continue in service.	Reasoning
The employer having regard to the nature of the employment and all other aspects had the discretion to terminate his services, which is made expressly clear in para 9 of the offer of appointment.	Reasoning
The purpose of seeking information as per columns 12 and 13 was not to find out either the nature or gravity of the offence or the result of a criminal case ultimately.	Reasoning
The information in the said columns was sought with a view to judge the character and antecedents of the respondent to continue in service or not.	Reasoning
The High Court, in our view, has failed to see this aspect of the matter.	Reasoning
It went wrong in saying that the criminal case had been subsequently withdrawn and that the offences, in which the respondent was alleged to have been involved, were also not of serious nature.	Reasoning
In the present case the respondent was to serve as a Physical Education Teacher in Kendriya Vidyalaya.	Reasoning
The character, conduct and antecedents of a teacher will have some impact on the minds of the students of impressionable age.	Reasoning
The appellants having considered all the aspects passed the order of dismissal of the respondent from service.	Reasoning
The Tribunal after due consideration rightly recorded a finding of fact in upholding the order of dismissal passed by the appellants.	Reasoning
The High Court was clearly in error in upsetting the order of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The High Court was again not right in taking note of the withdrawal of the case by the State Government and that the case was not of a serious nature to set aside the order of the Tribunal on that ground as well.	Reasoning
The respondent accepted the offer of appointment subject to the terms and conditions mentioned therein with his eyes wide open.	Reasoning
Para 9 of the said memorandum extracted above in clear terms kept the respondent informed that the suppression of any information may lead to dismissal from service.	Reasoning
In the attestation form, the respondent has certified that the information given by him is correct and complete to the best of his knowledge and belief if he could not understand the contents of columns 12 and 13, he could not certify so.	Reasoning
Having certified that the information given by him is correct and complete, his version cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
The order of termination of services clearly shows that there has been due consideration of various aspects.	Reasoning
In this view, the argument of the learned Counsel for the respondent that as per para 9 of the memorandum, the termination of service was not automatic, cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that the inquiry report relates to S.K. Fertilizers whereas the affidavit alleged to have been filed where reference was made to S.K. Construction has no relevance.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that in the affidavit the appellant had stated about the inheritance of income yielding property.	Reasoning
In the report after taking note of the appellants stand it was concluded as follows Comments Sh.	None
Shiv Kant Yadav has admitted through affidavit that he has inherited two houses from his father, which is being used for personal use only and as such there is no income in the year 19992000 on this account (Annexc).	None
He has also admitted to be the owner of two shops which are currently not in use and lying vacant.	None
With regard to three vacant shops, I do not agree since all the nine shops, which he has shown me at the time of my visit comes under the joint property and since six shops have been given on rent, automatically Sh.	None
Shiv Kant Yadav gets onethird share of the joint property.	None
However, complainant has produced a letter issued by Nagar Panchayat Jaithra dated 26.3.2004 (AnnexH) stating that Sh.	None
Shiv Kant Yadav, s o Veri Singh Yadav has Rs. 14,000/ per month towards rental from shops and Rs.	None
3,000/ per month towards rental from house.	None
Thus, the income for the year 19992000 works out to be approximately Rs.	None
68,000/ towards his share from the joint property.	None
Enclosed annexures.	None
The allegation stands proved and the incomes from house and shops have not been shown in the application.	None
There was a requirement to disclose the true and correct fact which does not appear to have been done.	Reasoning
The undertaking reads as follows That I am fully aware that Indian Oil Corporation (name of the Oil Company) under its policy will not appoint me as their dealer distributor, if I am employed.	None
I shall have to resign from the service and produce proof of acceptance of my resignation by my employer to Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.	None
(Name of the Oil Company) before issuance of Letter of Appointment for the dealership distributorship.	None
That if any information declaration given by me in my application or in any document submitted by me in support of my application for the award of SKO LDO dealership distributorship or in this undertaking shall be found to be untrue or incorrect or false Indian Oil Corporation (name of the Oil Company) would be within its rights to withdraw the letter of intent terminate the dealership distributorship (if already appointed) and that, I would have no claim, whatsoever, against Indian Oil Corporation (name of the Oil Company) for such withdrawal termination.	None
In view of the undertaking that if any factual misstatement or declaration is made that permits cancellation of the allotment.	Decision
The order of the High Court does not suffer from any infirmity to warrant interference.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
