 Arijit Pasayat, J. Appellant calls in question legality of the conviction recorded in terms of Sections 342 and 354 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the IPC) by the Trial Court, and affirmed in appeal by the impugned judgment by learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court, Aurangabad Bench.	Issue
Two appeals were disposed of by a common judgment, Criminal Appeal no. 3 of 98 was filed by the present appellant along with one Pankaj, while the connected Criminal Appeal No. 50/98 was filed by Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar.	None
Four accused persons faced trial.	Facts
The appellants before the High Court were present appellant Raju Pandurang Mahale (A1), Gautam (A2), Pankaj (A3) and Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4), A1 to A4 were convicted for offences punishable under Sections 376 (2)(g) IPC and each of A1, A3 and A4 was sentenced to suffer RI for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 500/ with default stipulation but Gautam (A2) was awarded 2 years RI.	Facts
Additionally, A1, A2 and A4 were found guilty for offences punishable under Sections 342 read with Section 34 IPC.	Facts
Gautam (A2) did not prefer any appeal questioning his conviction.	None
A3 alone was convicted for offence punishable under Section 292 IPC, while A4 was convicted for offence punishable under Section 323 IPC.	None
A1, A3 and A4 were convicted for offences punishable under Sections 354 read with Section 34 IPC.	None
For offences relatable to Section 342 read with Section 34 IPC.	Facts
six months RI and for the offence punishable under Section 354 IPC one year custodial sentence was imposed.	Facts
The High Court by the impugned judgment set aside the conviction and sentences of A1 and A3 for the offences punishable under Section 376(2)(g).	Facts
So far as the appeal filed by A4 is concerned, he was convicted for the offence punishable under Section 376 IPC, though his conviction in terms of Section 376 (2) (g) was set aside.	Facts
The conviction of A1 and A2 and A4 for the offence punishable under Sections 342 read with Section 34 IPC, and the conviction of A1, A3 and A4 for the offences punishable under Section 354 read with Section 34 IPC was also maintained with the sentence imposed.	Facts
Conviction of A4 in terms of Section 323 IPC was maintained.	Facts
In essence so far as the appellant is concerned, his conviction for the offence punishable under Section 342 read with Section 34 IPC and Section 354 read with Section 34 IPC was maintained as noted above.	Facts
Prosecution version as unfolded during trial is as follows The alleged occurrence took place on 12th and 13th January, 1996.	Facts
Husband of the prosecutrix (PW5), at the relevant time, was undergoing imprisonment for life after his conviction in a murder case.	Facts
The prosecutrix, along with a daughter of two years age, was residing with her sister (PW6).	None
Accused No. 4.  	None
Raju Rajesh S o Sudakar Kopekar and accused no. 1  Raju s o Pandurang Mahale were friends of the husband of prosecutrix.	Facts
It was for this reason that the prosecutrix was known to them.	Facts
Both these accused persons were on visiting terms with the prosecutrix and her husband used to go to their house.	Facts
Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (accused no. 4) was working in Railways and was required to go out of station sometimes.	Facts
The prosecutrix, on request, by him, used to stay with his wife during his absence in connection with his duties.	Facts
The incident occurred during the midnight of 12.1.1996 and 13.1.1996.	Facts
At about 9.30 p.m. of 12.1.1996, appellant Raju Pandurang Mahale came to the house of the prosecutrix and told her that Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (accused no. 4) had gone for night duty, and that his wife was alone at home.	Facts
She was also told that wife of Raju (A4) had called her to stay with her.	Facts
The prosecutrix was reluctant to go to the house of Raju (A4).	Facts
She, however, relented on persistence of appellant Raju (A1).	Facts
She agreed to go, also for the reason that earlier, appellant Raju had taken her daughter and she had been left at the house of Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4) by appellant Raju.	Facts
On reaching the house of Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4), the prosecutrix found her daughter sleeping on a cot in the house.	Facts
She, however, did not find the wife of Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4) at home.	Facts
On the contrary, Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4)m who was reported to have gone on duty, was very much present there.	Facts
On questioning by prosecutrix, as to why she had been called by sending misleading information.	Facts
Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4) stated that he had wanted her to come to his house for company.	Facts
Gautam Suresh Shejwal (A2), a friend of Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4) was also sitting in the house.	Facts
He went outside the house and closed the door from outside, forcing the prosecutrix to remain in the house with Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4) along with appellant Rajesh S o Pandurang Mahale and her two years old daughter who was sleeping on the cot.	Facts
Appellant Raju s o Pandurang Mahale brought liquor bottle and liquor was consumed by him and Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4).	Facts
Thereafter, both these accused persons assaulted the prosecutrix and forced her to consume liquor.	Facts
Soon the experienced giddiness and lost her balance.	Facts
She was raped, thereafter, by Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4).	Facts
When the prosecutrix regained consciousness.	Facts
she found Raju Rajesh S. Kopekar (A4) was lying on her person and Pankaj Ganpat Avhad (A3) was in the room.	Facts
She alleged that Pankaj Ganpat Avhad had taken her nude photographs.	Facts
In the morning, the prosecutrix was threatened not to disclose the incident to anybody and was asked to go home.	Facts
The prosecutrix went to her sisters house and narrated incident to her sister (PW6).	Facts
Thereafter, they went to the police station and lodged the report.	Facts
Investigation was undertaken and charge sheet filed.	Facts
The Trial Court and the High Court accepted the evidence of the victim prosecutrix to be cogent and taking note of the additional factors brought on record made the conviction and awarded the sentence as aforenoted.	Facts
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the offences under Section 342 and Section 354 IPC were not made out, so far as he is concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the role attributed to the appellant does not in any manner establish existence of ingredients necessary to constitute offence punishable under Sections 342 and 354 IPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that the locking of the door from outside according to prosecution was done by A2 in the house of A4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant had not poured liquor to the mouth of the prosecutrix as victim herself said that she was forcibly made to drink liquor by A4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court proceeded on the basis, as if, the appellant and A4 forced her to take liquor.	None
In response, learned counsel for the State submitted that evidence has been analysed by both the Trial Court and the High Court in great detail.	Arguments of Respondent
The role attributed to the appellant by the victim is very clear and in any event Section 34 was pressed into service to show that he shared the common intention regarding commission of the alleged offences.	Arguments of Respondent
The being so, the conviction and the sentence as awarded do not need any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
The evidence on record clearly establishes that the appellant brought the victim to the house of A4 on false pretext and made it compulsory for her to go by earlier taking away her daughter to the house of A4.	Reasoning
She was confined with A4 and the appellant, when room was locked from outside by A2.	Reasoning
It was the appellant who brought the liquor which the victim was made to drink.	Reasoning
She was forcibly disrobed by A4 in the presence of the appellant.	Reasoning
Thereafter A4 raped her and A2 took her nude photographs while she was being sexually ravished by A4.	None
Section 342 provides the punishment for wrongful confinement.	Reasoning
It is established by the evidence on record that the victim was taken to A4s place by the appellant in the night of date of occurrence and she was able to come out of the confinement on the next day.	Reasoning
Wrongful confinement is defined in Section 340.	Reasoning
As observed by this Court Shyam Lal Sharma and Anr.	Reasoning
v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (AIR 1972 SC 886 ), where a person is wrongfully restrained in such a manner as to prevent that person from proceeding beyond certain circumscribed limits.	Reasoning
he is wrongfully confined within the meaning of this Section.	Reasoning
The essential ingredients of the offence wrongful confinement are that the accused should have wrongfully confined the complainant and such restraint was to prevent the complainant from proceeding beyond certain circumscribed limits beyond which he she has right to proceed.	Reasoning
The factual scenario clearly establishes commission by the appellant as well of the offence punishable under Section 342 IPC.	Reasoning
Coming to the question as to whether Section 354 of the Act has any application, it is to be noted that the provision makes penal the assault or use of criminal force to a woman to outrage her modesty.	None
The essential ingredients of offence under Section 354 IPC are That the assault must be on a women.	None
That the accused must have used criminal force on her.	None
That the criminal force must have been used on the women intending thereby to outrage her modesty.	None
What constitutes an outrage to female modesty is however defined.	None
The essence of a womens modesty is her sex.	None
The culpable intention of the accused is the crux of the matter.	None
The reaction of the women is very relevant, but its absence is not always decisive.	None
Modesty in this Section is an attribute associated with female human beings as a class.	None
It is a virtue which attaches to a female owing to her sex.	None
The act of pulling a women, removing her saree, coupled with a request for sexual intercourse. is such as would be an outrage to the modesty of a woman and knowledge, that modesty is likely to be outraged, is sufficient to constitute the offence without any deliberate intention having such outrage alone for its object.	None
As indicated above, the word modesty is not defined in IPC.	None
The Shorter Oxford Dictionary (Third Edn.) defines the word modesty in relation to woman as followsDecorous in manner and conduct not forward or lowe Shamefast scrupulously chast.	None
Modesty is defined as the quality of being modest and in relation to woman, wrongly propriety of behaviour scrupulous chastity of thought, speech and conduct.	None
It is the reserve or sense of shame proceeding from instinctive aversion to impure or coarse suggestions.	None
As observed by Justice Patterson in Rex v. James Llyod (1876) 7 CP 817.	None
In order to find the accused guilty of an assault with intent to commit a rape, court must be satisfied that the accused, when he laid hold of the prosecutrix, not only desired to gratify his passions upon her person but that he intended to do so at all events, and notwithstanding any resistance on her part.	None
The point of distinction between an offence of attempt to commit rape and to commit indecent assault is that there should be some action on the part of the accused which would show that he was just going to have sexual connection with her.	None
Websters Third New International Dictionary of the English Language defines modesty as freedom from coarseness, indelicacy or indecency a regard for propriety in dress, speech or conduct.	None
In the Oxford English Dictionary (1933 Edn.), the meaning of the word modesty is given as womanly propriety of behaviour scrupulous chastity of thought, speech and conduct (in man or woman) reserve or sense of shame proceeding from instinctive aversion to impure or coarse suggestions.	None
In State of Punjab v. Major Singh (AIR 1967 SC 63 ) a question arose whether a female child of seven and a half months could be said to be possessed of modesty which could be outraged.	None
In answering the above question the majority view was that when any act done to or in the presence of a woman is clearly suggestive of sex according to the common notions of mankind that must fall within the mischief of Section 354 IPC.	None
Needless to say, the common notions of mankind referred to have to be gauged by contemporary societal standards.	None
It was further observed in the said case that the essence of a womans modesty is her sex and from her very birth she possesses the modesty which is the attribute of her sex.	None
From the above dictionary meaning of modesty and the interpretation given to that word by this Court in Major Singhs case (supra) the ultimate test for ascertaining whether modesty has been outraged is whether the action of the offender is such as could be perceived as one which is capable of shocking the sense of decency of a woman.	None
The above position was noted in Rupan Deol Bajaj (Mrs.) and Anr.	None
v. Kanwal Pal Singh Gill and Anr.	None
(1995 (6) SCC 194 ).	None
When the above test is applied in the present case, keeping in view the total fact situation, the inevitable conclusion is that the acts of accused appellant and the concrete role he consistently played from the beginning proved combination of persons and minds as well and as such amounted to outraging of her modesty for it was an affront to the normal sense of feminine decency.	None
It is further to be noted that Section 34 has been rightly pressed into service in the case to fasten quilt on the accusedappellant, for the active assistance he rendered and the role played by him, at all times sharing the common intention with A4 and A2 as well, till they completed effectively the crime of which the others were also found guilty.	None
Section 34 has been enacted on the principle of joint liability in the doing of a criminal act.	Reasoning
The Section is only a rule of evidence and does not create a substantive offence.	Reasoning
The distinctive feature of the Section is the element of participation in action.	Reasoning
The liability of one person for an offence committed by another in the course of criminal act perpetrated by several persons arises under Section 34 if such criminal act is done in furtherance of a common intention of the persons who join in committing the crime.	Reasoning
Direct proof of common intention is seldom available and, therefore, such intention can only be inferred from the circumstances appearing from the proved facts of the case and the proved circumstances.	Reasoning
In order to bring home the charge of common intention, the prosecution has to establish by evidence, whether direct or circumstantial, that there was plan or meeting of mind of all the accused persons to commit the offence for which they are charged with the aid of Section 34, be it prearranged or on the spur of moment but it must necessarily be before the commission of the crime.	Reasoning
The true concept of Section is that if two or more persons intentionally do an act jointly, the position in law is just the same as if each of them has done it individually by himself.	Reasoning
As observed in Ashok Kumar v. State of Punjab (AIR 1977 SC 109 ), the existence of a common intention amongst the participants in a crime is the essential element for application of this section.	Reasoning
It is not necessary that the acts of the several persons charged with commission of an offence jointly must be the same or identically similar.	Reasoning
The acts may be different in character, but must have been actuated by one and the same common intention in order to attract the provision.	Reasoning
The Section does not say the common intention of all, nor does it say and intention common to all.	Reasoning
Under the provisions of Section 34 the essence of the liability is to be found in the existence of a common intention animating the accused lading to the doing of a criminal act in furtherance of such intention.	Reasoning
As a result of the application of principles enunciated in Section 34, when an accused is convicted under Section 302 read with Section 34, in law it means that the accused is liable for the act which caused death of the deceased in the same manner as if it was done by him alone.	Reasoning
The provision is intended to meet a case in which it may be difficult to distinguish between acts of individual members of a party who act in furtherance of the common intention of all or to prove exactly what part was taken by each of them.	Reasoning
As was observed in Ch. Pulla Reddy and Ors.	Reasoning
v. State of Andhra Pradesh (AIR 1993 SC 1899 ).	Reasoning
Section 34 is applicable even if no injury has been caused by the particular accused himself.	Reasoning
For applying Section 34 it is not necessary to show same overt act on the part of the accused.	Reasoning
Looked at from any angle the conclusions of the Trial Court and the High Court in convicting the appellant do not suffer from any infirmity to warrant interference in exercise of the powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, 1950.	Decision
The sentences imposed by no stretch of imagination can be said to be on the higher side.	Decision
On the contrary, backgrounds facts of the case show that lenient sentences where imposed.	Decision
The appeal fails being without merit.	Decision
