 M. Khanwilkar, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal challenges the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court of Orissa at Cuttack dated 7th November 2012 in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1093/2006.	Issue
Briefly stated, on 2nd December 2002 the appellants issued notice inviting tenders for the work of extraction and transfer of Coal Coal Measure Strata (CMS) by deploying Surface Miners on hiring basis at various Open Cast Projects, interalia, at Lakhanpur.	Facts
The respondents were declared the lowest bidder having quoted Rs.17/ per cubic meter for the stated contract.	Facts
A letter of intent was issued in favour of the respondents on 4th April, 2003 which was accepted by the respondents on 14th April, 2003.	Facts
Work order was issued in favour of the respondents on 23rd April, 2003 and a formal agreement was executed between the parties on 26th May 2003.	Facts
The relevant clauses of the agreement are clauses 2 to 5 which read as under Time shall be considered as one of the essence of the contract and the time for the completion of the contract shall be counted from 16.04.2003 of from the date of issue of L.O.I. to which terms the contractor agreed at the time when his tender was accepted and the contract shall be completed by 15.04.2004 provided, sufficient face is provided by the management.3)	Facts
The work order has already been issued for a period of one year for a quantity of 49,50,000 Cum.	Facts
At the rate of Rs.17.00/Cum.	Facts
for an amount of Rs. 8,41,50,000.00.4)	Facts
The contractor shall redeploy the Surface Miner in other OCPs as per direction of the Company.5)	Facts
The tendered quantity may be reduced or increased by  30.	Facts
No claim shall lie on the company for such variation in quantity whether increase or decrease.	Facts
The tenderer must be in a position to increase the machine capacity upon 30 extra daily quantity w ithin 45 days notice.	Facts
(emphasis supplied)4.	None
As the agreement refers to the terms and conditions of the tender document, we may usefully refer to the relevant clauses therein.	None
11.0 VARIATION IN SCHEDULED QUANTITY EXTENT ANDRATEThe quantity given in the Schedule of Quantitys provisional and is meant to indicate the extent of the work and to provide a uniform basis for tendering and any variation either by addition or omission shall not vitiate the contract.	None
The tendered quantity may be reduced or increased by 30.	Facts
No claim shall be on the company for such variation in quantity whether increase or decrease.	Facts
Tenderer must be in a position to increase the machine capacity within 45 days notice to achieve the extra increased quantity.	Facts
If the additional altered or substituted work includes any item of work for which no rate is specified in the contract, rate for such item shall be determined by the Company Headquarters in the following mannera)	Facts
The rate shall be derived from the rate for similar or near similar item of work awarded in the Company, orb)	Facts
The rate shall be derived from contractors rate claimed for such item of work supported by analysis of the rate claimed by the contractor.	Facts
The rate to be determined by the Company Headquarters as may be considered reasonable taking into account percentage of profit and overhead not exceeding ten percent or on the basis of market rate, if any prevailing at the time when work was done.	Facts
However, the Engineerincharge shall be at liberty to cancel the instruction by giving notice in writing and to arrange to carry out the work in such manner as he considers advisable under the circumstances.	Facts
The contractor shall under no circumstances suspend the work in the plea of nonsettlement of rates.	Facts
The time of completion of the originally contracted work shall be extended reduced by the Company in the proportion that the additional reduced work (in value) bears to the original contracted work (in value), as may be assessed and certified by the Engineerincharge.	Facts
The company through its Engineerincharge or his representative, on behalf of the company, shall have power to omit any part of the work for any other reason and the contractor shall be bound to carry out the work in accordance with the instruction given to Engineerinchange.	Facts
No claim for extra charges damages shall be made by the contractor on these grounds.	Facts
In the event of any deviation being ordered which in the opinion of the contractor changes radically the original scope and nature of the contract, the contractor shall under no circumstances suspend the work, either original or altered or substituted and the dispute disagreement as to the nature of deviation or the rate to be paid therefore shall be resolved separately with the company.13.	Facts
TIME FOR COMPLETION OF CONTRACTTime is the essence of the contract.	Facts
The contractual period of work shall be as specified in NIT LOI Agreement.	Facts
The work shall be deemed to have commenced within 60 days of the issue of Letter of Intent at all the places and should be able to execute 100 of the daily awarded quantity from 61th day from the date of issue of LOI.Agreement should be executed before the release of 1st, on A c. bill.	Facts
For failure to reach the desired quantity from 61th day of issue of LOI, contractor shall be liable for penalty 20 of amount for shortfall quantity i.e. (shortfall quantity x awarded rate x 20).The contractor must be prepared to work continuously for three shifts a day and all the working days in a year.	Facts
If the contractor, without valid reason, commits default in commencing the execution of the work within 60 days from the date of issue of LOI or fails to attain within specified date of issue of Letter of Intent, the required quantity to give the ultimate output as per the schedule of quantity, the company shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty, by giving 15 days notice in writing to the contractor, to forfeit the Earnest Money deposited by him and to terminate the contract14.0 EXTENSION OF DATE OF COMPLETIONOn happening of any event causing delay as stated hereunder, the contractor shall apply for time extension to the CGM GM of the Area.a)	Facts
Abnormally bad weatherb) Serous loss or damage by firec) Civil Commotion, strike or lockout affecting execution of workd) Nonavailability of working force or site which is the responsibility of the company to supply.e)	Facts
Any other cause which, at the sole discretion of the company, is beyond the control of the contractor.	Facts
The contractor may request the company in writing for extension of time within 14 days of happening of such event ceasing delay stating the period for which extension is desired.	Facts
The company may, considering the eligibility of the request, give a fair and reasonable extension of time of completion of the work.	Facts
Such extension shall be communicated to the contractor, in writing, by the company through the Engineerincharge within 1 month of the date of receipt of such request.30.0 DEFAULT AND PENALTY30.1 LOSS OR	Facts
DAMAGEAny loss or any expenditure for damages incurred by company will be recoverable from the contractor whether fully or partly if such expenditure for damages have been caused either directly or indirectly due to any negligence or failure on the part of the contractor.30.2.	Facts
SHORTFALL PENALTY IN MECHANICAL EXCAVATION AND	Facts
LOADINGThe average daily quantity of the quarter shall be worked out by dividing the mutually agreed quarterly allotted quantity by the working days of the quarter, ending on 30th June, 30th September, 31st December 31st	Facts
March Average daily quantity of a quarter must conform to average daily quantity of the year contractual period.	Facts
In the event of the Contractors failure to comply with the rate of rate of progress as per the agreed progress chart the contractor shall be liable to pay a penalty on the quantity by which the contractor has fallen short from the allotted quarterly quantity at the rate of 20 of the awarded rate.	Facts
For failure of produce size coal as per NIT (100 mm size), the contactor shall also be liable for penalty at the rate of 20 of the awarded rate for such over size quantity.	Facts
The shortfall penalty will be recovered concurrently from the running bill which will be adjusted annually subject to that the total penalty is limited to 20 of (Annual Shortfall Quantity x Rate).30.3 WAIVAL OF PENALTYThe company may at its sole discretion waive the payment of penalty in full or in part in request received from the contractor depending the merit of the case if the entire work is completed within the date as specified in the contract or within extended period approved without imposing penalty.31.0.	Facts
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTEExcept where otherwise provided for in the contract, all questions and disputes relating to meaning of the scope, specification and instructions herein before mentioned and as to any other question, claim right matter or thing whatsoever in any way arising out of or relating to the contract, instructions, orders or these conditions or otherwise concerning the works or the execution or failure to execute the same whether arising during the progress of the work or after the completion or abandonment thereof, shall be referred to the ChairmanCumManaging Director of the Company or any other person authorized by him.	Facts
It is also a terms of the Contract if the contractor (s) do does not make any demand for any claim(s) in writing 90 days of receiving the intimation from the company that the bill is ready for payment or of the date of receiving payment whichever is earlier, the claim of the Contractor(s) will be deemed to have been waived and absolutely barred and the Company shall be released and discharged of all liabilities under the contract in respect of these claims.	Facts
(emphasis supplied)5.	None
The respondents commenced the work of surface miners at Lakhanpur and completed around 70 of the awarded quantity by the end of February 2004.	Facts
Due to financial problems faced by the respondents vide letter dated 13th February 2004, they requested the appellants to allow them to close the contract by invoking power to reduce the quantity by 30 of awarded quantity, under clause 11 of the general terms and conditions of the NIT and to issue fresh tender for the remaining work.	Facts
The appellants did not accede to the said request and informed the respondents vide letter dated 16th February 2004, stating that the agreement is for performing the contract upto 100 of awarded value and provision of executing extra 30 quantity on the same terms and conditions.	Facts
The respondents requested the appellants vide letter dated 9th May 2004 to extend the time frame for completion of the remaining contract upto 15th July 2004 as the contract period was only till 15th April, 2004.	Facts
The said letter reads thus ANNEXUREP8DHANSAR ENGINEERING CO. PVT.	Facts
LTD.,SITEP.O. DhansarDhanbad 828106 (Jharkhand)Ph 0326 307161/7074.Fax 0326 303294P.O. JorabagaVia BelpaharDist.	Facts
Jharsuguda (Orissa)Ph.	Facts
06645	Facts
233222Email decopldte.vsnl.net.inRef	Facts
No. DECO NIT 276/2004	Facts
Date 09.05.2004ToThe chief General ManagerLakhanpur AreaMahanadi Coalfields Ltd.,(Through proper channel)Sub WORK OF EXTRACTION AND TRANSFER OF COAL COAL MEASURE STRATA	Facts
BY DEPLOYING SURFACE MINER	Facts
ON HIRING AT LAKHANPUR OCP OF LAKHANPUR AREA (NIT 276)	Facts
VIDE WORK ORDER	Facts
NO.	Facts
MCL CGM LKPA SO(M) SUR.	Facts
MINER/200304/001 DATED 23.04.2003.Dear Sir,Management is fully aware that tender rate of Rs. 17/ per Cum for the work is all time low and wholly unworkable.	Facts
We are working at this rate at a colossal loss.	Facts
We started the work almost at the approach of monsoon on 16.04.2003 and we could not also speed up progress because of transportation restriction between 11.00 A.M. 4.00 P.M. against heat wave alert and thereafter onset of heavy rains consequenting upon bad, waterlogged slippery road followed by short supply of rakes.	Facts
With all these operational hazards beyond our control, we could accomplish 34.74 Lakhs Cum upto 31.03.2004.As our financial loss was soaring day by day, we had requested for foreclosure of the work after we have completed 70 of the work but this was not agreed to by GM(TC) vide his letter No. 1251 dated 26.03.2004.Therefore, being under contractual obligation we had, no other alternative but to apply for extension of time upto 15.07.2004 and would request you to kindly treat the contract as closed with the completion of the above awarded quantity as we are illafford to bear further loss.	Facts
Thanking You,Yours faithfully,Sd For Dhansar Engineering Co. Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Facts
This request of the respondents was considered by the appellants in its 68th Meeting of the Board.	Facts
Extension of three months time was granted while reserving the right to impose penalty.	Facts
The respondents were informed accordingly vide letter dated 5th June 2004.	Facts
As a result of this decision, the contract period was extended until 15th July 2004 on the same terms and conditions agreed upon.	Facts
As the contract period was subsisting till 15th July 2004, the appellants issued an approval order dated 11th June 2004 to increase of 30 extra quantity i.e. 14.8 Lakh cubic meter at the existing rate of next tender rate or whichever is lower, amounting to Rs. 252.42 Lakh.	Facts
The respondents by letter dated 11th June 2004, however, reiterated that the contract be treated as closed  as they were on the verge of completing the quantity specified in the contract by 15th June 2004.	Facts
The said letter reads thus ANNEXURE P9DHANSAR ENGINEERING CO. PVT.	Facts
LTD.,SITEP.O. DhansarDhanbad 828106 (Jharkhand)Ph 0326 307161/7074.Fax 0326 303294P.O. JorabagaVia BelpaharDist.	Facts
Jharsuguda (Orissa)Ph.	Facts
06645	Facts
233222Email decopldte.vsnl.net.inRef	Facts
No. DECO NIT 276/2004	Facts
Date 11.06.2004ToThe chief General ManagerLakhanpur AreaMahanadi Coalfields Ltd.,Sub NIT NO. 276	Facts
EXTRACTION AND TRANSFER OF COAL COAL MEASURE STRATA	Facts
BY DEPLOYING SURFACE MINER	Facts
ON HRING BASIS	Facts
AT LAKHANPUR OCP OF MCLDear Sir,We would like to inform you that the order quantity of 49.50 lakh Cum is in the verge of completion, and is expected that this quantity will be fully completed by 15.06.2004.In this connection kindly refer to our letter No. DECO NIT 276/2004 dated 09.05.2004 under which we had requested your goodself to treat the contract as closed with the completion of the quantity of 49.50 lakh Cum.	Facts
In reiterating our request we would inform you that we may be forced to stop the machine as it is giving trouble and we are not able to repair the machine for dire scarcity of fund.	Facts
Thanking You,Yours faithfully,Sd For Dhansar Engineering Co.	Facts
Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.Copy to 1) The Director (Technical) MCL, Burla,2)	Facts
The General Manager, Lakhanpur Area.	Facts
The respondents by another letter dated 6th July 2004 seeking closure of contract due to financial hardship, stated that they were withdrawing their operations.	Facts
The appellants, however, by letter dated 7th July 2004 called upon the respondents to continue with the remaining work assigned under the contract which was still subsisting and also noted that the respondents had by then completed only 105 of the contract work out of 130.	Facts
The said communication reads thus ANNEXURE P12UNDER JURISDICTION OF SAMBALPUR COURT ONLYMAHANADI COALFIELDS LIMITED(A	None
SUBSDIARY OF COAL INDIA LIMITED)Corporate Office ManagerOffice of the Chief GeneralM.C.L. ComplexJagriti ViharBelpaharBurla 768018Dist Sambalpur (Orissa) phone 33202, STD CODE 06645LAKHANPUR AREAP.O. bandhabahal ViaDist.	Facts
Jharsuguda,	Facts
Pin 768217Ref No.	Facts
MCL CGM LKPA SO(M)/932 Date 07.07.2004ToM s	Facts
Dhansar Engineering Co. pvt.	Facts
Ltd.Site Office P.O. Jorabaga, Via Belpahar,Dist Jharsuguda (Orissa)Pin 768217.Ref (1) Work order No. MCL CGML LKPA SOM(M) Sur Miner/200304/001 dated 23.04.2003 for Extraction and Transfer of Coal Coal measure strata by deploying Surface Miners on hiring basis at Lakhanpur OCP (NIT276).Sub Contract of Surface Miner work at Lakhnapur OCP (under NIT No. 276)Dear Sir,Kindly refer to your letter No. DECO NIT276/2004 dated 6.07.2004 on the above subject.	Facts
This is to bring to your notice that as per clause No.2 of the work order forming part of the agreement the tendered quantity can be increased by 30 and no claim shall lie on the company for such variation till date only 105 (approx.)	Facts
of the awarded quantity has been executed by you.	Facts
There is no communication from MCLHQ for finalization of new contract for the above work till date.	Facts
In such condition you are requested to continue your operation of surface miner at Lakhanpur OCP till completion of 30 extra quantity.	Facts
Withdrawal of operations of Surface Miner at this stage will seriously affect dispatch of coal to our Pit head customer (OPGC) and other linkage customers earning a bad name to the company.	Facts
Thanking You,Yours faithfully,SD GENERAL MANAGERLAKHANPUR AREACopy toThe ChairmancumManaging Director, MCL BuriaThe Director (T), MCL, BurlaThe General Manager (TC), MCL HQ, BurlaThe Staff Officer (Mining) LKPA	None
The respondents, however, renewed their request to the appellants to allow them to close the contract vide letters dated 8th July 2004 and 12th July 2004.	None
The respondents finally wrote to the appellants on 15th July 2004 which reads thus ANNEXURE P15DHANSAR ENGINEERING CO. PVT.	Facts
LTD.,SITEP.O. DhansarDhanbad 828106 (Jharkhand)Ph 0326 307161/7074.Fax 0326 303294decopldte.vsnl.net.inP.O. JorabagaVia BelpaharDist.	Facts
Jharsuguda (Orissa)Ph.	Facts
06645	Facts
233222Email Ref No. DECO NIT 276/2004 Date15.07.2004ToThe General Manager,Lakhanpur Area, MCL,Sub Closing Down of work of Surface Miner at lakhanpur OCP under NIT No.	Facts
276Dear Sir,A copy of our letter No. DECO NIT/2004 dated 12.07.2004 addressed to CMD MCL Burla with copies to D(T) and GM(TC), MCL HQ is enclosed herewith for your information.	Facts
As notified this is to inform you that we are stopping the work and withdrawing from operations at Lakhanpur OCP with effect from 16.07.2004 (FN).	Facts
It is not out of place to mention that we had been expressing out intention to abandon execution after completing 100 of the work on account of our uneconomical plight out has been continuing wit the execution to cooperate with the management to arrange next recourse, so as to ensure that the production schedule of Lakhanpur OCP does not suffer any set back.	Facts
We could not however elicit any communication to our letters or any sympathetic decision from the management.	Facts
In the meanwhile the contract period also expired by 15.07.2004.In view of the above situation we have no other alternative but to withdraw from operation after working the full period of the contract.	Facts
You are therefore requested to kindly take up final measurement as on 15.07.2004 and finalise the contract.	Facts
Thanking you and assuring you of our best cooperation to all time come.	Facts
Yours faithfully,Sd For Dhansar Engineering Co. Pvt. Ltd.Copy to1.	Facts
The CMD, MCL, Burla Fax No. 0663 2432066/25423662.	Facts
The D(T), MCL, Burla, Fax No. 0663 25425093.	Facts
The GM (TC), MCL, Burla, Fax No. 0663 2542629.	Facts
As the respondents had already informed the appellants of their intention to withdraw from operation after the full contract period, a fresh tender process was commenced by the appellants which culminated with a letter of intent in favour of third party (Sainik Mining and Allied Services) but at a higher rate of Rs.31.50 per cubic meter.10.	Facts
The bills submitted by the respondents for the work executed under the contract dated 26th May 2003 were considered by the Board of the appellants in its 72nd meeting.	Facts
The decision taken in the said meeting was communicated to the respondents by letter dated 8th December 2014 which reads thus ANNEXURE R/9MAHANADI COALFIELDS LIMITED(A subsidiary of Coal India Limited)P.O. Jagruti Vihar, Burla, Distt.	Facts
Sambalpur768020(Orissa)Gram SAMBCOAL, Fax (0663) 2542770Phone PBX  (0663) 2542461 to 2542469Ref.	Facts
No. MCL SBP GM(TC)/2004/1047 Dt. 08.12.2004To,General Manager,Lakhanpur AreaDear	Facts
Sir,Enclosed herewith please find a copy of Extract from the Draft Minutes of the 72nd meeting of the Board of Directors of MCL held on 27th November, 2004 at Kolkata in respect of imposing penalty by way of forfeiture of Earnest Money Deposit of Rs. 20.00 lakhs to M s. Dhansar Engineering (P) Ltd., for nonperformance of 130 of the total contracted quantity under NIT 276.	Facts
The relevant extract is appended belowThe Board deliberated on the subject in detail and in consideration of the facts and circumstances highlighted in the agenda note and in recognition of the clarification offered during deliberation, decided that penalty as proposed in the agenda note in terms of the provisions of the contract be imposed on M s Dhansar Engineering pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Facts
For nonperformance of 130 of the total contracted quantity under NIT276.Proposed in the Agenda NoteClause No. 16 (Forfeiture of Earnest Money)The contractor is liable for forfeiture Money Deposit under Clause No. 16(a) and 16(d) which reads as under16(2) withdraws his offer during the validity period of offer.16(a) fails to execute the order as per terms and conditions thereof.	Facts
In the present case the EMD is Rs. 20.00 lakhs.	Facts
Clause No. 30.2 (Shortfall penalty in Mechanical excavation and loading) 130 of Contract Quantity 63,70,000.00 Cu.m.	Facts
Final quantity executed 53,49,437.55 Cu.m.	Facts
Balance quantity to be executed 10,20,562.45 Cu.m.	Facts
Working rate  Rs. 17.00 per Cu.m. 20 of working rate Rs. 3.40 per Cu.m.	Facts
Payable penalty for not executingUpto 130 quantity Rs.	Facts
34,69,911.00These penalties may be imposed individually or collectively depending on the decision taken by the Management.	Facts
The imposition of penalty may be decided on the background that the contractor working at a very low rate has executed 108.47 in spite of incurring heavy losses and withdrew only when the new contract was finished ensuring that there is no loss of production.	Facts
Yours faithfullySd  IllegibleGeneral Manager (TC)Encl	Facts
As above The Board of the appellants in its 78th Meeting decided to impose penalty for nonexecution of the balance contract work by the respondents and including the financial loss incurred by the appellants due to allocation of that work to third party at higher rate.	Facts
In terms of that decision, an approval order for recovery of penalty was issued by the appellants on 3rd November 2005 which reads thus ANNEXURE 19MAHANADI COALFIELDS LIMITED(A subsidiary of Coal India Limited)P.O. Jagriti ViharBurla 768018Distt Sambalpur768020 (Orissa)Gram SAMBCOAL, Fax (0663)	Facts
2542770Phone PBX  2542461 to 2542470Ref No. MCL SBP GM(TC)/2005/1100 Date03.11.2005APPROVAL ORDERSub Imposition of penalty to M s Dhansar Engineering Company Pvt. Ltd., under NIT276 (Dt 01.12.2002) for the work of Extraction and Transfer of Coal Coal Measure Strata by deploying Surface Miners on hiring basis at lakhanpur OCP, Lakhanpur Area.	Facts
On recommendation of the committee to examine the issue on imposition of penalty under NIT 276 dated 02.12.2002 to M s Dhansar Engineering Company Pvt. Ltd., for the work of Extraction and Transfer of Coal Coal Measure Strata by deploying Surface Miners on hiring basis at Lakhanpur OCP, Lakhanpur Area, the same has been agreed by D(T) D(F) D(P)	Facts
CMD MCL.	Facts
The MCL Board in its 78th meeting held on 27.10.2005 under item No. 78.C/20 has been pleased to approve the proposal of imposition of penalty in terms of provision of the contract to	Facts
M s. Dhansar Engineering Company Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
By non performance of 130 of total contacted under NIT 276 (dt 02.12.2002) for an amount of Rs. 1,57,40,655.22 (Rupees One Crore Fiftyseven Lakh Forty Thousand Six Hundred Fiftyfive and paisa Twentytwo only) under the Clause 30.1 (loss or damage) of the agreement.	Facts
Sd  General Manager (TC)Distribution1.	Facts
GM Lakhanpur Area2.	Facts
CGM(F) MCL, HQ3.	Facts
TS to CMD, MCL4.	Facts
TS to D(T), MCL5. Secy.	Facts
To D(F), MCL6.	Facts
Sanction Order file Aggrieved, the respondents filed Writ Petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and prayed as follows PRAYERIn the circumstances, it is therefore prayed that Your Lordships be graciously pleased to issue a Rule NISI in the nature of certiorari calling upon the Opposite Parties, to show cause as why the impugned letter dated 08.12.2004 vide Annexure22 issued by the General Manager (TC), Mahanadi Coal Fields Limited, Opposite party No.2 imposing penalty shall not be quashed and if the Opposite Parties fail to show cause or show insufficient cause make the said Rule absolute.	Facts
ANDIssue a Writ in the nature of mandamus directing the Opposite parties to pay a sum of Rs. 79,01,434.60 to the Petitioner No.1 Company, which has been illegally withholding by the Opposite parties.	Facts
ANDIssue a Writ in the nature of Mandamus directing the Opposite Parties to pay interest 18 per annum as the Opposite Parties have illegally withhold the outstanding dues of Rs.79,01,434.60 of Petitioner No.1 Company since 15.07.2004.ANDIssue such other Writ Writs, Order Orders, Direction Directions as this Honble Court may deem it fit and proper.	Facts
And for this act of Kindness the Petitioner shall as in duty bound ever pray.	Facts
The Writ Petition was opposed by the appellants by filing reply affidavit.	Facts
The appellants raised preliminary objection about the maintainability of the Writ Petition.	Facts
On merits, the appellants asserted that the demand raised against the respondents was in accord with the terms and conditions of the contract and if the respondents were aggrieved by the same they were free to resort to the procedure for settlement under clause 31 of the agreement.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court, however, allowed the Writ Petition preferred by the respondents on the finding that it was not permissible for the appellants to allot extra work to the respondents at the fag end of the contract period in terms of clause 5 of the contract which envisaged giving 45 clear days notice for variation of the quantity under the contract.	Facts
That notice was given to the respondents only on 11th June 2004 even though the extended contract period was to expire on 15th July 2004.	Facts
The Court held that, surprisingly after extending the contract period on 5th June 2004, within six days on 11th June 2004 the appellants decided to enhance the contract quantity by 30.	Facts
That was not a bonafide act and was unacceptable.	Facts
The Court also held that the appellants had not offered any explanation as to in what circumstances decision to impose penalty was taken by the Board of Directors.	Facts
The Court further noted that the respondents had executed the contract upto 108.47 at a very low rate, and incurred heavy losses in that regard.	Facts
Further, a new contract for Lakhanpur OCP was already awarded and there was no loss of production caused to the appellants.	Facts
On these basis, the Division Bench allowed the Writ Petition in the following terms Accordingly, the letter dated 8.12.2004 of the General Manager (T.C) Mahanadi Coalfields Limited under Annexure22 proposing to levy shortfall penalty as well as, its Approval Order dated 03.11.2005 under AnnexureA to the counter affidavit are hereby quashed.	Facts
The outstanding dues payable to the petitioner be released in its favour within the period of thirty days along with simple interest 8 per annum to be computed from the date of conclusion of contract, i.e. from 16.7.2004.	Facts
The bank guarantee furnished by the petitioners, pursuant to the direction of this Court dated 28.7.2009 are hereby directed to be cancelled and consequently, directed that the same be returned to the petitioners forthwith.	Facts
The writ petition is allowed with the aforesaid terms.	Facts
No Costs.	Facts
Aggrieved, the appellants have filed the present appeal.	Facts
This Court passed an interim order on 12th April, 2013, directing to maintain status quo as it existed on that date until further orders.15.	Facts
According to the appellants the High Court has committed manifest error in entertaining the Writ Petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Firstly, in respect of a purely contractual matter and moreso when efficacious remedy under clause 31 of the contract was available to the respondents for redressal of their grievance.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, on merits the High Court has misconstrued and misapplied the contractual terms and in particular clause 5 of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, if the terms and conditions of the contract are read as a whole, it leaves no manner of doubt that the appellants had the discretion to extend the original contract period and having done so at the request of the respondents, the respondents were bound by the terms of the contract till 15th July 2004.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, before that date at any point of time, it was open to the appellants to reduce or increase the contract quantity upto 30.	Arguments of Petitioner
The sole plea of the respondents for their inability to perform the contract was founded on financial difficulty and sufferance of further loss due to low contract rate.	Arguments of Petitioner
That can be no consideration for walking out of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreso, after the extra quantity was allocated the respondents could have asked for further time for completing the extra work, if they were not in a position to complete the same within the contract period.	Arguments of Petitioner
That request could have been considered by the appellants appropriately.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents did not do so.	Arguments of Petitioner
Instead, they insisted to withdraw from operation merely because the rate of contract was not affordable to them.	Arguments of Petitioner
Resultantly, the appellants had to allot the extra quantity of unfinished work by the respondents, to third party at a higher rate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fact that the appellants did not suffer any loss of production, it does not follow that no financial loss was suffered by the appellants due to higher rate paid for the unfinished extra work.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants were, therefore, justified in recovering the difference of rate in respect of unfinished extra work and penalty therefore.	Arguments of Petitioner
That was a legitimate demand under the terms and conditions of the contract between the parties.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents, on the other hand, contend that it was unfair on the part of the appellants not to allow the respondents to close the contract as per the original contract and within the extended contract period i.e. upto 15th July 2004.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the respondents cannot be made liable for the unfinished extra quantity of work as that was allotted only on 11th June 2004, leaving very little time for the respondents to complete the same for which the appellants should blame themselves.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the respondents, the High Court was right in concluding that clause 5 of the agreement did not permit the appellants to allot an extra quantity of work to the extent of 30 at the fag end of the extended contract period, absent 45 clear days notice mandated therein.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the High Court has passed an equitable order also keeping in mind that the respondents had already executed 108.47 of the contract work by suffering heavy losses, which fact is substantiated from the execution of new contract at the rate of Rs.31.50 per cubic meter as against the rate of Rs.17/ per cubic meter payable to the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also contended that the demand for penalty amount is unilateral and without any just cause.	Arguments of Respondent
The same is illegal.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, contends the learned counsel, the appeal be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties at some length, we find force in the plea of the appellants.	None
The challenge in the Writ Petition filed by the respondents was limited to the letter dated 8th December 2004, issued by the General Manager of the appellants.	None
The respondents had not challenged the extension of contract period till 15th July 2004 vide letter dated 5th June 2004, the decision of the appellants to allot an extra quantity of 30 work and much less the decision of the Board to impose penalty taken on 27th October, 2005 and communicated to the respondents vide Approval Order dated 3rd November 2005.	None
The High Court, however, has not only set aside the letter dated 8th December 2004 but also the Approval Order dated 3rd November 2005.	None
For doing so, the High Court has taken support from clause 5 of the Contract.	None
That clause cannot be read in isolation.	None
The other terms and conditions of the contract must be read as a whole.	None
Clause 5 of the agreement dated 26th May 2003 posits authority in the appellants to reduce or increase the tendered quantity by 30, whilst the contract is subsisting.	None
Indisputably, the original contract period was upto 15th April, 2004.	None
At the instance of these respondents, the same stood extended till 15th July 2004.	None
The extra 30 work was allotted to the respondents on 11th June 2004, before expiry of the extended contract period i.e. 15th July 2004.	None
As the contract period was extended and that decision was allowed to attain finality, it inevitably obliged the respondents to fulfill all the contractual stipulations under the original agreement including to complete the assigned quantity of work  be it original quantity or extra quantity  before 15th July 2004.	None
The fact that they had to suffer financial loss due to low contract rate could not be cited as an excuse to extricate from that contractual obligation.	None
Failure to comply with the contractual obligation of executing the original quantity of work or the extra work, as the case may be, must visit the respondents with liability to compensate the appellants in terms of other express clauses of the contract to the extent of unfinished work and in particular the financial loss suffered by the appellants for getting the same work executed through a third agency at a higher rate.	None
The fact that the respondents executed 108.47 of work before 15th July 2004, could be no justification to relieve them of their obligation to compensate the appellants with suitable amount for the unfinished contract work (out of 130).	None
Presumably to get over this position, the respondents relying on clause 5 of the agreement would contend that the extra quantity of work could not be allotted to them, absent 45 clear days notice that too at the fag end of the contract period.	None
This argument, in our opinion, is a complete misreading of the said clause.	None
It is one thing to say that the contractor should be given sufficient time to complete the extra work commensurate with the extra quantity required to be executed by him.	None
However, in law, it is not open to contend that even though the contract period is still subsisting, the principal (appellants) could not have exercised its option to increase the quantity of work to the extent permissible under that clause, to be executed by the contractor within the contract period.	None
The principal (appellants) could be asked to exercise their option to extend the contract period beyond 15th July, 2004, to enable the respondents to complete the unfinished extra work.	None
If such request were to be made by the respondents, there would have been corresponding obligation on the appellants to extend the contact period commensurate with the increased quantity of work in terms of clause 5 of the agreement.	None
The respondents, instead, opted to walk out of the contract for the sole reason that the contract rate agreed by them was very low and was causing financial loss to them.	None
That can be no just reason to not fulfill their contractual obligation.	None
Relying on the third sentence (last sentence) in clause 5, it was contended that the employer could not have increased the tendered quantity in absence of 45 clear days notice.	None
We agree with the appellants that the said stipulation would come into play only if the respondents were also called upon to increase the machine capacity by upto 30 extra daily quantity.	None
In the present case, the appellants merely allotted extra 30 quantity without requiring the respondents to increase the daily quantity.	None
There is marked difference between increasing the extra quantity during the contract period and that of increasing the extra daily quantity.	None
In the case of latter, the contractor would be required to step up the machine capacity for which giving of 45 clear days notice to him is necessary.	None
Suffice it to observe that the stipulation in the third sentence of clause 5 providing for 45 clear days notice was not an impediment for the appellants to allot extra quantity of work upto 30, whilst the contract period was subsisting.	None
The respondents had then relied on the notings of the Project Officer dated 26th January 2005 to contend that assigning of extra work to the respondents at the fag end of the contract period was doubted even by the said officer.	None
The observations of the Project Officer cannot be the basis to construe the scope of Clause 5 of the contract.	None
Besides, it was only an interdepartmental communication which was duly considered at different level in the office of the appellants, but finally it is the decision of the Board of Directors of the appellants that must prevail.	None
As a matter of fact, Clause 5 of the agreement empowers the appellants to increase or reduce the quantity of work upto permissible limit whilst the contract was subsisting.	None
That power having been exercised, the obligation of the contractor to complete the extra work in terms of the subject contract within the contract period or extended contract period was imperative.	None
The respondents are not right in contending that the appellantsCompany had no authority to grant extension of time to complete the enhanced quantity.	None
This contention deserves to be stated to be rejected, keeping in mind the other contractual terms such as Clause 11.0  providing for variation in the scheduled quantity, extent and rate Clause 13  time for completion of contract and more particularly Clause 14.0  for extension of date of completion.	None
Clause 14.0 (e) was available and ought to have been invoked by the respondents in this situation.	None
It postulates that for any other cause not specifically provided in subclauses (a) to (d) of the same Clause, at the sole discretion of the appellants, the date of completion could be extended, if it was found to be necessary because of situation beyond the control of the contractor.	None
That clause could be invoked for the situation in which the respondents were placed due to extra work allocated to them at the fag end of the contract (extended) period.	None
In our opinion, clause 5 did not prohibit the principal (appellants) to allot upto extra 30 quantity of work, for want of 45 clear days of subsisting contract period.	Reasoning
Whereas, that option could be exercised by the appellants at any time until the contract period was subsisting, which in this case was until 15th July 2004.	Reasoning
In the present case, such notice regarding increase of work upto 30 permissible under clause 5 of the agreement, was given on 11th June 2004.	Reasoning
On this finding, it must follow that the respondents committed breach of their contractual obligation, in not completing the balance work out of 130 of work (i.e. 130  108.47).	Reasoning
To that extent the respondents became liable to compensate the appellants including by way of penalty and in particular towards the financial loss caused to the appellants due to assigning the unfinished work to a third agency (contractor) at a higher rate.	Reasoning
The amount demanded by the appellants includes the difference of contractual rate and the actual loss suffered by the appellants for completing the unfinished work through a third agency (contractor) at a higher rate, as is noticed from the communication dated 8th December 2004 sent to the respondents.	Reasoning
The respondents, would then contend that, the appellants without giving any opportunity to the respondents unilaterally imposed penalty and despite the noting of the General Manager that there was no loss of production to the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, a doubt was expressed by the Project Officer regarding giving extra work to the respondents at the fag end of the contract period.	None
The respondents have relied on the decision of this Court in Maula Bux vs. Union of India (1969) 2 SCC 554 ), in which it has been held that where a sum is named in the contract in the nature of a penalty, where loss in terms of money can be determined, the party claiming compensation must prove the loss suffered by it.	None
It is, however, indisputable that financial loss was suffered by the appellants on account of assigning the unfinished work to a third agency (contractor) at a higher rate.	None
In that, the contract rate for the same work to be done by the respondents would have been at Rs. 17/ per cubic meter, which the appellants were required to get it executed at the rate of Rs. 31.50 per cubic meter through a third agency.	None
The fact that no loss of production was suffered by the appellants cannot relieve the respondents of that liability.	None
It is a different matter that the respondents were not put to notice before the final decision was taken by the appellants to recover the financial loss along with penalty.	Reasoning
The respondents could have approached the appellants for reconsideration of their demand towards penalty, in terms of Clause 30.3 of the contract and persuade the appellants to waive the penalty amount to be recovered from them.	Reasoning
The respondents, however, chose to straightway approach the High Court by way of Writ Petition.	Reasoning
Notably, the High Court has not set aside the penalty amount as such, but the entire demand being impermissible.	Reasoning
Since we have reversed the findings and conclusion of the High Court and even if this appeal succeeds, the respondents can be granted an opportunity to make a representation to the Appellants  company, who in turn can deal with the same in accordance with law.	Reasoning
If the appellants accept the claim of the respondents about the unjustness of penalty or quantum thereof, they would be free to withdraw or modify their claim for recovery of penalty amount, if so advised.	Reasoning
In the event, the appellants reject the representation, they will be free to recover the amount as demanded towards penalty along with interest accrued thereon, as may be permissible in law.	Reasoning
However, that would not absolve the respondents from the financial liability arising due to difference of rate of contract and the actual cost incurred by the appellants to complete the unfinished work out of 130 of the contract quantity, through a third agency at a higher rate.	Reasoning
That can be recovered by the appellants from the respondents along with interest accrued thereon at such rate, as may be permissible in law, even if the representation made by the respondents for recall or modification of the penalty amount is pending consideration.	Reasoning
Considering the above, it is not necessary for us to burden this judgment with the contention of the respondents that the penalty imposed without any notice or hearing to the respondents is vitiated as also the decisions relied in support of that contention in the case of Gorkha Security Services vs. Government (NCT of Delhi) Ors.	None
(2014) 9 SCC 105 )and Kumari Shrilekha Vidyarthi Ors vs. State of U.P. (1991) 1 SCC 212 )	None
Similarly, it is not necessary for us to burden this judgment with the decisions relied on by the respondents, to contend that existence of alternative remedy is no bar to entertain a Writ Petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, as held in the cases of Popcorn Enterainment vs. City Development Corporation (2007) 9 SCC 593 ), Harbanslal Sahnia Anr.	None
vs. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
(2003) 2 SCC 107 ), Union of India Ors. vs.	None
Tantia Construction Pvt. Ltd.	None
(2011)5 SCC 697) , M.P. State Agro Industries Development Corpn.	None
Anr.	None
Vs. Jahan Khan (2007) 10 SCC 88 )and Whirlpool Corporation vs. Registrar of Trade Marks, Mumbai (1998) 8 SCC 1 ).	None
For, we have already examined the merits of the controversy and more so granted liberty to the respondents to make representation to the appellants on the question of justness of the demand towards penalty or the quantum thereof.	None
It will be open to the respondents to pursue remedy in that behalf, as may be permissible in law.	Reasoning
We are not expressing any opinion one way or the other on the issue of penalty amount.	Reasoning
All questions in that behalf are left open.	None
Accordingly, we partly allow this appeal.	Decision
The judgment of the Division Bench dated 7th November 2012 is set aside.	Decision
The reliefs claimed by the respondents in the Writ Petition are disposed of in the above terms.27.	Decision
The appeal is partly allowed in the above terms with no order as to costs.	Decision
