Arijit Pasayat, J.	None
In these appeals, Revenue questions correctness of the judgment rendered by the Customs, Excise Gold (Control) Appellant Tribunal, New Delhi, (in short CEGAT).	Issue
It was held by the impugned judgment that the respondents were eligible to avail benefit of the exemption notification No.175/86CE and para 7 thereof will not be attracted in the present case.	Issue
Appeals filed by the Revenue questioning correctness of the decision rendered by the Commissioner (Appeals), Central Excise Customs, Chandigarh in short Commissioner (Appeals), were dismissed.	Issue
The background facts in a nutshell are as followsRespondents manufacture Brass Sanitary Bathroom fittings falling under Subheading 8481.80 and 8481.99 of the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (in short Tariff Act).	Facts
The goods were packed in cardboard boxes on which stylised brand name ARK was printed and labels affixed on cardboard boxes also showed the brand name ARK in the stylised script name and address of M s. Arkson Pvt. Ltd., Chandigarh was also printed on the label in addition ARK was put on the Sanitary fittings by pasting stickers and also by affixing tickli on the body of the fittings.	Facts
All the respondents were availing exemption under Notification No.175/86CE.	Facts
Proceedings were started against them for demand of duty as brand name ARK in stylised script was brand name of M s. Arkson Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Facts
Initially the matter was decided by the Collector, Central Excise who denied the exemption under Notification No.175/86CE holding that the respondents were affixing specified goods with the brand name of another person not eligible for the grant of exemption and also there was suppression on the part of the respondents.	Facts
On appeal filed by the Assessees, the CEGAT remanded the matter for de novo decision after arriving at a finding in regard to the eligibility to exemption of M s. Arkson Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. under Notification No.175/86CE and to arrive at a definite finding in regard to other pleas of use of trade mark w.e.f.	Facts
April, l992 and other related matters concerning time bar.	Facts
The CEGAT, however, gave specific finding that stylised ARK is a trade name of M s. Arkson within the meaning of relevant para of Notification No.175/86CE.3.	Facts
On remand the matter has been decided by the Additional Commissioner who confirmed the demand of duty and imposed penalty on all the respondents holding that since M s. Arkson Pvt. Ltd. was not eligible for the benefit of Notification No.l75/86CE since it was not holding any L4 licence the casting of pig iron manufactured in their proprietary concern M s. Arkson Engg.	Facts
Co. was exempted from payment of duty under Notification No.208/83 dated 1.8.1983 and no declaration as required to be filed under Rule 174 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 (in short the Rules), was filed by it castings falling under Subheading 7325.10 of the Tariff were specified in the Annexure to the Notification.	Facts
In addition the Additional Commissioner, relying upon decision in the case of Mentha Allied Products vs. Union of India (1995 (77) ELT A133(SC), concluded that aggregate sale figure of M s. Arkson Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. was more than Rs.2 crores during 199091 and 199192 and accordingly the benefit of Notification was also not available to it.	Facts
The Additional Commissioner gave findings to the effect that the respondents had started affixing stylised brand name ARK w.e.f.	Facts
September, 1991 and not from April, 1992 as contended and extended period of limitation was invokable as the fact regarding manufacture of the goods affixed with brand name another person was never brought to the knowledge the Department.4.	Facts
Respondents questioned correctness of the view expressed by the adjudicating authority before the before the Commissioner (Appeals).	Facts
The said authority set aside the adjudication orders holding that eligibility of M s. Arkson Pvt. Ltd. has to be considered in the light of the fact that Brass sanitary bathroom fittings are classified under subheadings 8481.80 and 8481.99 which are specified in Annexure to Notification no.175/86CE, Para 3 of Notification does not stipulate that value of the trading goods is to be taken into consideration for computing the aggregate value of clearance and	Facts
M s. Arkson Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
being registered as SSI unit have made substantial compliance of conditions laid down in Notification no.175/86CE.	Facts
It was further held that nonfulfilment of requirement of Rule 174 was on account of the fact ARK in simple form was regarded as brand name of M s. Khanna Industries who had complied with Rule 174 and it was the Tribunals decision that separate identity of ARK and stylized ARK was established and, therefore, extended period of limitation was not applicable.5.	Facts
Revenue preferred appeals before the CEGAT which endorsed view of the Commissioner (Appeals), but did not record any finding on the question of extended period of limitation.	Facts
Stand of the appellant is that the goods were cleared by the respondents who are manufacturers and the brand owner is a trader.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even if the brand owner is a manufacturer he is required to be manufacturer of specified goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
CEGAT erred in holding that if the brand owner is a manufacturer it is not required to be manufacturer of the specified goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
The small scale industry is not manufacturer of specified goods, and as such is not entitled to any exemption.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that CEGATs view is correct.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event it is pleaded that the extended period of limitation is not applicable and that question has not been decided by the CEGAT.8.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate the rival submissions, the relevant notifications need to be noted.	None
Notification No.175/86C.E. dated 1.3.1986 reads as follows EXEMPTION TO SMALL SCALE UNITS In the exercise of the powers conferred by sub rule (1) of rule 8 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue)	None
No. 85/85Central Excises dated the 17th March, 1985 the Central Government hereby exempts the excisable goods of the description specified in annexure below and falling under the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986) (hereinafter referred to as the specified goods), and cleared for home consumption on or after the 1st day of April in any financial year, by a manufacturer from one or more factories.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx ANNEXURE Xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx All other goods specified in the said Schedule other than the following, namely  all goods failing under Chapters 9, 24, 31, 51, 52, 53. .54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 71, 73 and 74 all goods falling under heading Nos. 21.06, 25.04, 36.03, 40.11, 4012, 40.13, 87.01, 87.02, 87.03, 81.04, 81.05, 87.06, 87.11, 91.01, 91.02 and 96.13 all goods fallings under subheading Nos. 2101.10, 2101.20, 3304.00, 3305.90, 3307.00, 4005.00, 4006.10, 4008.21 and 9505.10 and Sandalwood oil strips of plastic intended for weaving of fabric or sacks, polyurethane foam and articles of polyurethane loam broadcast television receiver sets refrigerating and airconditioning appliances and machinery, and parts and accessories thereof.	None
The said notification was amended by Notification No.223/87C.E. dated 22.9.1987.	None
The amendment reads as follows In exercise of the powers conferred by subrule (1) of Rule 8 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue)	None
No. 175/86	None
Central Excise, dated the 1st March, 1986, namelyIn the said notification,(I) after paragraph, 6, the following paragraph shall be inserted, namely7.	None
The exemption contained in this notification shall not apply to the specified goods with a brand name where a manufacturer affixes the specified goods with a brand name or trade name (registered or not) of another person who is not eligible for the grant of exemption under this notificationProvided that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be applicable in respect of the specified goods cleared for home consumption before the 1st day of October, 1987.(ii) after Explanation VII, the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely Explanation VIII  Brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name, whether registered or not, that is to say a name or a mark, such as symbol, monogram, label, signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating, or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication o the identity of that person.	None
Clause 7 of the notification after amendment deals with exemption of specified goods and circumstances where the exemption is not available.	Reasoning
Stand of the respondent is that if manufacturer need not be a manufacturer of specified goods, and brand name as used is entitled to exemption contained in the notification, it is really of no consequence whether he is manufacturer of goods.	Reasoning
The stand is clearly untenable.	Reasoning
The notification is goods specific.	Reasoning
What is required is that a person, who may be a manufacturer, must be eligible for exemption under the notification in respect of the specified goods.	Reasoning
Any other interpretation would render the purpose for which the notification has been issued redundant.11.	Reasoning
As noted above, the notification is goods specific.	Reasoning
The emphasis is on specified goods.	Reasoning
That being so, the impugned judgment of the CEGAT is indefensible.	Reasoning
Undisputedly, M s Arkson Pvt. Ltd. is different from M s Arkson Engg.	Reasoning
Co.	Reasoning
In the present case, the issue relates to manufacture of brass sanitary bathroom fittings.	Reasoning
M s Arkson Engg.	Reasoning
Co. manufactures C.I. castings while M s Arkson Pvt. Ltd. are the owners of the stylized brand name ARK.	Reasoning
However, the said company is engaged in trading of brass sanitary fittings.	Reasoning
Thus, they are traders.	Reasoning
Assessees cannot take the benefit of the registration certificate of M s Arkson Engg.	Reasoning
Co.	Reasoning
as both are separate legal entities.	Reasoning
Therefore, when M s Khanna Industries and others i.e. the assesses use the brand name trade name of ARK in the context of brass sanitary fittings the assessees are not entitled to claim the benefit as the stylized brand name ARK belongs to M s Arkson Pvt. Ltd. and not to M s Arkson Engg.	Reasoning
Co.	Reasoning
However, as noted above, M s Arkson Pvt. Ltd. is a trader and not the manufacturer of sanitary bath fittings.	Reasoning
This is clearly accepted by Ms. Aarti Khanna, Executive Director of M s Arkson Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. in her statements on 22.1.1993 and 18.3.1993.13.	Reasoning
In the case of Namtech Systems Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, New Delhi (2000 (115)	Reasoning
E.L.T. 238 (Tribunal), the larger Bench of CEGAT has held that affixation of specified good with a brand name of ineligible Indian manufacturer will entail disqualification from exemption.	Reasoning
It is further held that the benefit of small scale exemption under Notification No.175/86CE, as amended, is not available to the specified goods if they are affixed with the brand name or trade name of a trader who is not a manufacturer.	Reasoning
The judgment of the larger Bench in Namtech Systems Ltd. (supra) has not been considered by the CEGAT in the present case.	Reasoning
The intention is crystal clear that at the relevant time, the unit should be eligible for exemption under the Notification in respect of the specified goods.14.	Reasoning
However, as rightly contended by learned counsel for the respondents, the plea relating to nonapplicability of extended period of limitation has not been considered by the CEGAT.	Reasoning
Therefore, the matter is remanded and the above issue alone will now be considered by the CEGAT.15.	Decision
The appeals are allowed to the aforesaid extent without any order as to costs.	Decision
