 INDU MALHOTRA, J. 1.	None
The present statutory Appeals have been filed under Section 23 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to challenge the Final Judgment and Order dated 23.10.2018 passed in Consumer Case No. 238 of 2017 and Consumer Case No. 239 of 2017 by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (hereinafter referred to as ?	Issue
the National Commission?).	Issue
2.	None
Since a common issue arises in both the Civil Appeals, they are being disposed of by the present common Judgment and Order.	None
3.	None
For the sake of brevity, the facts in C.A. No. 12238 of 2018 are being referred to, being the lead matter.	None
The factual matrix of the said Civil Appeal is as under 3.1.	None
The Appellant Builder launched a residential project by the name ?	Facts
Araya Complex?	Facts
in Sector 62, Golf Course Extension Road, Gurugram.	None
The Respondent Flat Purchaser entered into an Apartment Buyer?s Agreement dated 08.05.2012 with the Appellant Builder to purchase an apartment in the said project for a total sale consideration of Rs. 4,83,25,280/.	Facts
As per Clause 11.2 of the Agreement, the Appellant Builder was to make all efforts to apply for the Occupancy Certificate within 39 months from the date of excavation, with a grace period of 180 days.	Arguments of Respondent
3.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The excavation of the project commenced on 04.06.2012.	Facts
As per Clause 11.2 of the Agreement, the Builder was required to apply for the Occupancy Certificate by 04.09.2015, or within a further grace period of 6 months i.e. by 04.03.2016, and offer possession of the flat to the Respondent Flat Purchaser.	Facts
The Appellant Builder however failed to apply for the Occupancy Certificate as per the stipulations in the Agreement.	Reasoning
3.3.	None
The Respondent Flat Purchaser filed a Consumer Complaint before the National Commission on 27.01.2017 alleging deficiency of service on the part of the Appellant Builder for failure to obtain the Occupancy Certificate, and hand over possession of the flat.	Facts
The Respondent prayed interalia for  Refund of the entire amount deposited being Rs. 4,48,43,026/, along with Interest 18 p.a. and Compensation of Rs.	None
10,00,000/ for mental agony, harassment, discomfort and undue hardship and Refund of the wrongfully charged taxes including Service Tax, and other charges along with Interest 18 p.a. and Litigation Costs of Rs. 1,00,000/. 3.4.	None
On 06.02.2017, the National Commission passed an ex parte Interim Order restraining the Appellant Builder from cancelling the allotment made in favour of the Respondent Flat Purchaser during the pendency of the Consumer Case.	Arguments of Petitioner
3.5.	None
During the pendency of the proceedings before the National Commission, the Appellant Builder obtained the Occupancy Certificate on 23.07.2018, and issued a Possession Letter to the Respondent Flat Purchaser on 28.08.2018.	None
3.6.	None
The Appellant Builder submitted before the National Commission that since the construction of the apartment was complete, and the Occupancy Certificate had since been obtained, the Respondent Flat Purchaser must be directed to take possession of the apartment, instead of directing refund of the amount deposited.	None
3.7.	None
The Respondent Flat Purchaser however submitted that he was not interested in taking possession of the apartment on account of the inordinate delay of almost 3 years.	None
The Respondent Flat Purchaser stated that he had, in the meanwhile, taken an alternate property in Gurugram, and sought refund of the entire amount of Rs.	None
4,48,43,026/ deposited by him along with Interest 18 p.a. 3.8.	None
The National Commission vide Final Judgment and Order dated 23.10.2018 allowed the Consumer Complaint filed by the Respondent Flat Purchaser, and held that since the last date stipulated for construction had expired about 3 years before the Occupancy Certificate was obtained, the Respondent Flat Purchaser could not be compelled to take possession at such a belated stage.	Facts
The grounds urged by the Appellant Builder for delay in handing over possession were not justified, so as to deny awarding compensation to the Respondent Flat Purchaser.	None
The clauses in the Agreement were held to be wholly one sided, unfair, and not binding on the Respondent Flat Purchaser.	None
The Appellant Builder was directed to refund Rs.	None
4,48,43,026/ i.e. the amount deposited by the Respondent Flat Purchaser, along with Interest 10.7 S.I. p.a. towards compensation.	Facts
The rate of Interest 10.7 S.I. p.a. was fixed in accordance with Rule 15 of the Haryana Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017 which reads as follows ?	Facts
15.	None
An allottee shall be compensated by the promoter for loss or damage sustained due to incorrect or false statement in the notice, advertisement, prospectus or brochure in the terms of Section 12.	None
In case, allottee wishes to withdraw from the project due to discontinuance of promoter?s business as developers on account of suspension or revocation of the registration or any other reason(s) in terms of clause (b) sub section (I) of Section 18 or the promoter fails to give possession of the apartment plot in accordance with terms and conditions of agreement for sale in terms of subsection (4) of section 19.	Facts
The promoter shall return the entire amount with interest as well as the compensation payable.	Facts
The rate of interest payable by the promoter to the allottee or by the allottee to the promoter, as the case may be, shall be the State Bank of India highest marginal cost of lending rate plus two percent. ?	Facts
(emphasis supplied)	None
However, for the period when the Interim Order dated 06.02.2017 was in operation, which restrained the Appellant Builder from cancelling the Respondent?s allotment, no Interest was awarded.	None
The National Commission ordered payment of Interest from the date of each installment till 05.02.2017 and from the date of the Order passed by the Commission till the date on which the amount would be refunded.	None
3.9.	None
Aggrieved by the Order dated 23.10.2018 passed by the National Commission, the Appellant Builder preferred the present statutory Appeal under Section 23 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.	Facts
4.	None
Mr. C.A. Sundaram, Senior Counsel appeared for the Appellant Builder, and drew our attention to the following Clauses in the Apartment Buyer?s Agreement dated 08.05.2012 viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 11.5 (ii), (iv) and (v) along with Clause 20 which read as under ?11.5.	None
(ii) In the event of further delay by the Developer in handing over of the possession of the Unit even after 12 months from the end of grace period, then in such case, the intending Allottee shall have an additional option to terminate this Agreement by giving termination notice of 90 days to the Developer and refund of the actual installment paid by him against the Unit after adjusting the taxes paid interest penalty on delayed payments.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iv) Developer shall, within ninety (90) days from the date of receipt of termination notice of said Unit, refund to the intending Allottee, all the monies received excluding the service tax collected on various remittances, till the date of the refund, from the Intending Allottee under this Agreement.	None
In case the Developer fails to refund the Sale Price, the Developer shall pay interest to the Intending Allottee 9 per annum for any period beyond the said period of ninety (90) days.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Intending Allottee shall have no other claim against the Developer in respect of the said Unit along with the parking space.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Intending Allottee in this event shall have no right to seek any compensation apart from the interest as stipulated herein.	None
(v) If the Intending Allottee fails to exercise his right of termination within the time limit as aforesaid, by delivery to the Developer of a written notice acknowledged by the Developer in this regard, then he shall not be entitled to terminate this Agreement thereafter and he shall continue to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement, provided that in such case, the Developer shall continue to pay the compensation provided herein.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	Arguments of Petitioner
RIGHT OF CANCELLATION BY THE ALLOTTEE Except to the extent specifically and expressly stated elsewhere in this Agreement, the Intending Allottee shall have the right to cancel this Agreement solely in the event of the clear and unambiguous failure of the warranties of the Developer that leads to frustration of the contract on that account.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such case, the Allottee shall be entitled to a refund of the installments actually paid by it along with interest thereon 6 per annum, within a period of 90 days from the date of communication to the Developer in this regard less any payments made towards taxes paid by the Developer or interest paid due or payable, any other amount of a nonrefundable nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
No other claim, whatsoever, monetary or otherwise shall lie against the Developer nor shall be raised otherwise or in any manner whatsoever by the Allottee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Save and except to this limited extent, the Allottee shall not have any right to cancel this Agreement on any ground whatsoever.?	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied) 4.1.	None
It was submitted that the Respondent Flat Purchaser was not entitled to refund of the amount deposited, since the Apartment Buyer?s Agreement was not terminated by the Respondent Flat Purchaser in accordance with Clause 11.5 (ii) of the Agreement, which stipulates that the allottee has to terminate the Agreement by giving a Termination Notice of 90 days to the Developer.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the Respondent Flat Purchaser had not terminated the Agreement by a written notice as per Clause 11.5, the Builder could not sell the apartment, and refund the money to the Respondent Flat Purchaser.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, the Respondent filed a Consumer Complaint and obtained an exparte Interim Order dated 06.02.2017 restraining the Builder from cancelling the allotment made in favour of the Respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
4.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that if the filing of the Consumer Complaint is considered as an act of termination of the Agreement, then the same was premature.	Arguments of Petitioner
As per Clause 11.5 (ii), the Respondent Flat Purchaser could have claimed refund only after the expiry of 12 months after the grace period came to an end i.e. after 04.03.2017.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the Consumer Complaint was filed on 27.01.2017.	Arguments of Petitioner
In these circumstances, even if it is found that the Appellant Builder is liable to refund the amount deposited with Interest, then the date of the Impugned Order i.e. 23.10.2018, must be treated as the date of serving the Termination Notice as per Clause 11.5 (ii) of the Agreement, and the Appellant Builder should be held liable to pay Interest only after 90 days from the date of termination i.e. from 23.01.2019. 4.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
With respect to rate of Interest awarded by the National Commission, it was submitted that the Commission erred in granting Interest 10.7 S.I. p.a.	Arguments of Petitioner
even though Clause 20 of the Agreement provided Interest 6 p.a.	Arguments of Petitioner
in case of delay in handing over possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even under Clause 11.5 of the Agreement, the Builder was liable to pay Interest 9 p.a., but not 10.7 S.I. p.a.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel relied upon this Court?s Judgment in Bharathi Knitting Company v. DHL Worldwide Express Courier Division of Airfreight Ltd., (1996) 4 SCC 704.	Arguments of Petitioner
and submitted that the National Commission could not have granted compensation in excess of the rate prescribed by the Agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	None
Mr. Sushil Kaushik, learned Counsel represented the Respondent Flat Purchaser.	None
5.1.	None
It was submitted that the filing of the Consumer Complaint may be treated as his Termination Notice under Clause 11.5 (ii) of the Agreement.	Arguments of Respondent
Under the Agreement, the Builder was obligated to apply for the Occupancy Certificate within 39 months from the date of excavation, with a grace period of further 6 months.	Arguments of Respondent
The period got over by 04.03.3016 after taking into account the grace period.	None
Admittedly, the Appellant Builder offered possession after an inordinate delay of almost 3 years on 28.08.2018.	Arguments of Respondent
On account of the inordinate delay, the Respondent Flat Purchaser had no option but to arrange for alternate accommodation in Gurugram.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, he could not be compelled to take possession of the apartment after such a long delay.	None
It was in these circumstances that the Respondent Flat Purchaser sought stay of the cancellation of the allotment as a collateral, till his claim for refund was adjudicated by the National Commission.	None
5.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the Clauses of the Agreement were onesided.	None
As per Clause 6.4 (ii) of the Apartment Buyer?s Agreement, the Appellant Builder could charge Interest 18 p.a. for delayed payments.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the Appellant Builder was not required to pay equivalent Interest to the Respondent Flat Purchaser for delay in handing over possession of the flat.	None
On the contrary, as per Clause 11.5 (iv) of the Agreement, in case of delay on the part of the Appellant Builder in handing over possession of the flat, the Respondent Flat Purchaser was entitled to Interest 9 p.a.	None
only.	None
5.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Respondent further submitted that the National Commission had ordered payment of Interest as per the statutory Rules i.e. Rule 15 of the Haryana Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017 10.7 S.I. p.a.	None
The Respondent Flat Purchaser submitted that he had obtained a loan for Rs.	None
3,30,00,000/ from Standard Chartered Bank to purchase the flat in question, and had entered into a Tripartite Loan Agreement with the Bank and the Builder.	Arguments of Respondent
The Respondent Flat Purchaser had to pay Interest 10 p.a.	Arguments of Respondent
for servicing the loan for the entire period.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, Interest 10.7 S.I. p.a. awarded by the National Commission was just and fair.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that even though the National Commission had not granted Interest for the period during which the Order of stay of cancellation of the allotment was in operation, the Respondent Flat Purchaser had to pay Interest to the Bank even for this period.	None
5.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Respondent Flat Purchaser submitted that the present Appeal be dismissed, and the Builder be directed to pay the amount awarded by the National Commission with Interest, within 1 week, so that the Respondent can discharge his loan liability.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
We have heard the learned Counsel for both the parties, and perused the pleadings, and written submissions filed.	None
6.1.	None
In the present case, admittedly the Appellant Builder obtained the Occupancy Certificate almost 2 years after the date stipulated in the Apartment Buyer?s Agreement.	None
As a consequence, there was a failure to hand over possession of the flat to the Respondent Flat Purchaser within a reasonable period.	None
The Occupancy Certificate was obtained after a delay of more than 2 years on 28.08.2018 during the pendency of the proceedings before the National Commission.	None
In Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K. Gupta, (1994) 1 SCC 243 this Court held that when a person hires the services of a builder, or a contractor, for the construction of a house or a flat, and the same is for a consideration, it is a ?service?	None
as defined by Section 2 (o) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.	None
The inordinate delay in handing over possession of the flat clearly amounts to deficiency of service.	None
In Fortune Infrastructure Anr.	None
v. Trevor	None
D?Lima Ors., (2018) 5 SCC 442 this Court held that a person cannot be made to wait indefinitely for possession of the flat allotted to him, and is entitled to seek refund of the amount paid by him, along with compensation.	None
6.2.	None
The Respondent Flat Purchaser has made out a clear case of deficiency of service on the part of the Appellant Builder.	None
The Respondent Flat Purchaser was justified in.	None
terminating the Apartment Buyer?s Agreement by filing the Consumer Complaint, and cannot be compelled to accept the possession whenever it is offered by the Builder.	None
The Respondent Purchaser was legally entitled to seek refund of the money deposited by him along with appropriate compensation.	None
6.3.	None
The National Commission in the Impugned Order dated 23.10.2018 held that the Clauses relied upon by the Builder were wholly onesided, unfair and unreasonable, and could not be relied upon.	None
The Law Commission of India in its 199 th Report, addressed the issue of Unfair (Procedural Substantive) Terms in Contract?.	None
The Law Commission interalia recommended that a legislation be enacted to counter such unfair terms in contracts.	None
In the draft legislation provided in the Report, it was stated that ?	None
A contract or a term thereof is substantively unfair if such contract or the term thereof is in itself harsh, oppressive or unconscionable to one of the parties.?	None
6.4.	None
A perusal of the Apartment Buyer?s Agreement dated 08.05.2012 reveals stark incongruities between the remedies available to both the parties.	None
For instance, Clause 6.4 (ii) of the Agreement entitles the Appellant Builder to charge Interest 18 p.a.	None
on account of any delay in payment of installments from the Respondent Flat Purchaser.	None
Clause 6.4 (iii) of the Agreement entitles the Appellant Builder to cancel the allotment and terminate the Agreement, if any installment remains in arrears for more than 30 days.	None
On the other hand, as per Clause 11.5 of the Agreement, if the Appellant Builder fails to deliver possession of the apartment within the stipulated period, the Respondent Flat Purchaser has to wait for a period of 12 months after the end of the grace period, before serving a Termination Notice of 90 days on the Appellant Builder, and even thereafter, the Appellant Builder gets 90 days to refund only the actual installment paid by the Respondent Flat Purchaser, after adjusting the taxes paid, interest and penalty on delayed payments.	None
In case of any delay thereafter, the Appellant Builder is liable to pay Interest 9 p.a.	None
only.	None
6.5.	None
Another instance is Clause 23.4 of the Agreement which entitles the Appellant Builder to serve a Termination Notice upon the Respondent Flat Purchaser for breach of any contractual obligation.	None
If the Respondent Flat Purchaser fails to rectify the default within 30 days of the Termination Notice, then the Agreement automatically stands cancelled, and the Appellant Builder has the right to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money towards liquidated damages.	None
On the other hand, as Clause 11.5 (v) of the Agreement, if the Respondent Flat Purchaser fails to exercise his right of termination within the time limit provided in Clause 11.5, then he shall not be entitled to terminate the Agreement thereafter, and shall be bound by the provisions of the Agreement.	None
6.6.	None
Section 2 (r) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 defines unfair trade practices?	None
in the following words ?	None
unfair trade practice? means a trade practice which, for the purpose of promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods or for the provision of any service, adopts any unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice ?, and includes any of the practices enumerated therein.	None
The provision is illustrative, and not exhaustive.	None
In Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited and Ors.	None
v. Brojo Nath Ganguly and Ors., (1986)	None
3 SCC 156	None
this Court held that ?89.	None
Our judges are bound by their oath to uphold the Constitution and the laws?.	None
The Constitution was enacted to secure to all the citizens of this country social and economic justice.	None
Article 14 of the Constitution guarantees to all persons equality before the law and equal protection of the laws.	None
This principle is that the courts will not enforce and will, when called upon to do so, strike down an unfair and unreasonable contract, or an unfair and unreasonable clause in a contract, entered into between parties who are not equal in bargaining power.	None
It is difficult to give an exhaustive list of all bargains of this type.	None
No court can visualize the different situations which can arise in the affairs of men.	None
One can only attempt to give some illustrations.	None
For instance, the above principle will apply where the inequality of bargaining power is the result of the great disparity in the economic strength of the contracting parties.	None
It will apply where the inequality is the result of circumstances, whether of the creation of the parties or not.	None
It will apply to situations in which the weaker party is in a position in which he can obtain goods or services or means of livelihood only upon the terms imposed by the stronger party or go without them.	None
It will also apply where a man has no choice, or rather no meaningful choice, but to give his assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line in a prescribed or standard form or to accept a set of rules as part of the contract, however unfair, unreasonable and unconscionable a clause in that contract or form or rules may be.	None
This principle, however, will not apply where the bargaining power of the contracting parties is equal or almost equal.	None
This principle may not.	None
apply where both parties are businessmen and the contract is a commercial transaction.	None
These cases can neither be enumerated nor fully illustrated.	None
The court must judge each case on its own facts and circumstances.?	None
(emphasis supplied) 6.7.	None
A term of a contract will not be final and binding if it is shown that the flat purchasers had no option but to sign on the dotted line, on a contract framed by the builder.	None
The contractual terms of the Agreement dated 08.05.2012 are exfacie onesided, unfair, and unreasonable.	None
The incorporation of such onesided clauses in an agreement constitutes an unfair trade practice as per Section 2 (r) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 since it adopts unfair methods or practices for the purpose of selling the flats by the Builder.	None
7.	None
In view of the above discussion, we have no hesitation in holding that the terms of the Apartment Buyer?s Agreement dated 08.05.2012 were wholly onesided and unfair to the Respondent Flat Purchaser.	Reasoning
The Appellant Builder could not seek to bind the Respondent with such onesided contractual terms.	Reasoning
8.	None
We also reject the submission made by the Appellant Builder that the National Commission was not justified in awarding Interest 10.7 S.I. p.a.	Reasoning
for the period commencing from the date of payment of each installment, till the date on which the amount was paid, excluding only the period during which the stay of cancellation of the allotment was in operation.	None
In Bangalore Development Authority v. Syndicate Bank, (2007) 6 SCC 711 a Coordinate Bench of this Court held that when possession of the allotted plot flat house is not delivered within the specified time, the allottee is entitled to a refund of the amount paid, with reasonable Interest thereon from the date of payment till the date of refund.	None
8.1.	None
In the present case, the National Commission has passed an equitable Order.	None
The Commission has not awarded any Interest for the period during which the Order of stay of cancellation of the allotment was in operation on the request of the Respondent Flat Purchaser.	Reasoning
The National Commission has rightly awarded Interest 10.7 S.I. p.a.	None
by applying Rule 15 of the Haryana Real.	Reasoning
Estate (Regulation And Development) Rules, 2017 from the date of each installment till 05.02.2017 i.e. till the date after which the Order of stay of cancellation of the allotment was passed and thereafter, from the date of the Commission?s final Order till the date on which the amount is refunded with Interest.	Reasoning
9.	None
We see no illegality in the Impugned Order dated 23.10.2018 passed by the National Commission.	Reasoning
The Appellant Builder failed to fulfill his contractual obligation of obtaining the Occupancy Certificate and offering possession of the flat to the Respondent Purchaser within the time stipulated in the Agreement, or within a reasonable time thereafter.	Reasoning
The Respondent Flat Purchaser could not be compelled to take possession of the flat, even though it was offered almost 2 years after the grace period under the Agreement expired.	Reasoning
During this period, the Respondent Flat Purchaser had to service a loan that he had obtained for purchasing the flat, by paying Interest 10 to the Bank.	Reasoning
In the meanwhile, the Respondent Flat Purchaser also located an alternate property in Gurugram.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, the Respondent Flat Purchaser was entitled to be granted the relief prayed for i.e. refund of the entire amount deposited by him with Interest.	Reasoning
10.	None
The Civil Appeals are accordingly dismissed, and the Final Judgment and Order dated 23.10.2018 passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission is affirmed.	Decision
The appellant is granted a period of three months from today to refund the amount to the respondent.	Decision
All pending Applications, if any, are accordingly disposed of.	Decision
