 	Issue
This appeal arises out of the special leave granted by this Court on an application under Article 136 of the Constitution of India against the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in First Appeal from Order No. 7 of 1981 dated March 9, 1981.	Facts
It may be stated here that the appeal was to be heard by the Single Bench of the High Court.	Facts
But in view of the importance of the points raised in a number of similar matters a reference was made before the Division Bench of the High Court and the Division Bench answered the reference in F. A. O. No. 476 of 1978.	Facts
In terms of the decision rendered in the said first appeal, the appeal preferred by the appellant in the High Court namely, F. A. O. No. 7 of 1981 was dismissed in limine by the Division Bench.	Facts
The said F. A. O. No. 7 of 1981 arose out of an adjudication dated December 24, 1979 made by the Regional Director, Employees State Insurance Corporation, Haryana imposing damages for a sum of Rs. 51, 857.40 under Section 85B(1) of the Employees State Insurance Act as contained in Annexure A of the special leave petition.	Facts
The appellantcompany thereafter made an application under Section 75 of the Act and such application was dismissed by an order dated October 11, 1980 passed by the Judge, Employees State Insurance Court, Ballabhgarh.	Facts
After disposal of the said application, F. A. O. No. 7 of 1981 was preferred before the High Court.	Facts
The facts leading to the aforesaid proceedings are to the following effect2.	Facts
The Regional Director proposed to impose damages on account of payment of the dues under the Employees State Insurance Act beyond the timeframe and a notice to that effect was issued to the appellant.	Facts
The appellant made a written representation in response to the notice indicating the reasons for which there had been delay in making such payment.	Facts
Such written representation has been annexed to the special leave petition being Annexure A1.	None
Although an opportunity of personal hearing was afforded by the Regional Director to the appellant, such opportunity was not availed of.	None
The written representation was stated to have been taken into consideration by the Regional Director and the same was dismissed by making the order to the following effectI have applied my mind to all the relevant facts and have gone into the reasons stated by the employer.	Facts
My findings on each of the contentions of the establishment are as underThe reasons advanced are not legally tenable.	Facts
Opportunity of personal hearing afforded on November 22, 1979 has not been availed of.	Facts
Mr. Mehta learned counsel appearing for the appellant has contended before us that although in the written representation various reasons were indicated by the appellant as to why the payment could not be made within the timeframe, such written representation had not been taken into consideration by adverting to the grounds indicated in the representation by the Regional Director who passed the impugned order mechanically holding that the reasons were not legally tenable.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has submitted that the Regional Director being quasijudicial authority was required to dispose of the objection or the representation made by the appellant by applying his mind to the facts and circumstances of the case and by clearly indicating why the objections were not tenable for basing his decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
But unfortunately, no reason was indicated by the Regional Director in support of the conclusion that the reasons were not legally tenable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is quite apparent from the order of the Regional Director that there was total nonapplication of mind in discharging quasijudicial duties and functions.	None
In this connection, reference was made by the learned counsel to the decision of this Court made in Organo Chemical Industries v. Union of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said decision, power under Section 14B of the Employees Provident Funds Miscellaneous Provisions Act, was taken into consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the question of reasoned order to be made by the adjudicating authority, this Court has referred to an earlier decision of this Court in Siemens case by quoting the observations made therein to the following effect (SCC p. 986, para 6)	None
It is now settled law that where an authority makes an order in exercise of a quasijudicial function, it must record its reasons in support of the order it makes.	None
Every quasi judicial order must be supported by reasons.	None
That has been laid down by a long line of decisions of this Court ending with N. M. Desai v. Testeels Ltd.	None
Mr. Mehta has submitted that unfortunately the High Court having upheld the validity of Section 85B of the Act, in the said reference, summarily dismissed the appeal of the petitioner without considering the merits of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Mehta has contended that even if it is assumed that imposition of damages can also be made in a case where the payment has been made beyond the statutory time, the imposition of damages was required to be quantified by the adjudicating authority after considering the objection or representation made by the employer in the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case neither the tribunal nor the High Court considered the grounds for delayed payment in basing the impugned orders.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has also not been indicated in the impugned decisions as to why imposition of damages at the rates determined by the adjudicating authority was just and proper.	Arguments of Petitioner
The orders impugned in this appeal therefore should be set aside Mr. Goswami, learned counsel for the respondents has, however submitted that it would have been appropriate if the Regional Director had given reasons in some detail for disposing of the showcause proceeding.	None
But in the facts and circumstances of the case, the adjudication made by the Director was quite just and fair and on the face of the representation no other order was warranted.	Arguments of Respondent
Since no injustice has been made to the appellant, for the mere technicality that the adjudicating authority has not indicated detailed reasons for its finding the impugned orders should not be set aside.	Arguments of Respondent
He has also contended that specific case of prejudice suffered on account of impugned adjudication had not been raised in the application under Section 75 of the Act and it also does not appear that before the High Court such contentions were specifically raised.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, the appellant should not be permitted to raise such contentions at the time of hearing of this appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr Goswami has submitted that the grounds taken in the written representation were vague and the appellant was given the opportunity of personal hearing but such opportunity was not availed of and no material was produced before the adjudicating authority to substantiate the grounds made in the representation for delayed payment.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, the Regional Director had rightly rejected the representation by holding that the reasons advanced were not legally tenable.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr Goswami has also submitted that under the Employees State Insurance General Regulations guidelines have been indicated as to how damages for delayed payment are to be imposed since such guidelines have been followed, no exception should be made to the impugned adjudication5.	Arguments of Respondent
It however appears to us that the contention of Mr Goswami in the facts of the case should not be accepted.	Reasoning
Even if the regulations have prescribed general guidelines and the upper limits at which the imposition of damages can be made it cannot be contended that in no case, the mitigating circumstances can be taken into consideration by the adjudicating authority in finally deciding the matter and it is bound to act mechanically in applying the uppermost limit of the table.	Reasoning
In the instant case, it appears to us that the order has been passed without indicating any reason whatsoever as to why grounds for delayed payment were not to be accepted.	Reasoning
There is no indication as to why the imposition of damages at the rate specified in the order was required to be made.	Reasoning
Simply because the appellant did not appear in person and produce materials to support the objections, the employees case could not be discarded in limine.	Reasoning
On the contrary, the objection ought to have been considered on merits.	Reasoning
We, therefore, allow this appeal and set aside the impugned orders.	Decision
The Regional Director is directed to dispose of the representation of the appellant by indicating reasons after taking into consideration the grounds for delayed payment.	Decision
Since the matter is going to be reheard, the appellant is permitted to make personal representation at the hearing of the showcause proceeding.	Decision
As the matter is pending for a long time, the representation should be considered and disposed of within three months from the date of the receipt of the order by giving notice of the date of hearing in advance to the appellant.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances or me case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
By way of abundant caution it is made clear that we have not considered the case of the appellant on merits.	Decision
