 Vaidialingam, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave, is against the Award dated October 24, 1967 of the Additional Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in I. D. No. 34 of 1966.	None
2.	None
Two disputes between the Workmen of the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking and the Management of the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking were referred by the Chief Commissioner, Delhi, for adjudication to the Additional Industrial Tribunal, Delhi.	Facts
Those two disputes were I. D. No. 34 of 1966 and I. D. No. 102 of 1966.	Facts
A common Award in both the disputes was given by the Tribunal.	Facts
This Court has granted by its order dated May 1, 1968 special leave limited to the following points (1) Whether the Inspectors and Superintendents required to work beyond their normal duty hours are entitled to payment of overtime for the extra time and what directions are necessary in this respect.	Facts
(2) Whether conveyance allowance to Inspectors and Superintendents needs to be increased and what directions are necessary in this respect.	Facts
3.	None
The Delhi area served by the Undertaking is divided into a number of zones.	Facts
Technical staff is attached to each zone.	Facts
At the head of the Staff is an Assistant Engineer.	Facts
Next to him is a Technical Superintendent and there are Inspectors below him.	Facts
The staff looks after the operation, maintenance and construction of the distribution system.	Facts
The workmen covered by both the points, regarding which special leave has been granted, are persons working either in the substations or the zonal stations.	Facts
The demand of the Technical Superintendents and Inspectors in the substations and zonal stations was that their hours of duty and other conditions of service should be fixed in the same manner as those of the employees working in the power stations which have been registered as factories under the Factories Act, 1948.	Facts
On this basis, the Superintendents and the Inspectors claimed that they should be paid overtime wages for the extra time they work over and above their normal hours of duty.	Facts
This claim was pressed on the basis that the workmen in the power stations get such payment for overtime work.	Facts
4. This claim was contested by the Undertaking on the ground that the power station has alone been registered as a factory under the Factories Act, and neither the substations nor the zonal stations have been treated as a factory as in law those two areas are not a factory under Section 2 (m) of the Factories Act.	Facts
The respondent further pleaded that the payment of overtime wages was being paid to the workmen in the power station not under the Factories Act but under clause (D) of Regulation 17 of the Service Regulations framed under Section 79 (c) of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.	Facts
5.	None
The claim of the appellants regarding the conveyance allowance was for revision of the allowance fixed by the respondent by its order dated April 10, 1964.	Facts
Their grievance was that while the motorcar allowance to the higher grade officers was being increased from time to time, no such increment has been made in respect of these two classes of employees.	Facts
Their plea was that the conveyance allowance must be fixed at Rs. 120/ per month for the Superintendents and Rs. 80/ per month for the Inspectors.	Facts
6.	None
This claim again was contested by the respondent on the ground that the order dated April 10, 1964 was issued with retrospective effect from July 1, 1963 after a very careful consideration of all relevant circumstances including the allowance that was being give to the Central Government employees on the recommendation of the Pay Commission.	Facts
The basis of allowance fixed under the order dated April 10, 1964 was scientific one and as such no further increase is permissible for these workmen.	Facts
7.	None
The Tribunal held that the service conditions of the appellants were governed by the Regulations framed under the Electricity (Supply) Act which still continues to be in force.	Facts
Under the said Regulation no overtime wages have been allowed to Technical Superintendents and Inspectors and therefore, the claim for overtime allowance cannot be granted.	None
Regarding the claim for increase in the conveyance allowance, the Tribunal held that though it is true that a fairly high rise in the motorcar allowance to the higher officers has been given in the order dated April 10, 1964, any disturbance of the allowance fixed for persons having scotters and motorcycles like the Superintendents and Inspectors will disturb the entire arrangement as laid down in the order dated April 10, 1964.	Facts
On this ground this claim was also rejected.	Facts
8.	None
The Delhi State Electricity Undertaking was taken over by the Delhi Municipal Corporation by virtue of Section 511 read with item No. 11 of the Second Schedule of the Central Act 66 of 1957.	Facts
All the employees under the Electricity Board became the employees of the Corporation.	Facts
When the undertaking was with the Delhi Electricity Board, it was governed by the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.	Facts
By virtue of the powers conferred on the said Undertaking by S. 79 (c) of this Act, the Board had power to make Regulations among other matters, relating to conditions of service of officers and servants of the Board, their salaries, duty allowance etc.	Facts
By virtue of this provision, Regulations had been framed by the Undertaking, Regulation No. 17 relating to overtime pay is as follows 17Overtime Pay.	None
Only the following classes of servants of the Board shall be entitled to receive overtime pay (a) those governed by the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948.	None
(b) Those employed in the Mains Department (Central Power House and Distribution Branch).	None
Meter Department and the SubStation of the Distribution Branch with the exception of sealers, Meter Checkers and Inspectors.	None
Provided that no overtime pay shall be admissible to any one holding a supervisory or a clerical post. 9.	None
In respect of the claim for overtime wages, Mr. M. C. Chagla, learned counsel for the appellants raised three contentions (1) that Regulation 17 is no longer in force as it has not been saved under Section 516 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (2) Even assuming that the said Regulation applies, the Technical Superintendents and Inspectors are governed by the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948 and therefore they are eligible for overtime pay under Clause (a) thereof (3) Even if the Factories Act does not apply, the respondent has itself given the goby to Regulation 17 by giving overtime pay to officers not governed by the said Regulation.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event justice and equity require that when a workman is asked to do work beyond his normal duty hours, he should be paid overtime wages.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	None
Mr. G. B. Pai, learned counsel for the respondent, pointed out that the appellants have nowhere taken the plea that the Regulations are not saved by Section 516 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, they have all along proceeded on the basis that the Regulations apply and the workmen concerned are governed by the Factories Act, and as such they are eligible for overtime wages under Cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(a) of the Regulation No. 17.	Arguments of Respondent
The substations and the zonal stations do not come under the definition of factory as per Section 2 (m) of the Factories Act, inasmuch as no manufacturing process is carried on there.	Arguments of Respondent
The nature of the work done by these workmen has nothing to do with any manufacturing process and therefore Regulation No. 17A has no application.	None
11.	None
Mr. Pai further pointed out that no overtime payment is paid to any person who is not eligible under Regulation No. 17. 12.	None
Mr. G. B. Pai is well founded in his contention that the appellants have nowhere raised the point that the Regulations are not saved by Section 516 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the respondent has specificially raised the plea in its written statement before the Tribunal that Regulation No. 17, which has been framed under Section 79 (c) of the Electricity (Supply) Act, governs the service conditions of the employees of the Undertakings which has been taken over by the Delhi Municipal Corporation.	None
This plea was not controverted by the appellant.	None
On the other hand, they rested their claim specifically on Cl.	None
(a) of Regulation No. 17 on the ground that they are governed by the provisions of the Factories Act.	Arguments of Respondent
13.	None
As the first contention that the Regulations are not saved by Section 516 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, was taken by Mr. Chagla for the first time and that without any previous notice to the respondent, we did not permit him to pursue that contention.	Reasoning
14.	None
Then the question is whether the concerned workmen are governed by the Factories Act.	Issue
If they are governed by the Factories Act, there can be no controversy that under Cl.	None
(a) of Regulation No. 17, they are eligible for overtime pay.	None
The expressions manufacturing process and factory are defined in Section 2 (k) and (m) respectively of the Factories Act.	None
As Mr. Chagla has relied on subclause (3) of Cl.	None
(k) and subcl.	None
(1) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(m) of Section 2, it is enough to refer to those provisions, which are as follows 2.	None
In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context (k) manufacturing process means any process for (iii) generating, transforming or transmitting power or (m) factory means any premises including the precincts thereof (i) whereon ten or more workers are working or were working on any day of the preceding twelve months, and in any part of which a manufacturing process is being carried on with the aid of power, or is ordinarily so carried on, or 15.	None
From the definition of factory it is clear that it must be a premises where a manufacturing process is carried on.	Reasoning
According to Mr. Chagla, the manufacturing process that is carried on by the undertaking is that of generating, transforming and transmitting electricity power.	Reasoning
Though electricity is generated in the power station still to reduce the voltage and do other incidental acts for the purpose of ensuring supply of power to consumers, the substations and the zonal stations are an integral part of the power station.	Reasoning
That is, according to Mr. Chagla, the entire process of generating, transforming and transmitting power, though these items of work may be done in different places, namely, power stations, substations and the zonal stations, must be considered to form part of a single manufacturing process in which the workmen concerned are employed.	Reasoning
The fact that some of the workmen are in the power station and the rest are either in the substations or the zonal stations will not make any difference in this respect, as all of them take part in the manufacturing process.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the power station is treated as factory and it follows that these two units, the substations and the zonal stations also come within the definition of factory.	None
16.	None
No doubt, Mr. Chagla referred us the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation Ltd. v. Employees State Insurance Corpn., AIR 1961 Cal 248, where it was held that the power stations or generating stations and connected substations and other ancillary establishments are to be considered as one unit.	Reasoning
But this conclusion was arrived at by the learned Judges when construing the expression employee under Section 2 (9) of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948.	Reasoning
A reading of that definition clearly shows that its ambit was very wide.	Reasoning
Therefore this decision does not assist Mr. Chagla.	None
17.	None
In this connection we may refer to the decision in Nagpur Electric Light and Power Co. Ltd. v. Regional Director, Employees State Insurn.	None
Corpn., (1967) 3	None
SCR 92 (AIR 1967 SC 1364 ) wherein this Court has disapproved the decision of the Bombay High Court (Nagpur Bench), which had held that under Sec. 2 (12) of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 the area over which transmission lines run is a factory.	None
This Court observed as follows It seems to us a startling proposition that every inch of the wide area over which the transmission lines are spread is a factory within the meaning of Section 2 (12).	None
A factory must occupy a fixed site, see Halsburys Laws of England, 3rd ed.	None
Vol. 17, Art.	None
15 P. 15. 18.	None
Section 2 (12) referred to in the above quotation is of the Employees State Insurance Act.	None
It is clear from this decision that the factory must occupy a fixed site or premises.	None
The evidence on record clearly shows that several substations and zonal stations are left unattended.	None
This will not be the case if a manufacturing process takes place in those premises.	None
A perusal of the nature of the work that the concerned workmen have to do even as enumerated in their statement of claim before the Tribunal clearly shows that they have no part in any manufacturing process.	None
Their functions appear to be to maintain the existing lines of generation, transmission and transformation of power in their respective areas, to attend to installation and other incidental matters when a new connection has been given to a consumer.	None
They have to attend to daily complaints from the consumers, keep regular reports and attend to the defects in the consumers premises.	None
They have to go out for field work and they have to sit in office for maintenance and preparation of the relevant records.	None
It cannot be said that any manufacturing process either takes place in the substations or in the zonal stations and they do not satisfy the definition of factory under Section 2 (m) of the Factories Act.	None
If these places are not factories, Cl.	None
(a) of Regulation No. 17 will not apply to the concerned workmen who are employed therein.	None
19.	None
In this connection it may be noted that the Chief Inspector of Factories, Delhi Administration, gave evidence on the side of the respondent as M. W. No. 1 and has deposed that the electric substations, whether attended or unattended are not registered as factories under the Factories Act.	None
He has further stated that only the zonal plant at Lahori Gate C. Power House and Raighat Power House are registered as factories and that zonal stations are not registered as factories.	None
The evidence of this witness gives an indication that the authorities administering the Factories Act have not treated the substations and zonal stations as factories.	None
We are conscious that the question whether a particular unit is a factory has to be decided by applying the ingredients contained in the definition of factory under the Factories Act and therefore, the fact that a witness, however, high placed he may be, says that a particular unit is not a factory cannot be conclusive on the matter.	Reasoning
We have, after applying the necessary test held that the substations and the zonal stations are not factories and in that connection the evidence of M. W. 1 becomes relevant.	Reasoning
From the above discussion it follows that the second contention also fails.	None
20.	None
Regarding the third contention, though we have great sympathy, when the grievance of the concerned workmen is that they are not paid when they are asked to work overtime, no relief can be granted to them.	Reasoning
Their service conditions are governed by the Regulations framed under Section 79 (c) of the Electricity (Supply) Act, Regulation No. 17 clearly specifies that persons to whom overtime wages can be paid.	None
The concerned workmen do not come under any of the categories.	Reasoning
Mr. Chagla has not been able to satisfy us that contrary to Regulation No. 17 any workman is being paid overtime wages.	Reasoning
Therefore, this contention also has to be rejected.	Reasoning
21.	None
Coming to the question of conveyance allowance, we have already stated that the claim is for fixing Rs. 120/ per month for the Superintendents and Rs.	None
80/ p.m. for the Inspectors.	None
With effect from November 1, 1955 the Delhi State Electricity Board had fixed the allowance for motorcar for certain categories of its employees ranging from Rs. 85/ to Rs. 125/ p.m. depending upon the mileage covered.	None
Likewise allowance for maintenance of motorcycles was allowed to certain categories of employees of the Board ranging from Rs. 35/ to Rs.	None
45/ per month depending upon the average mileage.	None
The car allowance was raised from Rs. 85125 to Rs. 150200 in 1959 and further raised to Rs. 200250 from July 1, 1963.	None
On the other hand, the allowance payable to Superintendents was raised from Rs. 45/ to Rs.	None
60/ per month in 1959.	None
The Inspectors were made eligible for the motorcycle allowance for the first time in 1961 at Rs. 30/ per month.	None
On April 10, 1964, the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking revised the conveyance allowance for cars and motorcycles or scooters.	None
The revised rates took effect from July 1, 1963.	None
So far as the car allowance was concerned, it was increased to some officers to Rs. 250/ per month and in respect of certain other officers it was increased from the amount ranging from Rs. 125/ to Rs. 200/. There were 25 officers governed by the car allowance.	None
Admittedly, the car allowance which was in 1955 ranging from Rs. 85125, was revised in 1964 at amounts ranging from Rs. 125/ to Rs.	None
250/.In fact, there has been a steady increase from time to time.	None
While increasing the car allowance in 1964, though the same order deals with the allowance for motorcycles and scooters, no increase whatsoever was made for them.	None
The allowance of Rs.	None
60/ given to the Superintendents in 1959 was retained even in 1964.	None
Rs. 30/ given for the first time to the Inspectors in 1961 was retained at the same level in 1964.	None
The Tribunal has rejected the claim of the concerned workmen for an increase in the allowance on the ground that the order dated April 10, 1964 has fixed the conveyance allowance for motorcycles and motorcars on a rational basis and that any disturbance in the rates will have repercussions on other category of workmen.	None
This is the sole reason given by the Tribunal for rejecting the claim of the workmen.	None
22.	None
Mr. Chagla is justified in his contention that the Tribunal has not considered the matter properly as it should have done.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.	None
Mr. G. B. Pai learned counsel for the respondent, no doubt, referred us to the written statement of the respondent filed before the Tribunal, wherein it is stated that when the order dated April 10, 1964 was passed, the cost of maintenance, repair charges, cost of fuel have all been taken into account.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further stated that the Pay Commission had recommended certain scales of conveyance allowance to the officers of the Government as well as to the employees of the Central Public Works Department.	Reasoning
As the order has fixed the conveyance allowance on a scientific basis, the counsel pointed out, that the Tribunal was justified in rejecting the claim of the workmen, for increasing the conveyance allowance.	Arguments of Respondent
24.	None
We are not inclined to accept the contention of Mr. Pai.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has, as we have already pointed out, given no other reason except the fact that if the rates in the order are disturbed in favour of one category of workmen, it will have repercussions on other categories of workmen.	Reasoning
It may be that if the rates are altered in favour of one group of workmen, there may be claims from other workmen also.	Reasoning
That by itself is not a valid reason, in our opinion, for rejecting the claim of the workmen.	Reasoning
Mr. Pai also pointed out during the course of his arguments that as Delhi has expanded far and wide, the officers with cars have to travel longer distances and therefore an increase in the car allowance was justified.	Reasoning
There was no material placed before the Tribunal by the respondent as to what additional trips the officers have to make over and above the trips that they used to make in 1955 and later on.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the conveyance allowance for motorcars have been steadily increased from 1955.	Reasoning
The 1964 rates show that the increase is as much as 21/2 times in some cases in respect of motorcars.	Reasoning
If there is a justification for such an increase in respect of cars, there is also justification for giving additional allowance regarding motorcycles and scooters.	Reasoning
In the written statement the respondent has admitted that the break down in electricity is very frequent and that the Superintendents and Inspectors have to make more frequent visits.	Reasoning
Having due regard to the increase in the cost of maintenance, fuel etc. which the respondent has itself taken note of in 1964 and the extra mileage that has to be covered, in our opinion, the Superintendents and Inspectors must be given an increase of Rs. 25/ and Rs. 12.50 per month respectively over the present rate of allowance given to them in the order of 1964.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the Superintendents will get Rs. 85/ per month and the Inspectors will get Rs. 42.50 per month.	Reasoning
These workmen will be entitled to get the allowance at this rate retrospectively from the date of reference, namely, April 1, 1966.	Reasoning
The excess amount due to them as per our Judgment from April 1, 1966 upto March 31, 1972 will be paid by the respondent within three months from today.	Reasoning
From April 1, 1972 these workmen will get the conveyance allowance at the rate fixed by us.	Reasoning
25.	None
The award is accordingly modified in respect of the conveyance allowance and the appeal is allowed to that extent in part.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	None
26.	None
Order accordingly.	Decision
