 DUTT,	None
J. This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court dismissing the appeal preferred by the appellants against the judgment of a single judge of the High Court dismissing the writ petition of the petitioners whereby they challenged the order dated January 5, 1982, of respondent No. 1, the Central Board of Direct Taxes, rejecting the application of the appellantcompany under Section 80O of the Income Tax Act, 1961, hereinafter referred to as the Act.	None
By two agreements, one dated April 5, 1980, and the other dated August 14, 1980, entered into between the appellantcompany and Toyo Engineering India Ltd. (for short Toyo India) the appellantcompany agreed to render technical services in respect of Iraqi Storage Terminal Project Installations in consideration of payment to it by way of fees payable under the said agreements.	Facts
In the said agreement dated April 5, 1980, it is stated, inter alia, that Toyo India has been engaged by Toyo Engineering Corporation (for short TEC), a company organised and existing under the laws of Japan having its registered office at Tokyo, Japan, for the project of Storage Terminal of State Organisation for Oil Project, a public organisation organised and existing under the laws of Iraq.	Facts
Toyo India has, in its turn, engaged the appellantcompany to perform certain construction and related services by the appellantcompany of the project work as set out in the said agreement.	Facts
The appellantcompany by its letter dated October 23, 1980, requested respondent No. 1, the Central Board of Direct Taxes, for the approval of the said agreements under Section 80O of the Act.	None
Respondent 1, after giving the appellants a hearing, by its order dated January 5, 1982, refused to approve the said agreements for purposes of Section 80O of the Act inasmuch as, in the view of respondent 1, the essential conditions laid down in Section 80O were not satisfied.	Facts
Respondent No. 1, in its said order pointed out, inter alia, that, according to the said agreements, the contract price was received by the appellantcompany from Toyo India, an Indian company.	Facts
In other words, income by way of royalty, commission, fees, etc., had not been received by the appellantcompany from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise and the agreements had been entered into by the appellantcompany with Toyo India, an Indian company, and not with a foreign State or a foreign enterprise.	Facts
Further, it was stated by respondent 1, that as there was no privity of contract between the appellantcompany and the foreign enterprise, it could not be said that the income had been received by the appellantcompany in consideration of the use outside India of patents, inventions, etc., made available or provided or agreed to be made available or provided to a Government of a foreign state or to a foreign enterprise or in consideration of technical services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India to such Government or enterprise by the appellantcompany.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the said order dated January 5, 1982, of respondent 1, refusing to approve the said two agreements, the appellants filed a writ petition before the Bombay High Court challenging the said order.	None
A learned single judge of the Bombay High Court, by his judgment dated June 23, 1986, dismissed the writ petition on the ground, inter alia, that the payment was not received by the appellantcompany from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise and, as such, it was not entitled to any relief under Section 80O of the Act.	Facts
On appeal by the appellants against the judgment of the learned single judge, the Division Bench of the High Court held that in order to attract the provision of Section 80O, the payment must be received by an Indian company from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise, and that the words foreign enterprise must take colour from the words Government of a foreign State and must be read to mean an enterprise of a foreign national or foreign ownership.	Facts
Further, the words foreign enterprise could not be held to apply to an establishment or undertaking or branch or unit of an Indian company in a foreign country.	Facts
Such establishment, undertaking, branch or unit might well be an enterprise, but not a foreign enterprise within the meaning of the said words.	Facts
In that view of the matter, the Division Bench of the High Court, as stated already, upheld the judgment of the learned single judge and dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants.	Facts
Hence this appeal by special leave.	Facts
At this stage, we may refer to Section 80O of the Act as it stood during the assessment year 198081 which is the relevant period for this appeal.	None
Section 80O provides as follows 80O. Deduction in respect of royalties, etc., from certain foreign enterprises.  	None
Where the gross total income of an assessee, being an Indian company, includes any income by way of royalty, commission, fees or any similar payment received by the assessee from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise in consideration for the use outside India of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process, or similar property right, or information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific knowledge, experience or skill made available or provided or agreed to be made available or provided to such Government or enterprise by the assessee, or in consideration of technical services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India to such Government or enterprise by the assessee, under an agreement approved by the Board in this behalf, and such income is received in convertible foreign exchange in India, or having been received in convertible foreign exchange outside India, or having been converted into convertible foreign exchange outside India, is brought into India, by or on behalf of the assessee in accordance with any law for the time being in force for regulating payments and dealings in foreign exchange, there shall be allowed, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, a deduction of the whole of the income so received in, or brought into, India in computing the total income of the assesseeProvided that the application for the approval of the agreement referred to in this subsection is made to the Board before the 1st day of October of the assessment year in relation to which the approval is first sought.	None
Provided further that approval of the Board shall not be necessary in the case of any such agreement which has been approved for the purposes of the deduction under this section by the Central Government before the 1st day of April, 1972, and every application for such approval of any such agreement pending with the Central Government immediately before that day shall stand transferred to the Board for disposal.	None
The following principal conditions must be fulfilled so as to attract the provisions of Section 80O	None
The assessee must be an Indian company.2.	None
The income by way of royalty, commission, fees, etc., must be received by the assessee from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise.3.	None
The consideration shall be for the use outside India of any patent, invention, model, design, etc., made available or provided to such Government or enterprise by the assessee or technical services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India to such Government or enterprise by the assessee.4.	None
The agreement must be approved by the Board.5.	None
The income received by the assessee shall be in convertible foreign exchange.6.	None
The deduction shall be in respect of the whole of such income received in or brought into India.	None
One of the principal points that is involved in this appeal relates to the interpretation of the expression foreign enterprise.	None
Respondent 1 refused to approve the arguments entered into by the appellants with Toyo India principally on the ground that Toyo India is not a foreign enterprise.	None
According to respondent 1, Toyo India is an Indian company and cannot be regarded as a foreign enterprise within the meaning of Section 80O.	None
The learned single judge and the Division Bench of the High Court also have taken the same view and upheld the order of respondent 1 refusing to approve the agreements.	None
It is not disputed that Toyo India has been engaged by TEC.	None
The latter company is, admittedly, a foreign company organised and established by the laws of Japan for the Project of Storage Terminal of State Organisation for Oil Project.	None
By the said agreements, Toyo India engaged the appellant company to perform certain constructions and related services for the project work as set out in the agreements.	None
It is urged by Mr. Rajagopalan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, that the High Court is wrong in its view that Toyo India is not a foreign enterprise.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submits that the test of the expression foreign enterprise is the local of the enterprise which will clinch the issue.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that as the establishment of Toyo India, with which we are concerned is a branch unit of an undertaking in Iraq, it should be regarded as a foreign enterprise within the meaning of Section 80O of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, the concept of ownership for the purpose of deciding whether an enterprise is a foreign enterprise or not should not be introduced in Section 80O, and if any enterprise satisfied the test of location or, in other words, if an enterprise is situate in a foreign country, it should be held to be a foreign enterprise within the meaning of Section 80O. On the other hand, Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, submits that the plain meaning of the words foreign enterprise is an enterprise having a foreign nationality.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, a foreign enterprise means an enterprise created or established in a foreign country under the law of that country.	Arguments of Respondent
If an Indian company opens an enterprise in a foreign country, but does not get the enterprise registered under the law of that country it will, in the view of learned counsel, remain an Indian enterprise and not a foreign enterprise.	Arguments of Respondent
Before considering the contentions of learned counsel for both parties relating to the interpretation of the expression foreign enterprise occurring in Section 80O, we may refer to the legislative background.	None
Under Section 85C of the Act, which was introduced by the Finance Act, 1966, and which came into force with effect from April 1, 1966, Indian companies could obtain concession to the extent of 25 per cent of its income if the foreign exchange was received from a company which was neither an Indian company nor a domestic company.	None
Section 80O was inserted in the Act by the Finance (No. 2) Act of 1967 and it came into force with effect from April 1, 1968.	None
Section 80O, as it stood on that day, provided that the payer should be a foreign company and the relief was enlarged to 60 per cent.	None
The Finance 2 Act of 1971 made an amendment in Section 80O changing the payer from foreign company to Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise and enlarging the relief to 100 per cent.	None
Even up to this day, no charge has been made in respect of the payer.	None
It, thus, appears from the legislative background or the legislative changes that from foreign company, it has been changed into government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise.	None
It is apparent that the expression foreign enterprise has been substituted for foreign company while the words Government of a foreign State have been inserted.	None
There can be no doubt that the expression foreign enterprise is a wider term than foreign company.	None
Foreign enterprise will include within it also a foreign company.	None
How, a foreign company is a company incorporated under the law of the foreign country concerned.	None
An Indian company doing business or having a branch, unit or establishment in a foreign country cannot be called a foreign company.	None
Thus, in the case of a foreign enterprise which is a foreign company, such company must be incorporated in accordance with the law of the foreign country in question.	None
Keeping this in view, the question that arises is whether a branch, unit or establishment of an Indian company doing business in a foreign country can be said to be a foreign enterprise.	Reasoning
In our view, it is difficult to regard such branch, unit or establishment as a foreign enterprise within the meaning of section 80O of the Act.	Reasoning
The interpretation of a term should be such as to be consistent with the things or objects that are included within it.	Reasoning
In other words, the meanings of the expression cannot be different for different objects included in the expression.	Reasoning
If an Indian company having a branch, unit or establishment in a foreign country cannot be regarded as a foreign company, then, for the same reason, a branch, unit or establishment of an Indian company situate in a foreign country or doing business in such foreign country cannot be included within the meaning of the expression foreign enterprise.	Reasoning
The test of location, as contended by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, is no doubt one of the tests for deciding whether an enterprise is a foreign enterprise or not within the meaning of Section 80O of the Act, but that is not the only test.	Issue
In order that an enterprise can be called a foreign enterprise for the purpose of Section 80O, there can be no doubt that it has to be located in a foreign country.	None
The High Court has decided the issue on the ground of foreign ownership.	None
Undoubtedly, ownership is also a criterion for deciding whether an enterprise is a foreign enterprise or not.	None
But, against, that is not the sole criterion or test and, as has been observed before, location of an enterprise is also a test for deciding whether an enterprise is a foreign enterprise or not.	None
Now, we may consider the contention of Dr. Gauri Shankar that a foreign enterprise means an enterprise created and registered under the foreign law.	None
The question of creation of an enterprise under the foreign law necessarily comes in, as the expression foreign enterprise includes within it a foreign company.	None
Thus, considering the above aspects and to give the expression foreign enterprise as used in Section 80O a consistent and reasonable meaning, we are of the view that a foreign enterprise is an enterprise situate in a foreign country having been created or registered in accordance with the law of such country.	None
It will not be profitable for us to refer to a decision of this court in R. L. Arora v. State of Uttar Pradesh ((1964)	None
6	None
SCR 784 AIR 1964 SC 1230 34 Com Cas 487) where it has been held that a literal interpretation is not always the only interpretation of a provision in a statute and that the court has to look to the setting in which the words are used and the circumstances in which the law came to be passed to decide whether there is something implicit behind the words actually used which would control the literal meaning of the words used.	None
The expression foreign enterprise in section 80O has been placed after the words the Government of a foreign State.	None
The view which we take as to the interpretation of the expression foreign enterprise finds support from the setting in which the expression has been placed and the circumstances in which the law came to be passed.	None
It is, however, urged by Mr. Rajagopalan, learned counsel for the appellants, that it may be that a foreign enterprise can be defined in the manner we have done at the same time, the definition of the expression on the basis of the test of location cannot altogether be ruled out.	None
In any event, it is possible to define the expression foreign enterprise as an enterprise located outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submits that when two interpretations are possible to be made, the interpretation which is favourable to the assessee should be adopted.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of that contention, learned counsel has placed reliance upon a few decisions of this court in CIT v. Madho Pd Patia ((1976) 4 SCC 92 1976 SCC (Tax) 443 (1976) 105 ITR 179 1977 Tax LR 202) CIT v. Vegetable Products Ltd. ((1973) 1 SCC 442 1973 SCC (Tax) 282 (1973)	Arguments of Petitioner
88 ITR 192 AIR 1973 SC 927 ) CIT v. Kulu Valley Transport Co. P. Ltd. ((1970) 2 SCC 192 (1970)	Arguments of Petitioner
77 ITR 518 AIR 1970 SC 1734).	None
The above principle of law is wellestablished and there is no doubt about that.	None
But the question is whether two views are possible to be taken on the interpretation of the expression foreign enterprise.	None
In our opinion, the expression foreign enterprise admits of only one interpretation.	None
The interpretation which learned counsel for the appellants wants to put on the expression will not be full and complete and will render the meaning of the expression inconsistent with the objects included within it, having regard to the change effected by the Legislature from foreign company to the present expression foreign enterprise, as has been already noticed.	Reasoning
We, are, therefore, unable to accept the interpretation of the expression as submitted on behalf of the appellants.	None
We are also unable to accept the contention of the appellants that as the provision of Section 80O is an exemption provision, it should be construed liberally and, upon such liberal construction, it should be held that Toyo India is a foreign enterprise.	Reasoning
It is true that an exemption provision should be liberally construed, but this does not mean that such liberal construction should be made by doing violence to the plain meaning of such exemption provision should be liberally construed, but this does not mean that such liberal construction should be made doing violence to the plain meaning of such exemption provision.	Reasoning
Liberal construction can be made whenever it is possible to be made without impairing the legislative requirement and the spirit of the provision.	Reasoning
In our opinion, to construe foreign enterprise in Section 80O as including within it an Indian company or a branch or unit of such company simply because it is located in a foreign country would be against the plain meaning of the term and the legislative intent.	Reasoning
We may now consider another argument of the appellants based on the objective of the provision of Section 80O. It is submitted by learned counsel for the appellants that the objectives of Section 80O are to encourage Indian companies to export their technical knowhow and thereby augment the foreign exchange resources of the country.	None
Counsel submits that the main objective of the section is to augment the foreign exchange resources of the country and that the appellantCompany having earned foreign exchange, it should be held that the requirement of the section is satisfied and, accordingly, the appellantCompany is entitled to deduction of incometax.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Dr. Gauri Shankar, points out that the main objective of Section 80O is not the earning of foreign exchange.	None
According to him, the principal purpose for which the deduction is allowed to an assessee is that contained in the speech of the Finance Minister on the floor of Parliament at the time of introduction of Section 85C in the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
A copy of the speech has been handed over to us and has also been supplied to learned counsel for the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
In his speech, the Honble Finance Minister stated, inter alia, that some fiscal encouragement needs to be given to our industries to encourage them to provide technical knowhow and technical services to newly developing countries.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the speech, it is urged by Dr. Gauri Shankar that the principal objective of Section 80O is to supply technical knowhow and render technical services by Indian companies to newly developing countries.	None
Counsel submits that it will be wrong to say that the principal objective of Section 80O is to augment the foreign exchange resources of the country.	Arguments of Respondent
Although there is no indication in Section 80O regarding the supply of technical knowhow or rendering technical services to newly developing countries, yet it may be reasonable to infer from the said speech of the Finance Minister that at the time when Section 85C was introduced in the Act, one of the objectives was to supply technical knowhow and render technical services to newly developing countries.	None
Foreign exchange can be earned by various other modes, but that will not, in all cases, entitle the assessee to a deduction of incometax.	None
Section 80O, as it stood during the relevant period with which we are concerned, grants cent per cent.	None
deduction of tax.	None
In the context of such deduction of tax, it will not be unreasonable to presume that the principal objective of Section 80O is to supply technical knowhow or render technical services to developing countries.	None
In the circumstances, the contention of the appellants that as the appellantCompany has fulfilled the principal object of Section 80O by earning foreign exchange, respondent 1 should have approved the agreements for the purpose of Section 80O cannot be accepted.	None
It is, however, submitted on behalf of the appellants that apart from the question as to what is the principal objective of Section 80O, the appellantCompany has fulfilled both the objectives, namely, it has supplied technical knowhow to a foreign enterprise through an Indian company, and that it has also earned foreign exchange.	None
It is urged on behalf of the appellants that although the appellantCompany may not have directly supplied technical knowhow to, or directly received fees, commission, etc., from, the foreign enterprise in convertible foreign exchange, in effect the appellantCompany having satisfied the objectives of Section 80O indirectly, it is entitled to deduction of incometax.	None
In support of this contention, much reliance has been placed on two single Bench decisions of the Bombay High Court, which will be referred to presently.	None
In Gannon Dunkerley and Co. Ltd. v. Central Board of Direct Taxes ((1986) 159 ITR 1962 1986 Taxman 460), the facts are more or less similar to those in the present case and it has been held that the main conditions imposed by Section 80O had been complied with by the petitionerCompany and the Central Board of Direct Taxes should have approved the agreement.	None
The same view has been taken in the other single Bench decision of the Bombay High Court in Indian Hume Pipe Co. Ltd. v. Central Board of Direct Taxes ((1987) 165 ITR 537 1986 Tax LR 1109)	None
Both the above decisions have been considered by the Division Bench in the impugned judgment and the Division Bench could not agree with the view expression in those decisions.	None
Mr. Rajagopalan has pressed us to hold, on the basis of the said two single Bench decisions of the Bombay High Court, that the objectives of the section having been fulfilled, the agreements should have been approved by the Central Board of Direct Taxes.	None
Attractive though the argument is, we regret, we are unable to accept the same.	None
It is true that, viewed in the light of the submissions made on behalf of the appellants, the objectives of the section are to some extent fulfilled, but we cannot, at the same time, ignore the plain language of the section.	None
Section 80O unequivocally provides that the income by way of royalty, commission, fees, etc., shall be received by the assessee from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise and, indeed, that is one of the principal conditions for the application of the section.	None
The assessee has to fulfil that condition before he can claim any deduction of incometax or approval of an agreement.	None
The fulfilment of the objectives of a provision of a statute, without fulfilling the condition laid down in plain and clear language, will not enable one to have the benefit of the section.	None
In our opinion, not only the objectives of a provision of a statute have to be fulfilled, but also the conditions for the applicability of the provision have also to be fulfilled.	None
The fulfilment of conditions in a provision of an Act in most cases will also be fulfilment of the objectives of the provision.	None
But the converse may not be true.	None
In other words, the fulfilment of the objectives may not satisfy the conditions required to be fulfilled by the provision.	None
In the instant case, the appellantCompany received income by way of royalty, commission, fees or any similar payment not from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise, but from an Indian company.	None
The appellantCompany has, therefore, failed to fulfil the principal condition of Section 80O of the Act.	None
In the circumstances, it is difficult to accept the contention of the appellants that as they have indirectly fulfilled the objectives of the section, the Central Board of Direct Taxes was not justified in not approving the agreements.	None
In the impugned judgment, the High Court has held that Section 80O does not require that the agreement should be made with the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise.	None
We are unable to accept this view of the High Court.	None
Section 80O refers to three parties, namely, Government of a foreign State, foreign enterprise and the assessee.	None
It is clear from Section 80O that the agreement must be between the assessee on the one hand and the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise on the other.	None
When Section 80O speaks of the supply of knowhow by the assessee to a Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise and the receipt of income by way of royalty, commission, etc., from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise, it is unreasonable to think that the agreement under which the technical knowhow shall be supplied and the income shall be received by the assessee in convertible foreign exchange, may not be with the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise but with some other party.	None
It is manifestly clear from the provisions of Section 80O that the agreement shall be entered into by and between the assessee and the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise.	None
In the instant case, no such agreement has been entered into by the appellantCompany with the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise.	None
In that respect also, the appellantCompany does not fulfil another condition of Section 80O which is also very material.	None
The agreements which have not been approved by the Central Board of Direct Taxes have been, as already noticed, entered into between the appellantCompany and Toyo India which is not a foreign enterprise but an Indian company.	Reasoning
In view of the facts stated above, the Central Board of Direct Taxes was justified in not approving the agreements in question.	None
Lastly, it is argued on behalf of the appellants that Section 80O should be construed as permitting canalisation and if so construed, the appellantCompany will be entitled to the benefit of the section.	None
On the other hand, it is the contention of Dr. Gauri Shankar that in view of the specific mandate of Section 80O that the income of the assessee shall be directly received from the foreign enterprise, the question of canalisation does not arise.	Reasoning
In other words, it is submitted that canalisation is not contemplated by Section 80O.	None
In reply to the contention of Dr. Gauri Shankar, Mr. Rajagopalan submits that it is a lacuna on the part of the Legislature in not providing for canalisation in fulfilment of the objectives referred to above.	Reasoning
In support of his contention, much reliance has been placed by him on the observation of Lord Denning in the decision in Seaford Court Estates Ltd. v. Asher ((1949) 2 KB 481, 499)	Reasoning
In that case, Lord Denning observed as follows A judge, believing himself to be fettered by the supposed rule that he must look to the language and nothing else, laments that the draftsmen have not provided for this or that, or have been guilty of some or other ambiguity.	Reasoning
It would certainly save the judges trouble if Acts of Parliament were drafted with divine prescience and perfect clarity.	Reasoning
In the absence of it, when a defect appears, a judge cannot simply fold his hands and blame the draftsman.	Reasoning
He must set to work on the constructive task of finding the intention of Parliament, and he must do this not only from the language of the statute, but also from a consideration of the social conditions which gave rise to it, and of the mischief which it was passed to remedy, and then he must supplement the written word so as to give force and life to the intention of the legislature.	Reasoning
The above observation of Lord Denning does not, in our opinion, help the appellants.	None
The entire observation is based on a defect appearing in the provision of a statute.	Reasoning
In our view, there is no defect in the provision of Section 80O.	None
It may be that the legislature has not provided for canalisation, but that cannot be said to be a lacuna or a defect in the provision.	Reasoning
Whether canalisation should be permitted or not is absolutely a matter for the legislature.	Reasoning
It is not incumbent on the Legislature to provide for canalisation, although it has been frankly conceded by Dr. Gauri Shankar that canalisation is desirable and a reasonable one.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, in view of the plain language of the section, we do not think that we can construe the section as providing for canalisation, that is to say, that income by way of royalty, commission, etc., need not be received directly from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise, but through another Indian company.	Reasoning
This is not the intention of the legislature.27.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforesaid, the appeal is dismissed.	Decision
There will, however, be no order as to costs.	Decision
