 C. Agrawal, J. Special Leave Granted.	None
The appellant is the tenant of premises consisting of three rooms a kitchen and a toilet, situated at Jaipur.	Facts
The respondent (landlord) filed a suit for the eviction of the appellant on the ground of reasonable and bona fide personal necessity and subletting of the premises without his consent.	Facts
The said suit was decreed by the trial Court on both the grounds On appeal the suit was dismissed by the Additional District Judge The High Court, in second appeal, reversed the judgment and decree of the Additional District Judge passed a decree for eviction against the appellant on the ground that the appellant has sublet or otherwise parted with the possession of the premises without the consent of the landlord.3.	Facts
In the site plan (Ex. Al) the premises which have been let to the appellant are marked as K. The adjacent room marked as J has been let out by the respondent to Mr. Mahendra Singh, the brotherinlaw of the appellant.	Facts
The case of the respondent is that the appellant has sublet a part of the premises to Mahendra Singh and that he is residing therein.	Facts
The Additional District Judge has found that Mahendra Singh is employed by the appellant and is residing in the room marked J, as a tenant under the respondent.	Facts
It has been found that he has been using the latrine and kitchen which form part of the premises let out to the appellant Mahendra Singh being the brotherinlaw of the appellants and in the service of the appellant could not be taken to be a subtenant merely by the use of the kitchen and latrine and that for sub tenancy it is essential that the possession of Mahendra Singh upon the premises must be exclusive.	Facts
It was also found that the exclusive possession was not proved by the evidence of the respondent and much less any proof of rent paid to the appellant.	Facts
The High Court, in second appeal has reversed the said findings of the Additional District Judge relying upon the evidence of Mahendra Singh (DW2) who has admitted that the premises marked K1 to K4 are utilised by him and Vishnu Dev (DW3) who has stated in crossexamination that the appellant is not in occupation of the premises and portion marked K1 to K4 has been in occupation of Mahendra Singh.	Facts
The High Court has held that the appellant has sublet or otherwise parted with the premises without the permission of the landlord and that being so, the appellant is liable for eviction.	Issue
Mr. Sachar, learned counsel for the appellant, has assailed the said finding recorded by the High Court that the appellant has sublet or parted with the possession of the premises, and has submitted that mere user of kitchen and latrine by Mahendra Singh, who is the brotherinlaw as well as an employee of the appellant, cannot mean that the appellant has sublet or parted with the possession of the premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the submission Scchar has placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Jagan Nath v. Chander Bhan (1988 (3) SCC 57 ), and Gopal Saran v. Satya Narayana (1989) 3 SCC 56.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Chitale, learned counsel for the respondent, on the other hand, has supported the decision of the High Court and has urged that in the facts and circumstances of the case the High Court was right in holding that the appellant has sublet or parted with the possession of the premises and he has placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Roop Chand v. Gopi Chand Thelia (1989) 2 SCC 383.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Section 13(1)(e) of the Rajasthan Premises (Control of Rent and Eviction) Act 1950.	None
(hereinafter referred to as the Act), the tenant is liable to be evicted, if he has assigned sublet or otherwise parted with the possession of the whole or any part of the premises without the permission of the landlord.	None
Subletting means transfer of an exclusive right to enjoy the property in favour, of the third party and the said right must be in lieu of payment of some compensation or rent.	None
Parting of the legal possession means possession with the right to include and also a right to exclude others.	None
Mere occupation is not sufficient to infer either sub tenancy or parting with possession (see Gopal Saran v. Satya Narayana (supra).	None
If the instant case is considered in the light of the aforesaid principles laid down by this Court it cannot be said that the appellant has either sublet or parted with the possession of a part of the premises in favour of Mahendra Singh who is brotherinlaw of the appellant and is also employed with the appellant.	Reasoning
Mahendra Singh is a tenant under the respondent in respect of room marked J in the site plan (Ex. A1).	Reasoning
The mere user of the kitchen and latrine by Mahendra Singh while residing in the portion let out to him by the respondent cannot mean that the appellant has transferred the exclusive right to enjoy the kitchen and latrine and has parted with the legal possession of the said part of the premises in favour of Mahendra Singh In Roip Chand v. Gopi Chand Thelia (supra), on which reliance has been placed by Mr. Chitale, the tenant had allowed the premises to be used by a social club, which was registered as a limited company under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, and for the purpose of the Companies Act, the registered office of the club was situated in the leased premises.	Reasoning
This Court found that there was no evidence to show that the tenant had at any time exercised the right to exclusive possession and kept the premises looked and denied the members of the club entry to the premises.	None
This Court also observed that in view of the fact that the registered office of the club is situated in the leased premises, the tenant could not prevent the club from performing its statutory duties so long as the club had its registered office in the leased premises.	None
Taking into consideration the aforesaid circumstances this Court held that the tenant had parted with the possession of the premises as envisaged in Section 13(1)(e) of the Act.	None
This decision, in our opinion, does not lend any assistance to the respondent and that in the facts and circumstances of the present case, as mentioned above, it cannot be said that the appellant had parted with the possession of a part of the leased premises.	Reasoning
Mr. Chitale has sought to support the decree of eviction on the ground that the premises are required reasonable and bona fide by the respondent for his personal use.	Arguments of Respondent
We find that after considering the evidence the first appellate Court has decided this issue against the respondent and the second appeal of the respondent was admitted only on the ground of subletting and no question of law was framed with regard to eviction on the ground of reasonable and bona fide personal necessity.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, examine the finding recorded by the first appellate Court on the question of need of the landlord.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is allowed, the judgment and decree of the High Court are set aside and the judgment and decree of the Additional District Judge, Jaipur, dismissing the suit of the respondent are restored.10.	Decision
There will be no order as to posts.	Decision
