 Arun Mishra, J.1.	None
Leave granted.2.	None
These appeals have been preferred by the Delhi Development Authority (for short, the DDA) aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 25.11.2014 passed by the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi declaring that as the physical possession has not been taken, the acquisition has lapsed under the provision of Section 24(2) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (hereafter referred to as the Act of 2013).	Issue
The facts, in short, indicate that notification Under Section 4 was issued on 5.4.1995 for the acquisition of land for construction of Freight Complex (Narela) under Planned Development of Delhi.	Facts
The emergency provision of SubSection 1 of Section 17 read with Section 17(4) was invoked.	Facts
It was ordered that the provision of Section 5A shall not apply.	Facts
Declaration Under Section 6 was issued on 22.12.1995 for the purpose of acquisition of land and the award was passed on 19.12.1997.3.	Facts
The Petitionerstherein have filed writ petitions in the year 1996, however, they have withdrawn the same in 2012 with prayer seeking liberty to file fresh writ petition for quashing of the order rejecting the prayer with respect to derequisition of land passed on 19.04.2012.	Facts
Thereafter, fresh writ petitions have been filed in the year 2012.	Facts
During the pendency of the writ applications, the Act of 2013 came into force.	Facts
The High Court has quashed the acquisition hence, the appeals have been preferred.4.	Facts
With respect to whether acquisition had lapsed by virtue of the provisions contained in Section 24 of the Act of 2013, the matter was referred to a larger bench and the reference has been answered by three Judge Bench of this Court in Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra (Dead) Thr.	Facts
Lrs. and Ors.	Facts
(Civil Appeal No. 20982 of 2017) on 8.2.2018.	Facts
In view of the answers to the questions, the impugned orders quashing the acquisition on the ground of Section 24 are liable to be quashed and are set aside.5.	Facts
On merits of the case, the submissions raised on behalf of the land owners are twofold that when the declaration Under Section 6 was issued after eight months inquiry Under Section 5	Arguments of Respondent
A ought to have been held.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, invocation of the urgency provision could not be said to be proper.	Arguments of Respondent
There was nonapplication of mind in respect of invoking the provision Under Section 17 of Act of 1894.	Arguments of Respondent
The second submission is that certain other area has been denotified on 31.5.1999 which was covered under the same notification and the farm house in question is the only accommodation available with the Respondentsherein which should have been denotified.	Arguments of Respondent
The rejection of the prayer for denotification vide orders dated 19.4.2012 was illegal.6.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted on behalf of the learned Counsel appearing for DDA that the acquisition was for Planned Development of Delhi for Freight Complex at Narela, which could not have been delayed as such invocation of urgency provision was proper.	Arguments of Respondent
The Planned Development of Delhi could not have been delayed.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, notification of urgency provision Under Section 17(1) and to dispense with the inquiry Under Section 5 A was proper.	Arguments of Respondent
While declining the derequisition of the land reasoned orders have been passed on 19.4.2012.	Arguments of Respondent
No case for interference is made out on the grounds urged on behalf of the land owners.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Coming to the invocation of the urgency provision, in our opinion, when the public purpose of freight complex at Narela under Planned Development of Delhi was involved, obviously, there was urgency and the project was such that it could not have brooked any delay.	Reasoning
Thus, invocation of Section 17 was proper.	Reasoning
Merely by the fact that declaration Under Section 6 was issued in December, it could not be said that invocation of the urgency provision Under Section 17(1) and 17(4) was improper.	Reasoning
The satisfaction of Lt. Governor as mentioned in the notification in the facts of the case was not appropriate considering the nature of the requirement.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that notification Under Section 4 read with Section 17(1) and 17(4) did not suffer with illegality.8.	Reasoning
Reliance has been placed on the decision of Union of India and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Mukesh Hans etc. 2004	Arguments of Petitioner
(8) SCC 14 .	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision cannot be said to be applicable as there was an earlier acquisition which was allowed to be lapsed by efflux of time.	Reasoning
The authority who dispensed with the inquiry was not made aware of the fact, thus, the decision has no application.	Reasoning
Reliance has also been placed on the decision of this Court in Anand Singh and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Ors. 2010 (11) SCC 242.	Reasoning
In the said case the identification of land was for Housing Colony.	None
There was a gap of one year in declaration Under Section 6.	None
However, the Appellants were not granted any relief in the facts of the said case.	None
It was observed that Section 17(4) should be invoked in appropriate cases.	None
There is no dispute with the aforesaid proposition.	None
However, in the instant case considering the nature of the requirement and facts of the case, we find that invocation of the urgency Clause was appropriate.9.	Reasoning
Reliance has also been placed on the decision of this Court in Ramdhari Jindal Memorial Trust v. Union of India and Ors., 2012 (11) SCC 370.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was again a residential scheme which was involved and in the facts of the said case, this Court directed the inquiry to be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision is of no application to the facts of the instant case.	None
Reliance has also been placed on Narain Govind Gavate and Ors.	Reasoning
v. State of Maharashtra and Ors. 1977	Reasoning
(1) SCC 133 which rather negates the case of Respondents.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, other cases relied upon are Dev Sharan and Ors.	Reasoning
v. State of U.P. and Ors.	Reasoning
JT 2011 (3) SC 102 , State of Punjab and Anr.	Reasoning
v. Gurdial Singh and Anr., 1980 (2) SCC 471 , Hari Ram and Anr.	Reasoning
v. State of Haryana and Ors., 2010 (3) SCC 621 , Patasi Devi v. State of Haryana and Ors., 2012 (9) SCC 503.	Reasoning
Each case has to be decided on its own facts.	Reasoning
We find that there was an urgency in the present case and the requirement was urgent as such the provision was rightly invoked in the case.10.	Reasoning
In the second round of the litigation the aforesaid question is being again raised, though permission was sought to withdraw the earlier writ petition with liberty inter alia to question the order relating to denotification and accordingly, the liberty was granted.	Reasoning
Facts remain that dilatory tactics have been adopted by Respondents.	Reasoning
There was no formal defect and it was not appropriate to withdraw writ petitions after so much period of 16 years.	Reasoning
We are not satisfied on merits with respect to the submission raised by learned Counsel for the land owners and they have clearly adopted delaying tactics.11.	Reasoning
When we come to the question of derequisition it is apparent that the order dated 19.4.2012 in the matter of Swarup Singh clearly indicate that the representation dated 27.8.2010 was actively considered by the Denotification Committee in its meeting held on 22.7.2011.	Reasoning
The Committee did not recommend the denotification Under Section 48(i) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 as the land was required by the DDA for relocation of Chemical Godowns and Development of Freight Complex at Narela under Planned Development of Delhi and the matter was placed before the Lt. Governor who after due consideration of the facts has rejected the prayer for denotification of captioned land.	Reasoning
Mind has been applied and considering the necessity, decision has been taken not to denotify the land.	Reasoning
The decision is appropriate and we find no infirmity in the same.	Reasoning
Similar is the reasoning given in the case of Munnilal and others in the communication dated 19.4.2012.	Reasoning
We find no infirmity in the same also.12.	Reasoning
Thus, in our opinion, the submissions urged on behalf of the land owners deserve to be rejected and appeals deserve to be allowed.	Decision
Accordingly, we set aside the impugned order and allow these appeals.	Decision
The writ petitions filed by the Respondents before the High Court are ordered to be dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
