PARIPOORNAN, J. Special leave granted in SLP (C) No. 11008 of 1988.	None
The above three appeals involve a common question of law, namely, whether Nylon Twine can be considered as Nylon Yarn so as to be covered by Item 18 of the First Schedule to the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) as it stood and prior to the Amendment of 1977.	None
RAYON AND SYNTHETIC FIBRES AND YARN.Tariff Description of goods Rate of dutyItem Basic18.	None
RAYON AND SYNTHETIC FIBRES AND YARNINCLUDING TEXTURED YARN, IN OR INRELATION TO THE MANUFACTURE OF WHICHANY PROCESS IS ORDINARILY CARRIED ONWITH	None
THE AID OF POWER(i) Fibres and Yarn other than Textured Rs 85.00 per kgYarn(ii)	None
Textured Yarn produced out of Base The duty for theYarn.	None
time being leviableon the base yarnif not alreadypaid plusRs 20 per kg(iii)	None
Other Textured Yarn.	None
Rs 105.00 per kgExplanation I.  Fibres and Yarn, other thanTextured Yarn, shall be deemed to include (i) manmade fibres(ii) manmade metallic yarn(iii) spun (discontinuous yarn containingnot less than ninety per cent by weight ofmanmade fibres calculated on the total fibrecontent and(iv) manmade filament (continuous) yarnthat has not been processed to introduce crimpscoils, loops or curls along the length of thefilaments, but does not include bulked yarn andstretch yarnExplanation II.  	None
Textured Yarn means yarn that has beenprocessed to introduce crimps, coils, loops or curls alongthe length of the filaments and shall include bulked yarn andstretch yarnExplanation III.  	None
Base Yarn means yarn falling undersubitem (i) of this Item from which the Textured Yarnhas been producedExplanation IV.  	None
This Item does not include mineralfibres and yarn.	None
It will be useful to note that from 131977 a new item i.e. Item 68 was introduced in the First Schedule to the Act which is.	None
to the following effect.	None
Tariff Description of goods Rate of dutyItem Basic68.	None
ALL OTHER GOODS, NOT ELSEWHERE 1 AdvSPECIFIED, MANUFACTURED IN A FACTORYBUT EXCLUDING (a) alcohol all sorts including alcoholicliquors for human consumptionItem 18 was also amended in the following mannerII.	None
Manmade filament yarns (i) Noncellulosic (a) other than textured(b) texturedExplanation.  	None
Textured Yarn means yarn that has been processed to introduce crimps, coils, loops or curls along the length of the filaments and shall include bulked yarn and stretch yarn(ii) Cellulosic(iii) Metallized.	None
We hear counsel.	None
In this group, the main appeal is Civil Appeal No. 715 of 1981.	None
It is an appeal preferred by the Union of India (Revenue) against the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 941980 rendered in Special Civil Application No. 2974 of 1978.	None
In the other two cases, the judgment in Special Civil Application No. 2974 of 1978 was followed.	None
The judgment in the said special civil application is reported in Garware Nylons Ltd. v. Union of India (Bom).	None
The respondentsassessees manufacture Nylon Yarn and Nylon Twine.	Facts
They are doing so ever since 1962.	Facts
Under the First Schedule, Item 18 of the Act excise duty is payable in respect of Nylon Yarn as specified therein.	Facts
The notification issued under Rule 8 of the Excise Rules provided that Nylon Yarn, which is meant for use in the manufacture of fishing nets and parachute cords is exempt from the payment of so much of excise duty leviable under Item 18 as is in excess of Rs 4 per kg.	Facts
The assesses contended that Nylon Twine manufactured by them is used for the purpose of making fishing nets.	Facts
Prior to 1975 they were allowed to clear Nylon Twine manufactured by them on payment of excise duty as specified under the above exemption notification.	Facts
Thereafter, when the new item, viz.	Facts
Item 68 (residuary entry) was introduced in the Act, it was contended by the Excise authority that Nylon Twine manufactured by the assessees was not covered by Item 18.	Facts
According to the Revenue Nylon Twine and Nylon Yarn are two different items and Item 18 takes within its fold Nylon Yarn only and not Nylon Twine.	Facts
The authorities claimed excise duty on Nylon Twine under Item 68.	Facts
The assessees paid such duty under protest.	Facts
Thereafter, the application filed by the assessees for refund before the Assistant Collector failed.	Facts
He passed an order to that effect on 2851976.	Facts
The appeal filed was rejected by the Appellate Collector on 2891976.	Facts
Similarly the Central Government rejected the revision by order dated 31101979.	Facts
It is thereafter that the assessees approached the High Court of Bombay for refund of the amount paid under protest.	Facts
A Division Bench of the High Court heard and disposed of the petition by judgment and order dated 941980.	Facts
Sujata Manohar, J. delivered the leading judgment and Masodkar, J., though for different reasoning, agreed with the conclusion of Sujata Manohar, J. Sujata Manohar, J., after referring to the following materials  viz.  	Facts
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Vol. X (abridged version), the Indian Standards Institution Standard bearing No. AIS 332 of 1967 wherein the expressions Twine and Yarn were dealt with, the Indian Standards Institution Standard bearing	Facts
No. IS 1402767 relating to netting for fishing, the Manual called Netting Materials for Fishing Gear, the manual published by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, the order received by the assessees from the Director of Fisheries, Madras, two affidavits, one from the Managing Director of Maharashtra Rajya Machimar Sekhari Sangh Limited and another from a partner of Maharashtra Fishing Material Company, concluded thus, in paragraph 14 of the judgment.	None
There is, however, sufficient material on record which goes to show that nylon twine manufactured by the petitioners has been treated as a kind of nylon yarn by the people in the trade.	None
It is commonly considered as yarn.	Facts
Hence it can be classified under Item 18.	Facts
The respondents have failed to establish that nylon twine must be taxed under Item 68, as it is not covered by Item 18 of the First Schedule.	Facts
The respondents are the taxing authorities, and they must show that the item in question is taxable in the manner claimed by them the burden is on the taxing authorities to show that the item in question is taxable in the manner claimed by them.	Reasoning
The learned Judge, therefore, directed the Revenue to refund to the assessee the excess amount collected from them as Central excise duty on the basis that Nylon Twin falls under Item 68 of the First Schedule to the Act.	Facts
Shri P.A. Chaudhary, Senior Advocate, appearing for the Union of Indiaappellant, contended that Nylon Twine is different from Nylon Yarn, that Item 18 of the Act would cover only Nylon Yarn and not Nylon Twine that a mere look at Nylon Twine will go to show that it is different from Nylon Yarn that in commercial parlance different words are used for Nylon Twine and Nylon Yarn and the said goods have different user and different physical characteristics.	Arguments of Petitioner
He stressed that Nylon Twine  the commodity involved in the instant case is not known as Nylon Yarn and so, the same is outside the purview of Item 18 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Certain decisions of general application were also cited.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel for the respondentsassessees contended that the Nylon Twine is nothing but Nylon Yarn, other than textured yarn and referred to the Encyclopaedia Britannica,	Arguments of Respondent
Vol. X (abridged version), and the literature issued by the Indian Standards Institution and others, the trade enquiries and the affidavits filed by persons in the particular trade, would conclusively show that Nylon Twine is considered as a kind of Nylon Yarn by the traders and persons dealing with the subjectmatter and the High Court had abundant material to substantiate the above proposition.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think it is necessary, especially in this batch of cases, to refer in detail to the decisions cited by the Revenue or the text books and the literature of the Indian Standards Institution and the Manual published by the Food and Agriculture Organisation, United Nations, as to what is meant by twine, yarn, netting twine etc. referred by the High Court.	Reasoning
In this case, clinching evidence is afforded to demonstrate that trade and industry which deals with the goods, consider Nylon Twine as a kind of Nylon Yarn There are innumerable decisions of this Court which have laid down the test or the principles to be borne in mind in construing the items or entries in Fiscal Statutes.	Reasoning
In a recent decision in Indian Cable Co. Ltd. v. CCE a threemember Bench stated the law thus (SCC p. 615, para 5).	None
in construing the relevant item or entry, in fiscal statutes, if it is one of everyday use, the authority concerned must normally, construe it, as to how it is understood in common parlance or in the commercial world or trade circles.	None
It must be given its popular meaning.	None
The meaning given in the dictionary must not prevail.	None
Nor should the entry be understood in any technical or botanical or scientific sense.	None
In the case of technical words, it may call for a different approach.	None
The approach to be made in such cases has been stated by Lord Esher in Unwin v. Hanson (1891) 2 QB 115 65 LT 511 60 LJQB 531 thusIf the Act is directed to dealing with matters affecting everybody generally, the words used have the meaning attached to them in the common and ordinary use of language.	None
If the Act is one passed with reference to a particular trade, business, or transaction, and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade, business or transaction knows and understands to have a particular meaning in it then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning, though it may differ from the common or ordinary meaning of the words.	None
We would only add that there should be material to enter appropriate finding in the case.	None
The material may be either oral or documentary evidence.	None
In a subsequent decision in CCE v. Steel Strips Ltd. another threemember Bench stated the law thus (SCC pp. 24344, paras 47).	None
we find no evidence upon the record to what happens to hotrolled steel strips before coldrolled steel strips are produced.	None
It cannot be sufficiently emphasised that when it is the case of the Excise authorities that an article is the result of a process of manufacture and it is commercially distinct and known as such, it is for the Excise authorities to lay evidence in this behalf before the first adjudicating authority regardless of the fact that he is an officer of the Excise Department.	None
There should, ordinarily, be no difficulty in establishing that the article is the result of a process of manufacture in the event of difficulty, it would be open to the Excise authorities to seek a direction requiring the assessee to set out in writing what it does to obtain the article.	None
Too often, as our experience in this Court and in the High Courts, before the Tribunal was established, shows, lack of evidence has led to the failure of the case of the Excise authorities and, consequently, to the loss of revenue to the StateFailure to lay the requisite evidence cannot be made up by reference to authoritative publications unless the Excise authorities inform the assessee that they propose to rely upon the same before the adjudicating authority Technical evidence and authoritative publications must, therefore, be placed in the first instance before the adjudicating authority and the Tribunal.	None
They have the requisite technical expertise to evaluate the same.	None
The law on the point as laid down by this Court (in various decisions) has been summarised in the book Principles of Statutory Interpretation (Sixth Edition  1996) by Justice G.P. Singh, at pp. 67, 70, 72 and 73, thus.	None
So in construing entries of goods in Excise, Customs or Sales Tax Acts resort should normally be had not to the scientific or technical meaning but to their popular meaning viz.	None
the meaning attached to the expressions by those dealing in them The popular meaning in the context of a Sales Tax Act is that meaning which is popular in commercial circles for the Act essentially, in its working, is concerned with dealers who are commercial menThe justification of the rule that the words are to be understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense is well expressed by Justice Frankfurter After all legislation when not expressed in technical terms is addressed to common run of men and is therefore to be understood according to sense of the thing, as the ordinary man has a right to rely on ordinary words addressed.	None
In determining, therefore, whether a particular import is included within the ordinary meaning of a given word, one may have regard to the answer which everyone conversant with the word and the subjectmatter of statute and to whom the legislation is addressed, will give if the problem were put to himAs a necessary consequence of the principle that words are understood in their ordinary or natural meaning in relation to the subjectmatter, in legislation relating to a particular trade, business, profession, art or science, words having a special meaning in that context are understood in that sense.	None
Such a special meaning is called the technical meaning to distinguish it from the more common meaning that the word may have The Supreme Court has consistently taken the view that, in determining the meaning or connotation of words and expressions describing an article in a tariff schedule, one principle which is fairly well settled is that those words and expressions should be construed in the sense in which they are understood in the trade by the dealer and the consumer.	None
The reason is that it is they who are concerned with it, and, it is the sense in which they understood it which constitutes the definitive index of legislative intentions.	None
Stated briefly, we should understand, the expression occurring in Item 18 of the Act, in the sense, in which the persons who deal in such goods understand it normally.	None
In this case, apart from the meaning given to the words Yarn, Twine etc., in the standard works referred to by the High Court, two items of evidence stand out prominent and clinch the issue.	None
The first is, an order received by the assessee from the Director of Fisheries, Madras which goes to show that Nylon Twine is considered as a type of Nylon Yarn used for making fishing nets.	Reasoning
The second is, two affidavits filed by the assessees before the authorities  one from the Managing Director of Maharashtra Rajya Machimar Sekhari Sangh Limited and another from a partner of Maharashtra Fishing Material Company, wherein it is stated that Twine is a category of Yarn.	Reasoning
What is more  the assessees made available the above persons who have sworn to the affidavits for crossexamination at the time of the hearing of the applications, but the Revenue did not crossexamine them.	Reasoning
The trade enquiry received by the assessees and also the affidavits conclusively point out that Nylon Twine is considered as a kind of Nylon Yarn in the particular trade by persons conversant with the subjectmatter.	Reasoning
The Revenue has not let in any material to the contra.	None
In our view, the conclusion reached by the High Court is fully in accord with the decisions of this Court and the same is justified in law.	Reasoning
The burden of proof is on the taxing authorities to show that the particular case or item in question is taxable in the manner claimed by them.	Reasoning
Mere assertion in that regard is of no avail.	Reasoning
It has been held by this Court that there should be material to enter appropriate finding in that regard and the material may be either oral or documentary.	Reasoning
It is for the taxing authority to lay evidence in that behalf even before the first adjudicating authority.	Reasoning
Especially in a case as this, where the claim of the assessee is borne out by the trade enquiries received by them and also the affidavits filed by persons dealing with the subjectmatter, a heavy burden lay upon the Revenue to disprove the said materials by adducing proper evidence.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, no such attempt was made.	Reasoning
As stated, the evidence led in this case conclusively goes to show that Nylon Twine manufactured by the assessees has been treated as a kind of Nylon Yarn by the people conversant with the trade.	Reasoning
It is commonly considered as Nylon Yarn.	Reasoning
Hence, it is to be classified under Item 18 of the Act.	Reasoning
The Revenue has failed to establish the contrary.	Reasoning
We would do well to remember the guidelines laid down by this Court in Dunlop India Ltd. v. Union of India in such a situation, wherein it was stated (AIR p. 607	None
SCC p. 254, para 35).	None
When an article has, by all standards, a reasonable claim to be classified under an enumerated item in the Tariff Schedule, it will be against the very principle of classification to deny it the parentage and consign it to an orphanage of the residuary clause.	None
We concur with the reasoning and conclusion of the High Court.	Reasoning
There is no substance in these appeals.	Reasoning
The judgments appealed against in this batch of appeals are affirmed.	Decision
The appeals are dismissed with costs, including counsels fee of Rs 5000 in each case.	Decision
