 K. Thakker, J. This petition is filed by the petitioners under Section 11(6) and Section 11(12) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) read with paragraph 2 of the Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996 for appointment of Third Presiding Arbitrator in accordance with the Agreement Contract Package No.	Issue
NS23/AP dated May 31, 2001 entered into between the petitioners and the respondent.	Issue
The petitioners are a Joint Venture who came together by virtue of Joint Venture Agreement dated May 10, 2001 for execution of certain contracts for National Highways Authority of India (NHAI for short).	Facts
Petitioner No.1 is a Company registered under the Laws of the Republic of Korea having its registered office at 7595, Seosomoon Dong, Chung Ku, Seoul, Korea 100 110.	Facts
Originally it was known as YOU ONE Engineering and Construction Co. Ltd. at the time of Joint Venture Agreement and also at the time of contract dated May 31, 2001 with NHAI.	Facts
The Company has since merged with and known as Ultra Construction and Engineering Co. Ltd., Seoul, Korea i.e. in a country other than India within the meaning of Section 2(f)(ii) of the Act.	Facts
Petitioner No.2 is a Private Limited Company incorporated and registered under the Companies Act, 1956 having its registered office at A10, Panchvati, Azadpur, Delhi 110 033.	Facts
According to the petitioners, they entered into an Agreement on May 31, 2001 with the respondent for execution of Contract Package No.	None
NS23/AP being a project for 4Laning of KM. 464.000 to KM.	Facts
474.000 of NagpurHyderabad section and KM.	Facts
9.400 and KM.	Facts
22.300 of HyderabadBangalore section of National Highway 7 in the State of Andhra Pradesh at a contract price of Rs.74,88,79,544.69.	Facts
The Agreement contains an arbitration clause which I will refer to at an appropriate stage.	None
According to the petitioners, in September, 2004, i.e. after more than three years of ContractAgreement, it was alleged by the respondent that the petitioners had furnished forged Bank Guarantees for availing mobilization and other advances under the Contract Agreement.	None
The respondent, in view of the Arbitration Clause, filed OMP No. 342 of 2004 in the High Court of Delhi against the petitioners under Section 9 of the Act for interim relief.	Facts
The High Court passed interim directions restraining the petitioners from removing and or transferring machinery and stock placed by them at the site for execution of work.	Facts
On December 13, 2004, the respondent invoked Clause 59 of the Agreement and terminated the contract.	Facts
There was exchange of letters and notices between the parties.	Facts
Ultimately, by a communication dated April 7, 2005, the petitioners intimated the respondent that in accordance with the Arbitration Clause, they had appointed Honble Mr. Justice A.K. Srivastava, a retired Judge of the High Court of Delhi as their nominee Arbitrator.	Facts
According to the petitioners, in the second half of June, the respondent addressed a letter to Mr. C.S. Balaramamurthi, purported to have been written on April 7, 2005 appointing him as the nominee Arbitrator of NHAI.	Facts
From the record, it appears that the two Arbitrators could not agree to an appointment of Third Arbitrator.	Facts
The respondent intended to appoint a technical man as the Third Arbitrator as the matter was of a highly technical nature, but the arbitrator appointed by the petitioners insisted that the Presiding Arbitrator should be a retired Chief Justice or a Judge of a High Court, who should be senior to him (Justice Srivastava).	Facts
It is also on record that the respondent appointed Mr. K.P. Mohanty as the Presiding Arbitrator.	Facts
Subsequently, however, his appointment was not continued.	Facts
In February, 2006, Justice Srivastava had shown his unwillingness to continue as Arbitrator and the petitioners nominated Honble Mr. Justice V.A. Mohta, retired Chief Justice of High Court of Orissa as their nominee Arbitrator in place of Justice Srivastava.	Facts
Since the parties could not agree as to appointment of Third Presiding Arbitrator, the petitioners have filed the present petition praying therein that the Chief Justice of India may be pleased to appoint a retired Judge of the Supreme Court of India or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court as Presiding Arbitrator.	Facts
The Honble Chief Justice of India designated me to deal with the matter and to pass an appropriate order on the application.	Facts
Accordingly the petition was placed before me.	Facts
On January 24, 2007 notice was issued.	None
Affidavits and further affidavits had been filed by the parties.	None
I have heard learned counsel on both the sides.	None
The learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the respondentNHAI ought to have agreed to appoint a retired Judge of the Supreme Court or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court as Presiding Third Arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that when the petitioners have nominated a retired Chief Justice of a High Court as their Arbitrator, the respondent ought to have considered the said fact and ought to have agreed to nominate a Judge, senior in rank to the Arbitrator appointed by the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that the dispute relates to interpretation of terms and conditions of the contract and there is no technical element which requires appointment of a technical man.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also stated that in similar circumstances, between the same parties, a dispute had arisen earlier, arbitration petitions were filed before the Chief Justice of High Court of Delhi and the nominee of the Chief Justice had appointed Honble Mr. Justice Arun Kumar, retired Judge of this Court as the Presiding Arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case also, such a course ought to have been adopted by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since it was not done, the petitioners are constrained to approach this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondent, on the other hand, submitted that the relevant clause empowers the Council of Indian Road Congress (IRC for short) to appoint Presiding Arbitrator in case of failure of the two Arbitrators to appoint Third Arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
Since two Arbitrators appointed by the parties (the petitioners on the one hand and the respondent on the other hand) could not arrive at a consensus, it is the power of IRC to appoint a Third Arbitrator and the petition is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that a similar question came up for consideration before this Court between the same parties in YOU	Arguments of Respondent
ONE Engineering Construction Co. Ltd. Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. National Highways Authority of India, (2006) 4 SCC 372 and this Court has held that it is the right of IRC to appoint Third Arbitrator and the petitioners could not insist for a particular Arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
Regarding the order passed by the Nominee of the Chief Justice of High Court of Delhi, it was submitted that it was an agreed order and the respondent had consented to in appointing Honble Mr. Justice Arun Kumar, retired Judge of this Court as the Third Arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
The said decision, therefore, does not help the petitioner.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also urged that the question is of highly technical nature and hence IRC is insisting to appoint a technical man as the Third Presiding Arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, therefore, prayed that the petition be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Having considered rival contentions of the parties and having gone through the Agreement and Arbitration Clause, I am of the view that the prayer of the petitioners cannot be granted.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not in dispute that the Agreement, dated May 31, 2001 contains an Arbitration Clause (Clause 3).	Arguments of Respondent
The relevant part of the said Clause reads thus In case of dispute or difference arising between the employer and a domestic contractor relating to any matter arising out of or connected with this Agreement, such dispute or difference shall be settled in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.	Arguments of Respondent
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of 3 Arbitrators, one each to be appointed by the employer and the contractor.	Arguments of Respondent
The third arbitrator shall be chosen by the two arbitrators so appointed by the parties and shall act as Presiding Arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
In case of the failure of the two arbitrators appointed by the parties to reach upon a consensus within a period of 30 days from the appointment of the arbitrator appointed subsequently, the Presiding Arbitrator shall be appointed by the Council of Indian Road Congress.	Arguments of Respondent
(emphasis supplied)	None
A bare reading of the above clause leaves no room for doubt that in case of failure of the two Arbitrators appointed by the parties to reach upon a consensus, the Presiding Arbitrator shall be appointed by the Council of IRC.	Reasoning
It may be stated at this stage that when the matter was placed before me on April 24, 2007, the parties invited my attention to the aforesaid clause and it was submitted that no consensus could be arrived at by the parties.	Reasoning
Considering the fact situation and the Agreement, I thought it proper that the parties should undertake fresh exercise in the direction.	Reasoning
I accordingly passed an order to make one more attempt.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, however, the effort could not succeed and both the counsel stated that the matter will have to be decided on merits.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the matter was heard.	Reasoning
In my opinion, the learned counsel for the respondent is right that apart from clear language of Arbitration Clause, the point is also covered by YOU ONE Engineering.	Reasoning
Almost in identical circumstances, this Court was called upon to consider the provisions of the Act and the right of the respondent to appoint Presiding Arbitrator under the Agreement.	Reasoning
The Court held that it is the right of IRC to appoint Presiding Arbitrator in case the parties are not ad idem in appointment of Third Presiding Arbitrator.	Reasoning
This Court stated The arbitration agreement clearly envisages the appointment of the presiding arbitrator by IRC.	None
There is no qualification that the arbitrator has to be a different person depending on the nature of the dispute.	Reasoning
If the parties have entered into such an agreement with open eyes, it is not open to ignore it and invoke exercise of powers in Section 11(6).	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is, no doubt, true that the High Court of Delhi has appointed Honble Mr. Justice Arun Kumar, retired Judge of this Court as Presiding Arbitrator in OMP No. 342 of 2004 vide its order dated May 22, 2006.	Reasoning
The said order is on record of this case.	Reasoning
Three paragraphs of the said order are important and they read as under Learned counsel for the parties jointly state that whole issue can be sorted out by having a panel of three arbitrators, with one arbitrator as nominated by each of the parties and the presiding arbitrator to be appointed by this Court with the joint consent of the learned counsel for the parties.	Reasoning
It may be noticed that as on date the petitioner has nominated Mr.L.R.Gupta, Director General Works, CPWD (Retd.)	Reasoning
while respondent has nominated Justice S.B.Wad (Retd.).	Reasoning
Justice S.B.Wad was nominated in place of Justice A.K.Srivastava (Retd.), who expressed his inability to act as an arbitrator.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the parties propose that Justice Arun Kumar (Retd.	Reasoning
Judge of the Supreme Court), 10, Krishna Menon Marg, New Delhi  110 001 (Phone 23012175) be appointed as the presiding arbitrator and arbitral tribunal be constituted accordingly.	Reasoning
The constitution of the presiding arbitrator and arbitral tribunal as proposed by learned counsel for the parties is accepted by this Court and the said tribunal shall proceed to enter upon reference and determine the dispute between the parties.	Reasoning
Ordered accordingly.	Reasoning
The constitution of the tribunal be Justice Arun Kumar (Retd.)	Reasoning
as the presiding arbitrator, Mr.L.R. Gupta and Justice S.B. Wad (Retd.)	Reasoning
as the two other members of the arbitral tribunal.	Reasoning
The fee shall be fixed by the tribunal itself.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
The learned counsel for the respondent was right when he submitted that the order was based on consent of the parties.	Reasoning
As in the present case, there is no such consent, the Court has to consider the matter by interpreting an Arbitration Clause.	Reasoning
Clause 3, as observed earlier, is explicitly clear and there is no ambiguity.	Reasoning
Again, the controversy is decided by this Court in YOU ONE Engineering.	Reasoning
In my view, therefore, the petitioners cannot compel the respondent to agree for a retired Judge of this Court or retired Chief Justice of a High Court, senior to Honble Mr. Justice Mohta as Presiding Arbitrator.	Reasoning
It was finally submitted that even if this Court is of the view that no such direction can be issued or order can be passed, it may be appreciated that the petitioners have chosen a retired Chief Justice of a High Court as their Arbitrator and appropriate observations may be made so that IRC may appoint retired Judge of this Court or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court to be the Presiding Arbitrator.	Reasoning
That would enable the petitioners to avail services of an Arbitrator appointed by them.	Reasoning
I appreciate the anxiety of the petitioners.	Reasoning
In my view, however, when the Arbitration Clause is clear and the point is concluded by a decision of this Court, it would not be proper on my part to make any such observation.	Reasoning
It is, however, open to the respondent to take an appropriate decision in the matter keeping in view the facts in their entirety.	Reasoning
I may only state that this decision will not inhibit the respondent in taking any decision as it thinks fit.	Reasoning
In view of the above legal position, I express no opinion on the contention of the parties as to whether the controversy raised is or is not of a technical nature.	Reasoning
Since it is not necessary for me to enter into that question, I leave the matter there.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, the application deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed, however, leaving the parties to bear their own costs.	Decision
