 M. Lodha, J. Of these seven appeals which arise from the judgment dated April 25, 2008 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay (Appellate Jurisdiction), five are at the instance of the original plaintiff and the other two are by the parties, who were not parties to the proceedings before the High Court or the trial court but they are aggrieved by the findings recorded by the High Court as they claim that these findings are affecting their rights.	None
The facts2.	Facts
Few important questions of law arise in this group of appeals.	Facts
It will be convenient to formulate the questions after we set out the material facts and the contentions of the parties.	Facts
The narration of brief facts from S.C. Suit No. 1767 of 2004 will suffice for consideration of these appeals.	Facts
Nahalchand Laloochand Private Limited is a Private Limited Company.	Facts
As a promoter, it developd few properties in Anand Nagar, Dahisar (East), Mumbai and entered into agreements for sale of flats with flat purchasers.	Facts
The flat purchasers are members of Panchali Cooperative Housing Society Ltd. (for short, the Society).	Facts
The promoter filed a suit before the Bombay City Civil Court, Bombay for permanent injunction restraining the Society (defendant) from encroaching upon, trespassing and or in any manner disturbing, obstructing, interfering with its possession in respect of 25 parking spaces in the stilt portion of the building.	Facts
The promoter set up the case in the plaint that under the agreements for sale it has sold flats in its building and each flat purchaser has right in respect of the flat sold to him and to no other portion.	Facts
It was averred in the plaint that each flat purchaser has executed a declaration undertaking in its favour to the effect that stilt parking spaces open parking spaces shown in the plan exclusively belong to the promoter and that the declarant has no objection to the sale of such spaces by it.	Facts
The defendant (Society) traversed the claim and set up the plea that the promoter has no right to sell or dispose of spaces in the stilt portion and that the undertakings given by the flat purchasers are not binding being contrary to law and based on such undertakings, the promoter has not acquired any right to sell stilt parking spaces.3.	Facts
The parties let in evidence (oral as well as documentary) in support of their respective case.4.	Facts
On April 4, 2007, the Presiding Judge, City Civil Court, Greater Bombay dismissed the suit with costs.5.	Facts
The promoter preferred first appeal before the High Court which was dismissed on April 25, 2008.6.	Facts
For brevity, we shall describe Maharashtra Ownership Flats (Regulation of the Promotion of Construction, Sale, Management and Transfer) Act, 1963 as MOFA, Maharashtra Ownership Flats (Regulations of the Promotion of Construction, Etc.)	Facts
Rules, 1964 as 1964 Rules, Development Control Regulations for Greater Bombay, 1991 as DCR, Maharashtra Apartment Ownership Act, 1970 as MAOA, The Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 as MRTP Act and Transfer of Property Act as T.P. Act.	Facts
The summary of findings recording by the High Court7.	Facts
While dismissing the appeal, the High Court recorded the following findings The carpet area of any of the 56 flats tenements in Panchali building is not less than 35 sq. mtrs.	Facts
The parking space either enclosed or unenclosed, covered or open cannot be a building.	Facts
It is compulsory requirement to provide for parking spaces under DCR.It is obligatory on the part of the promoter to follow the DCR.	Facts
The agreement signed under MOFA between the developer and the flat purchaser must be in conformity with the model form of agreement (Form V) prescribed by the State Government.	Facts
The model agreement does not contemplate the flat purchasers to separately purchase the stilt parking spaces.	Facts
The rights arising from the agreement signed under the MOFA between the promoter and the flat purchasers cannot be diluted by any contract or an undertaking to the contrary.	Facts
The undertakings contrary to DCR will not be binding either on the flat purchasers or the Society.	Facts
The stilt parking space is a common parking area available and the developer is obliged to provide the same under the DCR when the carpet area of the flat is 350 sq. meters It is not an additional premises area that he is authorized to sell either to flat purchaser or any outsider.	Facts
It is part and parcel of the Society building and it cannot be a separate premises available for sale.	Facts
As soon as the Corporation issues the occupation certificate and the Society is registered, the building as well as the stilt parking spaces, open spaces and all common amenities become the property of the Society.	Facts
The stilt parking spaces cannot be put on sale by the developer as he ceases to have any title on the same as soon as the occupation certificate is issued by the Corporation and it becomes the property of the society on its registration.	Facts
The stilt parking spaces cannot be termed as open covered garages and Clause 2 of the Model AgreementForm V provides for sale of covered open garage in addition to the flat shop.	Facts
It is immaterial if the purchase agreement does not include stilt car parking spaces in the common area of amenities.	Facts
The stilt car parking spaces is part of the common amenities and it cannot be treated to be a separate premises garage which could be sold by the developer to any of the members of the society or an outsider.	Facts
Under MOFA, the developers right is restricted to the extent of disposal of flats, shops and or garages, which means that any premises which is included in the Flat Space Index (FSI) can be sold by the developer promoter.	Facts
The stilt parking space is not included in the FSI nor it is assessable for the Corporation taxes.	Facts
The submissions Mr. Tanmaya Mehta, learned counsel appearing for the promoterNahalchand Laloochand Private Limited (appellant) contended that the stilt parking space being garage, as an independent unit is covered by the definition of flat in Section 2(a1) of MOFA Section 2(a1) creates an artificial definition of flat and since in common parlance a garage would not be considered as a flat, the legislature clarified and explained that the term flat means and includes a garage as long as premises are covered from the roof or which have a covered roof and used for the parking of vehicles, that would qualify as garage and since stilt parking spaces are covered parking spaces and form part of the building, they fall within the definition of a garage even if stilt parking spaces do not fall within the definition of flat, they are nevertheless sellable as independent units since right to sell such spaces flows from the bundle of rights associated with ownership of the property and Sections 10 and 11 of MOFA read with Rule 9 of 1964 Rules are not exhaustive of the rights retained by the promoter upon execution of conveyance.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, if stilt parking spaces are treated as common areas then the proportionate price for the same would have to be paid by each flat purchaser, irrespective of whether he requires the parking space or not and there may be situations where the number of parking spaces will not be equal to the number of flats and, thus, a person who has paid proportionate price for the common parking space may find himself without parking space, even though he has paid for the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, the learned counsel submitted that in any event the promoter undertakes that the parking spaces shall be sold only to persons purchasing flats within the subject layout, i.e. the purchasers of flats in the seven buildings which form part of the layout and exist in close proximity.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Pravin K. Samdani, learned senior counsel for one of the appellants viz., Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry adopted a little different line of argument.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the provisions of MOFA permit a promoter to sell garage open covered car parking space along with the flat.	Arguments of Petitioner
His submission is that MOFA does not define the word garage and that word has to be understood and interpreted in accordance with the plain grammatical meaning and not with reference to DCR which have been framed under MRTP Act having different legislative object.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to whether the stilt parking spaces are common areas, Mr. Pravin K. Samdani would submit that MOFA does not list out the common areas and limited common areas while MAOA does define these terms and parking spaces thereunder are common areas and facilities unless otherwise provided in the declaration by the owner of the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under MOFA, it is for the promoter and under MAOA, the declarant has to prescribe at the outset the common areas and limited common areas.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred to Sections 3(2)(h), 4(1)(a)(v), 10 and 11 of the MOFA and submitted that the promoter must at the outset indicate the nature of organization (condominium or society or company) that would be formed at the time of sale of flats and on formation of such organization, the promoter joins such organization with a right and power to dispose of remaining flats that would include the remaining unsold open covered parking space garage and the organization is transferred unsold open covered parking spaces only if all the flats have been sold by the promoter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel would submit that it is wholly irrelevant whether stilt podium basement covered car park attracts FSI or not but the only relevant criterion is whether the promoter has listed it as a part of common area or not and if he has not done so then it is sellable.	Arguments of Petitioner
If he has listed it, then every flat purchaser is proportionately required to contribute for the same.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the appeal filed by one Chirag M. Vora, Mr. Sunil Gupta, learned senior counsel appeared.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that MOFA was enacted and enforced in the year 1963 as a regulatory piece of legislation and barring the few aspects in respect of which MOFA makes specific inroads into the rights of the promoter in the matter of construction, sale, management and transfer of flats, all other aspects of the right of the promoter who enters into contract with the flat purchaser remain unaffected and undisturbed.	Arguments of Petitioner
His submission is that MOFA gives a wide meaning to the word flat so that buildings of all permutations and combinations may be covered within the scope of that Act and keeping in mind both the plain language of Section 2(a1) as well as the object of that Act, widest meaning to the word flat deserves to be given so that the plain language is satisfied and also the object of the Act is better subserved.	Arguments of Petitioner
He adopted the line of interpretation put forth by Mr. Tanmaya Mehta that garage includes covered parking spaces and even open parking spaces and is a flat in itself under Section 2(a1).	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying upon Barnett Block v. National Parcels Insurance Company Ltd. (1942 1 All E.R. 221), learned senior counsel submitted that the minimum requirement of garage is that there should be roof (even if there are no walls) and for the purpose of MOFA, not only a covered parking space like a stilt parking space but also an open parking space is tantamount to garage.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned senior counsel the word garage is not to be read simply as another kind of user as contrasted with residence, office, showroom or shop or godown or industry or business rather it has to be read in contrast and juxtaposed against the expression set of premises it is the alternative to the set of premises and not merely to the different users of the set of premises mentioned in Section 2 (a1).	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sunil Gupta, learned senior counsel would submit that each stilt parking space as well as each open parking space is a flat in itself de hors the other accommodations amounting to flat under Section 2(a1) of MOFA.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his argument, he relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (1991 Suppl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) SCC 18).	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, he submitted that if the stilt parking space or open parking space is not held to be a flat under Section 2 (a1), still that space area cannot be treated as part of common areas and facilities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Firstly, he submitted that common areas and facilities do not include garage parking spaces and such parking spaces remain ungoverned by MOFA.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sections 3 and 4 of MOFA concern with matters pertaining to common areas and facilities but MOFA does not define the meaning of common areas and facilities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 3(2)(m)(iii) leaves it to the promoter to disclose to his flat purchaser the nature, extent and description of the common areas and facilities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 4, by mentioning a prescribed form of agreement, rather opened the possibilities for the promoter to continue to exercise his traditional and preAct right to dispose of such parking spaces according to his choice.	Arguments of Petitioner
The stilt covered open parking spaces do not figure as part of the common areas and facilities in any project and remain within the contractual, legal and fundamental rights of the promoter to dispose of the same in the manner in which he proposes and his customers accept.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 16 of MOFA does not override this right of a promoter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, learned senior counsel would submit that the provisions of MOFA must not be made to depend on the provisions of some other enactment just because the subject matter of the two legislations appears to be the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, he referred to Maxwell Interpretation of Statutes, 12th Edition, pages 69 to 70 and G.P. Singh on Principles of Statutory Interpretations, 8th edition, pages 150 to 160.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, thus, submitted that for the purposes of understanding the meaning of flat under Section 2(a1) of MOFA, the provisions of MAOA may be looked at but there would be no justification in understanding the expression, flat defined in MOFA with reference to MRTP Act, DCR, rules related to FSI and the provisions concerning property tax in the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Neeraj Kumar Jain, learned senior counsel and Mr. Umesh Shetty, learned counsel for the Societies stoutly supported the view of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The issues In view of the contentions outlined above, the questions that arise for consideration are (i) whether stand alone garage or in other words garage as an independent unit by itself is a flat within the meaning of Section 2(a1) of MOFA (ii) whether stilt parking space open parking space of a building regulated by MOFA is a garage (iii) If the answer to aforesaid questions is in the negative, whether stilt parking space open parking space in such building is part of common areas and facilities and (iv) what are the rights of the promoter visvis society (of flat purchasers) in respect of open parking space s stilt parking space s. All these questions have to be considered in the light of statutory provisions.	Issue
At this stage we notice some of the provisions of MOFA.	None
As regards other statutory provisions, we shall refer to them wherever necessary.	None
Relevant provisions of MOFA	None
The definition of flat in Section 2(a1) is most vital and during course of arguments it has been rightly said that meaning of the word flat is the actual fulcrum of MOFA.	None
Section 2(a1) reads thus S.2(a1).	None
Flat means a separate and selfcontained set of premises used or intended to be used for residence, or office, showroom or shop or godown or for carrying on any industry or business (and includes a garage), the premises forming part of a building and includes an apartment.	None
Explanation.	None
Notwithstanding that provision is made for sanitary, washing, bathing or other conveniences as common to two or more sets of premises, the premises shall be deemed to be separate and selfcontained.	None
Promoter is defined in Section 2(c) as under S.2(c).	None
Promoter means a person and includes a partnership firm or a body or association of persons, whether registered or not who constructs or causes to be constructed a block or building of flats, or apartments for the purpose of selling some or all of them to other persons, or to a company, cooperative society or other association of persons, and includes his assignees and where the person who builds and the person who sells are different persons, the term includes both The general liabilities of the promoter are set out in Section 3.	None
To the extent it is relevant to the present case it reads thus S.3.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything in any other law, a promoter who intends to construct or constructs a block or building of flats, all or some of which are to be taken or are taken on ownership basis, shall in all transactions with persons intending to take or taking one or more of such flats, be liable to give or produce, or cause to be given or produced, the information and the documents hereinafter in this section mentioned.(2) A promoter, who constructs or intends to construct such block or building of flats, shall(a) make full and true disclosure of the nature of his title to the land on which the flats are constructed, or are to be constructed such title to the land as aforesaid having been duly certified by an Attorneyat law, or by an Advocate of not less than three years standing, and having been duly entered in the Property card or extract of Village Forms VI or VII and XII or any other relevant revenue record(b) make full and true disclosure of all encumbrances on such land, including any right, title, interest or claim of any party in or over such land(c) to (h) (i) not allow persons to enter into possession until a completion certificate where such certificate is required to be given under any law, is duly given by the local authority (and no person shall take possession of a flat until such completion certificate has been duly given by the local authority)(j) to (l) (m) when the flats are advertised for sale, disclose inter alia in the advertisement the following particulars, namely (i) the extent of the carpet area of the flat including the area of the balconies which should be shown separately(ii) the price of the flat including the proportionate price of the common areas and facilities which should be shown separately, to be paid by the purchaser of flat and the intervals at which the instalments thereof may be paid(iii) the nature, extent and description of the common areas and facilities(iv) the nature, extent and description of limited common areas and facilities, if any.(n) sell flat on the basis of the carpet area onlyProvided that, the promoter may separately charge for the common areas and facilities in proportion to the carpet area of the flat.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this clause, the carpet area of the flat shall include the area of the balcony of such flat.	None
Section 4 of MOFA mandates that promoter before accepting advance payment or deposit shall enter into an agreement with the prospective flat purchaser and such agreement shall be registered.	None
It provides as follows S.4.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, a promoter who intends to construct or constructs a block or building of flats all or some of which are to be taken or are taken on ownership basis, shall, before, he accepts any sum of money as advance payment or deposit, which shall not be more than 20 per cent of the sale price enter into a written agreement for sale with each of such persons who are to take or have taken such flats, and the agreement shall be registered under the Registration Act, 1908 ?and such agreement shall be in the prescribed form.	None
(1A)	None
The agreement to be prescribed under subsection (1) shall contain inter alia the particulars as specified in clause (a) and to such agreement there shall be attached the copies of the documents specified in clause (b) (a) particulars if the building is to be constructed, the liability of the promoter to construct it according to the plans and specifications approved by the local authority where such approval is required under any law for the time being in force to (v) the nature, extent and description of limited common areas and facilities the nature, extent and description of limited common areas and facilities, if any percentage of undivided interest in the common areas and facilities appertaining to the flat agreed to be sold statement of the use for which the flat is intended and restriction on its use, if any percentage of undivided interests in the limited common areas and facilities, if any, appertaining to the flat agreed to be sold (b) Section 10 casts duty upon the promoter to take steps for formation of cooperative society or company, as the case may be.	None
The said provision reads as follows S.10.	None
(1) As soon as a minimum number of persons required to form a Cooperative society or a company have taken flats, the promoter shall within the prescribed period submit an application to the Registrar for registration of the organization of persons who take the flats as a cooperative society or, as the case may be, as a company and the promoter shall join, in respect of the flats which have not been taken, in such application for membership of a cooperative society or as the case may be, of a company.	None
Nothing in this section shall affect the right of the promoter to dispose of the remaining flats in accordance with the provisions of this Act.	None
Provided that, if the promoter fails within the prescribed period to submit an application to the Registrar for registration of society in the manner provided in the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960, the Competent Authority may, upon receiving an application from the persons who have taken flats from the said promoter, direct the District Deputy Registrar, Deputy Registrar or, as the case may be, Assistant Registrar concerned, to register the society Provided further that, no such direction to register any society under the preceding proviso shall be given to the District Deputy Registrar, Deputy Registrar or, as the case may be, Assistant Registrar, by the Competent Authority without first verifying authenticity of the applicants request and giving the concerned promoter a reasonable opportunity of being heard.	None
There is also obligation cast upon promoter to execute the documents of title and convey to the cooperative society or the company or an association of flat purchasers apartment owners, right, title and interest in the land and building by virtue of Section 11 which reads thus S.11.	None
(1) A promoter shall take all necessary steps to complete his title and convey to the organization of persons, who take flats, which is registered either as a cooperative society or as a company as aforesaid, or to an association of flat takers or apartment owners his right, title and interest in the land and building, and execute all relevant documents therefore in accordance with the agreement executed under section 4 and if no period for the execution of the conveyance is agreed upon, he shall execute the conveyance within the prescribed period and also deliver all documents of title relating to the property which may be in his possession or power.	None
It shall be the duty of the promoter to file with the Competent Authority, within the prescribed period, a copy of the conveyance executed by him under sub section (1).	None
If the promoter fails to execute the conveyance in favour of the cooperative society formed under Section 10 or, as the case may be, the company or the association of apartment owners, as provided by sub section (1), within the prescribed period, the members of such cooperative society or, as the case may be, the company or the association of apartment owners may, make an application, in writing, to the concerned Competent Authority accompanied by the true copies of the registered agreements for sale, executed with the promoter by each individual member of the society or the company or the association, who have purchased the flats and all other relevant documents (including the occupation certificate, if any), for issuing a certificate that such society, or as the case may be, company or association, is entitled to have an unilateral deemed conveyance, executed in their favour and to have it registered.	None
(4) (5) Section 16 of MOFA provides that the provisions contained therein are in addition to the provisions of the T. P. Act and shall take effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the contract.	None
Re question nos.	Reasoning
(i) and (ii)(A) What is flat?	None
For proper consideration of questions (i) and (ii) as aforereferred, it is of considerable importance to ascertain the import and meaning of the term flat defined in Section 2(a1) of MOFA.	None
Rather the answer to the questions presented for consideration must squarely or substantially depend on what is a flat.	None
Justice G.P. Singh in the Principles of Statutory Interpretation (12th edition, 2010) says that the object of a definition of a term is to avoid the necessity of frequent repetitions in describing all the subject matter to which that word or expression so defined is intended to apply.	None
In other words, the definition clause is inserted for the purpose of defining particular subjectmatter dealt with and it helps in revealing the legislative meaning.	None
However, the definitive clause may itself require interpretation because of ambiguity or lack of clarity in its language.	None
In the Construction of Statutes by Earl T. Crawford (1989 reprint) at page 362, the following statement is made the interpretation clause will control in the absence of anything else in the act opposing the interpretation fixed by the clause.	None
Nor should the interpretation clause be given any wider meaning than is absolutely necessary.	None
In other words, it should be subjected to a strict construction.	None
The definition of term flat in MOFA at the time of its enactment was this flat means a separate and selfcontained set of premises used or intended to be used for residence, or office, showroom or shop or godown (and includes a garage), the premises forming part of a building.	None
By Maharashtra Act No. 15 of 1971, the definition of flat got amended and the words and includes an apartment were inserted after the word building.	None
Thereafter by Maharashtra Act 36 of 1986, the words or for carrying on any industry or business were inserted after the word godown and before the bracketed portion (and includes a garage).	None
Before we analyze Section 2(a1), if we ask what the term flat means, apart from the statutory definition, the reply must be that though it has no uniform meaning but in its natural and ordinary meaning, flat is a self contained set of premises structurally divided and separately owned for dwelling.	None
Concise Oxford English Dictionary (10th edition, revised) explains flat a set of rooms comprising an individual place of residence within a larger building.	None
Webster Comprehensive Dictionary International edition (Vol. 1) explains flat 1.	None
a set of rooms on one floor, for the occupancy of a family apartment.	None
2.	None
A house containing such flats.	None
In Strouds Judicial Dictionary (5th edition, Vol. 2), a reference has been made to the observations of Somervell L.J, in Murgatroyd v. Tresarden, 63 T.L.R. 62 and it is stated the natural meaning of the word flat is a separate selfcontained dwelling.	None
In Words and Phrases, Permanent Edition, (West Publishing Company), Vol. 17, while dealing with the term flat generally, it is stated The word flat has no technical, legal meaning, so that a court can pronounce absolutely one way or the other.	None
A building is a flat or not, and, where the testimony is conflicting, the question is one of fact.	None
Advanced Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar (3rd edition, 2005) explains the term flat, in the following way  in the ordinary use of the term a flat is a selfcontained set of rooms, structurally divided and separately owned or let from the rest of a building, which for the most part consists of other flats separated in like manner.	None
Reverting back to the definition of the term flat under Section 2(a1), for a flat within the meaning of this definition clause, the set of premises has to be a separate and selfcontained that forms part of the building which is used or intended to be used for residence or office, showroom or shop or godown or for carrying on industry or business.	Reasoning
Separateness of one premises from another premises physically and also in use or intended use for one of the uses specified in the definition clause containing the necessary facilities for selfcontained accommodation is sine qua non for a unit being covered by the definition of flat occurring in Section 2(a1) which includes an apartment.	Reasoning
In other words, it must be a separate unit conforming to the description capable of being used for one of these purposesnamely, residence, office, showroom, shop, godown or for industrial or business purposes.	Reasoning
Alternative uses in Section 2(a1) do expand the ordinary meaning of the term	Reasoning
flat	Reasoning
but nevertheless such premises that form part of building must be separate and selfcontained.	Reasoning
A set of premises is called selfcontained if it has the following basic amenities available (a) sanitary (b) washing, bathing and (c) other conveniences (cooking etc.)	Reasoning
for the use of its occupant s although as provided in the explanation appended to Section 2(a1) such provision may be common to two or more sets of premises.	Reasoning
The nature of construction and user are important features of this definition clause.	Reasoning
A unit or accommodation to fit in the definition of flat must meet twintest namely (i) self contained test and (ii) user test.	Reasoning
The other predominant characteristic is that it must form part of a building.	Reasoning
Crucially, for the relevant premises to be flat7	Reasoning
It must be a separate and self contained premises7	Reasoning
It must form part of building7	Reasoning
It must be used or intended to be used for any of the uses namelyresidence, office, showroom, shop, godown or for carrying on any industry or business.	Reasoning
In the discussion made above, we have not referred to the bracketed portion namely  (and includes a garage) so far.	None
What is the meaning and significance of this bracketed portion?	None
On technical linguistic basis, the bracketed phrase can only attach to the word preceding it.	None
That may not be happy construction nor such construction by reading bracketed portion (and includes a garage) with the preceding word business appropriately reflects the meaning of the phrase.	Reasoning
The scope of the bracketed phrase has to be seen in the context of the definition given to the word flat which is true indication of intent of the legislature.	Reasoning
It was suggested by learned senior counsel and counsel for the promoters that the phrase and includes a garage must be read with the set of premises and not with the user.	Reasoning
This does not appear to be a correct reading of the expression.	Reasoning
We are not persuaded to accept such construction.	Reasoning
We think that statutory definition of flat must be construed keeping in view the intent of the legislature and the context of the statute and, seen thus, the phrase, and includes a garage in the bracket does not bring in garage by itself within the meaning of word flat.	Reasoning
If stand alone garage (or a garage by itself) were intended by the legislature to be a flat within the meaning of Section 2(a1), that could have been conveniently conveyed by use of the expression or garage after the word business in the same breath as preceding uses.	Reasoning
The bracketed phrase is rather indicative of the legislative intention to include a garage as appurtenant or attachment to a flat which satisfies the ingredients of Section 2(a1).	Reasoning
To this extent Mr. Pravin K. Samdani is right in his submission.	Reasoning
It is clear to us that stand alone garage or in other words garage as an independent unit by itself is not a flat within the meaning of Section 2(a1) and we answer question (i) in the negative.	Reasoning
The judgment of Bombay High Court in Dr. K.R. Agarwal Vs. Balkrishna (AIR 1972 Bombay 343) to the extent the expression or garage has been read after the word godown in para 5 (clause 2) of the report does not state the correct legal position in what we have already said above.(B)	Reasoning
Whether stilt parking space is a garage?	None
The next question is, whether stilt parking space in a building regulated by MOFA is a garage.	Reasoning
The term garage has not been defined in MOFA and, therefore, we need to first find out what is the extent and scope of that term in Section 2(a1).	None
The general term garage is appropriated in English from the French language and means keeping under cover or a place for keeping of wagons as well as automobiles.	None
Concise Oxford English Dictionary (10th edition, revised) explains garage 1 a building for housing a motor vehicle or vehicles.	None
2 an establishment which sells fuel or which repairs and sells motor vehicles.	None
Webster Comprehensive Dictionary, International edition (Vol. 1) explains the word garagea building in which motor vehicles are stored and cared for.	None
Words and Phrases, Permanent Edition, (West Publishing Company), Vol. 17, states that garage generally is a station in which motorcars can be sheltered, stored, repaired, cleaned, and made ready for use it is also place for private storage for motorcars stable for motor cars.	None
The DCR define two expressions garageprivate and garagepublic in Regulations 2(47) and 2(48) respectively.	None
According to these Regulations, garageprivate means a building or a portion thereof designed and used for the parking of vehicles and garagepublic means a building or portion thereof designed other than as a private garage, operated for gain, designed and or used for repairing, serving, hiring, selling or storing or parking motordriven or other vehicles.	None
In our view, we must give to the word garage occurring in Section 2(a1) a meaning that general public or for that matter a flat purchaser of ordinary prudence would give to that word or understand by that word.	None
Learned senior counsel Mr. Sunil Gupta referred to Barnett and Block1 wherein Atkinson, J. stated as follows Now what is a garage?	None
No evidence was given to suggest or prove that the word garage in the trade had got any special meaning, and it was agreed to take four dictionary definitions set out in the agreed statement of facts.	None
The four definitions were these.	None
From the SHORTER OXFORD DICTIONARY	None
A building for the storage or refitting of motor vehicles.	None
From the NEW CENTURY DICTIONARY	None
A building for sheltering, cleaning or repairing motor vehicles.	None
To put or keep in a garage.	None
From the NEW STANDARD DICTIONARY A building for stabling or storing of motor vehicles of all kinds.	None
From NUTTALS STANDARD DICTIONARY A storehouse for motor vehicles.	None
Those are four definitions from leading dictionaries all containing at any rate one word in common, and that is building.	None
As there is no evidence as to how the general public understand the word garage, I suppose one is entitled to use ones own knowledge.	None
I am inclined to think that ordinary man in the street does regard a garage as connoting some sort of a building how far he would go I do not know.	Reasoning
I do not know whether he would think that there should be a wall all round it, or whether it would be sufficient if there were three sides walled in and a roof.	Reasoning
I have one in mind where there is a row of sheds without any protection in front, which are commonly spoken of as garages, but I am going to apply here the test suggested by counsel for the insured.	None
He said A garage is a place where one can get reasonable protection and shelter for a car.	None
Can I say that you are getting reasonable protection and shelter for a car, if there is nothing to protect the car from above  if there is no roof of any sort?	None
I think the ordinary man, as counsel for the insurers suggested, who took a house with a garage, if he came and found merely an open shed without any roof, would think he had been swindled, however high the walls might be.	None
I cannot think that one is entitled to say that it is adequate or reasonable protection or shelter if there is no roof but this is worse than that, though I agree that the walls are very good here.	None
Wherever you put a car in this yard, in addition to there being no shelter from above, there will be no shelter on two sides.	None
That seems to me to be really conclusive.	None
He, thus, submitted that even a place with merely a roof may well be a garage.	None
By placing reliance on condition No. 2 in Form V of 1964 Rules, learned senior counsel submitted that for the purposes of MOFA, even an open parking space is tantamount to a garage.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevant portion of condition No. 2, Form V appended to 1964 Rules reads as under The Flat Purchaser hereby agrees to purchase from the Promoter and the Promoter hereby agrees to sell to the Flat Purchaser one flat No. of the Type of carpet area admeasuring sq. meters (which is inclusive of the area of balconies) on floor as shown in the Floor plan thereof hereto annexed and marked Annexures D Shop No. covered open Garage No.	None
in the Building (hereinafter referred to as the Flat) for the price of Rs. including Rs. being the proportionate price of the common areas and facilities appurtenant to the premises, the nature extent and description of the common limited common areas and facilities limited common areas and facilities which are more particularly described in the Second Schedule hereunder written.	None
The Flat Purchasers hereby agrees to pay to that Promoter balance amount of purchase price of Rs.	None
(Rupees ) having been paid to the Promoter on or before the execution of his agreement in the following manner.	None
We do not perceive any force in the argument that open parking space tantamounts to a garage within the meaning of Section 2(a1) read with condition No. 2	None
Form V of 1964 Rules.	Reasoning
Can a person buying a flat for residence or one of the uses mentioned in Section 2(a1) really think that open to the sky or open space for parking motor vehicles is a garage?	Reasoning
We do not think so.	Reasoning
The word garage may not have uniform connotation but definitely every space for parking motor vehicles is not a garage.	Reasoning
A roofless erection could not be described a garage.	Reasoning
What is contemplated by a garage in Section 2(a1) is a place having a roof and walls on three sides.	Reasoning
It does not include an unenclosed or uncovered parking space.	Reasoning
It is true that in condition No. 2, Form V the words covered open garage have been used but, in our view, the word open used in the Model Form V cannot override the true meaning of term garage in Section 2(a1).	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, none of the provisions of MOFA regards open garage connoting flat or an appurtenant attachment to a flat.	Reasoning
We do not think undue importance should be given to word open which has loosely been used in condition No. 2, Form V.	Reasoning
The true meaning of the term garage in Section 2(a1), we think, is not affected by a Model Form V appended to the 1964 Rules.36.	Reasoning
The question then is as to whether the stilted portion or stilt area of a building is a garage under MOFA.	Reasoning
A stilt area is a space above the ground and below the first floor having columns that support the first floor and the building.	Reasoning
It may be usable as a parking space but we do not think that for the purposes of MOFA, such portion could be treated as garage.	Reasoning
It was argued that the test accepted by Atkinson, J. in Barnett Block1that a garage is a place where one can get reasonable protection and shelter for a caris satisfied by stilt car parking space and such space is a garage.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree.	Reasoning
The test accepted by Atkinson, J. in Barnett and Block1 also does not support this argument.	Reasoning
Even as per that test a place having roof but offering no shelter or protection on two sides cannot be a garage.	Reasoning
It is worth repeating what Atkinson,J. said, I am inclined to think that the ordinary man in the street does regard a garage as connoting some sort of building how far he would go I do not know.	Reasoning
I do not know whether he would think that there should be a wall all round it, or whether it would be sufficient if there were three sides walled in and a roof.	Reasoning
I have one in mind where there is row of sheds without any protection in front, which are commonly spoken of as garages.	Reasoning
Atkinson,J. applied the test of reasonable protection and shelter for car as was suggested by the counsel for the insurer while construing the term garage in a policy of insurance.	Reasoning
For the purposes of MOFA, and particularly Section 2(a1), the term garage must be considered as would be understood by a flat purchaser and such person would contemplate garage which has a roof and wall on three sides.	Reasoning
Our answer to question No.	Reasoning
(ii) is, therefore, no.	Reasoning
Re question no.	Reasoning
(iii)  	None
Whether stilt parking spaces are part of common areas and facilities?	None
The High Court has held that the stilt car parking spaces are part of the common amenities.	None
Is the High Court right in its view?	None
MOFA does not define nor it explains common areas and facilities though the said phrase is used at various places in that Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Pravin K. Samdani, learned senior counsel for Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry submitted that following could be termed as part of the common areas 7 15 Recreation Ground (RG) Area 7 Recreational facilities and or club house on above RG Areas 7 Society Office 7 Security guards cabin 7 Common passage lobbies 7 Stair case 7 Lift 7 Terraces over the roof of the building 7 Landings on each floor 7 Columns and beams of the building 7 Playgrounds, if any.	None
According to him, the following could be part of Limited Common Areas 7 Separate lift attached to a particular flat and or certain number of flats 7 Terrace attached to a flat 7 Servants toilet on each floor, meant for the user of the flats on that particular floor The aforesaid list as suggested by the learned senior counsel, in our opinion, is not exhaustive.	None
It may not be out of place to refer to Section 3(f) of MAOA which defines common areas and facilities as follows 3(f) common areas and facilities, unless otherwise provided in the Declaration or lawful amendments, thereto means (1) the land on which the building is located (2) the foundations, columns, girders, beams, supports, main walls, roofs, halls, corridors, lobbies, stairs, stairways, fireescapes and entrances and exits of t he buildings (3) the basements, cellars, yards, gardens, parking areas and storage spaces (4) the premises for the lodging of janitors or persons employed for the management of the property (5) installations of central services, such as power, light, gas, hot and cold water, heating, refrigeration, air conditioning and incinerating (6) the elevators, tanks, pumps, motors, fans, compressors, ducts and in general all apparatus and installations existing for common use (7) such community and commercial facilities as may be provided for in the Declaration and (8) all other parts of the property necessary or convenient to its existence, maintenance and safety, or normally in common use It is true that interpretation clause or legislative definition in a particular statute is meant for the purposes of that statute only and such legislative definition should not control other statutes but the parts of the property stated in clauses (2), (3) and (6) of Section 3(f) as part of common areas and facilities for the purposes of MAOA are what is generally understood by the expression common areas and facilities.	None
This is fortified by the fact that the areas which according to the learned senior counsel could be termed as common areas in a building regulated by MOFA are substantially included in aforenoticed clauses of Section 3(f) of MAOA.	Reasoning
Looking to the scheme and object of MOFA, and there being no indication to the contrary, we find no justifiable reason to exclude parking areas (open to the sky or stilted portion) from the purview of common areas and facilities under MOFA.	Reasoning
It was argued that under MOFA it is for the promoter to prescribe and define at the outset the common areas and unless it is so done by the promoter, the parking area cannot be termed as part of common areas.	None
We are quite unable to accept this submission.	None
Can a promoter take common passage lobbies or say stair case or RG area out of purview of common areas and facilities by not prescribing or defining the same in the common areas?	Reasoning
If the answer to this question is in negative, which it has to be, this argument must fail.	None
It was also submitted that by treating open stilt parking space as part of common areas, every flat purchaser will have to bear proportionate cost for the same although he may not be interested in such parking space at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think such consideration is relevant for the consideration of term common areas and facilities in MOFA.	None
It is not necessary that all flat purchasers must actually use common areas and facilities in its entirety.	Reasoning
The relevant test is whether such part of the building is normally in common use.	None
Then it was submitted that if a parking space is sold to a flat purchaser, it is to the exclusion of other flat purchasers and, therefore, logically also it cannot be part of common areas.	None
This submission is founded on assumption that parking space (open covered) is a garage and sellable along with the flat.	None
We have, however, held in our discussion above that open to the sky parking area or stilted portion usable as parking space is not garage within the meaning of Section 2(a1) and, therefore, not sellable independently as a flat or along with a flat.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, insofar as the promoter is concerned, he is not put to any prejudice financially by treating open parking space stilt parking space as part of common areas since he is entitled to charge price for the common areas and facilities from each flat purchaser in proportion to the carpet area of the flat.	Reasoning
MOFA mandates the promoter to describe common areas and facilities in the advertisement as well as the agreement with the flat purchaser and the promoter is also required to indicate the price of the flat including the proportionate price of the common areas and facilities.	Reasoning
If a promoter does not fully disclose the common areas and facilities he does so at his own peril.	Reasoning
Stilt parking spaces would not cease to be part of common areas and facilities merely because the promoter has not described the same as such in the advertisement and agreement with the flat purchaser.	Reasoning
Although there is some merit in the contention of the appellant that High Court erred in placing reliance on the two aspectsnamely, that the area of stilt parking space is not included in the FSI and such area is not assessable to the corporation taxes  in reaching the conclusion that stilt parking space is part of common areas but in our view even if these two aspects are excluded, in what we have discussed above stilt parking space open parking space of a building regulated by MOFA is nothing but a part of common areas and, accordingly, we answer question no.	Reasoning
(iii) in the affirmative.	Reasoning
Re question no.	Reasoning
(iv)  what are the rights of a promoter visvis society in respect of stilt parking spaces?	Reasoning
We have now come to the last question namely what are the rights of a promoter visvis society (of flat purchasers) in respect of stilt parking space s.	Reasoning
It was argued that the right of the promoter to dispose of the stilt parking space is a matter falling within the domain of the promoters contractual, legal and fundamental right and such right is not affected.	None
This argument is founded on the premise, firstly, that stilt parking space is a flat by itself within the meaning of Section 2(a1) and in the alternative that it is not part of common areas.	None
But we have already held that stilt parking space is not covered by the term garage much less a flat and that it is part of common areas.	Reasoning
As a necessary corollary to the answers given by us to question nos.	Reasoning
(i) to (iii), it must be held that stilt parking space s being part of common areas of the building developed by the promoter, the only right that the promoter has, is to charge the cost thereof in proportion to the carpet area of the flat from each flat purchaser.	Reasoning
Such stilt parking space being neither flat under Section 2(a1) nor garage within the meaning of that provision is not sellable at all.	Reasoning
MOFA was enacted by the Maharashtra Legislature as it was found that builders developers promoters were indulging in malpractices in the sale and transfer of flats and the flat purchasers were being exploited.	Facts
The effect of MOFA may be summarized as follows.	None
First, every promoter who constructs or intends to construct block or building of flats in the area to which MOFA applies has to strictly adhere to the provisions contained therein, i.e., inter alia, he has to make full and true disclosure of the nature of his title to the land on which the flats are constructed and also make disclosure in respect of the extent of the carpet area of the flat and the nature, extent and description of the common areas and facilities when the flats are advertised for sale.	Reasoning
Secondly, the particulars which are set out in Section 4(1A) (a) (i) to (x) have to be incorporated in the agreement with the flat purchaser.	None
Thirdly, the promoter has to apply to the Registrar for registration of the organization (cooperative society or company or condominium) as soon as minimum number of persons required to form such organization have taken flats.	None
As regards unsold flats, the promoter has to join such organization although his right to dispose of unsold flats remains unaffected.	None
Fourthly, and more importantly, the promoter has to take all necessary steps to complete his title and convey to the organization his right, title and interest in the land and building and execute all relevant documents accordingly.	None
It was argued by Mr. Tanmaya Mehta, learned counsel for the promoter that in view of the provisions of MOFA, Section 6 of T.P. Act and Article 300A of the Constitution, the right of the promoter to transfer parking spaces is not at all restricted.	None
Relying upon the decisions of this Court in ICICI Bank Ltd. v. SIDCO Leathers Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ors ((2006) 10 SCC 452 ), Karnataka State Financial Corporation v. N. Narasimahaiah Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
((2008) 5 SCC 176 ) and Bhikhubhai Vithlabhai Patel Ors., v. State of Gujarat Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
((2008) 4 SCC 144 ), he submitted that the provisions contained in MOFA must be construed strictly and there is no provision either express or by necessary implication in MOFA restricting the sale of stilt or open parking spaces.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sunil Gupta also argued that promoter continues to have contractual, legal and fundamental right to dispose of the stilt open parking space in the manner in which he proposes and his consumers accept.	Arguments of Petitioner
We think this argument does not bear detailed examination.	Arguments of Petitioner
Suffice it to say that if the argument of learned senior counsel and counsel for promoter is accepted, the mischief with which MOFA is obviously intended to deal with would remain unabated and flat purchasers would continue to be exploited indirectly by the promoters.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, MOFA does restrict the rights of the promoter in the block or building constructed for flats or to be constructed for flats to which that Act applies.	None
The promoter has no right to sell any portion of such building which is not flat within the meaning of Section 2(a1) and the entire land and building has to be conveyed to the organisation the only right remains with the promoter is to sell unsold flats.	Reasoning
It is, thus, clear that the promoter has no right to sell stilt parking spaces as these are neither flat nor appurtenant or attachment to a flat.41.	Reasoning
In view of the above, it is not at all necessary to deal with the factual submissions advanced by Mr. Tanmaya Mehta.	Decision
Having regard to the answer to question no.	Reasoning
(iv), the finding of the High Court that undertakings are neither binding on the flat purchasers nor the society also warrants no interference.	Decision
These appeals, accordingly, fail and are dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
