 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
These two petitions filed under Art. 32 of the Constitution by different parties are directed against the Agricultural Incometax Officer, Kasaragod, and the State of Kerala, for a declaration that S. 2A of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act 1950, as amended by Kerala Act 11 of 1959, (hereinafter referred to as the Act) is constitutionally void and for quashing the orders of assessment made by the first respondent pursuant to the said provision.2.	Issue
As it is common case that the decision in the first petition would govern the second one, it would suffice if the facts in the first petition were given.3.	None
Kasaragod Taluk wherein the agricultural lands of the petitioners family are situate, formed part of the district of South Kanara in the Madras State.	Facts
Under the State Reorganization Act, 1956 (Central Act 37 of 1956) the Kerala State comprising the following territories as formed (a) the territories of the existing State of Travancore Cochin, excluding the territories transferred to the State of Madras by S. 4 and (b)the territories comprised in (i)Malabar District, excluding the islands of Laccadive and Minicoy, and (ii) Kasaragod Taluk of South Kanara District.	Facts
Under the Act the territories comprised in Kasaragod Taluk of south kanara District and the District of Malabar in the Madras State were constituted into a separate district known as the Malabar District in the State of Kerala.	Facts
For convenience of reference we shall hereinafter describe the territories carved out of the Madras State as Madras area and the rest as TC area.	Facts
After the formation of the State of Kerala on November 1, 1956, the laws in force in the State of Madras were continued in the Madras area and those in force in the TravancoreCochin State were continued in the TC area.	Facts
In the TC area agricultural income was liable to tax under the Travancore Cochin Agricultural Incometax Act (22 of 1950) which came into force on April 1, 1951.	Facts
After the formation of the Kerala State, the Legislature of that State enacted the TravancoreCochin Agricultural IncomeTax (Amendment) Act, 1957, whereunder the earlier Act of 1950 was extended to the Madras area with appropriate amendments.	Facts
Under the said Act agricultural income derived from lends situated throughout the State of Kerala became assessable with effect from assessment year 195758.	Facts
Pursuant to the provisions of that Act the Incometax authorities started proceedings to asses the income derived from lands situated in the Madras area for the year 195758.	Facts
On a petition filed by some of the assesses, the Kerala High Court held that the State of Kerala had no authority to levy tax on agricultural income which accrued before November 1,1956, from lands situated in the Madras area and that the assessments for 195758 were not sustainable under the Act even in respect of income which arose after November 1, 1956, on the ground that the previous year, as defined under the Act, was a period of twelve months ending on March 31, preceding the year for which assessment was to be made.	Facts
The result of the decision was that agricultural income derived from lands in the Madras area was not liable to tax for the assessment year 195758, whereas similar income from agricultural lands situated in the TC area was liable to tax indeed, the income accrued between November 1, 1956 and March 31,1957, i.e., the income accrued after the Madras area became part of the Kerala State, also could not be taxed.	Facts
To remedy the situation brought about by historical reasons in the two geographical parts of the Kerala State, the Government of Kerala promulgated on January 12, 1959 the Agricultural IncomeTax (Amendment) ordinance II of 1959.	Facts
Subsequently the Kerala Legislature passed the Agricultural Incometax (Amendment) Act 11 of 1959 replacing the earlier ordinance, hereinafter called the Amending Act.4.	Facts
Before the Amending Act was passed the petitioner, who has lands in different villages in Kasaragod Taluk, submitted a return of the income of his family for the assessment year 195758, and on June 30, 1958 the concerned Incometax officer determined the petitioners net income for the accounting period April 1, 1950 to March 31, 1957 and the tax payable thereon.	Facts
The petitioner preferred an appeal to the Assistant Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax, Kozhikode, against the order of the Incometax Officer questioning the said assessment on the ground, inter alia, that the assessment was made arbitrarily.	Facts
When that appeal was pending, the judgment of the Kerala High Court was delivered and subsequently ordinance II of 1959 was promulgated.	Facts
The Assistant Commissioner, therefore, set aside the order of the Incometax Officer on the basis of the decision of the Kerala High Court and remanded the matter to the agricultural Incometax Officer for disposal in accordance with law.	Facts
After remand, on March 23, 1959, the Incometax Officer issued a notice to the petitioner to submit his return of agricultural income for the assessment year 195758 in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance and the subsequent Amending Act replacing the said ordinance.	Facts
On November 10, 1960 the Incometax officer determined the net income of the petitioner for the assessment year 195859 at Rs. 87,745.36 and assessed the tax at Rs.	Facts
21,920.41 the tax was calculated on the average net annual income of the petitioner of 12 months under the proviso to s. 2A of the Act.	Facts
The petitioner seeks to set aside that assessment on the ground that the said section offends Art.	Facts
14 of the Constitution and therefore the assessment was bad.5.	Facts
Mr. Pathak, learned counsel for the petitioner, argues that the classification of Kerala State into two parts, i.e. the Madras area and the TC area, has no rational relation to the object of the Act, namely, imposition of agricultural incometax for, as the two parts belong to the same State, no postgamalmation law can treat assessees of the same State differently in the matter of taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further contends that there is discrimination between assessees of Kasaragod Taluk and those of the other part of the Madras area inasmuch as under S.2A of the Act the average annual income would be the average annual income of 12 months out of 17 months, with the result that the assessees of Kasaragod taluk whose entire income accrued after November 1,1956 were unjustly discriminated from assessees of the other part of the Madras area whose income accrued only before November 1, 1956.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also contends that in any view the basis adopted for ascertaining the rate was arbitrary and unreasonable as 24 months income was taken as income for 17 months.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Additional Solicitor General, on the other hand, seeks to sustain the assessment on the ground that the classification was based on historical reasons, that on the face of the Act all the assessees falling within the class to which S. 2A applies are treated alike, that the State is entitled to adopt one of the many modes available for ascertaining the rate, that whatever basis is adopted for ascertaining the rate there is bound to be some hard cases and that circumstance cannot conceivably affect the validity of the law.7.	Arguments of Respondent
At the outset it would be convenient to notice briefly the law on the doctrine of classification.	None
The law on the subject is well settled and it does not require restatement in extenso.	None
It would suffice if we notice the principles relevant to the enquiry.	None
The law has been neatly and succinctly summarised in Ram Krishana Dalmia V. Justice S.R. Tendolkar,1959SCR 279 at pp. 296297 (AIR 1958 SC 538 at pp.	None
547 548 )	None
thus It is now well established that while Art.	None
14 forbids class legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for the purposes of legislation.	None
In order, however, to pass the test of permissible classification two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differntia which distinguished persons or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and (ii)that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.	None
The classification may be founded on different bases, namely, geographical, or according to objects or occupations or the like.	None
What is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under consideration.	None
It is also well established that Art.	None
14 condemns discrimination not only by a substantive law but also by a law of procedure.	None
Though a law ex facie appears to treat all that fall within a class alike, if in effect it operates unevenly on persons or property similarly situated, it may be said that the la offends the equality clause.	None
It will then be the duty of the court to scrutinise the effect of the law carefully to ascertain its real impact on the persons or property similarly situated.	None
Conversely, a law may treat persons who appears to be similarly situate differently but on investigation they may be found not to be similarly situate.	None
To state it differently, it is not the pharseology of a statute that governs the situation but the effect of the law that is decisive.	None
If there is equality and uniformity within each group, the law will not be condemned as discriminative, though due to some fortuitous circumstance arising out of a peculiar situation some included in a class get an advantage over others, so long as they are not singled out for special treatment.	None
Taxation law is not an exception to this doctrine vice Purshottam Govindji v. B. M. Desai, 19552 SCR 887 ( (S) AIR 1956 SC 20 ) and K.T. Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala, 19613 SCR 77 (AIR 1961 SC 552 ).	None
But in the application of the principles, the courts, in view of the inherent complexity of fiscal adjustment of diverse element, permit a larger discretion to the Legislature in the matter of classification, so lone it adheres to the fundamental principles underlying the said doctrine.	None
The power of the Legislature to classify is of wide range and flexibility so that it can adjust its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable ways.8.	None
Now lets us look at the impugned section.	None
Section 2A of the Act readsNotwithstanding anything contained in clause (o)of S.2, previous year for the assessment for the financial year commencing from the 1st day of April 1958 and so far as such assessment relates to the agricultural income derived from lands situated in the Malabar District referred to in subsec.(2)of S.5 of the States Reorganization Act, 1956 (Central Act 37 of 1956 ), shall be the whole period commencing on the 1st day of November, 1956, and ending on the 31st day March, 1958, or, if the accounts of the assessee have been made up to a date within the financial year ending on the 31st day of March, 1951 then, at the option of the assessee, the period commencing on the 1st day of November, 1956 and ending on the aforesaid date to which, the accounts have been so made upProvided that (i) notwithstanding anything contained in Ss. 3 and 56, the agricultural incometax and supertax chargeable on the total agricultural income of the previous year as reckoned in this section shall be at the rates applicable to the average annual income according to the Schedule such average annual income shall be an amount bearing to the aforesaid total agricultural income the same proportion as the period of twelve months bears to the period of the previous year as defined in this section and (ii) the limit of exemption from chargeability to tax shall be determined with reference to the average annual income.9.	None
The Malabar District in the State of Kerala is constituted by combining Kasargod Taluk of the South Kanara District and the District of Malabar of the Madras State.	Facts
For the purpose of assessment for the financial year 195859 in respect of agricultural income derived from the said district, S.2A of the Act gives a special definition of previous year Under that definition, previous year commences from November 1, 1956 and ends on March 31,1958, i.e. a period of 17 months but the assessee can elect a lesser Period as previous year if his accounts are made up to a date within the financial year ending on March 31, 1958, that is to say he can elect any date commencing from April 1, 1957 to March 31,1958 if his accounts are made up to that date in which case the previous year so far as he is concerned will commence from November 1, 1956 and end on the said date so chosen by him.	None
The proviso to the section prescribes a mode of ascertaining the rate of tax in regard to the said income it lays down that in respect of the said income the rates are those applicable to the average annual income according to the Schedule.	None
The average annual income, as defined in the proviso, will be twelve seventeenths of the total income of the previous year as defined in the section.	None
Under the section, therefore, the assessee in the Madras area will be liable to pay agricultural incometax on the income accrued to him during the 17 months commencing from November 1, 1956 and ending on March 31, 1958, but the rate of tax payable by him is that applicable to the average annual income so defined.	None
The question is whether this section infringes Art.	None
14 of the Constitution or whether it can be justified on the basis of the doctrine of classification.	None
In the narration of facts we have stated why it became necessary for the Legislature to insert S. 2A in Act 22 of 1950.	None
By reason of the States Reorganization Act, the said Madras area became part of the Kerala State on November 1, 1956.	None
By reason of the decision of the Kerala High Court, agricultural incometax could not be imposed in respect of income accrued to assessees in the Madras area between April 1,1956 and March 31, 1957 and it was also not possible to tax them for their income even for that part of the year after it became part of the Kerala State with the result, the Legislature was confronted with two geographical divisions in respect of one of which the said law of agricultural incometax could not be enforced while the assessees in the TC area were liable to agricultural incometax in regard to their income from their lands for the year commencing from April 1,1956 and ending on March 31, 1957, the income of the agriculturists in the Madras area could not be reached by that law in respect of the whole or part of that year.	Facts
These differences between the two parts of State which originated from historical reasons were the basis of classification for the purpose of taxation.	None
The object of making the classification was not to discriminate against the agriculturists of the Madras area but to bring them into line with the agriculturists from the rest of the Kerala State in so far as the liability to pay agricultural incometax was concerned.10.	Reasoning
The existing law had therefore to be appropriately adapted for securing this end.	Reasoning
In these circumstances can it be said that there was no reasonable nexus between the classification and object of the legislation.	Reasoning
The object of the legislation thus was to impose agricultural incometax on assessees in the Madras area and also in respect of the period between November 1, 1956 and March 31,1957 which could not be done under the preexisting law.	Reasoning
The differences between the two parts of that State have reasonable nexus to the said object.	Reasoning
Because of the said differences the Legislature thought that the definition of previous year should be so amended in respect of the Madras area that the assessees in that area may not escape payment of agricultural incometax in respect of the period after the said area formed part of the Kerala State.	Reasoning
It is argued that this Court sustained the constitutional validity of a law on geographical and territorial bases only in a case where the said law was a preexisting law in an erstwhile State which continued to be law in the area of that State after it merged in the larger unit, and that it cannot be State invoked (sic) where the law is for the first time enacted after the merger, for, it is said, in that event the law governs the new State as an indivisible unit.	Reasoning
Reliance is placed upon the decision of this court in Krishan Singh v. State of Rajasthan. 19552	Reasoning
SCR 531 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 795 ) and 19552 SCR 887 ((S) AIR 1956 SC 20 ).	Reasoning
But a perusal of the judgments does not bear out the contention.	Reasoning
The validity of a classification does not wholly depend upon the source of law the law may be a preexisting law or one that was enacted after merger.	Reasoning
What is important is to ascertain the existing circumstances in the two parts merged into one by historical events in order to determine whether the differences between the two have a reasonable nexus to the object of the said law.	Reasoning
For the reasons already stated, we hold that the classification in the present case is founded on an intelligible differentia between the assessees of the two parts of the State, and that the said differences have rational relation ship to the object of the Amending Act.11.	None
But it is said that the mode of ascertaining the average annual income for the purpose of finding the rate is arbitrary and unreasonable and that discrimination is inherent in such a law adopting such arbitrary process.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument is elaborated thus The major income of the petitioners family is from arecanut, pepper and coconut the said crops are gathered between the months of November end March the season for harvesting arecanut in Kasaragod taluk is from November to March the whole years pepper and coconut are gathered between the months of January and March therefore, the income from arecanut, pepper and coconut accrued to the petitioner between November 1, 1956 and March 31, 1957 is the income for the entire year but under the proviso to S. 2A of the Act the said income is treated as the income for 5 Months only, with the result that 24 months income is treated as 17 months income this is an arbitrary assumption underlying the provision instead it should have taken 12/24th of the total income as the average annual income.	Arguments of Petitioner
This arbitrary method of fixing the average annual income involves the payment of higher rate of tax by the assessees in Kasaragod Taluk as compared to the assessees in other parts of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is suggested that a more reasonable course would have been to tax the assessees in the Madras area for the income that accrued to them during the 5 months by treating the said income as the income for the entire year commencing from April 1, 1956 and ending on March 31, 1957 and that in that event not only their income for the said period could not have escaped taxation but it would have also avoided the unjust treatment meted out to the in the rate of tax.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Prima facie there appears to be some plausibility in this argument but a closer examination discloses that though the method suggested may have been better than the method actually adopted, the hardship individual cases cannot in any event be avoided.	None
It is true taxation law cannot claim immunity from the equality clause of the Constitution.	None
The taxation statute shall not also, be arbitrary and oppressive, but at the same time the court cannot, for obvious reasons, meticulously scrutinize the impact of its burden on different persons or interests.	None
Where there is more than one method of assessing tax and the Legislature selects one out of them the Court will not be justified to strike down the law on the ground that the Legislature should have adopted another method which in the opinion of the Court is more reasonable, unless it is convinced that the method adopted is capricious, fanciful, arbitrary or clearly unjust.	None
From the stand point of the test, let us look at the impugned legislation.	None
The taxability of the income accrued during the 5 months is not in question.	None
But the attack is on the manner in which the rate is ascertained.	None
The statute does not fix different rates for the two areas.	None
The rate is the same though it varies uniformly depending upon the different slabs of the annual income of the previous year.	None
The vice of the provision, of at all, lies in the mode of ascertaining the average annual income of the previous year and it is true that if the said mode is arbitrary, the same arbitrariness would attach to the rate.	None
But the rate must necessarily relate to the annual income of the previous year.	None
Diverse methods may be adopted by the Legislature to ascertain the annual income for fixing the rate, namely13.	None
12/17 of total income of the 17 months (2) the 5 months income being treated as 12 months income and the annual average income ascertained as 12/24th or half of the total income accrued during the 17 months (3) it may adopt the first 12 months or the last 12 months or the middle 12 months income as the annual income and (4) treating the 5 months income as 12 months income and separately taxing it without clubbing it with the income of the subsequent year.	None
Whatever method is adopted, there is bound to be hardship in some cases and advantage in others.	None
For instance, under the Agricultural Incometax Act assessees getting income below Rs.	None
3000/ are exempted from taxation.	None
Under the impugned section the limit for exemption from taxation shall be determined with reference to the average annual income.	None
Suppose the annual income for the 12 months commencing from April 1, 1957 and ending on March 31, 1958 is above Rs.	None
3000/ the assessee in the TC area would be liable to pay incometax but a particular assessee in the Madras area may have earned comparatively smaller income during the 5 months bringing down the average annual income below Rs.	None
3000/	None
and he escapes assessment altogether.	None
Assume again that the assessee gets more than Rs. 3000/ during the 5 months but he may have got very low income in the succeeding 12 months with the result that his annual average income may fall below the range of taxable income, while the assessee in the T.C. area, who has got a similar income for 19S657, would be liable to tax.	None
It is also true that if the assessee in the Madras area gets very high income during those 5 months and little less than the taxable income during the succeeding 12 months, his income, which would have escaped taxation, would be liable to tax.	None
These illustrations prove that the section does not always work to the disadvantage of assesses similarly situated like the petitioner, but its effect would depend upon fortuitous circumstance, such as the quantum of income accrued during the 5 months and during the succeeding 12 months.	None
That apart under the section an option is given to the assessed to select his accounting year commencing from November 1,1956 and ending on a date within March 31, 1958 up to which his accounts have been made.	None
If an agriculturist in the Malabar area had made up his accounts on a date which does not exceed a period of 12 months from November 1,1956, he cannot have any complaint on the score that the rate fixed is arbitrary.	None
But it is said that agriculturists in the Madras area do not keep accounts or at any rate would not have kept accounts before the Amending Act and therefore this argument is not realistic.	None
But the record does not disclose that agriculturists of Malabar area dealing in cash crops, like arecanut, do not keep accounts or make up their accounts on a particular date.14.	None
Anyhow, the law gives an option to agriculturists to adopt an alternative method in case the rate fixed on the basis of average annual income would be disadvantageous to them.	None
The fact that they do not keep such an account could not be an argument to support the arbitrariness of the legislation.	None
But these advantages or disadvantages to individual assessees are accidental and inevitable and are inherent in every taxing statute as it has to draw a line somewhere and some cases necessarily fall on the other side of the line.	None
That apart the tabular statement showing the area under the principal crops and their harvesting and marketing seasons in the Kerala State does not establish that in Kasaragod Taluk the entire crop of the year was harvested after November and in the rest of Kerala before November.	None
The following is the said statement TABLE15.	None
It shows that in Cannanore, which includes Kasaragod Taluk only arecanut, pepper, tea, coffee and rubber or harvested after November, but in the case of paddy, tapioca, coconut and lemongrass the harvesting season is before November cardamom is gathered partly before November and partly after November.	None
The same is thee position in regard to the entire State except in respect of arecanut even in respect of arecanut, it is harvested in the Madras area other than Cannanore before November.	None
The net result of this analysis is that in regard to a large extent of land cultivated in Kerala the harvesting season is the same respect of all the crops except arecanut and even in the case of arecanut out of 1,23,833 acres cultivated with that crop the harvesting season in regard to 20,771 acres alone commences after November.	None
In such a situation it cannot be said that the Legislature has arbitrarily, with an evil eye, selected the most advantageous period for the purpose of fixing the rate of taxation.	None
The said discussion leads to the only conclusion that the Legislature in its sincere attempt to meet a difficult situation made a law adopting one of the diverse methods open to it and even the method adopted cannot be said to be either unreasonable or arbitrary as the overall picture indicates that it works fairly will on all similarly situated, though some hardship may be caused to some in the implementation of the law which is almost inevitable in every taxation law.	None
We cannot, therefore, say that in the present case the one method adopted instead of another is either arbitrary or capricious.16.	None
The next arguments that there is discrimination between assessees in Kasaragod area and those in the rest of the Madras area in that in the case of arecanut the assessees of Madras area, other than Kasargod Taluk, would be in a better position as they gather their crops before November.	None
The assessees of the Madras area under the Act formed one class and S. 2A applies to all of them S. 2A applies to both parts of the Madras area, i.e., the Malabar area and the South Kanara area.	None
In both the cases the income of the assessees that accrued before November, 1,1956 was not taxable in both the cases the income that accrued thereafter is liable to tax.	Reasoning
The rate also is the same.	Reasoning
The statement only shows that all the crops, except arecanut, are gathered by the assessees of the entire area during the same period.	Reasoning
The fact that in the case of one of the crops the assesses in the Malabar area harvested earlier cannot be a ground for holding that the law has made an unjust discrimination between persons belonging to the same class, but that is due only to the fortuitous circumstance of some assessee gathering the crops earlier than others.	Reasoning
As we have pointed out, the arecanut crop is only one of the many crops in that area and the extent of its cultivation in Kasaragod Taluk is comparatively lesser than that in the entire area of the State or even the Madras area.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, say that the law made an unjust discrimination between persons belonging to the same class.17.	Reasoning
There is another aspect which may have a bearing on the question raised.	Reasoning
The impugned section is a temporary provision intended to apply only for one year to tide over a difficult situation brought about by the reorganization of States, it is true that every law, whether it is temporary or permanent, cannot infringe Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution but in considering the question of reasonableness of the legislation this circumstance will have some bearing, particularly when the Legislature selected one of the many methods open to it.	Reasoning
Though the method selected may not be as good as others, we cannot hold that it is unreasonable and, therefore, liable to be struck down.18.	Reasoning
In the result the petition is dismissed with costs.19.	Decision
It is common case that this decision will govern the other petition also, namely, Writ Petition No. 104 of 1961.	Decision
The said petition also is dismissed with costs.	Decision
There will be one set of hearing fee.	Decision
This order is without prejudice to the order for costs made on 16362.20.	Decision
Petition dismissed.	None
