Prafulla C. Pant, J. This appeal, preferred under Section 116A of The Representation of the People Act, 1951, is directed against judgment and order dated 07.04.2015, passed by High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh, in EP No. 1/2012, whereby Election Petition filed by respondent has been allowed, and election of the appellant from 102Bhadaur (Scheduled Caste)	None
Assembly Constituency in Punjab, has been set aside.	None
Brief facts of the case are that General Elections were held to Punjab Legislative Assembly, in January, 2012.	Facts
Last date of filing of nomination papers was 12.01.2012.	Facts
Date for scrutiny of nomination papers was 16.01.2012.	Facts
And polling was held on 30.01.2012.	Facts
The counting of votes was done on 06.03.2012, in which appellant was declared elected.3.	Facts
Election Petitioner (respondent herein) filed his nomination papers as a candidate of Shiromani Akali Dal.	Facts
The appellant was a candidate from Indian National Congress.	Facts
There were other 17 candidates in the fray.	Facts
Seven independent candidates withdrew their candidature, as such, only 12 were left in the field.	Facts
Since Bhadaur constituency was reserved for Scheduled Castes, only the candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes were qualified to contest the election under Section 5 (a) of The Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter RP Act).	Facts
It appears that on 14.01.2012, one Badal Singh complained to the Returning Officer, Bhadaur Constituency, alleging that appellant Mohammad Sadique was a muslim, and as such did not belong to any Scheduled Caste.	Facts
He also filed Civil Writ Petition No. 985/2012 before the High Court which was dismissed as not pressed, since, the remedy of challenging the election through Election Petition was available.5.	Facts
Total 1,13,233 votes, including 83 Postal Ballots, were polled on 30.01.2012 in the Bhadaur Assembly Constituency.	Facts
On counting of votes, appellant was found to have secured 52,825 votes in his favour, and respondent got 45,856 votes, and as such appellant Mohammad Sadique was declared elected from 102Bhadaur (Scheduled Caste)	Facts
Assembly Constituency on 06.03.2012.6.	Facts
Respondent challenged the election of the appellant pleading that, he (appellant), being a muslim, is not a member of Scheduled Caste, and as such he was not qualified to contest the election from any constituency reserved for Scheduled Castes.	Facts
It is specifically pleaded that the appellant was born in a family which followed Islam, and his parents and others members of the family also professed Islam.	Facts
They had their names which are prevalent amongst muslims, and they used to observe traditions of Islam.	Facts
None of their family members use Singh, in their names, normally found with the names of those following Sikh religion.	None
It is further pleaded by the election petitionerrespondent that in his interview in the book titled  Sada Bahar Gayak Mohammad Sadique Jeevan Te Geet, the appellant had confessed that he was a muslim.	Facts
It is also stated in the election petition that after death of the parents of the appellant, their bodies were buried as per muslim rites.	Facts
It is further alleged that the Caste certificate issued to the appellant showing him to be member of community Doom (Marasi) by Tehsildar, Ludhiana (West), was cancelled.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellant obtained caste certificate certifying his cast as Doom (i.e. Scheduled Caste) on 25.08.2006.	None
However, the Joint Secretary, Department of Welfare, Government of Punjab vide memorandum No.1/32/2008RS1 dated 17.11.2008 issued directions to all the Deputy Commissioners in State of Punjab that a person professing Islam is not legally entitled to get Scheduled Caste certificate.	Facts
Another communication dated 16.03.2009 stated to have been issued by the State Government informing the Deputy Commissioners that such Scheduled Castes certificates issued on or after 01.01.1980 were liable to be cancelled.7.	Facts
Appellant contested the election petition, and filed his written statement.	Facts
He pleaded that he professed Sikh religion, and is a member of Doom community which is a Scheduled Caste in the State of Punjab.	Facts
He admitted that he was born in a muslim family, but never offered prayers in mosque or observed Rozas.	Facts
It is further pleaded that from the childhood appellant used to sing songs in the company of Sikh writers, artists and singers.	Facts
He used to go to the Gurudwaras to pay obeisance and developed faith in Sikh religion.	Facts
He followed the rites, rituals and customs of Sikh religion.	Facts
He performed Sampath Path with Ragis at his residence for seven days in the year 2000, and his two daughters are married to Hindu boys.	Facts
The appellant specifically stated in the written statement that he embraced Sikh religion formally on 13.04.2006, and a public notice to this effect was published in newspapers The Hindustan Times, Chandigarh, and Daily Akali Patrika, Jalandhar, dated 04.01.2007.	Facts
It is explained in the written statement that since the appellant was popular as a singer with name Mohammad Sadique, therefore, he did not change his name even after embracing Sikh religion.	Facts
On death of his wife Smt.	Facts
Raffikan Seeto who died on 17.12.2007 though she was buried by followers of Islam, but appellant performed Akhand Path from 04.01.2008 to 06.01.2008 as per Sikh religion.	Facts
It is further stated that Bhog of Akhand Path, Kirtan and Antim Ardas were held in Gurudwara at Ludhiana which was attended by prominent Sikh personalities.	Facts
The appellant has explained in the written statement that his mother Smt.	Facts
Parsanni Devi who died on 16.12.2009 was follower of Islam, and after her death her body was buried but the appellant performed Akhand Path and Bhog on 27.12.2009 in Gurdwara Sahib at village Kupkalan.	Facts
Name of the appellants father was Waliat Ali.	None
The appellant denied that he admitted in the interview that he was a muslim.	Facts
It is alleged that since earlier he was issued caste certificate as Doom Marasi by mistake, that is why he got issued fresh certificate of caste mentioning Doom.	None
It is also pleaded that the daughters of the appellant were also issued Scheduled Caste certificates.	None
The appellant accepted that he did receive a notice vide letter dated 30.11.2006, to deposit caste certificate issued to him by 19.12.2006 but denied that his certificate was ever cancelled or withdrawn by the Government.8.	Facts
The High Court, on the basis of the pleadings of the parties framed following issues Whether the respondent being muslim was not qualified to contest the election from 102Bhadaur Assembly Constituency reserved for the members of the Scheduled Castes?(2) Whether the respondent is a Sikh and professes Sikh religion?(3) Whether the election petition is not verified in accordance with Order VI Rule 15 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908?	Facts
If so, its effect.(4)	Facts
Whether no material fact can be pleaded in the replication after expiry of the period of limitation for filing an election petition?(5)	Facts
Whether paragraph Nos. 12 to 15, 22(vii)(viii)(ix) (x)(xiii)(xiv) and 27 to 28 of the election petition are liable to be struck off on the ground mentioned in the Preliminary Objection No.1 of the written statement?(6) Relief.	Facts
The High Court, after recording evidence of the parties, and hearing them, allowed the Election Petition and set aside the election of the appellant, holding that he was a muslim, and not a member of Scheduled Caste, as such not qualified to contest election from 102 Bhadaur (Scheduled Caste) Assembly Constituency.10.	Facts
Aggrieved by the above order of the High Court, this appeal is preferred by the respondent in the Election Petition.11.	Facts
Submissions and arguments advanced on behalf of the appellant11.1 In 1939, appellant was born in Doom caste in Punjab.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants parents were Muslims by birth.	None
However, the appellant even before his conversion to Sikhism, had complete inclination towards Sikhism and was a Ragi and used to perform Kirtan at	Arguments of Petitioner
Alamgir Sikh Gurdwara.11.2	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant has throughout been raised as a Sikh.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has professed the Sikh religion, and performed the ceremonies, rituals and rites of Sikhism.11.3 He has never offered prayer in a mosque, or kept Rozas, or offered Namaz, or had never been to Haj.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has never lived nor considered himself a muslim, nor was he so considered by others.11.4	Arguments of Petitioner
He started singing songs at a very early age and in due course became one of the most popular folk singers in Punjab.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was associated with other writers, artists, singers and producers, who were all Sikhs, and used to visit Gurdwaras with them to pay obeisance, and had full faith in Sikh religion.	Arguments of Petitioner
At every stage  show of his, the appellant started the performance by singing religious songs in praise of the Guru Sahibans.11.5 During 19891991, appellants daughters were all issued caste certificates mentioning Doom as their caste, as per certificates dated 01.08.1989, and 16.04.1991.	None
These are still valid and not cancelled.11.6 During 19992000, appellant was going through a personal bad phase in his life.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the advice of Sardar Pargat Singh Grewal, the appellant got performed the Sampat Path, which was performed by Sant Baba Sucha Singh along with other Ragis of Jawadi Taksal at his residence in Ludhiana for seven days.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, the appellants condition started improving, and it further strengthened his belief in Sikh religion.11.7 During 20012002, three of the appellants daughters, namely, Naseem Akhtar, Shehnaz Akhtar and Javed Akhtar were married into Hindu families.	Arguments of Petitioner
The marriages were performed as per Hindu rites and ceremonies, as desired by the respective husbands families.11.8 Though the appellant had always been raised as a Sikh and had followed Sikhism, he formally embraced Sikhism on 13.04.2006.	Arguments of Petitioner
He gave a public notice of this, which was published in leading newspapers namely Hindustan Times, Chandigarh and Daily Akali Patrika, Chandigarh on 04.01.2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since appellant had become famous throughout Punjab and indeed all over India as a singer, he retained his muslim name and did not change it.11.9 On 13.07.2006, appellant got his application and affidavit typed by a typist in Ludhiana for obtaining his caste certificate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant did not read the same before signing and Caste certificate was issued to the appellant mentioning his caste as Doom (Marasi).	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant at this stage realized that the typist had by mistake in the application wrongly mentioned his caste as Doom(Marasi) instead of caste Doom. 11.10	None
On 25.08.2006, appellant therefore asked the Tehsildar to cancel the wrong caste certificate and, on his asking, reapplied with the correct caste mentioned as Doom.	None
Fresh caste certificate mentioning Doom as the caste was issued to the appellant, which is still valid and has not been cancelled.	None
Doom is a Scheduled Caste in Punjab.11.11 There was no objection from anyone to the appellants formally embracing Sikhism, rather, he was welcomed into it.	None
Prominent Sikh personalities such as Sant Shamsher Singh Jagera, President of Sant Sepahi Dal and International Sant Samaj, honoured the appellant by presenting Saropa to the appellant on 20.01.2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was also welcomed by Sant Kartar Dass Jee at his Dera and Sardar Pargat Singh Grewal, President, Prof. Mohan Singh Foundation.11.12	None
The appellants wife Rafikan Seeto passed away on 17.12.2007.	None
Since she had been following Islam, she was buried.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, since the appellant had been following Sikhism, he got the Akhand Path performed in Gurdwara Shri Tegh Bahadur Satsang Sabha, Ludhiana from 04.01.2008 to 06.01.2008, and the bhog of Akhand Path of Sh.	Arguments of Petitioner
Guru Granth Sahib was performed on 06.01.2008 at his residence and thereafter Kirtan and Antim Ardas was held on the same day followed by Guru ka Langar as per Sikh rituals, rites, customs and ceremonies.	Arguments of Petitioner
The obituary to this fact was got published in various newspaper namely Aj Di Awaj, Jalandhar dated 05.01.2008 and Ajit Jalandhar dated 04.01.2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Kirtan and Antim Ardas of the appellants wife was well publicised and widely attended, including by prominent Sikh personalities.	Arguments of Petitioner
The entire event was also videographed and the original video recordings were produced as evidence before	None
the High Court.11.13	None
The appellants mother Smt.	None
Parsanni Devi passed away on 16.12.2009.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since she had followed Islam, she was buried.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, again, since the appellant was following Sikhism, he got performed the Akhand Path and bhog of Akhand Path of Sri Guru Granth Sahib and Kirtan and Antim Ardas on 27.12.2009 in Gurdwara Sahib at Village Kupkalan, Tehsil Malerkotla District Sangrur.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was also attended by several prominent Sikh personalities.11.14	Arguments of Petitioner
In December 2011, the election scheduled for Punjab Legislative Assembly Elections was announced.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nomination papers were to be filed on or before 12.01.2012.	Arguments of Petitioner
Scrutiny of papers was on 13.01.2012.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant filed his nomination papers from Indian National Congress Party for Bhadaur Constituency.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent (Election Petitioner) filed his nomination from the Shiromani Akali Dal Party.	Arguments of Petitioner
Bhadaur constituency was reserved for Scheduled Castes in Punjab.	Arguments of Petitioner
Demographically, it is dominated by Sikhs who are the majority religious group in this constituency.	Arguments of Petitioner
Polling was held on 30.01.2012.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 06.03.2012, results were declared and the appellant emerged as the successful candidate, winning by a wide margin.11.15	Arguments of Petitioner
For the avoidance of doubt, on 11.08.2014, appellant made a declaration as per Section 2(9) of the Sikh Gurdwaras Act 1925 to the effect that he was a follower of Sikh religion.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, on 07.04.2015, the impugned order was pronounced by the High Court, which allowed the petition, holding that the appellant was not eligible to contest the election from Bhadaur.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court held that since the appellants parents followed Islam, he was a muslim and therefore could not be a member of a Scheduled Caste.	Arguments of Petitioner
It further held that appellant had not embraced Sikhism and even if he embraced Sikhism, he would not get the benefit of being a member of a Scheduled Caste.11.16	Arguments of Petitioner
The impugned order is erroneous because it ignored the overwhelming evidence that the appellant had lived his life throughout as a Sikh.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finding of High Court that the appellant is a muslim is incorrect, and the evidence has not been correctly appreciated.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no formal ceremony or procedure required to embrace Sikhism.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fact that a person has led his life throughout by following Sikh customs, rituals, rites and ceremonies, and that he has not followed the ceremonies, of any other religion, leads to the conclusion that the person is a Sikh.11.17 Appellant had led his life throughout by following Sikh customs.	Arguments of Petitioner
He used to pray in Gurdwaras.	Arguments of Petitioner
He got the Akhand Path, bhog, kirtan and Antim Ardas performed after the death of his wife and his mother.	Arguments of Petitioner
Three of his daughters are married into Hindu families.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had given a public notice of his formally embrasing Sikhism as far back as in 2006, which was not objected to by anyone.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the evidence was clear that he had never observed any of the customs, rites, or ceremonies of Islam.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, neither did appellant conduct himself as a muslim, nor did he regard himself as the one.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was not perceived as a muslim by his near and dear ones, friends and acquaintances.11.18	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court erred in holding that the declaration made by the appellant under the Sikh Gurdwaras Act 1925 would take effect only from the date of the declaration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It failed to note that the declaration, by its very nature, would be retroactive in operation.11.19 The High Court erred in holding that the instant case was one of conversion from Islam to Sikhism and therefore the appellant could not claim to be a member of a Scheduled Caste.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court failed to appreciate that the appellant had been raised as a Sikh belonging to Doom caste from the very beginning and such it was not a case of conversion.11.20	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has misconstrued the evidence of PW2, PW4 and PW5.	Arguments of Petitioner
All that was stated by these witnesses is that the State Government had issued instructions that Scheduled Caste Certificates should not be issued to muslims, even if they indicated their caste as Doom.	Arguments of Petitioner
These instructions were not specific to the case of the appellant since the appellant is not a muslim.	None
The Caste Certificate issued to the appellant remains valid even on date, and has never been cancelled.11.21	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court further erred in holding that since the appellant did not wear the five kakkas i.e Kachha, Karha, Kirpan, Kangha and Kesh, he could not be a Sikh.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court failed to note that the same is required only of Amritdhari Sikhs, and not all Sikhs, and even among Amritdhari Sikhs it is not a universal practice.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Submissions and arguments advanced on behalf of Respondent (Election Petitioner) 12.1 Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 provides that no person who professes a religion different from the Hindu, the Sikh or the Buddhist shall be deemed to be a member of a Scheduled Caste.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus a person professing Muslim religion cannot claim Scheduled Caste status.12.2	Arguments of Respondent
Under section 5(a) of the Representation of the People Act 1951, the qualification to be elected to the Legislative Assembly from a seat reserved for Scheduled Castes is that the candidate must belong to one of the Scheduled Castes specified for the said State, in the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950.	Arguments of Respondent
Since the Bhadaur Constituency was reserved for the Scheduled Castes in the State of Punjab, as such the appellant being not a member of Scheduled Caste was not qualified to contest election from said	Arguments of Respondent
Constituency.12.3 The High Court has correctly evaluated the material available on record to find out as to whether the appellant had taken birth in the family of Scheduled Caste as per the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 before concluding that the appellant being a muslim cannot derive any benefit of Scheduled Caste.12.4 Even if it is presumed that the appellant belonged to Doom community and embraced Sikhism, it cannot be said that he was a member of Scheduled Caste and he would carry his Doom Caste along with him at the time of conversion.	Arguments of Respondent
It is apposite to mention here that a muslim even if belonging to Scheduled Caste was not eligible to contest the election, as such by merely embracing Sikhism, he cannot become eligible for the same.12.5	Arguments of Respondent
A person embracing religion other than Hindu or Sikh does not carry his caste with him as a general rule.	Arguments of Respondent
No special circumstances have been brought on record so that this Court may presume that the appellant had carried his Doom caste along with him after embracing Sikhism.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, on the basis of the evidence led by both the parties, the High Court was rightly not convinced that the appellant had embraced Sikhism for the reason that the appellant fairly admitted during his crossexamination that his forefathers as well as his wife were following Islam.12.6 Moreover, the declaration which is required to be verified by a Magistrate under Rule 3(b) of the Sikh Gurdwaras Rules, 1925 has been verified by the Oath Commissioner and not by the Magistrate, and hence it does not qualify to be a legal declaration and therefore, its not a valid declaration.12.7 By an application dated 13.07.2006, (Exh. PF), the appellant had applied for issuance of a Scheduled Caste certificate by claiming himself that he belonged to Doom (Marasi) caste, which was granted to him on the same date i.e.13.07.06	Arguments of Respondent
(Exh. PF6), under the orders of the then Tehsildar, Ludhiana (West).	Arguments of Respondent
When the said fact came to light, the then Commissioner, Patiala Division, Patiala, ordered an inquiry and thereafter a direction was issued to the appellant to return the said Scheduled Caste certificate in the office of the Tehsildar by 19.12.2006, but the same was not obeyed by the appellant and, as such, the Government of Punjab vide its order no. 15/MC, dated 11.01.2007, cancelled the said certificate.	Arguments of Respondent
In the meantime, the appellant again applied on 25.08.2006 (Exh.PG), for issuance of another Scheduled Caste certificate claiming himself to be a Doom caste only and a certificate (Exh. PG2), to that effect was issued on the same date i.e. 25.08.2006.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the Joint Secretary, Welfare, Government of Punjab, vide his Memo No.1/32/2008RS1, dated 17.11.2008, issued directions to all the Deputy Commissioners in the State of Punjab, to the effect that a person belonging to Islam was not legally entitled to get a Scheduled Caste certificate.12.8	Arguments of Respondent
A public notice claiming to declare the appellant a Sikh was published in the newspapers The Hindustan Times, Chandigarh and Daily Akali Patrika, Jalandhar on 04.01.2007	Arguments of Respondent
but as admitted by his own witness RW 14 in the cross examination, the appellant was a Mohammedan before the advertisement in the newspapers on 04.01.2007.	Arguments of Respondent
As such the appellant is a born muslim, and continued to be a muslim upto the date of filing nomination papers.12.9	Arguments of Respondent
The two Scheduled Caste Certificates dated 13.07.2006 Exh.PF6 and 25.08.2006 Exh.	Arguments of Respondent
PG2 got issued by the appellant are not valid Scheduled Caste certificates.12.10	Arguments of Respondent
Sub Section (9) of Section 2, of the Sikh Gurudwara Act, 1925 defines a Sikh reads as follows Sikh Sikh means a person who professes the Sikh religion or in the case of a deceased person, who professed the Sikh religion or was known to be a Sikh during his life time.	None
If any question arises as to whether any living person is or is not a Sikh, he shall be deemed respectively to be or not to be a Sikh according as he makes or refuses to make in such manner as the State Govt.	Arguments of Respondent
may prescribe the following declarationI solemnly affirm that I am a Sikh, that I believe in the Guru Granth Sahib, that I believe in the ten Gurus and that I have no other religion.	None
12.11	None
In the Rules framed under Sikh Gurudwara Act, 1925, it is provided that a declaration shall be made either orally in the presence of the authority by whom it is to be decided whether the person in question is a Sikh or not, or in writing and (i) if the declaration is made orally the authority in whose presence it is made shall record the making of it in writing and the record shall be attested by the signature or thumbmark of the person making it, and (ii) if the declaration is made in writing it shall be signed by the person making it, shall be verified by a magistrate and shall be forwarded in original to the authority by whom it is to be decided whether the person in question is a Sikh or not.12.12 For ceremony of Baptism and Imitation procedure required in Art. XXIV is required to be followed, which is not followed, as such High Court committed no error of law in setting aside election of the appellant.12.13	Arguments of Respondent
In the above circumstances, the respondent deserves to be declared elected for remaining period from Assembly Constituency Bhadaur.13.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions of learned counsel for the parties and perused the papers on record.	None
In the present case, the main issue before us is whether the High Court has erred in holding that the appellant was not a member of Scheduled Caste on the date of filing of his nomination papers from the Assembly Constituency 102 Bhadaur (SC) in Punjab, as such he was not qualified, and his election from said constituency is bad in law.	Issue
Before further discussion we think it just and proper to understand what caste actually means.	None
The word caste is defined in Encyclopedia Americana, Vol. 5, as under  Caste Caste is a largely static, exclusive social class, membership in which is determined by birth and involves particular customary restrictions and privileges.	None
The word derives from the Portuguese casta, meaning breed, race, or kind and was first used to denote the Hindu social classification on the Indian subcontinent.	None
While this remains the basic connotation, the word caste is also used to describe in whole or in part social systems that emerged at various times in other parts of the world.	None
According to Webstar Comprehensive Dictionary (International Edition), caste in relation to Hinduism means any of the four social divisions namely Brahmin (Priests), Khshatriya (Warriers), Vaishya (agriculturists traders) and Shudras (servants).	None
Now, we would like to examine the expression Scheduled Caste.	None
In Guntur Medical College v. Y. Mohan Rao (1976) 3 SCC 411 ), Constitution Bench of this Court has explained the term Scheduled Castes and made following observation  	None
The expression scheduled castes has a technical meaning given to it by clause (24) of Article 366 and it means such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within such castes, races or tribes as are deemed under Article 341 to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of this Constitution.	None
The President in exercise of the power conferred upon him under Article 341 has issued the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950.	None
Paras (2) and (3) of this Order are material and they read as follows Subject to the provisions of this Order, the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within caste or tribes specified in Part I to XIII of the Schedule to this Order shall, in relation to the States to which these parts respectively relate, be deemed to be scheduled castes so far as regards members thereof resident in the localities specified in relation to them in those Parts of that Schedule.3.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in para 2, no person who professes a religion different from the Hindu or the Sikh religion shall be deemed to be a member of a Scheduled Caste.	None
The schedule to this order in Part I sets out the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes or tribes which shall in the different areas of the State of Andhra Pradesh be deemed to be scheduled castes.	None
One of the castes specified there is Madiga caste and that caste must, therefore, be deemed to be a scheduled caste.	None
But by reason of clause (3), a person belonging to Madiga caste would not be deemed to be a member of a scheduled caste unless he professes Hindu or Sikh religion at the relevant time.	None
It is not necessary that he should have been born a Hindu or a Sikh.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In S. Anbalagan v. B. Devarajan (1984) 2 SCC 112 ), which is a case pertaining to election from Rasipuram Parliamentary Constituency (reserved for Scheduled Castes), a threeJudge Bench of this Court at the end of para 13 has observed as under  13.	None
.Now, if such a Christian becomes a Hindu, surely he will revert to his original caste, if he had lost it at all.	None
In fact this process goes on continuously in India and generation by generation lost sheep appear to return to the castefold and are once again assimilated in that fold.	None
This appears to be particularly so in the case of members of the Scheduled Castes, who embrace other religions in their quest for liberation, but return to their old religion on finding that their disabilities have clung to them with great tenacity.	None
We do not think that any different principle will apply to the case of conversion to Hinduism of a person whose forefathers had abandoned Hinduism and embraced another religion from the principle applicable to the case of reconversion to Hinduism of a person who himself had abandoned Hinduism and embraced another religion.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Kailash Sonkar v. Maya Devi (1984) 2 SCC 91 ), which arose out of election from a reserved Assembly constituency in Madhya Pradesh, another threeJudge Bench of this Court examined the question whether the loss of the caste is absolute, irrevocable so as not to revive under any circumstance.	None
After deriving the history of caste system, this Court observed following guiding principle to determine the question in paragraph 28  Where a person belonging to a scheduled caste is converted to Christianity or Islam, the same involves loss of the caste unless the religion to which he is converted is liberal enough to permit the convertee to retain his caste or the family laws by which he was originally governed.	None
There are number of cases where members belonging to a particular caste having been converted to Christianity or even to Islam retain their caste or family laws and despite the new order they were permitted to be governed by their old laws.	None
But this can happen only if the new religion is liberal and tolerant enough to permit such a course of action.	None
Where the new religion, however, does not at all accept or believe in the caste system, the loss of the caste would be final and complete.	None
In a large area of South and some of the NorthEastern States it is not unusual to find persons converted to Christianity retaining their original caste without violating the tenets of the new order which is done as a matter of common practice existing from times immemorial.	None
In such a category of cases, it is obvious that even if a person abjures his old religion and is converted to a new one, there is no loss of caste.	None
Moreover, it is a common feature of many converts to a new religion to believe or have faith in the saints belonging to other religions.	None
For instance, a number of Hindus have faith in the Muslim saints, Dargahs, Imambadas which becomes a part of their lives and some Hindus even adopt Muslim names after the saints but this does not mean that they have discarded the old order and got themselves converted to Islam.	None
In above Kailash Sonkar (supra) this Court further discussed regarding reconversion into Hinduism by the members of the community whose forefathers converted to other religions.	None
Applying the doctrine of eclipse, this Court observed as under  In our opinion, when a person is converted to Christianity or some other religion the original caste remains under eclipse and as soon as during his her lifetime the person is reconverted to the original religion the eclipse disappears and the caste automatically revives.	None
Whether or not the revival of the caste depends on the will and discretion of the members of the community of the caste is a question on which we refrain from giving any opinion because in the instant case there is overwhelming evidence to show that the respondent was accepted by the community of her original Katia caste.	None
Even so, if the fact of the acceptance by the members of the community is made a condition precedent to the revival of the caste, it would lead to grave consequences and unnecessary exploitation, sometimes motivated by political considerations.	None
Of course, if apart from the oral views of the community there is any recognised documentary proof of a custom or code of conduct or rule of law binding on a particular caste, it may be necessary to insist on the consent of the members of the community, otherwise in normal circumstances the case would revive by applying the principles of doctrine of eclipse.	None
We might pause here to add a rider to what we have said i.e. whether it appears that the person reconverted to the old religion had been converted to Christianity since several generations, it may be difficult to apply the doctrine of eclipse to the revival of caste.	None
However, that question does not arise here.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In paragraphs 51 and 52 in Kailash Sonkar (supra), on the facts of said case, this Court gave following conclusions  51.	None
(1) That the respondent was born of Christian parents and was educated in various schools or institutions where she was known as a Christian,(2) That 34 years before the election, the respondent was reconverted to Hinduism and married Jai Prakash Shalwar, a member of the Katia caste, and also performed the Shudhikaran ceremony,(3) That she was not only accepted but also welcomed by the important members, including the President and VicePresident, of the community,(4)	None
There is no evidence to show that there was any bar under the Christian religion which could have prevented her from reconverting herself to Hinduism,(5) That there was no evidence to show that even her parents had been Christian from generation to generation.52.	None
In these circumstances, therefore, this case fulfils the conditions required for being reconverted to Hinduism from Christianity in order to revive the original caste.	None
In K.P. Manu v. Scrunity Committee for Verification of Community Certificate (2015) 4 SCC 1 ), one of the questions examined by this Court is whether on reconversion, a person born to Christian parents could, after reconversion to the Hindu religion, be eligible to claim the benefit of his original caste.	None
Referring to various case laws, including those referred above, this Court disagreed with the finding of Scrutiny Committee that caste certificate issued to a person on the basis of the fact that though the great grandfathers of such person belonged to Pulaya community (i.e. Scheduled Caste), but he was born after his ancestors embraced Christianity and thereafter, reconverted into Hindu religion is not entitled to the Scheduled Caste certificate.	None
Constitution Bench decision in Guntur Medical College (supra) and threeJudge Bench decisions in S. Anbalagan (supra) and Kailash Sonkar (supra) are referred to and relied upon in K.P. Manu (supra).	None
In the case at hand, admittedly the appellant was born to muslim parents.	None
However, he has proved that his family members though followed Islam but they belonged to Doom community.	None
It is settled law that a person can change his religion and faith but not the caste, to which he belongs, as caste has linkage to birth.	None
It is proved on the record that the appellant was issued a caste certificate as he was found to be member of Doom community by the competent authority, after he declared that he has embraced Sikhism, and he was accepted by the Sikh community.	None
It is not disputed that Doom in Punjab is a Scheduled Caste under Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950.	None
The Scheduled Caste Certificate No. 6149 dated 25.08.2006 (Exh PG/2) was issued to the appellant by the competent authority, and accepted by the returning officer.	None
Said certificate appears to have not been cancelled.	None
What is shown on behalf of the respondent is that vide communication dated 17.11.2008 (Ext. PJ)	None
State authorities informed and clarified to the Deputy Commissioner that members following Islam are not entitled to the certificate of Scheduled Caste, and if issued, certificates may be cancelled.	None
But the certificate (PG/2) dated 25.08.2006 already issued in favour of appellant, is not cancelled, which he obtained after his conversion to Sikhism.	None
It is proved on the record that the appellant embraced Sikh religion on 13.04.2006, and got published the declaration on 04.01.2007 in the newspapers Hindustan Times (English) Exh.RA, and Ajit (Punjabi) Exh RB.	Facts
Nomination for election in question was filed by him five years thereafter.	None
The appellant has further sufficiently explained that since he was popular as a singer with the name Mohammad Sadique as such without changing his name, he accepted the Sikhism and followed all rites and traditions of Sikh Religion.	Facts
It is not essential for anyone to change ones name after embracing a different faith.	Reasoning
However, such change in name can be a corroborating fact regarding conversion or reconversion into a religion faith in appropriate cases.	Reasoning
Also it is not necessary in law that entire family of a person should convert or reconvert to the religion to which he has gone.	Reasoning
RW5 Mohammad Sadique has stated that he not only followed Sikh traditions, he never offered Namaz, nor observed Roza nor went to Haj.	Reasoning
It is also relevant to mention here that PW7 Darbara Singh Guru (respondentElection Petitioner) in his crossexamination admits that he did not raise any objection at the time when nomination papers were filed by the appellant.24.	Reasoning
In the above circumstances, we are inclined to hold that the High Court has erred in law, by ignoring the above facts on the record, and giving importance to form of declaration, and the interview said to have been given by appellant to PW 6 Gulzar Singh Shaunki, author of book  Sada Bahar Gayak Mohammad Sadique Jeevan Te Geet (Exh.PK).	Reasoning
Statement of the appellant RW5 regarding conversion to Sikhism, is fully corroborated by RW11 Darshan Singh, ExSarpanch of village Kupkalan, RW6 Rachhpal Singh, Secretary of Gurudwara Sahib Kupkalan, RW9 Ms. Sukhjeet Kaur, cosinger in Gurudwara, and RW14 Sant Shamsher Singh Jageda, who presented Saropa to the appellant.	Reasoning
Having reappreciated the evidence on record, as above, and keeping in view the law laid down by this Court in Guntur Medical College v. Y. Mohan Rao (1976) 3 SCC 411 ), S. Anbalagan v. B. Devarajan (1984) 2 SCC 112 ), and Kailash Sonkar v. Maya Devi (1984) 2 SCC 91 ), in our opinion, the impugned judgment passed by the High Court cannot be upheld.26.	None
Accordingly, the appeal is allowed, and the Election Petition filed by the respondent is dismissed.	Decision
No order as to costs.	Decision
