 KANIA, C.J. 1.	None
I have read the judgment prepared by Mukherjea, J., in this appeal and agree with his conclusion and line of reasoning.	None
2.	None
As it is conceded that no proceedings under Chapter X Part II of the Bengal Tenancy Act were taken in the matter and also that section 191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act is inapplicable, as the lands in question are not held as agricultural lands, the only questions which remain for decision by this Court are (1) Whether the Collector, overriding the contract between the parties, had authority to fix the rent in respect of the alluvial lands, under Bengal Regulation VII of 1822 read with Bengal Alluvial Lands Settlement Act (Act XXXI of 1858) and (2) What is the effect of an entry made by the Collector under section 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 ?	Issue
3.	None
As regards the first question, it seems to me that the whole scheme of Regulation VII of 1822 was ascertain facts, as it was found that the previous settlement of revenue was made on incorrect data.	None
The regulation was therefore passed to enable the Collector and Revenue authorities to find out the actual rents received by the landlords and when it was not easy to ascertain the same to find out what was the customary rent in the locality.	None
This appears to have been considered the proper data on which the revenue payable to Government could be more equitably fixed.	None
Reading the Regulation as a whole, I do not think it empowers the Collector, when he finds a certain amount paid actually as rent, to fix  either a higher or a lower rent.	None
His duty was merely to ascertain and not to fix any fair or equitable rent.	None
Such construction put on the wording of section 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 in Ishur Chandra Sarkar v. Troylukhya Nath, and Jagadindra Nath Roy v. Mohendra Nath Moozumdar is correct.	None
Act XXXI of 1858 is limited to alluvial lands and in section 2 thereof the word determine is used.	None
As those lands came into existence for the first time, there could not be any previous rents in respect thereof.	None
The word determine is, under the circumstances, appropriate to be used, although it does not empower the Collector to fix any other rent if some agreement in respect of such alluvial land found to exist.	None
Section 2 of Act XXXI of 1858 does not expressly enlarge the powers of the Collector and read as a supplement to Regulation VII of 1822 does not enlarge the powers deemed to exist in the Collector in respect of the alluvial lands.	None
The provisions in Regulation VII of 1822 relating to appeals etc., do not affect the powers of the Collector under section 9.	None
In Kumar Chandra Singh Dudhoria v. Midnapore zamindary Co., although the newly formed alluvial land was treated as a separate estate under Act XXXI of 1858 the rent of the tenants was fixed under the Bengal Tenancy Act.	None
In my opinion therefore, when an agreement in respect of rent as between a landlord and tenant exists, the Collector has no power under section 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 or under section 2 of Act XXXI of 1858 to fix (i.e., ascertain or determine) any other rent for the lands in question.	None
Those sections define the limits of his jurisdiction and if he does anything beyond those limits his conclusion is not binding on the landlords or the tenant.	None
4.	None
On the second question, the entry which the Collector is authorised to make, as a result of his enquiries, acquires a presumptive value of its correctness provided he has acted within the powers given to him by the Regulation.	None
If however he has chosen to exceed those powers and fixed what he consider reasonable or fair rent (which is not the actual rent the tenant is under a contract to pay), in my opinion, the entry made in the record of rights in the excessive exercise of the Collectors powers has not the probative value given to it by the section.	None
Assuming that an entry in fact is found in the regard of rights, at best it has a presumptive value and either party who is aggrieved is entitled to show that the entry is incorrect and is not made in the proper exercise of the powers of the Collector.	None
This can be done, as stated in the section itself, in two ways (1) by mutual agreement subsequently made between the parties or (2) as a result of contest in a regular suit.	None
The expression regular suit in the section is used in contrast to a summary suit or a revenue suit.	None
It means a suit in a court having ordinary civil jurisdiction.	None
In such a suit, the correctness or the binding nature of such an entry could be challenged either by the plaintiff filing a suit or by the defendant by way of defence.	None
I do not think the words used in the section limit the right to challenge the entry only to the plaintiff.	None
The section does not exclude the right of a defendant by way of defence to contest the accuracy of the entry.	None
The effect of an entry made under Act XXXI of 1858 is not higher.	None
It has the same probative value as an entry made under Regulation VII of 1822.	None
5.	None
Under the circumstances, in my opinion, it was open to the Appellants to challenge the correctness of the entry and its binding nature on them in the suit filed by the respondent to recover rent from them.	None
I find nothing in Regulation VII of 1822 or Act XXXI of 1858 to prevent such defence being raised.	None
It may be notices that while the accuracy or binding nature of such an entry is contemplated to be contested in a regular suit, unlike provisions found in other Acts in similar circumstances no provision prescribing a time within such a suit has to be brought, is found in the Regulation.	None
That supports the view that these objections could be raised by way of defence also.	None
6.	None
In my opinion, the learned Judges who decided the appeal were in the error in disregarding the decision of their Court in Dhirendra Chandra Rai v. Nawab Khaja Habibulla.	None
That case was decided on the correct interpretation of the relevant provisions of these two legislations.	None
I am therefore of the opinion that the appeal should be allowed and the decree of the District Judge of 24 Parganas restored.	Decision
That will result in the respondents suit being dismissed with costs throughout.	Decision
7. FAZL ALI, J.  I agree with the conclusion arrived at by my brother Mukherjea and also with most of the reasonings upon which it is based.	None
As I am however clined to construe sec.	None
2 of Act XXXI of 1858 somewhat differently, I wish to add a short judgment of my own.	Facts
8. Sec. 2 of Act XXXI of 1858, which admittedly governs the present case, runs as follows  It shall be the duty of all offers making settlements of such land, whether the land be settled separately or incorporated with the original estate, to ascertain and record all such rights, according to the rules prescribed in Regulation VII, 1822, and to determine whether any and what additional rent shall be payable in respect of the alluvial land by the person or persons entitled to any undertenure in the original estate.	Facts
9.	None
Now whatever be the powers of a settlement officer under Regulation VII of 1822, it seems to me that the words determine whether any and what additional rent shall be payable in respect of the alluvial land and wide enough to cover a case where the land has been newly formed and no rent is paid for it by the tenant.	None
In such a case, the settlement authorities can, in my opinion, fix a proper rent on the date available to them.	None
Act XXXI of 1858 expressly states that the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822 so far as the same may be applicable are hereby declared to extend to all settlements made under this Act.	None
By virtue of this statement, not only those provisions of the Regulation which lay down the procedure for making the settlement but also the provision contained in the last para of s. 9 (1) is made applicable to a settlement made under Act XXXI of 1858.	None
This last para runs as follows  The information collected on the above points shall be so arranged and recorded as to admit of an immediate reference hereafter by the Courts of Judicature, it being understood and declared that all decisions on the demands of the Zamindars shall hereafter be regulated by the rates of rent and modes of payment avowed and ascertained at the settlement, and recorded in the Collectors proceedings until distinctly altered by mutual agreement or after full investigation in a regular suit.	Reasoning
10.	None
By virtue of this provision, the record of the Collector must be taken to be prima facie correct, and the courts of law are bound to act upon it till it is altered or held to be incorrect but the correctness or propriety of an entry in the record can be challenged by means of a regular suit.	None
That being so, is open to the Appellant in the present case to challenge the correctness of the entry as to rent of the land with which we are concerned in the present suit.	None
I am not prepared to hold that the present suit is not a regular suit, merely because it is a suit for rent.	None
I agree with the view expressed by Mukherjea, J., that the expression regular suit as used in Regulation VII of 1882 means a suit which is not to be decided summarily but it to be decided by a competent civil court according to the procedure applicable to ordinary suits and is a suit in which the rights of the parties can be finally determined.	Reasoning
As there is nothing in Regulation VII of 1882 or Act XXXI of 18558 to empower the settlement officer to ignore an existing contract between the parties as to rent, the entry in the settlement record which is contrary to the terms of such a contract must be held to be incorrect, and the contract between the parties, must be given effect to.	Reasoning
The contract between the parties in this case was that new accretions would be held by the lessee free of rent till that attain the level of the high land originally settled under the patta as it existed in 1907.	Reasoning
Whether the land in question has attained the level referred to in the contract is a question of fact and must be decided with reference to the finding of the learned District Judge who was the final court of appeal.	Reasoning
That finding in my opinion though somewhat clumsily expressed, cannot be said to be not in accordance with law, and I do not agree with the learned Advocate for the respondent that the District Judge in arriving at it has misdirected himself on the question of onus of proof.	Reasoning
In this view, I agree that the appeal should be allowed.	Decision
PATANJALI SASTRI, J.  11.	None
I agree that this appeal should be allowed.	None
I have, however, reached that conclusion on grounds somewhat different from those indicated in the judgments of my learned colleagues which I have had the advantage or reading.	None
12.	None
The appellant company is the assignee of a permanent leasehold interest created by the respondents predecessor in the title by a registered istimarari mokurari patta dated 6th May 1907.	Facts
The lease was granted for the erection of jute mills and other factories on the demised lands which consisted partly of a parcel of high land and partly of chur land adjoining the river Hooghly, for which different rates of selami and rent were charged.	Facts
The patta contained, inter alia, a stipulation that the lessee was to hold any future alluvial addition to the chur land free of rent, provided, nevertheless, that, if at any time thereafter any portion of the chur land or of the future accretions should attain the same level as the high land demised under the patta, then selami and rent should be paid at the rate fixed for the high land.	Facts
13.	None
A large block of alluvial land having accreted to the demised chur land in course of time, proceedings were initiated by the Diara Officer (as the officer concerned with the settlement of such land is called), District 24Parganas, for the settlement of the new accretion, among other lands similarly formed in the Disrent of all undertenures in such lands is under sec.	Facts
2 of the Bengal Alluvion and Dilluvion Act (IX of 1847) to all the landlords and tenants having interest in such lands that new alluvial increments were liable to assessment foe Government revenue under s. 3 of the Bengal Regulation II of 1819 and that the rent of all undertenures in such lands is under sec.	Facts
2 of the Bengal Act XXXI of 1858 or under s. 104 of the Bengal Tenancy Act (VII of 1885) liable to determination.	Facts
Objections, if any, were to be presented on or before a specified date, but no objection having been raised on behalf of the company, the Diara Officer made his final report on 2211932 whereby the new accertion was settled with the respondent as a separate estate for a term of 15 years on the basis of the rental assets assessed by him.	Facts
These included a sum of Rs. 495 annum determined as the rent payable by the appellant in respect of the land here in question at the rate of Rs. 45 per acre or Rs. 15 per bigha which was duty entered in Khaitan No. 556 (Ex. IV).	Facts
The ground on which this rent of Rs. 495 was fixed appears from the Diara Assessment Roll (Ex. D) wherein the stipulations in the patta of 1907 regarding the payment of selami and rent were referned to and it was stated Subsequently by another patta dated 30th September 1923 the chur of Khaitan No. 2 settled with the mill (vide Notice Kh 2).	Facts
So this is to be assessed at Rs. 15 per bigha.	Facts
This later patta has not been placed on record in the present proceedings.	Facts
It was not suggested that it related to the land in dispute, not was it explained why the Diara Officer based his determination of rent for the land on that patta.	Facts
It is however, reasonably clear that he did not give effect to the terms of the patta of 1907 under which in no event was a rent of Rs. 15 per bigha payable for future accretions.	Facts
14.	None
It was on the basis of the entry in the Khaitan aforesaid that the respondent brought the suit for the recovery of rent at Rs. 495 per annum for the period from 1342 to 1345 B. S. in respect of the new alluvial land.	Facts
The main defence was that the Diara Officer had no jurisdiction, either under Regulation VII of 1882 or under Act XXXI of 1858, to settle rents so as to bind the appellant but was authorised only to ascertain and record existing rents.	Facts
In particular, he had no power to settle rents in such a manner as a conflict with an existing contract or to enhance rents as he must be taken to have done in the present case, for no rent was payable for the land in question which had not yet attained the level of the demised high land.	Facts
It was also alleged that the entry in the khatian was wrong and erroneous and could not impose any liability on the Appellant to pay the rent mentioned therein.	Facts
On these allegations the issues raised the competence of the Revenue Officer to settle rents so as to bind the Appellant and the correctness of the entry an the Khatian in suit.	Facts
15.	None
The High Court agreeing with the trial Judge, came to the conclusion that the provisions of the Act XXXI of 1858 read with Regulation VII of 1882 empowered the Diara Officer to settle and determine rents payable by undertenants and not merely to record existing rights.	Facts
The learned Judges (Biswas and Das JJ.), also held that sec.	Facts
191 of Bengal Tenancy Act was applicable to nonagricultural tenancies as well and that its application to this case was not excluded by reason of the patta comprising asli lands also.	Facts
Therefore, even if the Revenue Officer disregarded the patta, his decision would bind the Appellant, as it had not been set side in a regular suit brought for the purpose.	Facts
The general effect of their judgment will be found in the following passage  	None
If the tenants contention be that the patta could not be superseded or touched at all, it was for the tenant to rely on it before the Revenue Officer.	Facts
Notification Ex. 2 was duly served on the Respondents and they had ample opportunity to raise the point.	Facts
If the Respondents were aggrieved by the determination of rent by the Revenue Officer, they had the right to appeal before the Board.	Facts
They had also the right to raise the question by a regular suit.	Facts
This they did not do at one stage of the hearing we thought that it might be possible to stay these proceedings on the Respondents now filing a suits to get the decision of the Revenue Officer set aside.	Facts
Even taking the institution of the suit, out of which the present appeal arises, as the starting point of limitation, more than 6 years have elapsed any suit contemplated by Regulation VII of 1822 will now be barred.	Facts
In these circumstances it seems to us that the principle of finality deduced by their Lordships of the Judicial Committee from the provision of Chapter X Part II of the Bengal Tenancy Act in the case of Kumar Chandra Singh Dudhoria v. The Midnapore Zemindary Co. Ltd.	Facts
(3) is equally applicable to this case.	Facts
It seems to us that the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822 regarding appeal to the Board and the right of suit are in pari materia with those contained in Part II of Chapter X, and the consequences of not availing oneself of the remedies specified on both enactments must be the same.	Facts
16.	None
At the hearing of this appeal before us Mr. Chakravarti appearing for the Respondent conceded that sec.	Arguments of Respondent
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act was not applicable to nonagricultural tenancies such as the one created by the patta of 1907, and he made no attempt to support that part of the judgment of the High Court which placed reliance upon that section.	Arguments of Respondent
He maintained, however, that the Diara Officer in settling newly formed chur lands under Act XXXI of 1858 had jurisdiction to determine the additional rents, if any payable for such land by the undertenants and that his determination in the present case was under the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822, final and conclusive, no suit having been brought by the Appellant for the alteration of the khatian.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, Mr. Pyarelal Banerjee, on behalf of the Appellant, contended that the only duty with which the Diara Officer was charged under those statutory provisions was to ascertain and record existing rents for the purpose of settling the revenue payable to Government and that he had no power to settle rents as between the zamindar and the tenants and, in particular, to enhance rents in contravention of the terms of contracts of tenancy.	Arguments of Petitioner
An such settlement of rent made by the Officer in the course of proceedings under the said statutes was void as being, in excess of his powers and should be ignored.	Arguments of Petitioner
In my opinion neither of these extreme contentions is correct.	None
I think that the Diara Officer has power under these statutes to settle rents and, where necessary, to enhance them, but such settlement is not finally binding on the tenant but has a presumptive value until it is displaced by counter availing proof in a regular suit.	None
17.	None
The governing provisions are those of Act XXXI of 1858 which, as its title shows, were passed to make further provision for the settlement of land gained by alluvion in Bengal.	None
By sec.	None
1 the Act provides for the settlement of lands gained by alluvion either by assessing the revenue payable thereon and adding it to the juma of the original estate where the proprietor agrees to such a course, or, if he objects to such an arrangement by assessing and settling the lands as a separate estate with a separate juma.	None
Sec. 2 is important and reads as follows  2.	None
Nothing contained in the preceding section shall affect the rights of any undertenant in any alluvial land under the provisions of clause 1, sec. 4, Regulation XI, 1825.	None
It shall be the duty of all officers making settlements of such land, whether the land be settled separately or incorporated with the original estate, to ascertain and record all such rights, according to the rules prescribed in Regulation VII, 1922, and to determine whether any and what additional rent shall be payable in respect of the alluvial land by the person or persons entitled to any undertenure in the original estate.	None
The provisions of the said Regulation, so far as the same may be applicable, are hereby declared to extend to all settlements made under this Act.	None
18.	None
It will be seen that the section lays a twofold duty on the Settlement Officer He is to ascertain and record the rights of undertenants in alluvial lands under the Bengal Alluvion and Dilluvion Regulation of 1825 which provides that land gained to Alluvion should be considered an increment to the tenure of the person to whose estate it may be annexed, subject, however, to the liability to the payment of any additional rent where such land is annexed to a subordinate tenure.	None
He is also to determine whether any or what additional rent shall be payable by the under tenant in such cases.	None
Now, whether or not the expression ascertain and record means anything more than finding out and recording things as they exist, it is arguable that the determination contemplated must involve a finding as to whether additional rent is payable and, if so, a settlement of such rent, for, there must have been many cases of such newly formal accretions which had not previously paid any rent.	None
The Settlement Officer must, in that view, necessarily have the power to settle the additional rent payable by the undertenant in respect of such lands.	None
As, however, the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822 are made applicable to the settlement of alluvial accretions under the Act, it would be more satisfactory to read the provisions of the two statutes together and arrive at a conclusion on the point, rather than base the decision on a narrow verbal distinction.	None
I will accordingly proceed to consider the scope of the powers of the Revenue Officer prosecuting the detailed investigation prescribed by s. 9 of the Regulation.	Issue
19.	None
In construing the words of a statute, especially an ancient statute like Regulation VII of 1822, it is necessary and relevant as pointed out by Lord Blackburn in Riverwear Commissioners v. Adamson (5) to enquire what the circumstances were with reference to which the words were used and what the object, appearing from those circumstances, which the person using them had in view, for the meaning of the words varies according to the circumstances with respect to which they were used.	None
The primary purpose of the Regulation, as its title shows, is to declare the principles according to which the settlement of revenue was to be made in certain territories which had recently come under the control of the East India Company.	None
It would appear that the Board of Directors were contemplating the introduction of permanent settlement in these territories and for that purpose they required the fullest information regarding the internal conditions of the country such as the extent of cultivated and cultivable lands, local tenures and usages, rates of rent and the modes of their collection and distribution, etc. (see Fields Introduction to the Bengal code, para 42).	None
Accordingly, the Regulation by its title declared one of its objects to be defining, setting and recording the rights and obligations of the various classes and persons possessing an interest in the land or in the rent or produce thereof.	None
This, to may mind, is a clear enough indication that the statute contemplates the settlement of rents either as being the right of the landlord or the obligation of tenant for they are undoubtedly persons possessing an interest in the land or in the rent or produce thereof.	None
The preamble too states that in revising the existing settlement the efforts of the Revenue Officers should be chiefly directed not to any general and extensive enhancement of the juma but to the objects of equalising the public burthens and of ascertaining, setting or recording the rights, interest, privileges and properties of all persons and classes owning, occupying, managing or cultivating the land.	Reasoning
It then refers to the intention of the Government to make a new settlement combining with the revision of the Government juma and the deliberate investigation of the facts by the determination of which its amount must be regulated, a full enquiry into and a careful settlement of the rights and interests of all classes connected with the land.	None
This implies that while a general and extensive enhancement of the juma was to be avoided, such enhancement of it as might be necessary for equalising the public burthens was not ruled out.	None
It also indicates that the amount of new juma was to be regulated by the results of the enquiry and settlement to be made by the Revenue Officers.	None
In my opinion, all this makes it reasonably plain that the Settlement Officer was to be entrusted, while revising the existing settlement, with the duty of settling rents, for the revised juma must be based on a careful settlement of the landholders rights, the most important of which is the recovery of rent from his tenants.	None
In other words it was considered that a careful settlement of rents was necessary as the revenue payable during the period of the fresh settlement was to be based on a proper valuation of the rental assets of the proprietor.	None
20.	None
These declared objects were given effect to by s. 9 which provides for a detailed investigation by Collectors and other Revenue Officers making and revising settlements, and lays upon them the duty of ascertaining and recording the fullest possible information in regard to landed tenures etc.	None
The section also directs the formation of as accurate a record as possible. . .	None
.	Facts
of the rates of rent per bigha of each description of land or kind of produce demandable from the resident cultivators and finally it provides that the information collected on the above points shall be so arranged and recorded as to admit of an immediate reference hereafter by the courts of judicature, it being understood and declared that all decisions on the demands of the zamindars shall hereafter be regulated by the rates of rent and modes of payment avowed and ascertained at the settlement and recorded in the Collectors proceedings until distinctly altered by mutual agreement or after full investigation in a regular suit.	None
Great stress was laid by Mr. Banerjee on the words ascertaining and recording and information collected as supporting the view that the scope of the investigation under s. 9 did not extend beyond finding out and recording things as they existed.	None
Ascertaining of collecting information are not technical or specialised words and I fail to see why they should exclude the idea of determination or settlement of proper rent.	None
In those early days when internal conditions were more or less unsettled, ascertaining, as Mr. Field remarked, to often involved determining what was indeterminate.	None
Nor is the phrase information collected and recorded in any way inconsistent with such information consisting of things settled or determined by the Revenue Officers.	None
On the other hand, the passages quoted above clearly indicate, in my opinion, that such officers were intended to have the power of settling and, where necessary, to enhancing rents though a general and extensive enhancement was not contemplated.	None
21.	None
One or two illustrations may serve to make the position clear.	None
Suppose the Revenue Officer found that, in a particular estate, in respect of which he was making a new settlement, the tenants were in possession of much largest areas than what they were paying rents for, or that they were paying rents much below the pargana or customary rates, what rents was the officer to enter in his record ?	None
Liability to pay increased rent for increase in area (which in the earlier Rent Acts was regarded as a ground of enhancement) was an accepted principle recognised by Regulation XI of 1825 vide s. 4 (1) and, similarly, liability to pay rent at the pargana rates was sanctioned by ancient custom.	None
If, nevertheless, the Revenue Officer was to enter only the existing rents in his record, the public revenue would suffer, for, as we have seen, the Regulation declared that the revised Government juma must be regulated by the facts determined at the investigation carried out by the Revenue Officer making the settlement.	None
In other words, the settlement of Government revenue was to be based on the facts ascertained and recorded under s.9.	None
The regulation nowhere contemplates that the Settlement Officer should conduct the detailed investigation prescribed by that section on two different lines and form two records, one for the purpose of assessing Government revenue and another containing entries of existing rents.	None
If the assessment of public revenue at the revised settlements and, indeed, a contemplated permanent settlement were to be based on the Revenue Officer records, as they were intended to be, it could not, as it seems to me, have been intended that their powers should be restricted to nothing done the rents actually being paid by the tenants.	None
Such a restriction of their power, besides depriving their records of much of their practical value, would render it difficult if not impossible to equalise the burthens which was one of the objects to which in revising the existing settlement the efforts of the Revenue Officers should be chiefly directed.	None
Furthermore, if the Settlement Officers record was only to contain entries of rents which were being actually paid by the tenants, there would be no need for enacting a rule of presumption as to the correctness of such entries providing for a right of challenge in a regular suit.	None
Neither the tenant who in that case would continue to pay the some rent as before, nor the zamindar who was till then content to receive that rent, would think of questioning the correctness of the Settlement Officers record in such circumstances.	None
On the other hand, would it not be reasonable to infer that this provision was made because the officer was given the power to settle rents, altering them where necessary, and the exercise of such power might give rise to disputes.	None
These considerations seem to me to afford cogent reasons for rejecting the view that the Settlement Officer acting under s. 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 had power only to find out and record the existing rates or rent.	None
I have already endeavoured to show that expressions used in different places in the Regulation are also apt to support the wider construction.	None
22.	None
Reference was made to the Bengal Rent Acts, such as Act X of 1859, Act VII of 1869, Act III of 1878 and Act VIII of 1879 as showing that, whenever the Legislature contemplated that revenue officers should have the power of enhancing rents, express provisions were made in that behalf and stringent safeguards were inserted confining such power to specific grounds, and it was said that, in the absence of such provisions in Act XXXI of 1858 or Regulation VII of 1822, the Revenue Officer acting under these statutes was not competent to exercise such power.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed on several decisions of the Calcutta High Court such as Akshay Kumar Dutt v. Shama Charan Patanda, Ishur Chandra Sarkar v. Troylukhya Nath Sinha, Jagadindra Nath Ray v. Mohendra Nath Mazumdar, and Dhirendra Ch.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rai and others v. Nawab Khaja Habibullah and others, where it was held that the Settlement Officer acting under Regulation VII of 1822 had no power to settle or enhance rents but could only record the existing rates of rent.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.	None
It is not, in my view, a correct approach to the true interpretation of the provisions of s. 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 or of s. 2 of Act XXXI of 1858 to examine the Rent Acts passed many years later to see how the power of enhancement of rent was restricted and what conditions were stipulated as prerequisites for its exercise in those statutes, and then to consider whether it could have been intended in the earlier legislation that the Revenue Officers should excise that power without such restrictions and conditions.	None
It would appear that these officers abused such power by an inconsiderate and injudicious exercise thereof, and the later statutes provided those safeguards in order to prevent such abuse.	None
Act III of 1878, for instance, declared that it was expedient to define and limit the powers of Settlement officers and imposed certain limitations on such power, but at the same time provided that, where in the course of any settlement proceedings conducted under Regulation VII of 1822, a higher rent has been recorded as demandable from any undertenant than was previously paid by him, such rent shall be deemed to have been correctly enhanced until the contrary is proved.	None
It is worthy of note that this provision, while setting at rest whatever doubts there might have been regarding the manner in which the power of enhancement had been exercised, did not seek to remove any doubt as to the existence of such poser which was assumed.	None
This Act was repealed next year by Act X of 1879 which by sec.	None
4 provided that the limitations and conditions imposed on the power of enhancement of rent by secs.	None
13, 14 and 17 of Act X of 1858 shall not affect any settlement proceedings under Regulation VII of 1822.	None
Thus, the later legislative enactment, so far from supporting a restrictive construction as to the scope and extent of the powers of the Settlement Officer, would seem to accept the position that the Officer had the power, under the Regulation of enhancing the rents payable by the tenants.	None
24.	None
As regards the decisions referred to above, it is interesting to find that in the earlier cases the learned Judges, while holding that the enhanced rate recorded by the Settlement Officer under Regulation VII of 1822 could not be enforced against the tenant unless he had assented to such enhancement, based their decision not on the lack of power in the Officer to settle or enhance rents but on the non observance of the conditions imposed by the later statutes which were held to qualify his powers under the Regulation.	None
In J. P. DSilva v. Raj Coomar Dutt and others, for instance, where the Plaintiff sued for rent on the basis of the rate recorded by the Settlement Officer, the defence was that, no notice of enhancement as required by sec.	None
13 of Act X of 1859 having been issued by the Plaintiff, the Defendant was not liable to pay the rent at the enhanced rate.	None
In upholding the plea, the ground of decision was thus expressed by Norman, C.J.	None
Whatever, therefore, might have been the effect of a resettlement and reassessment under sec.	None
7 of Regulation VII of 1822 and of the record of the Collector made at the time of such resettlement under sec.	None
9 of the same Regulation with reference to the rights of under tenants before the passing of Act X of 1859, we think that the provisions of secs.	None
7 and 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 must now be read as qualified by sec.	None
13 of Act X of 1859.	Reasoning
The same view was taken in Akshay Kumar Dutt v. Shaman Charan Patitanda, following the earlier decision.	None
In Ishur Chandra Sarkar v. Troylukhya Nath Sinha, however, Mullick, J., for the first time struck a new note and expressed the view that Regulation VII of 1822 did not authorise the settlement of fair rents.	None
Referring to the earlier decisions he remarked Whatever may have been the view previously held by some Courts it is clear that since Act X of 1859 came into operation this Court has always held that the provisions of secs.	None
7 and 8 of Regulation VII of 1822 must be read as qualified by Act X of 1859 and subsequent Rent Acts.	None
This would be a sufficient and satisfactory ground of decision in that case.	None
The learned Judge proceeded, however, to express his opinion that all that the Settlement Officer is entitled to do is to record the existing rents, and found support for it in the history of settlement law in Bengal.	None
He apparently regarded the restrictions and conditions imposed on the exercise of the power of enhancement in later legislation as so inseparable a feature of the power that it could not well have existed without these restrictions and conditions.	None
He did not advert to any of the considerations to which reference has been made above, not did he make any attempt to construe the relevant words and expressions used in different parts of the Regulation.	None
Jenkins, C.J., in a brief judgment contented himself with the remark that as the proceedings were under Regulation VII of 1822 and not under the Tenancy Act, the Defendant was not bound by the enhancement of rent in the absence of his assent, which was also the ratio decidendi in the earlier cases.	None
The view of Mullick, J., however, was adopted in the subsequent decisions without further examination of the subject until the learned Judges in the present case, reconsidered the point and reviewed the decisions, but, in my opinion, went too far in the other direction in holding that the settlement of rent under Regulation VII of 1822 had the same consequence as a settlement under the Bengal Tenancy Act.	None
25.	None
It was next argued that, even if the Settlement Officer was authorised to settle additional rents payable by undertenants in an estate it was only for the purpose of assessing the estate to Government revenue and that such settlement could not create any obligation binding on the tenant to pay the rent.	None
The decision in Dhirendra Ch.	None
Rai and Others v. Nawab Khaja Habibullah and others, to which our attention was drawn, no doubt supports this contention.	None
The facts of that case were more or less similar to those before us, except that the tenancy there in question was agricultural.	None
The claim of the proprietor for rent in the basis of the Diara Officers determination was rejected on the ground that such determination was only for assessment of revenue and not for fixing liability on the undertenant.	None
The learned Judges referred to the repeal of the last para.	None
of clause (1) of sec.	None
4 of Regulation XI of 1825 by the Bengal Tenancy Act, s. 52 of which has made provision for increase of rent for increase in area.	None
No proceedings having been taken under the latter provision and no rent having been settled under Chapter X Part II of the Bengal Tenancy Act, it was held that there does not appear to be any provision in the law under which it would be obligatory on the tenant to pay the rent determined by the Diara Officer.	None
The learned Judges dismissed s. 9 of Regulation VII of 1822, which was also relied on before them, with the remark that the Collector was not empowered under that section to determine any rent so as to fix the under tenant with liability to pay the amount fixed on his landlord but he was only to record existing rights.	None
This decision was dissented from in the judgment under appeal.	None
The decision may, however, be supported on the ground that, as the tenancy there in question was agricultural and fell within the scope of the Bengal Tenancy Act, the provisions of S. 52 and Chapter X Part II thereof must be taken to form a code in respect of the matters to which they relate and must exclusively govern the case the provisions of other statutes which would otherwise have application being regarded as qualified or superseded to that extent.	None
But where, as in the present case, the tenancy is nonagricultural the position is different and the observation of the learned Judges in that case regarding the scope and effect of s. 2 of Act XXXI of 1858 and s. 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 seem to me to be open to question.	None
26.	None
It may be conceded that the language of the second para, of s. 2 cannot be read as creating a liability in the undertenant to pay the rent determined by the Settlement Officer.	None
His determination could no more create a liability than a decree of a civil court.	None
The source of the obligation must be sought elsewhere.	None
The learned Judges apparently thought that the source was to be found in the last para, of clause (1) of s. 4 of Regulation XI of 1825, and that para, having been repealed by the Bengal Tenancy Act, the determination by the Settlement Officer under s. 2 of Act XXXI of 1858 was considered ineffectual by itself to fasten liability on the undertenant, and to have no significance except for the purpose of assessment of revenue.	None
This view overlooks that the provision in Regulation XI of 1825 referred to above did not purport to impose any liability.	None
It is a proviso to the earlier provision on the clause that land gained by alluvion shall be considered an increment to the tenure of the person to whose land it was annexed, and it states that such person shall not be considered exempt from the payment of any increase of rent to which he may be justly liable by his engagements or by established usage.	None
In other words, it merely saves preexisting liabilities founded on contract, express or implied, or on custom.	None
The repeal of this proviso could therefore, affect the position as regards the Settlement Officers determination of additional rent under s. 2 of Act XXXI of 1858.	None
If the undertenure was held under a contract, the officer was to determine whether any or what additional rent was payable under the terms of that contract.	None
Where there was no contract, he was to base his determination on customary rights.	None
In either case his determination had operative force as between the proprietor and the undertenant also and could not be ignored as having no significance except for purposes of assessment of revenue.	None
It would indeed be unfair to the landlord that the rental assets of his estate should be determined and revenue based thereon, without such determination having any practical value visavis his tenants, and that is why it has been the legislative practice in this country from very early times to authorise the use of the information regarding the rents and other particulars ascertained and recorded by the Settlement Officer, though primarily for purposes of assessment of revenue, also for the adjudication of disputes between the landlord and the tenant and attach to such information varying degrees of probative value.	None
This brings us to consideration of the question What is the effect of the determination of the Diara Officer recorded by him in the Settlement Khatian (Ex. IV) on which the suit was brought ?	Issue
The answer turns on the true interpretation of the relevant provisions of Regulation VII of 1822 which, by s. 2 of Act XXXI of 1858, so far as the same may be applicable are hereby declared to extend to all settlements made under this Act.	None
27.	Issue
I may mention here, only to dismiss, the suggestion of the appellants counsel that the words settlements made under this Act refer only to settlements of land revenue and not to the determination of the Settlement Officer as regards additional rent.	None
The expression clearly refers to the settlement of alluvial and as could be seen from the title, the preamble and the provisions of the Act, all of which contain references to such settlements.	None
As the determination of additional rent is made part of the duty of all officers making settlement of such land the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822 must also be attracted to such determination.	None
28.	Issue
The relevant portions of the Regulation are contained in the preamble and s.9.	None
The preamble declares inter alia, that it is the desire of Government that the proceedings held and the records formed by the Collectors when making settlements or otherwise specially employed in conducting enquiries of the above nature should be such as that all demands, claims and suits may be adjudicated and determined according to the facts therein stated until the same shall have been formally altered or it shall be shown by the result of a full investigation in a regular suit that the proceeding or record of the Collector was erroneous of incomplete.	None
The concluding portion of Clause (1) of sec.	None
9 gives effect to his desire by enacting the provision quoted above as to the demands of the zamindars being regulated by the rates of rent and modes of payment recorded in the Collectors proceedings until distinctly altered by mutual agreement or after full investigation in a regular suit, i.e., a suit not governed by summary proceedings.	Reasoning
It was argued by Mr. Chakravarty on behalf of the Respondent that this provision meant that the rates of rent recorded by the Settlement Officer must be regarded by Courts adjudicating on zamindars demands for rent as conclusive where the tenant failed to bring a regular suit for alteration of the Settlement Officers record, and that, no such suit having admittedly been brought by the appellant company in the present case, the respondents claim for rent based on the Khatian must be decreed.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, it was urged by Mr. Banerjee (as an alternative to his extreme contention that the Settlement Officers determination of rent was a nullity and should be ignored, which I have already rejected) that the proviso aforesaid did not render it necessary that the tenant challenging the correctness of the rate of rent recorded by the Settlement Officer should sue as plaintiff for an alteration of such rate but that it was open to him in the landlords suit for rent, where such suit is brought as a regular suit a civil court, to plead by way of defence, that the record of the Officer was erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent having brought this suit as a regular suit in a civil court, the appellant could show that the entry in the Khatian No. 556 was erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
This aspect of the matter, it would seem, was not presented to the High Court, for the learned Judges make no reference to it in their judgment.	None
They were apparently pressed with the two extreme contentions referred to earlier in this judgment, as indeed we were during the greater part of the debate, and they accepted the contention of the landlord and rejected that of the tenant.	None
We have accordingly to decide the point now raised by Mr. Banerjee, without the advantage of having before us the views of the learned Judges of the High Court.	Issue
29.	Issue
The respondents contention, as already stated, formed favour with the High Court, but I am unable to accede to it.	None
The learned Judges observed that the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822 regarding appeal to the Board and the right of suit are in pari materia with those contained in Part II of Chapter X and the consequences of not availing oneself of the remedies specified in both enactments must be the same, and they referred to Kumar Chandra Singh Dudhoria v. The Midnapore Zemindary Co. Ltd. as showing what those consequence should be.	Facts
A close analysis of the provision of the Regulation shows that this view is not correct.	None
A right of appeal to the Revenue Board is no doubt conferred by para, 1 of sec.	None
29 of the Regulation, and it is provided in para.	None
5 that the decision of the Board shall be final.	None
But such right arise only in respect of the decisions of Collectors in suits of which the Collectors are empowered to take cognisance, such as summary suits for rents and the like referred to in sections 20 and 21.	None
The provisions of Rule 29 have thus no application to the determinations of the Collector and other Revenue Officers conducting investigations under s.9.	None
Nor are the provisions in the Regulation as to the right of challenge in civil suits similar to those in Chapter X of Part II of the Bengal Tenancy Act.	None
Section 104H of that Act provides that any person aggrieved by an entry of a rent settled may institute a suit in the civil court contesting the settlement, and a period of limitation is also provided for such suit.	None
Subject to the result of such suit sec.	None
104J raises an irrebuttable presumption that the rent was correctly settled, and it is not open to the defendant in a suit for rent to prove the contrary.	None
It was in view of these provisions that the Privy Council held in Kumar Chandra Singh Dudhoria v. The Midnapore Zemindary Co. Ltd. that failure to institute any suit under s. 104H of the Act within the prescribed period resulted in the disputed entry of rent becoming conclusive.	None
In the Regulation, however, different forms of words are used in providing for a right of challenge in a civil court.	None
In regard to particulars recorded under s. 9, the form used, as already indicated, is until distinctly altered after full investigation in a regular suit, which is different from the form adopted in s. 104H of the Bengal Tenancy Act that is to say, whereas the latter provisions makes it necessary for the party aggrieved by the settlement and desiring to contest it to institute a suit in the civil court, clause (1) of s. 9 is so worded as to admit of the Settlement Officers entry of rent being challenged even by way of defence in a suit brought by the landlord for rent, provided of course, such suit is brought as a regular suit in a civil court.	None
The distinction between the two forms is further emphasised by the fact that, in certain other case, the Regulation it self has adopted the other form.	None
For instance, in sec. 14 (1) the Collector is empowered to decide certain questions in the first instance, leaving the party who may deem himself aggrieved to seek redress by the regular suit in the courts to try his right.	None
In clause (4) of the same section, the Collector is authorised to restore a person to possession if he had been wrongly dispossessed in the preceding year, and it is provided that the opposite party shall in such case be left to bring regular suit in court to try the question of right.	None
The provision in s. 9, however, does no more than raise a presumption of correctness of the record made by the Settlement Officer until it is proved by evidence to be incorrect in a regular suit.	None
30.	Issue
The question accordingly arises whether the appellant in the present case has shown that the entry in the Khatian on which the suit was based was wronglymade.	Issue
This point was raised by Issue No.2.	None
The appellants main ground of attack was that the Diara Officer was bound to give effect to the terms of the patta of 1907 according to which the appellant pass entitled to hold the newly formed chur rentfree till it attained the level of the high land demised under the patta, which, according to his case, it had not attained before the suit.	None
The patta was before the officer but, thorough he referred to its terms in the Diara Assessment Roll (Ex. D), he fixed the rent for the new land on the basis of another patta apparently relating to some other hand.	None
I am of opinion that this contention of the appellant is bound to prevail.	None
Mr. Chakravarti having conceded that sec.	None
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act has no application to the case, there is no provisions of law which does not justify the Diara Officer to disregard or override the contractual rights of parties and he is not entitled any more than a Settlement Officer settling fair rents under Chapter X Part II of the Bengal Tenancy Act (see Kumar Chandra Singh Dudhoria v. The Midnapore Zemindary Co. Ltd.	None
(3) to settle rents payable by tenants in such manner as to conflict with existing contacts.	None
It follows that the entry in the Khatian No. 556 on which the respondents claim in the suit was based must be held to be erroneous.	None
In this view it is unnecessary to deal with the question of levels especially as the suit has not been based on the contract embodies on the patta of 1907.	None
MAHAJAN, J.  31.	None
I agree with the judgment delivered by my brother Mukherjee, J. As we are differing from the judgment of the High Court and the matter concerns the interpretation of a statute, I would add a few observations of my own.	None
32.	Issue
There is no decision of this Court or of their Lordships of the Privy Council on the question that falls for decision in the present appeal.	Facts
There are, however, earlier decisions of the High Court of Calcutta on the construction of Regulation VII of 1822 and Act XXXI of 1858 which are contrary to the view expressed by the two learned Judges of the High Court of Calcutta in thief decision under appeal.	Facts
Without referring the matter to a Full Bench (which procedure should have been appositely adopted) the learned Judges either declined to follow the reasoning adopted in these decisions or attempted to distinguish them on grounds which seem to me superficial.	Facts
The decision they eventually gave is in these terms On a plain reading of Regulation VII of 1822 uninfluenced by any judicial interpretation, it is easily possible to hold that settlement of other rights of undertenants is within the purview of Regulation VII of 1822, and that the duty of the Collector is not only to ascertain the assets for the purpose of fixing the revenue but also to define and settle rents payable by undertenants, and that subject to a right of suit in the Civil Court, the scheme of the Regulation is to make the decision of the Revenue Authorities final.	Facts
IF, however, there be any doubt in the matter under that Regulation, the language of Act XXXI of 1858 appears to us to be quite clear and explicit.	Facts
The portion of section 2 of that Act quoted clearly enjoins that is shall be the duty of the Revenue Officer to ascertain and record all such rights and to determine whether any and what additional rent shall be payable in respect of alluvial land by the person or persons entitled to any undertenure in the original estate In our opinion the provisions of Act XXXI of 1858 read with Regulation VII of 1822 in terms clearly contemplate the settling and determination of the rent payable by the undertenants and not merely the recording of existing rights, as contended by Mr. A. N. Bose. 33.	Facts
The point canvassed before the High Court and before us was whether on the facts and the circumstances of this case the Revenue Officer had jurisdiction to settle fair and equitable rent which would be binding on the respondent and whether such settlement could supersede the contract between the parties.	Issue
This point has to be answered on the language of Regulation VII of 1822 and Act XXXI of 1858.	None
Reliance was placed in the High Court on section 191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act as authorising the Revenue Officer to settle fair and equitable rents even in cases where they were determined by a contract.	None
This contention was given up in this Court as it could not be supported, the Act admittedly having no application to cases of tenancies of a nonagricultural character.	None
34.	Issue
Section 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 deals with the duties of Collectors and other officers exercising powers of Collector on the occasion of making and revising settlement of the land revenue.	None
It is said in this section that it will be their duty to unite with the adjustment of the assessment and the investigation of the extent and produce of the lands, the object of ascertaining and recording the fullest possible information in regard to land tenures, the rights, interests and privileges of the various classes of the agricultural community, and that For this purpose, their proceedings shall embrace the formation of as accurate a record as possible, of all local usage connected with land tenure, as full as practicable a specification of all persons enjoying the possession and property of the soil, or vested with any heritable or transferable interest in the land or the rents of it, care being taken to distinguish the different modes of possession and property and the real nature and extend of the interests held, more especially where several persons may hold interests in the same subject matter of different kinds or degrees.	None
35.	Issue
It is quite clear from the phraseology employed in the section, that the Collectors were enjoined with the duty of preparing as accurate a record as possible of to the matters mentioned and they had to ascertain the fullest possible information on the rights of the tenants, their interests, etc.	None
The section nowhere enjoins on the Collectors a duty of fixing fair or equitable rents between tenants and the proprietors.	None
It does not confer jurisdiction on them to enhance or abate rents.	None
The permeable to the regulation is in the following terms And whereas, a moderate assessment being equally conducive to the true interests of Government and to the wellbeing of its subjects, it is the wish and intention of Government, that in revising the existing settlement, the efforts of the Revenue Officers should chiefly be directed not to any general and extensive enhancement of the Jumma, but to the objects of equalising the public burthens, and of ascertaining, settling, and recording the rights, interests, privileges, and properties of all persons and classes owning, occupying, managing, or cultivating the lands, or gathering or disposing of its produce, or collecting or appropriating the rent or revenue payable on account of land, or the produce of land, or paying, or reviving any ceases, contributions, or perquisites to or from any person resident in or owning, occupying, or holding parcel of any village or mohaul 36.	None
Emphasis was laid on the expression settling, for supporting the contention that it was the duty of the Collector to determine rents payable by tenants after an adjudication, and thus fix fair and equitable rents of holdings.	None
The word settle has not been repeated in sec.	None
9 of the Regulation and any reference to the preamble, when the language of the section is different, would not, in my opinion, be permissible.	None
Moreover, the word settle in the context in which it has been used does not convey the meaning that it includes within its scope the power to enhance and abate rents or to determine fair and equitable rents.	None
In order to get true information and ascertain existing rents the Revenue Officer may have to determine or settle what the customary or existing rent, is, one party asserting one rate of customary rent and the other party alleging a different rate.	None
Moreover, even the dictionary meaning of the word settle does not warrant the view that it use simpliciter implies a power to fix fair and equitable rents or a powers to enhance them.	None
37.	Issue
The section in my view mainly concerns itself with laying down the duties of the Collectors and says that they should collect the fullest possible information in regard to all matters for the purpose of preparing as accurate a record as possible and this was its main purpose.	None
The Collector was not constituted an arbiter of rents and the section does not make his decision conclusive on the point.	None
A power to enhance or abate rents or to fix them on equitable basis has to be conferred specifically or the language employed should be such from which it can be readily inferred Words employed in the section neither expressly nor impliedly lead to that conclusion.	None
The sentence in the permeable on which stress was laid does not concern landlords and tenants alone.	None
It concerns all persons having any interest in land or any privilege in it, and settling their rights only means ascertaining their existing status.	None
After having stated the duties of the Collectors in this matter the section proceeds to enact that The information collected on the above points should be so arranged and recorded, as to admit of an immediate reference hereafter by the courts of judicature it being understood and declared, that all decision on the demands of the Zamindars shall hereafter be regulated by the rates of rent and modes of payment avowed and ascertained at the settlement, and recorded in the Collectors proceedings, until altered by mutual agreement, or after full investigation in a regular suit.	Reasoning
38.	Issue
The plain construction of the words above cited is that the information collected and recorded in the record of rights prepared in accordance with the provisions of the section was to be presumptive evidence of the facts stated therein and the Courts were to decide dispute in accordance with the entries until those entries were either altered by mutual agreement subsequently or were proved unreliable at an investigation in a regular suit.	None
39.	Issue
Emphasis was laid by the learned counsel for the respondent on the words All decision on the demands of zamindars shall hereafter be regulated by the rates of rents and modes of payment ascertained at the settlement until altered after full investigation in a regular suit.	None
The learned counsel wished to read this phrase as synonymous with the language The decision of the Revenue Officer on all demands of zamindars shall be conclusive till set aside by a regular suit at the instance of the aggrieved party.	None
40.	None
In my opinion this contention cannot be sustained and the language used in this section cannot bear the construction sought to be put upon it.	None
All that the section says is that the rents as certained at the settlement shall be the basis of decisions in regard to demands by zamindars till these rents are altered after full investigation in a regular suit.	Reasoning
A zamindar could not demand rent beyond that recorded in the record unless he proved that the entry was erroneous and this could only be done during a regular suit.	None
It was immaterial whether that suit was by a landlord or by a tenant.	None
The language employed is not similar to that employed in Or.	None
XXI R. 63 of the Code of Civil Procedure or other similar phraseology employed in other statutes.	None
No finality was given to any decision of the Collector, but it was said that the ascertainment made by him of rents will regulate a decision of a Civil Court till such ascertainment was found on full investigation in a Court of law to be erroneous.	None
The jurisdiction of Civil Court was kept alive and not ousted by the regulation regarding the matters cited in the record of rights.	None
41.	Issue
The learned Judges of the High Court were impressed with the arguments which they accepted that the regulation was a selfcontained law on the question of determination and settlement of rents that from the decision of the Collector under sec.	None
9 a right was conferred on the aggrieved party to appeal to the Board of Revenue that a further right of suit was given to avoid such a decision, and till that was done the decision was final.	None
If the assumption that the ascertainment by the Collector of rents amounted to a decision by him and that the aggrieved party has a right of appeal as well as a right of suit within a time prescribed for such a decision and further that the regulation is an exhaustive code of relations between the landlord and tenant is correct, then no exception can be taken to the view expressed by the High Court.	None
There is however no justification for either of these assumptions.	None
No judicial determination of any question by the Collector is contemplated by the provisions of sec.	None
9 of the Regulation.	None
It is however true that in the process of ascertaining rents etc., he has to arrive at certain conclusions and those conclusions had to be the basis of forming the record of rights but that does not amount to a decision in the true sense of the term.	None
As regards the right of appeal it was conceded before us that no appeal lay to the Board of rights under sec.	None
9, and that the jurisdiction of the record of rights under sec.	None
9, and that the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to examine the question of correctness of the entries in regular suits was not ousted.	None
No procedure was prescribed with in the four corners of the Regulation for this purpose.	None
That being so, the Regulation cannot be held to be an exhaustive code regulating the relations of landlords and tenants.	None
42.	None
It was argued that under sec.	None
20 of the Regulation an aggrieved party could raise the question of enhancement of rent by a summary suit before the Revenue Officer and that under sec.	None
30 he was at liberty to institute a complaint in a regular suit before the Civil Court.	None
In my judgment reference to these sections is based on a misconception as to their true scope and purpose.	None
43. Sec.	None
20 enacts that it shall be competent to the Government to restrict the authority of Collectors or to vest such of the Collectors as it thinks fit with special authority to receive and try and determine in the first instance, subject to regular suit, all or any of the questions of the nature specified in the aforesaid sections, though such Collectors may not be engaged in the settlement of land revenue.	None
Sec. 9 is not in the list of aforesaid sections and hence Government could not confer on Collectors not engaged in the duty of making a settlement of land revenue authority to hear summary suits about matters noted in sec.9.	None
Then the section states that it shall be competent to Government to vest in such of the Collectors as it thinks fir authority to receive, try and determine by summary process, all suits for rent which may be preferred by zamindars, talookdars or other sudder malguzars or farmers of land against any dependent talookdar, zamindar, under render, ryat, or other undertenant of whatever denomination, as well as all applications by ryats and under tenants contesting the demand of a sudder malguzar or farmer, and all complaints preferred by ryats or other undertenants of whatever, description, against landholders or farmers of land  on account of excessive demands or undue exaction of rent whether levied by distraint or otherwise, as well all suits relative to the adjustment of accounts between landholders and farmers of land or undertenants of whatever description,  and generally complaints of any deviation from the regulation, or from the established usage of the country relative to the matters aforesaid, or any violation of subsisting engagements in disputes respecting the rent and occupancy of land, between landlords or farmers of land, and their undertenants of whatever denomination.	None
This section empowers the Government to confer jurisdiction on such Collectors as it thinks fit to rye summarily disputes that may arise between a landlord and a tenant in regard to rent.	None
It does not concern itself with the correction of entries made in a record of rights under sec.	None
9.	None
It confers no authority on these Collectors to correct those entries.	None
Within sec.	None
9 itself the mode and manner of correcting these entries has been enacted and the procedure of a summary suit under sec.	None
20 is not contemplated for their alteration.	None
The section says in clear terms that they can only be altered by mutual agreement, or by investigation in a regular suit, and that being so, the reference to sec.	None
20 by the learned counsel in support of his contention is not very helpful.	None
It may also be observed that the last part sec.	None
20 above cited indicates that such powers were to be conferred for the purpose of checking any deviations from the Regulation or from the existing engagements and not for enhancement of rents or for abatement of rents that stood decided by usage or contract.	None
44. Sec. 30, to which reference was made, reads as follows  All persons having claims or complaints to prefer of the nature of those made cognizable by collectors under the provisions of this regulation, and not wishing to avail themselves of the summary process authorized in that court, shall be at liberty to institute their claims or complaints in the first instance by a regular suit before the local moonsiff, or in the zillah or city adult, or provincial court of the division, according as the suit may be cognizable in these Courts respectively, under the general regulations for the administration of civil justice.	None
45.	None
A plain reading of the section indicates that it enables as person, if he is so ended, to have recourse to a civil suit in the first instance without being obliged to take the remedy of a summary suit.	None
This section has no relevancy to the question involved in this case.	None
As no summary suits were contemplated for correcting entries made in the revenue records prepared under the provisions of sec.	None
9 of the Regulation, sec.	None
30 which concerns itself only with cases where a summary suit could be filed under sec.	None
20 of the Regulation cannot be pressed in service to support the contention of the Respondents.	None
46. Sec.	None
31 of the Regulation places the matter beyond doubt when it says that when a regular suit is field to alter a summary judgment passed by a Collector, the proceedings held on the summary inquiry shall be called by precept for the Court, and filed on the record of the case.	None
In the result neither sec.	None
20 nor sec.	None
30 of the Regulation has any bearing on the question of enhancement or abatement of rents and these do not confer jurisdiction on the Collectors in the matter of fixing of fair and equitable rents.	None
The Revenue Officer cannot act in the matter of enhancement of rents unless he is conferred jurisdiction to do so by statute.	None
The summary suits contemplated by sec.	None
20 are of the nature that usually arise between landlords and tenants in the ordinary way in view of their existing contracts or according to customs, usage, etc. and cover cases of illegal exacting raised by the proprietors on the tenants.	None
The concluding portion of sec.	None
20(1) fully supports this view.	None
47.	None
In expressing the above opinion I am fortified by the trend of later legislation enacted in the various Tenancy Acts in different provinces in India.	None
Whenever it was intended by the legislature to confer jurisdiction on a Collector or on a revenue authority in the matter of enhancement of abatement of rent, enactment for that purpose was made in express terms.	None
The power was not considered covered under the general powers of preparing record of rights or of ascertaining the existing state of affairs.	None
Reference may be made to sec.	None
52 of the Bengal Tenancy Act in this connection.	Facts
It may also be observed that unless jurisdiction of the civil Court is expressly ousted, the decision of a Revenue Officer or a Collector on such matters cannot be binding or conclusive, and in whatever form or in whatever action the matter arises before a Civil Court, it has jurisdiction to decide it, By way of illustration, sec.	None
104 of the Bengal Tenancy Act may be cited.	Facts
It stated In every case in which a settlement of land revenue is being, or is about to be made, the Revenue Officer shall, after publication of the draft of the recordofrights under sec.	None
103A, subsec.	None
(I), settle fair and equitable rents for tenants of every class 48 Sec. 104(h) then says Any person aggrieved by an entry of a rent settled in a Settlement Rentroll prepared under sec.	None
104A to 104F and incorporated in a recordofrights finally may institute a suit in the Civil Court which would have jurisdiction to entertain a suit for the possession of the land to which entry relates or in respect of which the omission was made.	None
That such a suit must be instituted within six months from the date of the certificate of final publication of the record.	None
Save as provided in this section, no suit shall be brought in any Civil Court in respect of the settlement of any rent or the omission to settle any rent under sec.	None
104A to 104F. 49.	None
The Code has been made exhaustive by these provision and unless a party takes that remedy provided therein, the entries in record of rights are conclusive.	None
No such procedure has been provided for in Regulation VII of 1822.	None
Secs.	None
105, 106 and 109 of the Bengal Tenancy Act furnish another illustration on the point.	None
These sections are in these terms 105.	None
When in any case in which a settlement of land revenue is not being or is not about to be made, either the landlord or the tenant applies, within four months from the date of the certificate of the final publication of the record of rights, for a settlement of rent, the Revenue Officer shall settle a fair and equitable rent in respect of the land held by the tenant.	None
106.	None
A suit may be instituted before a Revenue Officer at any time within four month from the date of the certificate of the decision of any dispute regarding any entry which a Revenue Officer has made in, or any omission which the said officer has made in the said record.	None
109.	None
A Civil Court shall not entertain any application or suit concerning any matter which is or has already been the subject of an application made in suit instituted or proceeding taken under sec.	None
105 to 108.	None
50.	None
From these provisions it is quite clear that when it is intended by the legislature to make the decision of a Revenue Officer binding it is necessary to enact specifically and clearly on the point and to lay down a procedure of contesting his decisions.	None
No such thing has been done by Regulation VII of 1832.	None
All that the Regulation did was to make presumptive evidence the entries made in the record of rights prepared in accordance with the provisions of sec.	None
9 of the Regulation, till they were proved incorrect in the course of any regular civil suit.	None
That being the scope of the Regulation, in my opinion, the High Court was in error when it held that on the plain reading of the Regulation uninfluenced by any judicial interpretation it was permissible to conclude that the duty of a Collector under the Regulation was to settle and that subject to the right of suit to a Civil Court the scheme of the Regulation was to make the decision of the Revenue Officer final.	None
51.	None
It is next convenient to deal with the second branch of the argument accepted by the High Court on the basis of Act XXXI of 1858.	None
This Act was enacted to make provisions for settlement of land gained by alluvion in the Presidency of Fort William in Bengal.	None
That was its primary object.	None
In the second paragraph of sec.	None
2 it was further provided that It shall be the duty of all officers making settlements of such lands to ascertain and record all such rights according to the rules prescribed in Regulation VII of 1822 and to determine whether any and what additional rent shall be payable in respect of the alluvial land by the person entitled to any undertenure in the original estate.	None
The provisions of the said Regulation, so far as the same may be applicable, are hereby declared to extend to all settlements made under this Act.	None
52.	None
The last part of this section has no bearing on the question of determination of additional rents.	None
It makes the provision of Regulation VII of 1822 applicable so far as is possible to the operations of the revenue authority in making settlement of revenue under Act XXXI of 1858.	None
It is not possible to argue that the word settlement in this part of the section is synonymous with the expression determination of additional rent Settlement is a well known term, meaning settlement of land revenue.	None
The sole question for decision under its section is whether the powers given by it qua determination of additional rents include within its ambit power of enhancement of the existing rents in respect of alluvial lands and, if so, whether such determination is binding on the tenant.	None
The last point can admit of denote.	None
If under Regulation VII of 1822 the decision of the Revenue authority is not conclusive and can be challenged by the tenant whenever raised in a Civil Court during a suit, a fortiori, any determination made by an officer under this Act is similarly assailable.	None
I am, however, further of the opinion that the power conferred by use of the word to determine whether any and what additional rent shall be payable in respect of the alluvial land on the Revenue Officer does not include within its scope the power of interference with an existing contract.	None
Where rent of alluvial land that subsequently accretes to a holding has already been determined between the parties, no occasion arises for determination of rent for alluvial land.	None
The true construction of these words is that the Revenue Officer was given power to fix additional rent of additional land recovered by alluvion in cases where no rent had been fixed for that land.	None
The clause presumes that for the additional land recovered by alluvion no rent is already payable by the tenant to the landlord and therefore for this additional land some rent has to be fixed it	None
but it does not contemplate cases where either by express agreement between the parties it has been provided that when alluvial land would accurate to a holding no unit will be charged for it or that rent at a particular rate will be payable for that land.	None
The agreement that for the land no rent is payable between landlord and tenant will be binding on them, though for revenue assessment the Revenue Officer may in such a case determine additional rent for the accreted land that has come to a holding by alluvion.	None
The language construed strictly does not include within its scope the question of enhancement or abatement of rats already fixed between the parties and so payable.	None
The draftsman of the section never thought that anyone will fix in advance rent for land that was under water and regarding which it was never known whether it will accurate to any particular holding.	None
53.	None
In my judgment therefore the High Court was in error when it held that sec.	None
2 of Act XXXI of 1858 authorised a Revenue Officer to settle and determine finally the rents payable by a tenant to a landlord as equitable and fair qua alluvial lands.	None
54.	None
The key to the High Court judgment is furnished in the following passage occurring therein  If the determination of rent is not to be binding on undertenants, why is there provision for issuing notification to undertenants and why is a right of appeal to the Board of a right of suit given to the aggrieved undertenant ?	None
55.	None
Notification to the undertenant was obviously necessary even if the object of the regulation was to ascertain the existing rents.	None
Right of appeal of the Board has not been given by the regulation as already stated.	None
A reference to that right seems to have been made under some misapprehension.	None
As regards the right of suit, it has not been stated that within a prescribed period of time the decision of the Revenue Officer has to be challenged and if not so challenge did would assume finality and will not be questioned in a civil Court.	None
The matter is left at large and the Regulation therefore is sent exhaustive law on this point.	None
The High Court has read something more in the language of sec.	None
9 than said by the lawmaking authority.	None
No power was conferred by the Regulation on the Collector to override a contract.	None
Even under the Bengal Tenancy Act, sec.	Facts
191 it has been held by their Lordships of the Privy Council that in determining a fair and equitable rent the Revenue Officer cannot override a contract arrived at before the Act was passed.	None
But once he has done so, the procedure to be adopted to get redress against the wrong decision is the one laid down in the Bengal Tenancy Act.	None
I feel satisfied that the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court was not justified in reaching a decision in this case against the earlier decisions of that Court.	None
Those decisions had been delivered by very learned and eminent Judges and unless cogent ground existed for departing from them, these should have been followed.	None
MUKHERJEA, J. 56.	None
This appeal is directed against a judgment of a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court dated August 25, 1945, passed in Second Appeal No. 795 of 1941, and it arises out of a suit commenced by the Respondent Plaintiff for recovery of arrears of rent alleged to be due by the Appellant Defendant in respect of certain alluvial lands, formed by recession of the river Hooghly and constituting an accretion to an already existing chur.	Issue
57.	None
To appreciate the points in controversy in this appeal, it will be necessary to state a few facts.	None
By a registered Potta dated 6th May, 1907, Raja Kishorilal Goswami, the predecessor of the Plaintiff, granted a permanent mokarari lease to a company known as Colonial Trading Company of Tourist, of two parcels of land abutting on the river Hooghly and situated in village Jugaddal within the 24Parganas Collectorate.	Facts
The first of these plots was high land, measuring 96 bighas	Facts
and it was settled at a Selami of Rs. 500 per bigha with a fixed annual rental of Rs. 25 per bigha.	Facts
The second plot was a piece of chur land situated contiguously to the first and it had an area of about 19 bighas.	Facts
The yearly rental fixed in respect of this plot was Rs. 1.5 a bigha and the Selami paid was Rs. 300 per bigha.	Facts
There was a further stipulation in the Potta if in future any new lands were formed as continuous accretions to the chur land demised by the Potta, the lessee would be entitled to hold the same free of rent Provided nevertheless that if at any time hereafter any portion of the chur land or future accretions thereto should attain a level equal to or higher than that of the high land, through natural causes, Selami and rent would be payable for such lands at the same rates as were fixed for the high land.	Facts
The purpose of the lease, as stated in the document, was to enable the lessee to erect a jute mill or other factory on the demised land.	Facts
It is admitted that the Colonial Trading Company transferred their leasehold interest under the Potta to the DefendantAppellant by a deed of assignment dated 25th August, 1908.	Facts
58.	None
It appears that in course of time a tract of land measuring about 33 bighas accreted to the demised chur lands by the fluvial action on the river Hooghly.	Facts
These alluvial accretions were the subject of a Deara proceeding started under Bengal Act IX of 1847 in the year 1931 and they were formed into a separate estate bearing Touzi No. 3226 of the 24Parganas Collectorate which was settled temporarily with the Plaintiffs predecessor.	Facts
While assessing revenue on the new estate, the Revenue Officer settled the rent payable by the Defendant lessee to the Plaintiff for the accreted lands purporting to do so under Regulation VII of 182 and the C. S. Khatian shows that Rs. 495 per year was fixed as the fair and equitable rent for the 33 bighas of land at the rate of Rs. 15 per bigha, that being the rate fixed for the chur lands in the Potta of 1907.	Facts
It was on the basis of this Settlement Khatian that the present suit was brought by the Receiver in charge of the Plaintiffs estate, claiming rent from the Defendant for the accreted lands at the rate of Rs. 495 a year from the yeas 1342 to 1345 B. S. together with interest due on the same.	Facts
In the plaint, it was stated that the rent settled by the Settlement Officer under Chapter X Part II of the Bengal Tenancy Act.	Facts
59.	None
The suit was contested by the Defendant Company who averred in their written statement that they were not aware of any proceeding for settlement of rent under Chapter X Part II of the Bengal Tenacy Act, and the lands being nonagricultural lands, the Revenue Officer was not competent in law to settle fair and equitable rents under the Bengal Tenancy Act.	Facts
It was contended further that under the term of the Potta, no rent was payable in respect of the suit land, as they had not attained the level of the high lands through natural processes and that the entry in the Settlement Khaitan, which ignored the contract between the parties was erroneous and could not impose any legal liability on the Defendant to pay the rent mentioned therein.	Facts
60.	None
After the written statement was filed, the Plaintiff applied for and obtained an order for amendment of the plaint by which reference to Chapter X of the Bengal Tenacy Act as was made in the plaint, was deleted, and it was stated in its place that the rent had been settled by the Revenue Officer under appropriate regulations and laws.	Facts
The trial proceeded on the footing that the rent was settled under Regulation VII of 1822 and sec.	Facts
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act and Mr. Chakravarty, appearing for the Plaintiff Respondent, stated at the outset that it was not his clients case that there was any proceeding under Chapter X of the Bengal Tenancy Act, 61.	Facts
The Subordinate Judge, who heard the suit, decided it substantially in favour of the Plaintiff, and with the exception of the claim for rent for the year 1342 B. S. which was held to be timebarred, the rest of the Plaintiffs claim was allowed.	Facts
It was held by the Subordinate Judge that the proceedings for settlement of rent were not ultra vires, and that the Revenue authorities were competent to settle fair and equitable rent under Regulation VII of 1822 and sec.	Facts
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act as was indicated in R. 660 of the Bengal Settlement Manual.	Facts
In the opinion of the Subordinate Judge, the provision of sec.	Facts
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act could be attracted to this scarce even though the lease was not an agricultural one.	Facts
The Subordinate Judge further found that the rent settled did not contravene the terms of contract between the parties as were embodied in the Potta of 1907 inasmuch as the present level of the lands in suit was much higher than that of the firm land a sit existed in 1907.	Facts
62.	None
Against this decision, an appeal was taken by the Defendant to the Court of the District Judge, 24Parganas.	Facts
The appeal was allowed and the District Judge reversed the decision of the trial Court and dismissed the Plaintiffs suit.	Facts
In the opinion of the District Judge, sec.	Facts
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act had no application to the facts of the present case and the Settlement Officer apparently did not purport to act under that section.	Facts
He purported to settle rent under Regulation VII of 1822 which empowers the Revenue Officer to record the existing rights and not to settle rents payable by the tenants to their landlords.	Facts
The District Judge further found, differing from the trial Court, that the evidence adduced by the Plaintiff regarding the level of the suit land being equal to or higher than the high land of the Potta was altogether worthless and it could not be said that the condition laid down in the Potta was fulfilled.	Facts
63.	None
The Plaintiff thereupon a second appeal to the High Court of Calcutta and the appeal was heard by a Division Bench consisting of Biswas and Das, JJ.	Facts
The learned Judges allowed the appeal and reversing the decision of the District Judge restored that of the trial Court.	Facts
Being aggrieved by this decision, the defendant prayed for and obtained leave to file an appeal to the Judicial Committee.	Facts
Before, however, the records of the case could be transmitted to England, the powers of this Court were enlarged by Act I of 1948 and in accordance with the provisions of that Act, the appeal has now come up before this Court for hearing.	Facts
64.	None
Two questions, it seems, were canvassed before the High Court and decided by it.	Facts
The first and the primary question was whether the Revenue Officer had jurisdiction to settle and determine rents payable by the undertenant to the proprietor, under the provision of Regulation VII of 1922 read with sec.	Facts
2 of Act XXXI of 1858	Facts
and make such determination binding upon the tenant.	Facts
The second question was whether in such a case the Settlement Officer could override any already existing contract between the parties.	Facts
Both the questions were answered by the High Court in favour of the Plaintiff.	Facts
65.	None
On the first question, the learned Judges were confronted with a large number of decided authorities of their own Court which uniformly took the view that in proceedings under Regulation VII of 1822 the Settlement Officer was only empowered to record the existing rates of rent in the villages and not to settlements which he considered fair and equitable for the different classes of tenants.	Facts
The High Court expressed the opinion that this interpretation was not borne out by the plain language of the Regulation and even if the matter was not res integral, these cases were distinguishable on the ground that in none of them the effect of sec.	Facts
2 of Act XXXI of 1858 was considered.	Facts
There was at least one decided authority which the learned Judges could not omit referring to in their judgment, where it was expressly held by a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court that the determination of additional rent as contemplated by sec.	Facts
2 of Act XXXI of 1858 could not be made legally binding on the tenant.	Facts
The High Court brushed aside this decision, pronouncing the view expressed therein to be unsound in law and contrary to the express language of the section.	Facts
On the other question, the High Court held that sec.	Facts
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act was not limited in its application to agricultural tenancies and even though the lands in the present case were not agricultural, the Revenue Officer could, under sec.	Facts
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act, settle rent in supersession of any contract existing between the parties.	Facts
66.	None
During the hearing of this appeal, Mr. Chakravarty, on behalf of the Respondent, conceded that sec.	Issue
191 of the Bengal Tenancy Act has no application to nonagricultural leases and that he would not rely on this part of the judgment of the High Court for purposes of his case.	Issue
the controversy before us, therefore, centre primarily round the point as to whether the rent fixed by the Settlement Officer in respect of the lands in suit under Regulation VII of 1822 read with sec.	Issue
2 of Act XXXI of 1858 was binding on, and legally enforceable against the tenant in spite of the fact that the tenant was not an assenting party to the fixing of the rent and there was already a contract existing between the parties which regulated the payment of rent in respect to the lands.	Issue
67.	None
For a proper determination of the point, it would be necessary, first of all, to ascertain precisely what powers can be exercised by the Revenue authorities acting under Regulation VII of 1822 and also under sec.	Issue
2 of Act XXXI of 1858 and whether those powers extend to fixing of rents payable by tenants in such manner as to make such settlement binding on the tenants.	Issue
68.	None
A subsidiary question would also require consideration, viz., what legal effect is to be given to the record of a Settlement Officer prepared under Regulation VII of 1822, although it appears that the officer purported to settle fair and equitable rents payable by tenants instead of ascertaining merely what the rents are.	Issue
69.	None
Now Regulation VII of 1822 is a piece of ancient legislation which was brought into existence in the early days of British rule in India.	None
For the purpose of appreciating the scope and object of an old statute like this and for explaining its language which may be susceptible of different meanings, it may be useful to remember the well known historical facts that led to the passing of this enactment.	None
It is a settled canon of construction that the interpreter should place himself as far as possible in the position of those whose words he is interpreting, and the meaning of certain words he is interpreting, and the meaning of certain words and terms used in an ancient document or a statute can be properly explained only by reference to the circumstances existing at the time when the statute was enacted or the document was written (x).	Reasoning
70.	None
The permanent settlement of Bengal was concluded in the year 1793.	None
In 1801, a number of districts were deded to the East India Company by the King of Oudh in order to enable the company to maintain troops for the protection of the King.	None
Two years later, as a result of Lord Lakes campaign, considerable territories in the northwestern part of India were wrested from the Marhathas and the districts of Cuttuck and Pataspur were added to the lower Bengal.	None
The question of settlement of these ceded and conquered territories soon came to the front.	None
The first result of enquiries with a view to the settlement of these new districts was to create an impression that the permanent settlement of 1793 was made hastily and on insufficient information.	None
Subsequent experience confirmed this impression and the result was that revenue settlement of these territories was made for short periods on temporary basis and the Court of Directors resolved that before they could decided on any stable settlement, it was essential that they should have full information not only respecting the general nature and resources of the districts, the extent of the land cultivated and capable of cultivation and the quality and value of the produce, but a full and particular detail of all local tenures and usages, of the rates of rent and the modes in which it was collected and distributed, of the constitution of village communities and in fact of all matters relating to the internal condition of the country.	None
It was to give effect to this resolution that Regulation VII of 1822 was passed (vide Fields Introduction to the Bengal Regulation pp 4344).	None
The Regulation being found to be useful, it was extended to settlement of all lands and interest not included in the permanent settlement, by Regulation IX of 1825.	None
Though repealed in other provinces, in Bengal it remains even to this day, subject to certain modification, the basic law of the temporary settlement system.	None
71.	None
The full title of the Regulation and its lengthy preamble give a clear idea of the objects it was intended to secure.	Reasoning
The main object undoubtly was to declare the principles according to which the settlement of revenue was to be made in the new provinces.	Reasoning
The preamble stated that the wish and intention of the Government were that in revising the existing settlement, the efforts of the Revenue Officers should be directed not to any extensive enhancement of the jama but to the objects of equalising the public burthens, and of ascertaining, settling and recording the rights, interest, privileges and properties of all persons and classes possessing interest in the lands or in the rent of produce thereof.	Reasoning
In the third place, it was stated that it was the desire of the Government that the proceedings held and the records formed by the Collectors should be such that all demands, claims and suits might be adjudged and determined according to the facts stated therein unless they were formally altered or shown to be incorrect after full investigation on a regular suit.	Reasoning
72.	None
To carry out these objects, elaborate provisions are made in the different sections of the Regulation.	None
We are not concerned with many of these section for our present purpose.	None
Sec. 3 of Regulation VII of 1822 prescribes how settlements are to be made on the expiry of the existing leases.	None
Sec. 4, upon which some stress was laid on behalf of the Respondent, contemplates cases where there are several parties interested in the land and it provides that in such cases if settlement is made with one of them, the interests of the others should be recognised and protected.	None
It has really no bearing on the question before us.	None
Sec.	Reasoning
9 clause (1) which is material to the present case lays down the nature and scope of the investigation that is to be made by the Collectors in making and revising settlements.	Reasoning
The first paragraph of clause (1) lays a duty on the Collectors and other officers on the occasion of making or revising settlements of land revenue to unite, with the adjustment of the assessment and the investigation of the extent and produce of the lands, the object of ascertaining and recording the fullest possible information in regard to landed tenures, the rights, interest and privileges of the various classes of the agricultural community.	Reasoning
For this purpose, their proceedings shall embrace the formation of as accurate a record as possible of all local usages connected with landed tenures, as full as practicable a specification of all persons enjoying the possession and property of the soil. . . .	Reasoning
care being taken to distinguish the different modes of possession and property.	Reasoning
. .	Reasoning
more especially where several persons may hold interest in the subjectmatter of different kinds or degrees.	Reasoning
The details of the records that have to be prepared where the pattidari of bhaiyachara system of tenure prevail in the locality are then set out in the paragraph that follows.	Reasoning
It is next said that A record shall likewise be formed of the rates per bigha of each description of land kind of produce demandable from the resident cultivators not claiming any transferable property in the soil, whether possessing the right of occupancy or not.	Reasoning
The only other material provision in this clause is contained in the last paragraph which runs as follows The information collected on the above points shall be so arranged and recorded as to admit of an immediate reference hereafter by the Courts of Judicature, it being understood and declared that all decisions on the demands of the zamindars shall hereafter be regulated by the rates of rent and modes of payment avowed and ascertained at the settlement, and recorded in the Collectors proceedings until distinctly altered by mutual agreement or after full investigation in a regular suit.	Reasoning
73.	None
The High Court is of opinion that the provisions of sec.	Reasoning
9 of the Regulation taken along with what is said in the preamble would definitely show that the duties of the Collector under the Regulation are not merely to ascertain and record existing rights with a view to ascertaining the assets for the purpose of fixing the revenue but also to fix and determine rents payable by under tenants and that subject to a right of suit in a Civil Court, the decision of the revenue authorities on these matters is final.	Reasoning
I do not think that this is the proper view to take on the language of the section.	Reasoning
74.	None
Regulation VII of 1822 is an enactment relating to settlement of land revenue and not to settlement of rent.	Reasoning
Unlike the rent Acts of late years, it does not purport to regulate the relation between landlord and tenant and does not lay down the conditions under which rents could be enhanced.	Reasoning
The recordofrights that has got to be prepared under the provisions of this Regulation is solely for the purpose of revenue settlement.	Reasoning
Instead of proceeding to an estimated lump sum settlement.	Reasoning
Instead of proceeding to an estimated lump sum settlement without a survey and enquiry into details as was done in 1793, it directs a survey and enquiry into the rights in every village and field for the purpose of determining the net rental or produce of the land on the basis of which revenue could be assessed.	Reasoning
The different kinds of interests in the lands are recorded with a view to enable the authorities to decide with whom the settlement should be made and it affords protection also to the holders of these interests with whom no revenue engagement is made.	Reasoning
The Revenue Officer has undoubtedly to record the rates of rent of each description of land in the village or the shares of produce demandable from the cultivators but there are rates at which rents are actually paid or crops are delivered by the tenants.	Reasoning
There are no words in the Regulation as we find in the later rent laws which entitled the Settlement Officer to fix and settle rents payable by tenants is excess of what was actually paid and that, in spite of any contract to the contrary existing between the landlord and the tenant.	Reasoning
The learned Judges of the High Court laid stress on the passage in the preamble to the Regulation which speaks of ascertaining, settling and recording the rights, interest and privileges and different classes or persons by the Collectors and also on the last paragraph of clause (1) of sec.	Reasoning
9 which says inter alia that all decisions on the demands of the Zemindar shall hereafter be regulated by the rates of rent and modes of payment avowed and ascertained at the settlement, and recorded in the Collectors proceedings until distinctly altered by mutual agreement, or after full investigation in a regular suit.	Reasoning
These words, in my opinion, show that the Collector is to settle and ascertain the existing rates and record them in his proceedings.	Reasoning
The word settling implies the idea of removing doubts and placing things in a secure and undisputed position, and ascertaining might involve determination of what was indeterminate before.	Reasoning
There may be doubts or uncertainty regarding the rates at which rents are actually paid for particular classes of land in particular villages and at the time when the Regulation was passed contractual rent was practically unknown, the payment of rent being regulated by Pargunah or customary rates.	Reasoning
It may be, that neither the landlord nor the tenant was willing to help the Settlement authorities and acquaint them with the real state of affairs.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, it would be the duty of the officer to make investigation and the findings arrived at by him on a result of the investigation would form part of his record.	Reasoning
The rights thus ascertained would be taken by courts of Law to be correct and they shall be bound to decide any dispute between the parties on the basis thereof unless the record is altered by mutual agreement or by judicial pronouncement in a regularly instituted suit.	Reasoning
75.	None
That this is the correct view of the powers of the Settlement authorities acting under Regulation VII of 1822 would be clear when we look to the subsequent rent legislation in Bengal.	Reasoning
In Bengal Act X of 1859, which was the first attempt to codify the law relating to agricultural tenancies in Bengal, definite provisions were made specifying the grounds upon which alone landlords could claim enhancement of rents paid by the tenants (vide sec.	Reasoning
17).	Reasoning
Identical provisions are to be found in Bengal Act VIII of 1869 (vide sec.	Reasoning
18) by which the procedure in suits between landlord and tenant was amended and rent suits which were triable by Collectors under Act X of 1859 were made cognisable exclusively by Civil Courts.	Reasoning
In 1878, an Act was passed (Act III of 1878) which laid down in clear terms that in settlement proceedings under Regulation VII of 1822 no rent shall be recorded higher than the rent previously payable by the tenants except on some one or more of the grounds specified in sec.	Reasoning
17 of Act X of 1859 or sec.	Reasoning
18 of Act VIII of 1869.	Reasoning
It appears that the passing of this Act was necessitated by the fact that the Settlement authorities acting under Regulation VII of 1822 had in some instances erroneously undertaken to settle fair and equitable rent thereby enhanced the rent payable by the tenants, Sec. 3 of this Act provides that these enhanced rents recorded by the Settlement Officer shall be presumed to be valid unless the contrary is proved.	Reasoning
But in order that validity may attach to rents thus recorded, it is necessary that a notice of enhancement should be served on each rayat or a jummabandi published under sec.	Reasoning
4 and sec.	Reasoning
5 requires that the grounds of enhancement shall be specified in any such notice or jummabandi.	Reasoning
The tenant is given the right under the proviso to sec.	Reasoning
3 to institute a suit contesting his liability to pay the enhanced rent within three months from the date of the service of such notice.	Reasoning
This shows that the legislature never contemplated that the Settlement Officer could alter and enhance the existing rents in a proceeding under Regulation VII of 1822.	Reasoning
Powers were given to such officer to do so by this Act when specific grounds existed as contemplated by the rent Acts of 1859 and 1869 and the procedure indicated in it was followed.	Reasoning
This Act did not, it seems, work satisfactorily and in the next year it was repealed and substituted by another Act which is known as the Bengal Rent Settlement Act (Act VIII of 1879) which made clear and specific provisions under which a Settlement Officer, in course of a proceeding for settlement of land revenue, could increase the existing rents paid by tenants and make such enhancement binding upon them.	Reasoning
The grounds on which such rents could be enhanced are stated in sec.	Reasoning
6 and the rules for the determination of rent are elaborated in sec.	Reasoning
7. Sec. 10 provides that every tenant and rayat shall be liable to pay the rent recorded as demandable from him under this Act unless it shall be proved in any suit instituted by such undertenant or rayat to contest his liability to pay the same, that such rent has not been assessed in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that there was no provision in this Act under which the Settlement Officer could ignore any contract between the parties in the matter of settlement of rent and in the case of Prionath Das v. Ram Taran Chatterji, which was a case where rent was settled under this Act, the Privy Council held that if the landlord who granted the lease himself took revenue settlement of the estate, he could not demand rent in contravention of the terms of the contract even though such rent was fixed by the Settlement Officer.	Reasoning
The Bengal Rent Settlement Act has been repealed, so far as Bengal is concerned, by the Bengal Tenancy Act of 1885 and Chapter X Part II of the Bengal Tenancy Act with the modification introduced since then, now contains the law relating to settlement of fair and equitable rent by revenue officers for all classes of tenants when settlement of land revenue is being or is about to be made and there is an express provision in this Act under which the Revenue authorities can ignore a contract between the parties if the contract was entered into subsequent to the passing of the Act.	Reasoning
76.	None
Mr. Chakravarty argues that the provisions in the Bengal Tenancy Act relating to settlement of fair and equitable rent by revenue officers must certainly be taken to be the law at the present day so far as the agricultural tenancies are concerned, and the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822 must, to that extent, be deemed to have been impliedly repealed and substituted by those of the Bengal Tenancy Act.	Reasoning
It is said, however, that the Bengal Tenancy Act does not apply to non agricultural tenancies and as regards fixing of rents for non agricultural lands the provisions have still to be found in Regulation VII of 1822, no provision being made for them in any of the rent Acts.	Reasoning
This contention is unsound and cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
As has been said already, Regulation VII of 1822 empowers the revenue officers only to record existing rents.	Reasoning
In order that the revenue officer might settle rents and enhance then when grounds of enhancement did exist, definite provisions were made in the various rent Acts and definite procedure was laid down in each of them which had to be scrupulously followed before such determination could be binding on the tenant.	Reasoning
It is true that neither the Bengal Tenancy Act nor any of the preceding rent Acts applies to nonagricultural lands and the conclusion, I think, must be that with regard to these lands the legislature intended that the rent should be regulated exclusively by contract between the parties, obviously for the reason that nonagricultural tenants do not require that protection which the law thinks proper to give to agricultural tenants in rural Bengal.	Reasoning
There may certainly be both agricultural and nonagricultural lands within an estate which is the subjectmatter of revenue settlement.	Reasoning
The revenue officer would have to assess revenue on the basis of rents payable by the nonagricultural tenants also, which may or may not be the same which the tenants are actually paying.	Reasoning
But the tenants could not be compelled in law to pay such rent which the revenue officer determines for revenue purposes and as between the landlord and the tenant the rent payable would be fixed exclusively by agreement between the parties.	Reasoning
In my opinion, therefore, the long string of decisions referred to in the judgment appealed from did interpret the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822 quite correctly and the law laid down there is perfectly should and should not be departed from.	Reasoning
77.	None
I will now turn to the provision of sec.	Issue
2 of Act XXXI of 1858 upon which so much stress has been laid by the learned Judges of the High Court.	Issue
Act XXXI of 1858 was introduced for removing doubts which were felt by the revenue authorities respecting the proper course to be followed in the settlement of land added by alluvial accession to estates paying revenue to Government.	Reasoning
Under Regulation XI 1825 whenever land is gained by gradual accession, whether from the recess of a river or of the sea, it shall be considered an increment to the estate or tenure to which it is attached.	Reasoning
The proprietor of the estate, however, can be assessed to additional revenue for the added land and the tenant to whose tenancy it is an increment, is liable to pay additional rent for it.	Reasoning
Act XXXI of 1858 is a small Act of two sections.	Reasoning
The first section lays down the two alternative courses open to the revenue authorities while making settlement of the alluvial lands.	Reasoning
The revenue assessed on the alluvial lands may be added to the jumma of the original estate or a new estate may be formed out of the added lands which is to be treated as a separate estate, no matter whether it is settled with the original proprietor or let in farm.	Reasoning
Section 2, so far as is material for our present purpose, runs as follows It shall be the duty of all officers making settlements of such land, whether the land be settled separately or incorporated with the original estate to ascertain and record all such rights, according to the rules prescribed in Regulation 7, 1822, and to determine whether any and what additional rent shall be payable in respect of the alluvial land by the person or person entitled to any undertenure in the original estate.	None
The provisions of the said Regulation, so far as the same may be applicable, are hereby declared to extend to all settlements made under this Act.	None
Thus in making the revenue settlement of the alluvial lands the Settlement Officer has got to prepare a recordofrights in accordance with the provisions of Regulation VII of 1822.	Reasoning
He is to ascertain and record the rights in exactly the same way as is contemplated by the Regulation.	Reasoning
The additional thing that is necessary under the section is that he must determine whether any and what additional rent shall be payable in respect of the alluvial land by the person or persons entitled to an undertenure in the original estate.	Reasoning
It is to be noticed that this clause speaks not of enhanced rent but of additional rent which is to be determined in respect of the additional area attached to the original tenancy of the undertenure holder by alluvial process and with regard to which presumably no rent could have been paid till then.	Reasoning
To evaluate the assets for purposes of fixing the revenue, the revenue officer has undoubtedly to fix additional rental for these additional lands but there is nothing in the section which makes such determination legally binding on the enforceable against the tenant.	Reasoning
The Act which is in the nature of a supplementary legislation does not lay down any procedure for settlement of fair rent for the additional lands in a manner which would make it binding upon the tenants.	Reasoning
The position, therefore, is that the determination of additional rent as contemplated by section 2 of Act XXXI of 1858 is only for revenue purposes and it does not create any legal obligation visavis the landlord and the tenant.	Reasoning
In the absence of any agreement between the landlord and the tenant relating to the rent for the additional lands, the proper procedure for determination of such rent, which would be binding on the tenant, would be by way of suit under section 52 of the Bengal Tenancy Act where that Act is applicable.	Reasoning
On this point again I am of opinion that the case of Dhirendra Chandra Rai v. Nawab Khaja Habibullah, was rightly decided and the learned Judges of the High Court were wrong in holding that this decision was unsound.	Reasoning
78.	None
It remains now to consider the other question raised on behalf of the respondent and which relates to the legal effect to be attached to the record of a Settlement Officer acting under Regulation VII of 1822 even if such record has been erroneously made.	Issue
Mr. Chakravarty argues that under Regulation VII of 1822 an entry as to rent payable by a tenant even if improper has got a presumptive value and it would been binding on Courts of Law unless it is altered by mutual agreement or by judicial pronouncement in a regular suit.	Arguments of Respondent
The entry as to rent that has been made in the present case, it is argued, must, therefore, be held binding unless it is set aside in an appropriate manner which the Regulation contemplates.	Arguments of Respondent
79.	None
It is true that a presumption of validity attaches to the record of the Collector under the provision of section 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 and Courts of Law are bound to act upon them till they are altered or held to be incorrect but this presumption, in my opinion, will arise only when the Revenue Officer purports to record existing rights.	Reasoning
If the officer arrogates to himself the authority to determine what the proper rent should be and not merely what it actually is, he would be acting beyond his powers as conferred by the Regulation and settlement of rent made by him would not be binding on Courts of Law and would not have to be set aside by a regular suit.	Reasoning
It appears from the record of the Settlement Officer in the present case that he was assuming that he had jurisdiction to alter rents and the expressed opinion that the existing rents paid for the nonagricultural lands by the mill companies were sufficiently high.	Reasoning
He took an average of these rates and settled that as rent for the current period.	Reasoning
Mr. Chakravarty points out that the Settlement Officer has not purported to enhance the existing rent.	Arguments of Respondent
He has, in fact, settled rents for the lands in suit at the rates specified in the Potta itself for chur lands.	Arguments of Respondent
It is argued that if in giving effect to his view of the contract between the parties the Settlement Officer has committed an error, still the record made by him would be binding on the parties until it is rectified in the manner indicated in the Regulation.	Arguments of Respondent
80.	None
Without accepting the correctness of this argument, but assuming it to be sound, it seems to me that the propriety of the entry relating to rent which has been recorded by the Settlement Officer and which has only a presumptive value, can be challenged in this very suit where the landlord has made a claim for rent on the basis of such an entry.	Reasoning
The expression regular suit as used the Regulation VII of 1822 means, in my opinion, a suit in a Civil Court which is decided not summarily but after proper investigation by the Judge himself.	Reasoning
The word regular implies that the proceeding is not a summary one.	Reasoning
Various provisions are to be found in the Regulation, according to which decisions in summary proceedings could be set aside or contested in regular suits.	Reasoning
Under the Regulations which were in force previous to 1822, the rent suits were triable by Civil Courts of Zilla Judges though in certain matters relating to distraint and other things the Judge could act summarily on reports given by the Collectors.	Reasoning
Under Regulation VII of 1831 summary suits for rents could be brought before a Collector of Revenue and his decision was final subject to the right of the aggrieved party to bring a regular suit contesting its validity in a Civil Court.	Reasoning
Under Act X of 1859, exclusive jurisdiction in rent suits was given to the Collectors but this was again taken away and restored to Civil Courts by Act VIII of 1869.	Reasoning
There is no doubt in my mind that the rent suit, which has been brought in the Court of the Subordinate Judge in the present case, would answer to the description of a regular suit as given in the Regulation, and it seems to me that it is open to the defendant to challenge the validity of the entry relating to rent as settled by the Revenue Officer by way of defence in this suit.	Reasoning
The language of section 9 of Regulation VII of 1822 does not warrant the conclusion that the party aggrieved by the entry must have to bring a suit as plaintiff and could not challenge the validity of the same by way of defence in a suit instituted against him by the other side in whose favour the entry stands, nor does it prescribe any period of time within which the record must be challenged.	Reasoning
There could be no question of limitation in a case like this, as the law of limitation bars a suit and not a defence.	Reasoning
81.	None
The question now is whether the recording of rent by the Settlement Officer in respect of the disputed lands has been a correct one having regard to the contract between the parties which the officer was bound to give effect to if he was authorised only to record the existing rent.	Issue
Under the Potta as stated already, the new accretions could be held by the lessees free of rent till they attained the level of the High land of the Potta as it existed in 1907.	Reasoning
According to the trial Judge, this condition in the Potta was fulfilled and the Subordinate Judge is of opinion that the present level of the accreted land is much higher that that of the high land in 1907.	Reasoning
On appeal this finding was reversed and it was held by the District Judge that the evidence adduced on this point on the plaintiffs side was thoroughly worthless.	Reasoning
In my opinion, this is a finding of fact which would be binding on us particularly for the reason that it was not challenged before the High Court in second appeal.	Reasoning
I am not much impressed by the argument of Mr. Chakravarty that in coming to this conclusion the District Judge misdirected himself on the question of onus of proof and laid the burden of proof wrongly on the Plaintiff.	Reasoning
It was undoubtedly the defendants case in the written statement that under the terms of the Potta the suit lands could not be assessed to rent so long as they had not risen to the level of the high lands by natural processes.	Reasoning
For the purpose of proving this, the defendant took out a commission for local investigation and besides the Commissioners report, there was oral evidence adduced on both sides.	Reasoning
The trial Judge in deciding this point in favour of the plaintiff relied mainly on the evidence of the witnesses whom the plaintiff examined and he also made certain calculations of his own on the basis of certain facts disclosed by the Commissioners report and other materials on the record.	Reasoning
The District Judge in reversing the findings of the trial court pronounced the evidence of the plaintiffs witness to be unworthy of credence and further held that the calculations of the trial Judge were based upon unreliable data.	Reasoning
In a case like this, where evidence was adduced by both parties and where it could not be said that the evidence was evenly balanced, the question of onus is not at all material even if we assume that the onus really lay on the defendant.	Reasoning
The strongest thing against the plaintiff is that he did not assail the findings of the District Judge before the High Court in second appeal and has not even taken this point in the statement of case lodged in this Court.	Reasoning
82.	None
I may mention here that if the condition in the Potta relating to the level of the accreted lands has actually been fulfilled, it would not only be not necessary for the Plaintiff but would be positively against his interest to claim rent on the basis of the C. S. Khatian.	Reasoning
The Potta fixes the rate of Rs. 25 per bigha if and when the alluvial lands reached the height of the firm land and if this required level has already been reached, then the claim should not have been Rs. 15 per bigha as has been settled by the Revenue Officer and claimed by the Plaintiff but Rs. 25 per bigha as the Potta itself lays down.	Reasoning
Therefore, the entry in the C. S. Khatian regarding the rent payable for the lands in suit should be held to be wrong and the Plaintiff suit brought on the basis of that entry must fail.	Reasoning
83.	None
In my opinion, the appeal should be allowed and the case remitted to the High Court with a direction that in place of the judgment and decree of that Court, those of the District Judge should be substituted, and the Plaintiffs suit dismissed with costs in all the Courts.	Decision
