 Sar Karia, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment, dated August 4, 1971, of the Madhya Pradesh High Court whereby the appellants Writ Petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution was dismissed.2.	None
The appellant is the Jhagrakhan Collieries (P) Ltd., a Company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act.	Facts
The Company owns three collieries in Jhagrakhan in Surguja District of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
These collieries employ over 4, 200 workmen.	Facts
At the relevant time there were three Trade Unions functioning at the collieries, namely, (1) Madhya Pradesh Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat (for short, the Panchayat) (2) Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha (for short, the Sabha), (3) Madhya Pradesh Colliery Workers Federation (f or short.	Facts
the Federation)3.	None
At the material time, the Panchayat, according to the allegations of the Company, had about 75 per cent of the workers on its rolls.	Facts
This Union conducted a complete strike for 57 days in the months of March and April 1968 at the collieries.	Facts
The Central Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry by its award recommended payment of Variable Dearness Allowance (for short, V.D.A.), correlated to the cost of living index prevailing from time to time.	Facts
T he Company accepted these recommendations.	Facts
The workers represented by , he various Unions, on the basis of the Wage Boards award demanded V.D.A. at the rate of Rs. 1.47 per day with effect from April 1, 1968 while the Company was paying i t at the rate of Rs. 1. 11 per day.	Facts
The Company refused to pay more than Rs. 1.11 per day.	Facts
Thereupon, in December 1968.	Facts
the Federation, which had a membership of 169 workers (Respondents 4 to 173 herein) made an application before the Central Labour CourtcumIndustrial Tribunal Jabalpur (for short, the Labour Court) under Section 33C(2) of the Industrial Dispute, Act (for short the Act) for determination of the amount of V.D.A. due to the workers The Company submitted its written statement on May 13. 1969, challenging the jurisdiction of the court and raised other legal objections.4.	Facts
On October 4, 1969, the Panchayat served a notice of strike under Section 22(1) of the Act on the Company together with a charter of 29 demands and threatened to strike on or after November 7, 1969 if their demands were not conceded.	None
Thereupon.	Facts
the counciliation Proceedings purporting to be under s. 22 read with s. 12(1) of the Act were held by Mr. B. D. Sharma, Assistant Labour Commissioner (C) Shahdol on the 21st and 22nd October.	Facts
1969.	Facts
In the course of these conciliation proceedings on October 22, 1969, besides other matters.	Facts
the dispute relating to V.D.A. was settled.	Facts
On October 22, 1969, the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Mr. Sharma) sent a report together with a copy of the settlement to the Government, as required by Section 12(3) of the Act.	Facts
Subsequent to the signing of this conciliation agreement, dated October 22, 1969.	Facts
the Company filed a supplementary statement on November 5, 1969, submitting that in view of the said settlement, the application under s. 33C(2) of the Act filed by the Federation, had become infructuous.	Facts
The Labour Court by its order, dated December 20, 1969 framed this additional issue Whether the claim stands settled by reason of settlement dated 22101969, if any.5.	Facts
On behalf of the workers several objections were raised to the enforceability of.	None
this settlement, Their ultimate stand was that the settlement was not in accordance with the provisions of the Act, inasmuch as it had not been brought about in proceedings before a duly appointed Conciliation Officer.	Facts
The Labour Court tried this issue as a preliminary issue.	Facts
It held that Shri Sharma was not a duly appointed Conciliation Officer on the date on which the settlement was arrived at, and consequently, it did not put an end to the dispute pending before the Labour Court.6.	Facts
To impugn this order of the Labour Court, the Company through it s agent and Mining Engineer filed a Writ Petition under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution, which as stated before, was dismissed by the High Court.	None
Hence this appeal.7.	None
Mr. Malhotra, learned Counsel for the appellant raised three points in the course of his arguments before us(1) In holding that the settlement, dated October 22, 1969 was not a settlement in the course of conciliation proceedings, the courts below have misconstrued Section 4 of the Act , inasmuch as, they have relied only upon sub section (1) and have not taken into account its subsection (2) and the relevant notification thereunder.(2) (a) Assuming that the settlement in question was not a settlement in the course of conciliation proceedings and binding under s. 18(3) on the Act, it was still a settlement binding on the workman, including respondents 4 to 173 herein, when 99 per cent of the total workmen had accepted the terms of the settlement, including V.D.A.(b)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Labour Courts order refusing permission to the appellant Company to lead evidence to prove the implementation and acceptance of the, aforesaid settlement by 99 per cent of the workers, was violative of the principles of natural justice.(3)	Arguments of Petitioner
There is nothing in the Act which prohibits the employee and the workmen from entering into a settlement during the pendency of proceedings under s. 33C(2) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other band, settlements inter se between the parties have always been preferred by this Court to the adjudicatory process.	None
Subsequently, however, Mr. Malhotra withdrew hi s contention with regard to point No.	None
(1) and requested the Court not to give any finding thereon.	Arguments of Petitioner
We, therefore, refrain from going into the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
For points (2) and (3), Mr. Malhotra placed reliance on two decisions of this Court, namely Amalgamated Coffee Estates Ltd. and ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Their workmen and others(1965 11 LLJ 1 10.)	Arguments of Petitioner
and The Sirsilk Ltd. and ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Government of Andhra Pradesh and anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1964S.C.R. 448.)8.	None
Before dealing with the points canvassed, it will be appropriate to examine the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
Section 2(p) of the Act defines settlement to mean a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings and includes a written agreement between the employer and workmen arrived at otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceeding where such agreement has been signed by the parties thereto in such manner as may be prescribed and a copy thereof has been sent to (an officer authorised in this behalf by) the appropriate Government and the conciliation officer.9.	Reasoning
As analysis of.	Reasoning
the above definition would show that it contemplates only two kinds of settlement (i) A settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation, proceedings under the Act and (ii) a written agreement between the employer and the workmen arrived at otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceedings.	Reasoning
But a written agreement of the latter kind in order to fall within the definition must satisfy two more conditions, namely (a) it must have been signed by the parties thereto in the prescribed manner, and (b) a copy thereof must have been sent to the authorities indicated in s. 2(p).10.	None
The effect of a settlement of the first kind is indicated in subsection (3) and that of the second in subs.	None
(1) of s. 18 of the Act.	None
The material part of s. 18 reads1 8)1)	None
A settlement arrived at by agreement between the employer and workmen otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceedings shall be binding on the parties to the agreement.(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), an arbitration award which has become enforceable shall be binding on the parties to the agreement who referred the dispute to arbitration.(3)	None
A settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings under this Act (or an arbitration award in a case where a notification has been issued under , sub section (3A) of Section (10A) or (an award of a Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal) which has become enforceable shall be binding on(a) all parties to the industrial dispute(b) all other parties summoned to appear in the proceedings as parties to the dispute, unless the Board, (arbitrator) (Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal), as the case may be, records the opinion that they were summoned without proper cause(c) where a party referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) is an employer, his heirs, successors or assigns in respect of the establishment to which the dispute relates(d) where a party referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) is composed of workmen, all persons who were employed in the establishment or part of the establishment, as the case may be, to which the dispute relates on the date of the dispute and all persons who subsequently become employed in that establishment or part.11.	None
It is clear from a perusal of Section 18, that a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings is binding not only on the actual parties to the industrial dispute but also on the heirs, successors or assigns of the employer on the one hand, and all the workmen in the establishment, present or future, on the other.	Reasoning
In extending the operation of such a settlement beyond the parties thereto, subsection (3) of the Section departs from the ordinary law of contract and gives effect to the principle of collective bargaining.	Reasoning
Thus, had Mr. B. D. Sharma been a duly appointed Conciliation Officer, the settlement arrived at in the conciliation proceedings, duly conducted by him under Section 12, would have been binding on the entire body of the workers including Respondents 4 to 173 represented by the Federation.	Reasoning
and others who are members of the Sabha.	Reasoning
Since the finding of the High Court to the effect that the settlement between the Panchayat and the management cannot be deemed to be settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings under the Act, now stands unassailed.	Reasoning
the aforesaid subsection (3) cannot be invoked to make it binding on Respondents 4 to 173.	None
The question remains Can it be enforced against these Respondents by virtue of subsection (1) of the Section ?	Issue
This further narrows down into the issue Were these respondents parties and signatories to the agreement between the management and the Panchayat ?	None
The answer to this question is undoubtedly in the negative.12.	None
Even Mr. Malhotra has conceded that at the time when the settlement was arrived at on October 22, 1969, these respondents and the members of the Sabha.	Arguments of Petitioner
were not Parties to it.	Arguments of Petitioner
But his argument is that subsequently by drawing V.D.A. in accordance with the settl ement, 99 of the workers have accepted the settlement which, in consequence, would be as effective against them as if they were parties to it.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is attractive but does not stand a close examination.13.	None
We have already noticed that ac cording to the scheme of s. 18, read with s. 2(d), an agreement, made otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceedings, to be a settlement within the meaning of the Act must be a written agreement signed in the manner prescribed by the Rules framed under the Act.	None
As rightly pointed out by Mr. Ramamurthy, learned Counsel for the Respondents an implied agreement by acquiescence, or conduct such as acceptance of a benefit under an agreement in which the worker acquiescing or accepting the benefit was not a party being outside the purview of the Act, is not binding on such a worker either under subsection (1) or under subsection (3) of s. 18.	Arguments of Respondent
It follows, therefore, that even if 99 of the workers have impliedly accepted the agreement arrived at on October 22, 1969, by drawing V.D.A., under it, it will notwhatever its effect under the general lawput an end to the dispute before the Labour Court and make it functus officio under the Act.14.	Arguments of Respondent
The refusal of the Labour Court to allow the appellant to lead evidence at this stage, has not caused any prejudice to the appellant.	None
The issue decided as a preliminary issue involved a question of law which could be decided on the, basis of material on record.	None
For its it was not necessary to prove that 99 of the workers had accepted the agreement dated October 22, 1969.	None
Even on an assumption of that fact in favour of the Company, the claim before the Labour Court could not be deemed to have been settled qua respondents 4 to 173.15.	None
Furthermore.	None
the decision of the Labour Court neither debars the appellant from bringing on record evidence relevant to the issues which still remain to be decided, nor does it rule out the agreement dated October 22, 1969, for all purposes.	None
Indeed, the Labour Court has in its order, towards the end, expressly said that the settlement, dated October 22, 1969, can be binding under s. 18 (1) of the Act between the contracting parties.16.	None
In view of the above, we would negative contention (2) canvassed by Mr. Malhotra.17.	None
This takes us to the third contention.	None
Assuming that the Act does not inhibit the employers and the workmen from arriving at a settlement during the pendency of proceedings under s. 33C(2) of the Act, such a settlement, not being one arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings would be enforceable only against the parties thereto.	None
In the present case, Respondents 4 to 173 and others who were not parties to the settlement dated October 22, 1969, would not be bound by it.18.	None
In the case of Amalgamated Coffee Estates Ltd. v. Their workmen (supra) cited by Mr. Malhotra, pending the appeals by the management before this Court, the subjectmatter of the award were settled between most of the managements and most of their employees represented by certain Unions.	None
An application was made requesting the Court to dispose of the appeals in terms of such settlement.	None
It was opposed on behalf of some of the employees.	None
This Court called for a finding from the Industrial Tribunal on this issueIn view of the fact that admittedly a large number of workmen employed by the appellants have accepted payments consistently with the terms of the agreements set up by the employers.	None
in their present petition, is it shown by the respondents that the said agreement is not valid and binding on them ?	None
19.	None
The Tribunal submitted the finding that in every estate payments were made in terms of the settlement and such payments were voluntary and knowingly accepted by the workmen.	None
It also held that the terms of the settlement were fair.	None
This Court accepted the finding of the Tribunal holding that the settlement appears to us also to be a fair one.	None
It therefore, decided the appeals in terms of the settlement.20.	None
It will be seen that the decision in Amalgamated Coffee Estates case (supra) stands on its own facts.	None
There the appeals arose, out of an award of the Special Industrial Tribunal for plantations in a dispute between 228 coffee, tea and rubber estates in South India and their employees referred to it under S. 10(1) whereas the instant appeal arises out of proceedings under S. 33C(2) for the recovery of money on the basis of the Wage Boards award and the dispute, if any, is about the computation of V.D.A. in implementation of that award.	Reasoning
The scope of S. 33C(2) is not the same as that of s. 10(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
In East India Coal Company Ltd. Banares Colliery, Dhanbad v. Raweshwar and Ors.(1968 1 L.L. J. 6.)	Reasoning
this Court held that although the scope of s. 33C(2) is wider than that of a 33C(1), cases which would appropriately be adjudicated under S. 10(1) are outside the purview of S. 33 C(2).	Reasoning
The provisions of S. 33C are, broadly speaking, in the nature of executing provisions.21.	None
An appeal being a rehearing of the case, in Amalgamated Coffee Estates case, the jurisdiction of the Court to decide the dispute in a just manner was coextensive with that of the Tribunal to which it was referred under s. 10(1).	None
This Court found in agreement with the re port of the Tribunal that the settlement arrived at between the most of the Unions representing most of the workers and the managements was fair and conducive to industrial peace, and therefore, it was just and appropriate to decide the dispute and dispose of the appeals in terms of the settlement.22.	Reasoning
In the case before us, the jurisdiction of the Labour Court is not only circumscribed by s 33C(2) but the matter also is yet at the initial stage.	None
The controversy between the parties still re mains to be determined on merits.	Reasoning
We.	Reasoning
therefore, do not think it necessary to say anything more with regard to contention No. 3 than what we have broadly indicated above.23.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.24.	Decision
Appeal Dismissed.	None
