 N. Variava, J. Leave granted.	None
Heard parties.	None
This Appeal has been filed against the judgment dated 21/22 August, 2003 passed by the High Court of Delhi.	Issue
Briefly stated the facts as follows On 13th November, 1959 a Notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act was issued for acquisition of app.	Facts
35,000 acres of land.	Facts
The said acquisition was for ?planned development of Delhi?.	Facts
Amongst the lands, sought to be acquired, were appellants?	Facts
land of app.	Facts
68 acres.	Facts
Clause 2(d) of the said Notification exempted lands of ?	Facts
Religious Institutions?.	None
This acquisition was challenged by a number of parties including the Appellants.	Facts
The Writ Petition filed by the Appellants was allowed by a Single Judge of the Delhi High Court on the ground that the Appellants were not heard in respect of their objections filed under Section 5A of the Land Acquisition Act.	Facts
A Division Bench of the Delhi High Court allowed the Appeal and dismissed the Writ Petition.	Facts
The Appeal filed by the Appellants in this Court was allowed by the judgment reported in Shri Mandir Sita Ramji v. Lt. Governor of Delhi Ors., (1975) 1	Facts
SCR 597.	Facts
This Court held that there had been no inquiry as to whether or not the Appellants?	Facts
land belonged to a religious institution.	Facts
Therefore, this Court quashed the Section 6 Notification and remitted the matter back to the Land Acquisition Collector to enquire into the objection of the Appellants.	Facts
It appears that the Government then decided not to pursue the earlier Section 4 Notification in respect of the Appellants?	Facts
land.	Arguments of Respondent
Another Notification dated 13th March, 1975 under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, proposing to acquire app.	Facts
300 bighas for ?planned development of Delhi? was issued.	Facts
The Appellants again challenged the proposed acquisition by filing a Writ Petition.	Facts
The Writ Petition was dismissed by the impugned order.	Facts
On behalf of the Respondents, it has been submitted that the Appellants are not entitled to maintain this Appeal as they have already sold off the land to a third party.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the Appellants no longer have any right, title or interest in the said land.	Arguments of Respondent
This has been denied by the Appellants who claim that they have only entered into a development agreement.	Arguments of Respondent
In our view, it is not necessary for us to go into this controversy.	Arguments of Respondent
It is preferable to decide the challenge to the acquisition proceedings on their own merits.	Arguments of Respondent
We have, therefore, left this question open and heard the parties on the challenge to the acquisition.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the Appellants, it was submitted that the acquisition is not for ?planned development of Delhi?.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that on 9th May, 1972 an Agreement has been entered into between the President of India on the one hand and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Cooperative Housing Building Societies on the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the Agreement is to allot to this Cooperative Society app.	Arguments of Petitioner
217 bighas and 8 biswas of land.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that this is the land of the Appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in pursuance of this Agreement a sum of Rs. 26,37,245 has been received from the society.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the acquisition is actually for the society yet it purports to show as if it is for ?	Arguments of Petitioner
Planned development of Delhi?.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that as the acquisition is for a cooperative society, the provisions of Part VII of the Land Acquisition Act and particularly Sections 39, 40 and 41 should have been complied with.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that those provisions have not been complied with and therefore the acquisition is bad and should be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other, on behalf of the Respondents it is submitted that the acquisition was effectively of 35,000 acres of land in pursuance of Notification under Section 4 issued in 1959.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that because of the orders of this Court, the Appellants?	Arguments of Respondent
land got excluded from the earlier Notification.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that land all around Appellants?	Arguments of Respondent
land was acquired in pursuance of the earlier Notification.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that in order to avoid any further complication and delay the second Notification under Section 4 was issued on 13th March, 1975.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the acquisition of Appellants?	Arguments of Respondent
land was for purposes of ?planned development of Delhi?	Arguments of Respondent
and not for any Cooperative Society.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that acquisition for ?planned development of Delhi? has been upheld by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Aflatoon v. Lt. Governor of Delhi, (1975) 4 SCC 285 .	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that the Constitution Bench has in this judgment upheld acquisition inter alia on the ground that when there is acquisition of such a large area of land, it is not possible to specify in detail what the exact purpose of acquisition is.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that an argument identical to the one now made has been negatived in that judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed on para 24 of the judgment which reads as under ?24.	None
It was contended by Dr. Singhvi that the acquisition was really for the cooperative housing societies which are companies within the definition of the word company?	None
in Section 3(e) of the Act, and, therefore, the provisions of Part VII of the Act should have been complied with.	None
Both the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court were of the view that the acquisition was not for company.	None
We see no reason to differ from their view.	None
The mere fact that after the acquisition the Government proposed to hand over, or, in fact, handed over, a portion of the property acquired for development to the cooperative housing societies would not make the acquisition one for company?.	None
Nor are we satisfied that there is any merit in the contention that compensation to be paid for the acquisition came from the consideration paid by the cooperative societies.	None
In the light of the averments in the counter affidavit filed in the writ petitions here, it is difficult to hold that it was cooperatives which provided the fund for the acquisition.	None
Merely because the Government allotted a part of the property to cooperative societies for development, it would not follow that the acquisition was for cooperative societies and, therefore, Part VII of the Act was attracted.?	None
It is submitted that the Delhi Development Authority, for whom the land has been acquired, cannot develop 35,000 acres on its own.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that it, therefore, becomes necessary to give various portions of land to various societies for the purposes of development.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that merely because land is given to societies does not mean that the acquisition is for the purposes of those societies.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the Agreement dated 9th May, 1972 does not specify that the land to be allotted to that society is the Appellants?	Arguments of Respondent
land.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the Agreement is merely to allot some land out of the 35,000 acres being acquired.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the Constitution Bench of this Court has approved such a course of action.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this submission, it was also pointed out that the planned development can only be in accordance with the Delhi Development Act and that this permitted the authority to allot land to various cooperative societies for the purposes of development.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions of both the sides.	Reasoning
In our view, there is no merit in the challenge to the proposed acquisition on the ground that the acquisition was for the purposes of the society covered by Agreement dated 9th May, 1972.	Reasoning
The subsequent Notification is merely a followup of the earlier Notification.	Reasoning
The entire acquisition is for ?planned development of Delhi?.	Reasoning
To be remembered that Appellants?	Reasoning
land is in the midst of the 35,000 acres which have been acquired pursuant to the Notification under Section 4 issued in 1959.	Reasoning
The Agreement dated 19th May, 1972 does not specify that it is the Appellants?	Reasoning
land which is to be allotted to that Society.	Reasoning
The society is to be allotted some land and even if Appellants?	Reasoning
land is allotted to this society, after acquisition, it will not mean that the acquisition was for this society.	Reasoning
Therefore, the provisions of Part VII of the Land Acquisition Act need not have been complied with.	Reasoning
It was next submitted, on behalf of the Appellants, that the Government has formulated a scheme by which parties are permitted to develop their own land.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the acquisition of land of such parties was to be withdrawn as per the policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this behalf, reliance was placed upon a letter dated 3rd March, 1987 from the office of the Prime Minister, wherein it is stated that the Appellants may be permitted to develop the land in accordance with the norms given by Delhi Development Authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed upon a letter dated 4th April, 1991 from the Director, Delhi Development Authority, to one Shri Acharya Arun Dev (whom the Appellants claim to be their power of attorney holder) wherein also the Appellants?	Arguments of Petitioner
proposal to allot the land to them for development was stated to be approved.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed upon a letter dated 17th September, 1991 from the Additional Secretary to the Minister of Urban Development as well as minutes of a meeting held on 23rd September, 1991 in the chambers of the Lt. Governor to consider the Appellants?	Arguments of Petitioner
proposal to develop the lands themselves.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on these documents, it was submitted that the Governments had decided to withdraw from the acquisition.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the Government should be held bound by its commitment to so withdraw.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that for this reason also the acquisition should be quashed.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	None
As against this, on behalf of the Respondents, it is pointed out that this very ground had been considered by the Delhi High Court on an earlier occasion.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that after looking into the relevant records the Delhi High Court had recorded in paras 18 and 19 of its judgments as follows It also appears that there was a decision relating to denotification of land in favour of one Sita Ram Bhandar Trust.	None
File thereof had been called for by the Prime Minister who ordered that no land was to be denotified without the previous approval of the Cabinet Prime Minister.	None
When this file was sent to the Ministry, based on the decision contained in respect of Sita Ram Bhandar Trust, following noting was recorded in respect of the land in question on 17th June, 1999. ?	None
Notes from page 38/N onwards may kindly be seenThe case of Denotification of village Kotla Mahigiran, Tehsil Mehrauli, New Delhi was examined without calling a fresh report uptodate position of the case from DDA.	None
The then Minister (UD) has ordered (P41/N) for the denotification of the land.	None
2. Subsequently, DDA has informed that out of 615 Bighas acquired by the Government physical possession of land measuring 600 Bighas has already been taken over by the DDA.	None
3.	None
In the meantime the file relating to denotification of land in favour of Sita Ram Bhandar Trust has been called for by the Prime Minister and the PM has ordered that no land is to be denotified without the previous approval of the Cabinet PM.	None
In view of this no further action is required in this case.	None
Submitted please.?	None
19.	None
This file was placed before the Minister.	None
It may be mentioned that in the meantime new incumbent had taken charge.	None
This new Minister took the following decision on the basis of aforesaid noting dated 17th June, 1999.	None
?	None
The file of Sita Ram Bhandar Trust has since been received back from the PMO and PM?s instructions not to denotify the land have been noted.	None
2.	None
On the Trust?s file, I have recorded my observations.	None
These observations apply in this case as well.	None
There is no justification for denotifying land, particularly when 600 bighas have already been acquired and taken over.?	None
This could not be denied by the Appellants.	Reasoning
It is thus clear that letters and minutes relied upon are mere recommendations.	Reasoning
No decision to release from acquisition had been taken.	Reasoning
In any event the Prime Minister had turned out this proposal.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, we have seen the scheme sought to be relied upon.	Reasoning
We find from the scheme that it only applies in respect of persons agencies who own and possess the land.	Reasoning
In this case possession of the land had already been taken.	Reasoning
The scheme also categorically states that the scheme would not take away the rights of the Delhi Development Authority to acquire for development of Delhi.	Reasoning
Thus the scheme was not applicable to lands of the Appellants.	Reasoning
Even under Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Act once possession is taken the Government cannot withdraw from the acquisition.	Reasoning
We thus see no substance in this contention also.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we see no merit in this Appeal.	Decision
The Appeal stands dismissed with no orders as to costs.	Decision
