Mohan, J. The writ petition and the transferred cases challenge the validity of Handlooms (Reservation of Articles for Production) Act, 1985 (22 of 1985) (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and the order bearing No. DCP BNP/1(2) 1986 dated 4th August, 1986 issued under subsection (1) of Section 3 of the Act.	Issue
This Act is to provide for reservation of certain articles for exclusive production by handlooms and for matters connected therewith.	Facts
On 31st of March, 1986, the Act came into force.	Facts
Section 4 of the Act provides for constitution of an Advisory Committee to make recommendations to the Central Government to determine the nature of any article or class of articles that may be reserved for exclusive production by handlooms.	Facts
On 2nd June, 1986, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 4 of the Act, the Central Government constituted an Advisory Committee.	Facts
The said Advisory Committee submitted its recommendations.	Facts
After considering those recommendations the impugned order dated 4th of August, 1986 was issued directing certain articles class of articles to be exclusively reserved for production by handlooms.	Facts
It is this order which is attacked on the following grounds in all these cases.2.	Facts
The Act and the impugned order are violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	Facts
According to Mr. M. N. Krishnamani, learned counsel for the petitioners total reservation of certain items of textiles in favour of handloom would have the effect of creating a monopoly.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court in State of Rajasthan v. Mohan Lal Vyas, (1971) 3 SCC 705 (AIR 1971 SC 2068 ) has categorically laid down that no monopoly can be created in favour of an individual.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similar views have been expressed by the High Courts as seen from Municipal Committee v. Haji Ismail, AIR 1967 Punj 32 and Maniram Budha Chamar v. Pannalal Motiram Chamar, AIR 1962 Madh Pra 275.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Equally, when there is a total prohibition of manufacture of these clothes by the powerloom sector, that again, violates Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submission, the learned counsel relies on Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India, (1970) 3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 530 (AIR 1970 SC 564 ) and also Narendra Kumar v. Union of India, (1960) 2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 375 (AIR 1960 SC 430 ).5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next argument of the learned counsel is that though under Rule 3(5) the Advisory Committee is to meet once a year, that has not taken place at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
The idea of such a provision is that there must be a periodic review which review has not taken place at all.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The restriction in this case if, are to be justified, it should be in public interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
Here, no public interest is subserved.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, when the powerloom goods are available at a lower rate to the detriment of powerloom manufacturers, the restrictions have come to be imposed.	Arguments of Petitioner
This submission is sought to be fortified by relying on Mohd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hanif Quareshi v. State of Bihar, 1959 SCR 629 (AIR 1958 SC 731 ) and State of Madras v. V. G. Row, 1952	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 597 at 607 (AIR 1952 SC 196 at p. 100).7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. R. F. Nariman, learned counsel appearing for Textile Mills from Gujarat in Transferred Cases Nos. 111117 of 1988 would argue as under The Cotton Textile (Control) Order 1948 dated 2nd August, 1948 and the impugned Act cannot operate in the same field.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 6 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 contains a non obstante clause.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 20 of the Cotton Textile (Control) Order, 1948 confers power on the Commissioner to reserve just as the Notification issued under the Handlooms Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, these orders will prevail as against the impugned order because Section 3 of the Act says notwithstanding Industrial Development Regulation Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Cotton Textile Commissioner while issuing orders under clause 20 is enable to augment production of handloom industry.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, this order cannot operate against the same.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Section 3 of the Act, the authority only looks at the handloom industry while under clause 20 the Cotton Textile Commissioner must have regard to the over all textile industry.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the Notification under Section 3 is ultra vires of clause 20.	None
The subjective satisfaction of this Advisory Committee constituted under Section 4 alone is taken into consideration without regard to the petitioners representation.	None
This is bad in law in view of V. G. Rows case (AIR 1952 SC 196 ) (supra).	None
The same view was reiterated in Virendra v. State of Punjab, 1958 SCR 308 (AIR 1957 SC 896 ).	None
By the impugned order there is a serious dislocation of powerloom industry and substantive rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution have been violated by Sections 3, 4, 5 and 18 of the Act.	None
Such restrictions amounting to prohibition have been struck down by this Court in Mohd.	None
Faruk v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1970) 1	None
SCR 156 (AIR 1970 SC 93 ) and Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabadv.	None
Jan Mohammed Usmanbhai, (1986) 2 SCR 700 (AIR 1986 SC 1205 ).	None
If the restrictions are unreusonable, certainly the Court will refuse to uphold the same.	None
Mr. Altaf Ahmad, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondent, Union of India, meeting these arguments, states as follows.13.	Arguments of Respondent
The Cotton Textile (Control) Order, 1948 is traceable to List III, Entry 33 of 7th Schedule of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
While the impugned Act is covered by List II, Entries 24 and 27 this is supplementary to the Industrial (Development and Regulation) Act 1951 which is traceable to List I, Entry 52 of the 7th Schedule.	Arguments of Respondent
Under the Industrial Development and Regulation Act Section 2 talks of declaration.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 3(h) states as to what is meant by Schedule.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 3(i) states Schedule means a Schedule to this Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Item 23 of 1st Schedule deals with textiles including those dyed, printed or otherwise processed.	Arguments of Respondent
Handloom industry is taken out of the purview of Industries (Development and Regulation Act) and a separate enactment, namely, Handlooms (Reservation of Articles for Production) Act, 1985 (22 of 1985), the impugned Act, has been made.	Arguments of Respondent
Cotton Textile (Control) Order, 1948 deals with finished products.	Arguments of Respondent
That is why it is traceable to Entry 33 of List III of 7th Schedule which deals with production.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the impugned Act is entirely different from the Cotton Textile (Control) Order, 1948 which is an order issued under the Essential Commodities Act.	Arguments of Respondent
There is absolutely no repugnance.14.	Arguments of Respondent
In a similar situation dealing with Sugarcane Control Order this Court explained the position visavis Industrial (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 in Ch.	Arguments of Respondent
Tika Ramji v. State of Uttar Pradesh, 1956 SCR 393 (AIR 1956 SC 676 ).	Arguments of Respondent
The ratio of that judgment will apply here.	Arguments of Respondent
The Handloom Act only gives effect to the directive principles under Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution.	None
In such a case, this Court has always upheld such restrictions.	None
As to the reasonableness, of these restrictions, the learned counsel would strongly rely on the counteraffidavit and particularly, the report of the Highpowered Study Team under the Chairmanship of Mr. B. Shivaraman, which has been quoted therein.	None
If public interest warrants, restrictions could include prohibitions as well.	None
The case in point is Narendra Kumar v. Union of India, (1960) 2	None
SCR 375 (AIR 1960 SC 430 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Dipankar P. Gupta, learned Solicitor General supplementing the argument submits that the Government studied the overall problem of textile industry for a number of years.	Arguments of Respondent
In 1964, the powerloom inquiry was constituted.	Arguments of Respondent
In 1974, a high power Study Team constituted under the Chairmanship of Mr. B. Sivaraman, the then Member, Planning Commission made the following observation in respect of effect of powerlooms and the employment in the handlooms sector in their report Every new powerloom itself put out of action six handlooms in the country.	Arguments of Respondent
A handloom actually is a family industry and not an individuals field alone.	Arguments of Respondent
When National Policy is to support the expansion of the rural industry of handloom in order to give more employment in the rural sector, we shall be working at cross purpose in encouraging at the same time powerlooms to displace a large number of handlooms.	Arguments of Respondent
Then, a Study Group was constituted in 1981.	None
An Expert Committee was constituted to go into handloom, powerloom and textile mill industries.	Arguments of Respondent
Based on this, from time to time, textile policy statements were issued.	Arguments of Respondent
In the year 1981 and 1985, it is found that next only to agricultural sector, handloom sector provides major rural employment.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the impugned Act is a product of overall assessment to protect a handloom industry which was sinking in spite of the various concessions.	Arguments of Respondent
It is incorrect to state that the powerloom sector has come to be affected.	None
Originally, the holders of four powerlooms were exempt.	None
But these powerloom owners diverted their products to larger powerloom owners.	None
Once those textiles enter the market there was no possibility of finding out whether they had been manufactured by the owners of four powerlooms.	None
Therefore, it became necessary to impose this prohibition.	None
When the Act advances a directive principle contained under Article 39(b) and (c), it cannot be called unreasonable.	None
We shall first examine the background leading to the passing of the impugned enactment.20.	Facts
On 8163, the Government of India appointed a committee, called The Powerloom Enquiry Committee under the Chairmanship of Shri Ashok Mehta.	Facts
This Committee submitted its report to the Government of India on 561964.	Facts
Amongst others, the Committee recommended that the production of coloured sarees should be reserved exclusively for handloom sector.	Facts
In a reference to reservation, the committee has said  Even with the phased programmes of introduction of powerlooms in the handloom sector, the handloom sector would continue to play a prominent role for some decades.	Facts
It will be necessary therefore, to ensure that this Sector is given assistance by a further Reservation of field of production.	Facts
The said Study Team under the Chairmanship of Mr. B. Sivaraman inter alia made the following recommendation It will be noticed that three items are reserved exclusively for the handlooms and powerlooms units having up to 4 powerlooms.	Facts
Any breach of these orders is punishable under the Essential Commodities Act.	Facts
In actual practice, however, the orders are honoured more in breach than in compliance and there is very little of prosecution under the Essential Commodities Act.	Facts
The most glaring example of such breach is the production of coloured cotton sarees by the powerlooms of Maharashtra.	Facts
Litigation of various nature is entered into by the powerloom sector to delay the process of law.	Facts
As a result, even the little punitive action that is attempted becomes infructuous.	Facts
There is also the inherent difficulty of dealing with the eight items which are also open to powerloom units with four looms and less.	Facts
Once the goods leave a powerloom it becomes very difficult to establish whether these were produced in a unit with more than four powerlooms or in a smaller unit.	Facts
As a result, the protection supposed to have been given to the hahdloom sector by reserving certain items of production for the sector has been substantially only on paper and the powerloom sector has been producing the reserved items whenever it has found it profitable to do so.	Facts
The Team recommends that the eight items which are also open powerloom units with four looms and less shall be reserved exclusively for the handloom sector.	Facts
The Government of India appointed a Study Group on Reservation of Handlooms on 12th August, 1980 under the Chairmanship of Textile Commissioner who has given the following recommendations in respect of certain articles for exclusive production by handlooms It may be true that owing to the dispersed nature of the industry, the much needed orientation of production to market needs is very much wanting in the handloom sector.	Facts
Yet more important is the inherent technological disadvantage of the handloom sector and the unequal competition that it has to face from the mill and powerloom sector on this account.	Facts
It is a matter of common knowledge that the bulk of the handlooms in the country produce bread and butter item such as grey dhoties, sarees, towels and plain household fabrics.	Facts
It is these looms which have suffered on account of the growing competition from the powerlooms.	Facts
It is in this context that the reservation of certain items of handlooms acquires importance.24.	Facts
In order to obviate the possibility of further litigations, the Study Group feels that it would be advisable to have a separate legislation for the handloom sector.	Facts
The Expert Committee observed in April, 1985 thus The vast growth of powerlooms has been due to certain advantages which they have enjoyed visavis the composite mills.	Facts
These are low wages, low fiscal levies on yarn, absence of levy on grey fabrics which are the only products of the powerlooms, wholesale evasion of protective labour legislation, low overheads, low requirements of working capital and flexibility in changing the productmix to suit market demands, etc.	Facts
As against this, it must be recognised that there are also certain advantages with the composite mills.	Facts
For instance, the yarn costs to the powerlooms are about 8 higher than for the composite mills.	Facts
The composite mills also have the advantage of much higher level of technological capabilities and marketing strength with reputed brand names established in the market and better quality control.	Facts
On balance, however, the advantage was distinctly with the powerlooms so far as the production of cotton fabrics is concerned.	Facts
That this advantage has put the composite mills in some difficulty cannot be gainsaid.	Facts
In any policy calculated to restore health to the textile industry, it would be necessary to approximately equalise the advantages disadvantages of these two sectors and the Committee has attempted to do this through its recommendations.	Facts
It is also relevant to note that the 7th Five Year Plan stresses the necessity for reservation of articles of the handloom sector.	Facts
The relevant extract of which is given below For the purpose of policies, the powerlooms in the organised mill sector and the unorganised powerloom sector shall be treated at par and allowed to compete on the basis of their inherent strength and capabilities.	Facts
Effective measure, however, would be evolved to prevent encroachment of the powerloom sector on items reserved for handlooms.	Facts
During the VIIth Plan emphasis would be laid on cooperativisation and development of handlooms through Central State level corporations, modernisation of looms and provision of technological inputs, ensure adequate availability of yarn and other raw materials, increase the production of mixed and blended fabrics on handloom, design support to improve the competitiveness of the product so as to eliminate the cost of handicap of the handloom visavis powerlooms, improve marketing and infrastructure support and strengthen the data base.	Facts
Reservation would continue under Handlooms (Reservation of Articles for Production) Act, 1985.	Facts
The provision of this Act would be enforced and the machinery for this purpose suitably strengthened.	Facts
New Spindleage would be installed in co operative sector to the extent possible.	Facts
To improve the welfare of the handloom weavers, a contributory thrift fund scheme and workshedcumhousing scheme would be taken up in the Seventh Plan.	Facts
Due to the recommendations of the various Committees under the textile policy statements announced by the Government from time to time, the reservation of certain articles for production of handloom had continued from 161950 under the Cotton Textiles (Control) Order, 1948 issued under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	Facts
However, experience showed that these orders were challenged in course (court) of law, from time to time.	Facts
The thrust of the argument on behalf of the powerloom was that they had given higher production and the powerloom cloth was cheaper than handloom fabric.	Facts
Therefore, it was contended that the Notification issued under the Essential Commodities Act which, in effect, seeks to prohibit production was not in consonance with the Essential Commodities Act.	Facts
It was further urged that the Notification provides for exemption from compliance of reservation order if sufficient reason was adduced by the producer.	Facts
It was claimed by the powerloom owners that they were not afforded such an opportunity to adduce evidence.	Facts
To overcome such difficulties, Government of India promulgated the Handlooms (Reservation of Articles of Production) Act, 1985.27.	Facts
It is necessary to set out the statement of objects and reasons of this Act which runs as follows STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONSThe handloom industry is characterised by sizeable unemployment and under employment which are due to factors like lack of organisation of weavers, inadequate availability of inputs, including working capital and absence of a regular and reliable marketing system, which can observe the entire production.	Facts
Of all these the lack of adequate marketing system is one single factor which comes in the way of proper development of handlooms.	Facts
Although a number of developmental measures have been undertaken towards improvement of the industry yet due to marketing difficulties production in the Handloom sector continues to suffer.	Facts
The inherent technological constraints suffered by the handloom sector put a disadvantage when the sector is forced to compete with mill and powerloom sectors in the open market.	Facts
It is in this context that reservation of certain items for exclusive production by handloom acquires importance.	Facts
The policy of reservation of certain items for exclusive production by handloom has been adopted since 1950.	Facts
First under the Cotton Textiles (Control) Order 1948 and later under the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	Facts
This policy has helped the handloom sector to a considerable extent.	Facts
However, during the last few years, these reservation orders issued under the Essential Commodities Act had been challenged in various Courts of law.	Facts
Though their validity had been upheld it is considered desirable to have a separate legislation so as to obviate the possibility of further litigation which may seriously affect the implementation of the reservation orders.	Facts
A study group appointed by the Government to go into this question has also suggested that it would be desirable to have a separate legislation.	Facts
It has been decided to accept this recommendation, this question has also suggested that it would be desirable to have a separate legislation.	Facts
It has been decided to accept this recommendation.	Facts
The Bill apart from enabling the Central Government to reserve by notified order certain articles or class of articles for exclusive production by handlooms after taking into consideration the recommendations of an Advisory Committee constituted under the provisions of the Bill, provides for prohibition of manufacture of such articles or class of articles by powerloom or the other sectorism penalties for the contravention of the provisions of the order and other matters necessary for implementing the provisions of the Bill also provides for giving an exemption to certain articles covered by the order if the Central Government considers it necessary so to do for the purposes of the Handloom industry.	Facts
New DelhiV. P. SinghThe 22nd	Facts
August, 1984.	None
With this background, we will examine the provisions of the Act in juxtaposition to the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act and Cotton Textile Control Order.29.	None
The Cotton Textile Control Order is an order issued under the Essential Commodities Act.	None
The object of the Essential Commodities Act is to provide, in the interest of general public, for the control of the production, supply and distribution, and trade and commerce in certain commodities.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 3 states as follows Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, the Central Government may, if it is satisfied, after considering the recommendations made to it by the Advisory Committee, that it is necessary so to do for the protection and development of the handloom industry, by order published in the Official Gazette, direct, from time to time, that any article or class of articles shall, on and from such date as may be specified in the order (hereinafter referred to as the date of reservation), be reserved for exclusive production by handlooms.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
This Act is traceable to Entry 33 of List III of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution.	None
It runs as follows Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of,(a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products(b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils(c) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates(d) raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned, and cotton seed and(e) raw jute.	None
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 is an Act which brings under central control the development and regulation of number of industries, the activities of which affect the country as a whole and the development of which must be governed by economic factors of all India import.	None
The planning of future development on sound and balance lines is sought to be secured by licensing of all new undertakings by the Central Government.	None
The Act is traceable to List I, Entry 52 which reads as under Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.	None
Section 2 of the said Act reads Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union.	None
It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the industries specified in the First Schedule.	None
Section 3 is the definition section.	None
In Clause (h) it defines Schedule meaning a Schedule to this Act, while schedule industry is defined under Clause (i) meaning any of the industries specified in the First Schedule.	None
Item 23 of First Schedule is defined as under TEXTILES (INCLUDING THOSE DYED, PRINTED OR OTHERWISE PROCESSED)1.	Arguments of Respondent
made wholly or in part of cotton, including cotton yarn, hosiery and rope2.	None
made wholly or in part of jute, including jute twine and rope3.	None
made wholly or in part of wool, including wool tops, woollen yarn, hosiery, carpets and druggets4.	None
made wholly or in part of silk, including silk yarn and hosiery5.	None
made wholly or in part of synthetic, artificial (manmade) fibres, including yarn and hosiery of such fibres.	None
The impugned Act is traceable to Items 24 and 27 of List II of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution which run as under Industries subject to the provisions of (Entries 7 and 52) of List I.27.	Arguments of Respondent
Production, supply and distribution of goods subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III.	None
Therefore, handloom industry has been taken out of Industries (Development and Regulation) Act and a separate enactment has been made.	Arguments of Respondent
In the light of the foregoing provisions, we shall examine the question whether Cotton Textile Control Order and the impugned Act can operate in the same field.	None
Section 6 of the Essential Commodities Act states Effect of orders inconsistent with other enactments Any order made under Section 3shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any enactment other than this Act or any instrument having effect by virtue of any enactment other than this Act.	None
In view of the non obstante clause it is argued that the Cotton Textile Control Order will prevail over the impugned Act.	None
We do not think this argument is correct because the Cotton Textile Control Order deals with finished products which is one of the Items mentioned in Entry 33 of List III of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution and the object of an order issued under Section 3of	None
the Essential Commodities Act has already been seen.	None
Clause 20 of the Cotton Textile Control Order enables the Commissioner to issue directions just as the present order.	None
When subsection (1) of Section 3 of the impugned Act says Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 it means it has an overriding effect.	None
That was the reason why subject of handloom textile was taken out of the purview of the First Schedule of Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 and a separate Act had come to be passed.	None
Merely because Clause (20) of the Cotton Textile Control Order confers an enabling power that does not mean that an order issued under the Essential Commodities Act will prevail.	None
In this connection, reliance is placed by Mr. Nariman, learned counsel, on Harishankar Bagla v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1955 SCR 380 at 391) (AIR 1954 SC 465 at p. 469) which runs as follows Section 6 of the Act cited above declares that an order made under Section 3shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any enactment other than this Act or any instrument having effect by virtue of any enactment other than this Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words it declares that if there is any repugnancy in an order made under Section 3with the provisions of any other enactment, then notwithstanding that inconsistency the provisions of the Order will prevail in preference to the provisions of other laws which are thus inconsistent with the provisions of the Order.	Arguments of Respondent
In dealing with the validity of Sugarcane Control Order, 1955 this Court observed in Ch.	None
Tika Ramjis (AIR 1956 SC 676 at p. 690) (supra) case as follows The relevant Entries in the respective Lists of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution are as follows List I, Entry 52 Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.	None
List II, Entry 24 Industries subject to the provisions of Entry 52 of List I.Entry 27 Production, supply and distribution of goods subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III.List III, Entry 33 As it stood prior to its amendment Trade and commerce in and production, supply and distribution of, the products of industries where the control of such industries by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.	None
Entry 33 as amended by the Constitution Third Amendment Act, 1954 Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of,(a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products(b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils(c) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates(d) raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned, and cottonseed and(e) raw jute.	None
Production, supply and distribution of goods was no doubt within the exclusive sphere of the State Legislature but it was subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III which gave concurrent powers of legislation to the Union as well as the States in the matter of trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of, the products of industries where the control of such industries by the Union was declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.	None
The controlled industries were relegated to Entry 52 of List I which was the exclusive province of Parliament leaving the other industries within Entry 24 of List II which the exclusive province of the State Legislature.	None
The products of industries which were comprised in Entry 24 of List II were dealt with by the State Legislatures which had under Entry 27 of that List power to legislate in regard to the production, supply and distribution of goods, goods according to the definition contained in Article 366(12) including all raw materials, commodities and articles.	None
When, however it came to the products of the controlled industries comprised in Entry 52 of List I, trade and commerce in, and production, supply and distribution of, these goods became the subjectmatter of Entry 33 of List III and both Parliament and the State Legislatures had jurisdiction to legislate in regard thereto.	None
The amendment of Entry 33 of List III by the Constitution Third Amendment Act, 1954, only enlarged the scope of that Entry without in any manner whatever detracting from the legislative competence of Parliament and the State Legislatures to legislate in regard to the same.	None
At page 420 (of 1956 SCR 393 ) (at p. 696 of AIR 1956 SC 676) it was held The process of manufacture of production would be comprised in Entry 24 of List II except where the induastry was a controlled industry when it would fall within Entry 52 of List I and the products of the industry would also be comprised in Entry 27 of List II except where they were the products of the controlled industries when they would fall within Entry 33 of List III.	None
This being the position, it cannot be said that the legislation which was enacted by the Centre in regard to sugar and sugarcane could fall within Entry 52 of List I.	None
Before sugar industry became a controlled industry, both sugar and sugarcane fell within Entry 27 of List II but, after a declaration was made by Parliament in 1951 by Act LXV of 1951, sugar industry became a controlled industry and the product of that industry viz., sugar was comprised in Entry 33 of List III taking it out of Entry 27 of List II.	None
Therefore, where the Cotton Textile Control Order deals with the productions while the impugned Act is an Act which deals entirely with handloom.	Reasoning
The order issued under Section 3of the Act is only for protection and development of handloom industry.	Reasoning
There is no question of both the Cotton Textile Control Order and the impugned Order operating in the same field.	Reasoning
Hence, this argument is rejected.43.	Reasoning
The next argument is that Clause (20) of the Cotton Textile Control Order enables the Textile Commissioner to have an over all view while under Section 3of the impugned Act regard is to be had only to the handloom industry.	Reasoning
We may now extract Clause (20) of the Cotton Textiles (Control) Order, 1948 which runs as follows 20.	None
(1) The Textile Commissioner may, from time to time, issue directions in writing to any manufacturer or class of manufacturers, or manufacturers generally regarding(a) the classes or specifications of cloth or yarn which each manufacturer or class of manufacturers, or manufacturers generally shall or shall not manufacture, or(b) the maximum or minimum quantities thereof which such manufacturer, or class of manufacturers generally shall manufacture during such period as may be specified in the order Provided that in issuing the direction under this subclause the Textile Commissioner shall have regard to (i) the demand for cloth or yarn and(ii) the needs of the general public(iii) the special requirements of the industry for such cloth or yarn(iv) the capacity of the manufacturer or class of manufacturer or manufacturers generally, to manufacture different descriptions or specifications of cloth or yarn and(v) the necessity to make available to the general public cloth of mass consumption.(2) While issuing any direction under subClause (i) the Textile Commissioner may also provide that such direction shall be with reference to the quantity of cloth or yarn packed by the manufacturer, or class of manufacturers or manufacturers generally during the period referred to in that subclause.(3) Every manufacturer, or class of manufacturers generally, to whom a direction has been issued shall comply with the direction.(4) Where, on an application made by any manufacturer or class of manufacturers or otherwise, the Textile Commissioner is satisfied that any direction issued by him under this clause undue hardship or difficulty to any such manufacturer or class of manufacturers he may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, direct that the directions shall not apply, or shall apply subject to such modifications as may be specified in the order, to such manufacturer or class of manufacturers.	None
As already seen, the objects of these two orders are different.	Reasoning
Therefore, the order under Section 3(1) of the impugned Act (quoted above) does not run counter to Clause (20) of Cotton Textile Control Order.	Reasoning
Accordingly, this argument is rejected.	None
Now we will examine the question whether the Act and the order are violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution?	Issue
According to Mr. Krishnamani, learned counsel, if there is a total reservation so as to create a monopoly that would be bad in law.	None
He relies on decision in State of Rajasthan v. Mohan Lal Vyas, (1971) 3 SCC 705 at 707 (AIR 1971 SC 2068 at p. 2069).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was held thus A monopoly right cannot be conferred on a citizen under the Constitution nor can it be justified under the Constitution.	None
This argument, in our opinion, proceeds on a misconception.	Reasoning
There is no question of monopoly created in favour of handloom industry.	Reasoning
Certain kinds of textiles are reserved to the handloom industry.	Reasoning
Still there are number of items available for powerloom owners which they can manufacture.	Reasoning
The items of textiles generally manufactured in the mill and powerloom sectors have been left out from reserved items.	Reasoning
Only those items which have traditionally been manufactured on handlooms have been reserved for this sector.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, the reservation orders in favour of handloom have been on the statute book since 1950.	Reasoning
But this has not deterred the growth of powerloom sector in the last three decades.	Reasoning
Recently when the powerloom started producing the items which were traditionally being manufactured on handlooms, that caused a serious inroad into the handloom industry.	Reasoning
The result was an unequal competition for the handloom sector.	Reasoning
If, as rightly pointed out in the counter affidavit of the Union of India, handloom industry is the biggest cottage industry in the country and is next only to agricultural sector in providing rural employment, certainly, the accusation that the impugned order had created a monopoly in favour of handloom industry is totally baseless.	Reasoning
In this connection, the estimates of 197778 6th Lok Sabha in its report on powerloom industry made the following observations and it is worthwhile to extract them It has, however, to be ensured that this growth of powerloom industry should not be at the cost of handloom industry otherwise it will lead to greater rural unemployment and problem of large scale migration of rural population to the industrial areas in search of employment.	Reasoning
The Committee, therefore, feels that the growth of the powerloom industry should be regulated in such a way that it does not harm the interests of the handloom industry.	Reasoning
It would be ensured that powerloom industry does not become a benami of the mill sector but is really developed by the conversion of handlooms into powerloom by the handloom weavers themselves.	Reasoning
The Committee, therefore, recommend that stringent measures may be taken to ensure that powerloom sector observe the reservations made by the handloom sector and stringent action should be taken for any violation of these orders.	Reasoning
Simultaneously, the powerloom sector should be encouraged to produce those varieties of cloth which are not being produced by the handloom sector.	Reasoning
The Committee have already in Part I of their report, recommended the formulation of an integrated textile policy assigning role to the various sectors.	Reasoning
The Committee hope that while defining the role of the powerloom sector, the above factors will be kept in view by the Government.	Reasoning
Thus, it will be clear that the reservation orders are for the continued employment of the handloom industry and are in the larger public interest.50.	Reasoning
Even factually, the allegation of monopoly is incorrect.	Reasoning
The stand in the counter affidavit is as follows It is submitted that the items which are generally manufactured in the powerloom sector have not been reserved for handloom sector at the cost of powerlooms or mill sector.	Reasoning
The total production of textile sector at the end of Sixth Plan (198485) was 11, 956 million mts.	Reasoning
of which the share of handlooms was 3314.	Reasoning
At the end of Seventh Plan (198990) the total production in textile is estimated at 14500 ml. mts. of which the share of handlooms will be only 4600.	Reasoning
These estimated targets indicate that there is sufficient scope for all the sectors including the unorganised powerloom sector to grow during the Seventh Five Year Plan.	Reasoning
The differences between the handloom and powerlooms have been defined in the Act itself.	Reasoning
The basic difference being that the handlooms are manually operated while the powerlooms are run with the motive force of power.	Reasoning
The protection has been given by the Government to handloom weavers because the livelihood of handloom weavers is threatened due to the production of all types of items and varieties by the powerloom industry.	Reasoning
It is common knowledge that the handloom weavers are economically very poor and will have no alternative employment in the rural areas unless protected through reservation of varieties for them.	Reasoning
So poor is the weaver that he could well say in the words of Karl Marx Half a century on my back and still a pauper.52.	Reasoning
Therefore, the contention that there is a total prohibition, is untenable and the case relied on by Mr. Krishnamani, learned counsel, namely, Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India, (1970) 3	Reasoning
SCR 530 (AIR 1970 SC 564 ) has no relevance.53.	Reasoning
No doubt, there are restrictions under the impugned order but the question would be whether they are reasonable.	Reasoning
The Act, as seen above, has come to be enacted for the protection of the interests of the handloom weavers, mostly concentrated in rurual areas.	Reasoning
They are pitted against powerful sector, namely, the mills and the powerloom.	Reasoning
As such, they face unequal competition.	Reasoning
The restrictions are not only reasonable but also fully justified.	Reasoning
Further, the objectives sought to be achieved by way of these reservations should derive support from Article 43 of the Constituion which reads as follows Living wage, etc., for workers The State shall endeavour to secure, by suitable legislation or economic organisation or in any other way, to all workers, agricultural, industrial or otherwise, work, a living wage, conditions of work ensuring a decent standard of life and full enjoyment of leisure and social and cultural opportunities and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to promote cottage industries on an individual or cooperative basis in rural areas.	Reasoning
The said article ordains that the State shall endeavour to promote cottage industries on individual or cooperative basis in rural areas.	Reasoning
It is a welcome measure.	Reasoning
We can usefully refer to Orient Weaving Mills v. Union of India, AIR 1963 SC 98 at 103 The Directive Principles of the Constitution, contained in Part IV, lay down the policies and objectives to be achieved, for promoting the welfare of the people.	Reasoning
In the context of the present controversy, the following words of Article 43 are particularly apposite . . . . . . .	Reasoning
and in particular, the State shall endeavour to promote cottage industries on an individual or cooperative basis in rural areas.	Reasoning
It has rightly been pointed out in affidavit filed on behalf of the respondents 14 that the exemption granted by the impugned notifications is meant primarily for the protection of petty producers of cotton fabrics not owning more than four powerlooms, from unreasonable competition by big producers, like the petitioner Company.	None
The State has, therefore, made a valid classification between goods produced in big establishments and similar goods produced by small powerloom weavers in the mofussil, who are usually ignorant, illiterate and poor and suffer from handicaps to which big establishments like the petitioner company are not subject.	Reasoning
Equally, Article 46 inter alia requires the State to promote with special care the educational and economical interests of the weaker sections of the people.	Reasoning
Therefore, these restrictions, can easily be sustained as reasonable since it is in furtherance of the objectives laid down in the directive principles.56.	Reasoning
In view of what we have stated above, even if, these restrictions result in the total exclusion of the powerloom sector that could be upheld as reasonable.	Reasoning
In Narendra Kumars case (supra) (1960 (2) SCR 375 ) (AIR 1960 SC 430 ) it was held thus that the word restriction in Articles 19(5) and 19(6) of the Constitution includes cases of prohibition also that where a restriction reaches the stage of total restraint of rights special care has to be taken by the Court to see that the test of reasonableness is satisfied by considering the question in the background of the facts and circumstances under which the order was made, taking into account the nature of the evil that was sought to be remedied by such law, the ratio of the harm caused to individual citizens by the proposed remedy, the beneficial effect reasonably expected to result to the general public, and whether the restraint caused by the law was more than was necessary in the interests of the general public.	Reasoning
On the point of violation of Article 14, a reasonable classification is permissible under the equality clause.	Reasoning
Of course, the classification made should be based on intelligible differentia.	Reasoning
Further, there should be a nexus in such differentia with the objects sought to be achieved by the particular law.	Reasoning
Article 14 requires that all persons subject to a legislation must be treated alike.	Reasoning
In other words, equals must be treated alike, in like circumstances and conditions.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the handloom sector forms a distinguishable class separated from powerloom sector or mills sector.	Reasoning
The reservation of certain articles for exclusive production in the handloom sector has the objective of protecting the handloom sector against unequal and powerful competition by the mechanised powerloom mills sector.	Reasoning
At the same time, it is also necessary to ensure continued production coupled with sustained employment to the handloom weavers, largely concentrated in the rural areas.	Reasoning
This is also in accord with the Governments declared policy of supporting handloom sector due to its large employment potential.	Reasoning
The classification, hence, has a rational nexus with the objective of the Act.58.	Reasoning
The handlooms are operated manually, the number of persons employed is many times more than powerloom for production of similar quantities of cloth.	Reasoning
The reservation of articles for handlooms does not pose any serious threat to powerloom.	Reasoning
It has been proved by the fact that even though the handlooms reservation orders have been on the statute book since 1950, the powerlooms have continued to proliferate and there is no reason to believe that any of these looms are likely to be closed due to the Reservation Order.	Reasoning
The powerloom owners are only required to devesify their line of production so that they do not produce cloth reserved for handlooms.	Reasoning
As already pointed out the reservation for handlooms has continued since 1950 for the protection of rural handloom artisans and their continued employment in the industry.	Reasoning
Since the Government policy has always been to create more employment particularly in rural areas, it will be unthinkable to imagine the social problems that will be created if the employment of millions of handloom weavers is taken away by allowing powerlooms to produce all items without any reservation.	Reasoning
Handlooms and handicrafts are the only traditional cottage industries which provide maximum employment in the rural countryside.	Reasoning
Hence, we reject this point as well.59.	Reasoning
It has already been noted from the observations of the highpowered Study Team under the Chairmanship of Mr. B. Sivaraman as to how every new powerloom will put out of action six handlooms in the country.	Reasoning
A handloom actually is a family industry and not an individuals field alone.60.	Reasoning
This means the families of the poor weavers are ruined by encouraging powerloom.	Reasoning
It may be that the cost of production in the powerlooms sector is less but if it is the object of the Government to encourage handloom for continued employment of handloom weavers in rural areas, certainly, nothing worthwhile can be said against the impugned reservation.	Reasoning
Besides, even under the Notification issued by the Textile Commissioner on 15477 many of the items stated as being produced by the petitioner were reserved for the handloom sector.	Reasoning
These items are sarees with borders, lungies, chaddars, bed sheets, bed covers, counter panes, low read pick cloth, table clothes, napkins, duster, towels and cotton crepe fabrics.	Reasoning
If violating this order, the petitioner has been manufacturing these items which are specifically reserved for handlooms, it cannot be allowed to continue to indulge in such violation any further.	Reasoning
Thus, we reject the argument complaining of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution.61.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) of Section 3 of the impugned Act states that the order specifying the articles for exclusive production of handloom could be issued for the protection and development of handloom industry from time to time.	Reasoning
Therefore, the reservation is not for all time to come.	Reasoning
It could be revised periodically.	Reasoning
It is with this object in view, Rule 3(5) of the Handlooms (Reservation of Articles for Production) Rules, 1986 states as follows 3(5)	None
The Advisory Committees may meet at such places and at such times as may be determined by the Chairman Provided that the Advisory Committee shall meet at least once a year to review the list of reserved articles.	None
Therefore, at least once in a year there could be a meeting of the Advisory Committee.	Reasoning
From the counter affidavit it is clear that in order to have a deeper study of the problems relating to reservation of production by handloom three subcommittees were constituted cotton and art silk fabrics,(ii) pure silk fabrics and(iii) woollen and tribal fabrics.	Reasoning
In order to gain firsthand knowledge of the poduction of these fabrics the subcommittees made field visits.	Reasoning
While touring different centres the subcommittees invariably involved local Government representatives.64.	Reasoning
It is averred in the counter affidavit that the subcommittee on silk visited powerloom weaving centres in Bangalore and Varanasi, while the sub committee on wool during their visits to a number of places, including Panipat, Ludhiana, Kulu, Imphal and Srinagar had occasion to study the problems of the woollen powerloom industry alongwith those of the handloom industry.	Reasoning
The Advisory Committee on cotton met the representatives of powerlooms, who placed their views before the subcommittee during its sittings at Madras and Bangalore.	Reasoning
Thus, it will be amply clear from what has been stated above that the interest of the powerloom sector has been taken into account and powerlooms were represented albeit indirectly on the Advisory Committee.65.	Reasoning
Moreover, the subcommittees formed by the earlier Advisory Committee had visited many a places in the country and discussed the matter with officers of the State Government and met persons representing different textile sectors.	Reasoning
Apart from the reports received from the subcommittees, the representations received by the Government from various textile interests were duly considered by the Advisory Committee before making their recommendations.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, incorrect to say that proper opportunity was not provided to the petitioners for making representations.66.	Reasoning
It is important to note that in the Advisory Committee the representatives from powerloom sector, mills sector and powerloom silk sector have been specifically included.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is meaningless to state that no opportunity was afforded to powerloom sector and that under Section 3of the impugned Act regard is had only to the handloom industry while under Clause (20) an overall view of all industries could be taken.	Reasoning
In view of the foregoing discussion, we dismiss the writ petition and the connected cases.	Decision
Petition dismissed.	None
