 Ray, J.1.	None
This is an appeal against the judgment and order dated 19th November, 1968 of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh dismissing the election petition of the appellant.2.	Issue
The appellant contested the Assembly seat from Ellenabad Constituency in the District of Hissar in the midterm election held in May, 1968.	Facts
The appellant challenged the election of Lalchand, the first respondent.	Facts
The other defeated candidate in the election was the second respondent Prithvi Raj.	Facts
The appellant obtained 15,485 votes.	Facts
The successful candidate Lalchand secured 20,816 votes and Prithvi Raj obtained 5,726 votes.	Facts
The polling was on 14th May, 1968.	Facts
The results were announced on 16th May, 1968.3.	Facts
At the hearing of the appeal counsel on behalf the appellant canvassed three grounds First, that the poster being Ex.	Facts
P. W. 1/1, was against the personal character of the appellant and, therefore, constituted a corrupt practice within the meaning of subsection (4) of Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
Secondly, the religious head Sat Guru Jagjit Singh of the Namdhari sect issued an appeal and a farman and thereby the provisions contained in subsec.	Facts
(2) of section 123 of the Act are attracted.	Facts
Thirdly, the respondent Lalchand is guilty of corrupt practice of bribery by having given Rs. 20,000 in cash to Prithvi Raj to contest the election.4.	Facts
I shall at the outset deal with the second and the third grounds.	Facts
Counsel on behalf of the appellant pressed allegations contained in subparagraphs (b) and (d) of paragraphs 10 of the petition which were to the effect that Sat Guru Jagjit Singh issued a farman on or about 20th April, 1968 to the effect that it was the Gurus desire that all followers should oppose the appellant who was the son of Choudhury Devi Lal, an enemy of Namdhari Guru.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, if any of the followers did not obey the farman they would stand excommunicated and their Prasad would not be accepted in the Gurdwaras and that they would be spiritually censured by naming them as traitors of Dharma and befallen persons in Sabhas of Namdharis.	Arguments of Petitioner
In subparagraph (d) of Paragraph 10 of the petition, it was alleged that on 21st April, 1968 the followers of Namdhari sect were called to Sant Nagar where a big Dewan of Namdharis was convened and Sat Guru Jagjit Singh made a speech there that he had taken a vow to defeat the appellant because he was the son of Choudhury Devi Lal whose family was an avowed enemy of Namdhari sect and that it should be treated as a vow by every Namdhari.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent Lalchand denied that there was any meeting and further denied that there was any farman.6.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant, it may be stated, did not adduce any documentary evidence in support of the allegations.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants entire case was based on oral evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant relied on the oral testimony of P. W. 29 and P. W. 30.	Arguments of Petitioner
P. W. 29 Ram Dayal was formerly a member of the Punjab Legislative Assembly.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ram Dayal was formerly a member of the Congress Committee.	Reasoning
He resigned from the Congress and contested the seat as an independent candidate against Choudhury Devi Lal and won the election in the year 1957.	Reasoning
An election petition was filed by Choudhury Devi Lal against the witness Ram Dayal.	Reasoning
Ram Dayal was eventually unseated as a result of the decision of this Court.	Reasoning
The witness Ram Dayal helped the respondent Lalchand in the election of 1967 and also in the midterm election in the month of May, 1968.	Reasoning
The witness Ram Dayal spoke of the Sat Guru Maharaj having exhorted the Namdharis to vote for Lalchand and warned them about the consequences if they failed to do so.	Reasoning
The witness also spoke of the meeting at Rania village on 28th April, 1968.	Reasoning
It is indeed strange and significant that Ram Dayal who supported respondent Lalchand and also attended meetings on his behalf came and gave evidence in favour of the appellant about the utterances of Sat Guru Jagjit Singh of the Namdhari sect.	Reasoning
It is extremely unsafe and hazardous to rely on the uncorroborated and isolated oral testimony of such a person.7.	Reasoning
P. W. 30	Reasoning
Parma Nand Sharma spoke of the meeting at Sant Nagar on 21st April, 1968 and said that Guru Jagjit Singh spoke at the meeting and proclaimed that it was the duty of every Namdhari to vote for respondent Lalchand and any one who violated the said Gurus direction would be excommunicated from the Panth.	Reasoning
In crossexamination the witness Parma Nand Sharma said that he came to give evidence in favour of the Congress because he was summoned to appear as a witness and therefore he spoke the truth.	Reasoning
It is obvious that when one speaks truth one does not proclaim it.	Reasoning
It is obvious that the witness in view of his antecedents wanted to sound truthful because he came forward to give evidence in favour of the appellant.8.	None
On behalf of the appellant reliance was placed on Exhibit P.W. 24/2 to show that there was a meeting on 21st April, 1968.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant relied on the diary entry of Gurbhajan Singh being Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
P. W. 24/2 bearing the date 21st April, 1968 in support of the contention that there was intrinsic evidence in the diary entry, that there was a meeting on 21st April, 1968 where Sat Guru Jagit Singh spoke, and the said entry is in the following terms Asa Di war was recited at Sh.	None
Jiwan Nagar.	None
He (Sant Sahiba Singh) remained there for the whole day.	None
He listened for some time difficulties of the Singhs who had collected there from outside, at 7 p.m. he appeared before the Sadh Sangat assembled at Muharanwali Dharamsala, Santnagar, and made an appeal to the audience to cast their votes in favour of Ch.	None
Lalchand independent candidate of Ellenabad Constituency and return him as successful candidate.	None
Then he came back to Jiwan Nagar.	None
The diary entry is to the effect that the Sat Guru Jagjit Singh appeared before the Sant Nagar Assembly.	None
The diary entry does not mention about any alleged utterance by Sat Guru Jagjit Singh at the said meeting.9.	Reasoning
Exhibits P. W. 24/1 and	None
P. W. 24/2 are two pamphlets containing articles.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the appellant relied on the pamhlets to prove that the meeting was held where Sat Guru Jagjit Singh spoke.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both the articles were published after the election had been held on 16 May, 1968.	None
These articles suffer from the vice of coming into existence under deliberate motive.	None
We are unable to accept the oral evidence that there was any meeting on 21 April, 1968 as alleged by the appellant and that Sat Guru Jagjit Singh spoke at the meeting, to cast votes in favour of respondent Lalchand under threat of divine displeasure and spiritual censure.10.	None
Counsel on behalf of the appellant contended that respondent Lalchand was guilty of offences under section 123 (1) of the Act by having given Rs. 20,000 in cash to respondent Prithvi Raj to contest the election.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no documentary evidence in support of the allegation.	None
The oral evidence is that of P. W. 11, P. W. 12 and P. W. 13.	Reasoning
Kanshi Ram, P. W. 11 said that he was Kumhar and there was meeting of the Kumhars on 30 March, 1968.	Reasoning
It was decided that a Kumhar should be made a member of the Legislative Assembly.	Reasoning
He also said that the Kumhars decided at the said meeting to put up respondent Prithvi Raj as candidate.	Reasoning
Kanshi Rams further evidence was that Bawa Bir Singh paid Rs. 20,000 to Prithvi Raj for election expenses.	Reasoning
Kanshi Ram said that the payment was in the presence of respondent Lalchand.	Reasoning
Jot Ram, P. W. 12 said that he was a Kumhar and his evidence was also that Bawa Bir Singh paid Rs. 20,000 to Prithvi Raj in the presence of Lalchand.	Reasoning
Rawat, P. W. 13 who was also a Kumhar said that Bawa Bir Singh paid Rs. 20,000 to Prithvi Raj in the presence of Lalchand.	Reasoning
The gist of the offence under subsection (1) of section 123 of the Act is that there has to be a gift by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent of any gratification, to any person with the object of inducing a person to stand or not to stand as a candidate at the election.	Reasoning
The elements require to constitute an offence are first, that the gift has to be by a candidate or his agent or by any other person.	Reasoning
Secondly, the gift is to be with the consent of the candidate or his election agent and the third important element is that the gratification is to be made with the object, directly or indirectly, of inducing a person to stand or not to stand in the election.	Reasoning
In the present case, there is no evidence to hold that any gift was made by the candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of the candidate, namely, the respondent Lalchand.	Reasoning
Secondly, there is no evidence that gratification was made with the object of inducing the respondent Prithvi Raj to stand or not to stand as a candidate.11.	Reasoning
Counsel on behalf of the appellant contended that respondent Lalchand was guilty of corrupt practices as mentioned in subsection (4) of section 123 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The four elements in subsection (4) are, first, that there has to be a publication by the candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of the candidate of any statement of fact.	None
The second element is that the statement of fact is false and a candidate or his agent or any other person either believes it to be false or does not believe it to be true.	None
Thirdly, the publication is in relation to the personal character and conduct of any candidate.	None
Fourthly, the statement is reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidates election.12.	None
P. W. 35, Lachhman Das was the Manager, Kwality Art Printers.	None
He spoke of a poster which was printed in his Press.	None
He identified the Exhibit P. W. 1/1 as a copy of the poster which was printed in his Press.	None
He said that Exhibit P. W. 34/2 was a manuscript of Exhibit P. W. 1/1.	None
He further said that the pamphlet was printed on the asking of Lalchand who was identified by the witnesses Muni Lal Azad and Jai Gopal Verma.	None
Lachhman Das said that Muni Lal Azad and Jai Gopal Verma signed the manuscript Exhibit P. W. 34/2 in his presence.	None
The further evidence was that 10,000 copies of the poster were printed in the said Press.	None
It was suggested in crossexamination that the poster was printed after 14 May, 1968.	None
P. W. 36 Jai Gopal Verma identified Exhibit P. W. 34/2 as a manuscript of the poster and further said that the witnesses identified Lalchand.	None
Jai Gopal Verma proved his signature on Exhibit P. W. 34/2.	None
Jai Gopal Verma said that Lalchand accompanied him to the Kwality Art Printers.	None
Jai Gopal Verma further identified the signature of Muni Lal Azad.	None
It was also suggested to Jai Gopal Verma that the poster was printed after 14 May, 1968.	None
Muni Lal Azad, P. W. 37 said that he accompanied Jai Gopal Verma to Kwality Art Printers along with respondent Lalchand.	None
He admitted his signature on Exhibit P. W. 34/2.13.	None
Counsel on behalf of the respondent Lalchand contended that Lachhman Das was neither the Printer nor the Publisher and that Lachhman Das joined the Press in the month of April, 1968.	Arguments of Respondent
Lachhman Das was a disinterested person.	Arguments of Respondent
He sent a copy of the poster to the Chief Electoral Officer.	None
The letter to the Chief Electoral Officer Exhibit P. W. 34/1 was in a sealed cover.	None
It was opened in this Court.	None
It was proved by Muni Lal Jain, Accountant in the office of the Chief electoral Officer.	None
He proved that Exhibit P. W. 34/1 was the letter received from Kwality Art Printers on 2 May, 1968.	None
The witness Muni Lal Jain further proved the receipt of said letter in the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, on 2 May, 1968.	None
Muni Lal Jain identified the signatures of the clerks Jagmohan Saran Verma and D. N. Arora on Exhibit P. W. 34/1.	None
Muni Lal Jain proved Exhibit P. W. 34/2 and Exhibit P. W. 34/3 which were the enclosures received along with exhibit P. W. 34/1.14.	None
Counsel on behalf of the respondent Lalchand contended that the rubber stamp of the Chief Electoral Office bore the date 22 May, 1963 and there was intrinsic evidence to show that the first digit 2 was smudged with carbon ink.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument cannot be accepted because of the dominant reason that no such suggestion was made to the witness from the Electoral Office or any other witness on behalf of the appellant.	None
If such a case had been made, the appellant would have had an opportunity of dealing with it.15.	None
Counsel on behalf of the respondent Lalchand contended that the receipt book and the bill register book of the Press were not produced.	Arguments of Respondent
Lachhman Das, the Accountant of Kwality Art Printers was not asked to produce either the receipt book or the bill book.	Arguments of Respondent
There was some dispute as to whether the signature of Lalchand on the manuscript poster Exhibit P. W. 34./2 was genuine or not.	None
Ratan Lal Aggarwal, P. W. 58 said that the signature of the respondent Lalchand on Exhibit P. W. 34/2 was a genuine signature.	Reasoning
The respondents witness No. 2, A. S. Kapoor said that the signature of Lalchand on Exhibit P. W. 34/2 was not the same as the admitted signature of Lalchand and in the opinion of the witness the signature on Exhibit P. W. 34/2 was the work of a person who was well skilled in the art of traced forgery.	Reasoning
It is rare for two experts to agree in cases of disputed signature.	Reasoning
The Court has to arrive at the conclusion in the light of the entire evidence.	Reasoning
Jai Gopal Verma said that Lalchand appended his signature in his presence.	Reasoning
That portion of the evidence of Jai Gopal Verma was not impeached in crossexamination.	Reasoning
Lachhman Das, the Accountant of the Kwality Art Printers said that the pamphlet was printed at the request of Lalchand who was identified by Muni Lal Azad and Jai Gopal Verma, This portion of the evidence of Lachhman Das was also not challenged in crossexamination.16.	Reasoning
The poster on which the appellant relied is Exhibit P. W. 1/1.	None
Exhibit P. W. 1/1 is as followsAppeal to the Voters of the Ellenabad Vidhan Sabha Constituency.	None
Election (Rising Sun)	None
Symbol BrothersJust after one year election is being held.	None
I hope I will get more support from public than before.	None
Because you have seen the Adlu Badlu policy of Ch.	None
Partap Singh son of Ch.	None
Devi Dayal Devi Lal has put up the second son as a candidate because of this fear.	None
The deeds of Om Prakash are well known to the public.	None
Under the auspices of his father Ch.	None
Devi Lal, he had been indulging in smuggling and today he is asking for votes in the name of his father.	None
I hope the people will show the face of defeat to such an obnoxious person.	None
My election symbol is rising Sun, put stamp only on that.	None
YoursLal Chand Khod,Ellenabad Constituency.17.	None
Ganga Dhar Sharma, P. W. 31, said that a memorandum of appeal in favour of respondent Lalchand was printed.	None
He spoke of Exhibit P. W. 34/1.	None
The appeal which was published and distributed is Exhibit P. W. 34/2 which is the same as Exhibit P. W. 1/1.	None
This appeal leaves no room for doubt that there were allegations against the personal character and conduct of the appellant Om Prakash who was described as having been indulging in smuggling.	None
In the said appeal, it was further said that the appellant was an obnoxious person.18.	None
Various witnesses P. Ws. 14, 16, 18, 19, 21, 23, 29, 30 and 31 gave evidence of the distribution and publication of the appeal.	None
They identified Exhibit P. W. 24/1 which is the same as Exhibit P. W. 34/2 and the evidence of distribution and publication is overwhelming.19.	None
The evidence in the present case established beyond any measure of doubt first that Exhibit P.W. 1/1 which is the same as Exhibit P. W. 34/2 was published, secondly, that Lalchand got the same printed and published, thirdly, that the statement was in relation to the personal character and conduct of the appellant fourthly, the statement is false and fifthly, the same was calculated to prejudice the prospects of the appellants election.20.	None
For these reasons we are of opinion that the appeal is to be accepted on the ground that respondent Lal Chand is guilty of corrupt practice under section 123 (4) of the Act.21.	Decision
The appeal is allowed with costs throughout and the election of the respondent Lalchand is declared void.22.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
