 BEG, C.J. 1.	None
This is an appeal under section 55 of the Monopolies Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (hereinafter referred to as the Act ), against the order and judgment of the Monopolies Restrictive Trade Practices Commission, New Delhi (hereinafter referred to as the Commission ), in proceedings started under section 10(a)(iv) of the Act against the appellant, M s. Hindustan Lever Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the Company ), upon information furnished by Bhogilal Manilal Shah of M s. Shah Manilal Motichand Sons of Poona (hereinafter referred to as the informant ).	Facts
The informant was a redistribution stockist of the appellantcompany carrying on business regulated by the terms of an agreement, known as the redistribution stockists agreement of the company, found in a standard printed form, entered into with each stockist.	Facts
The agreement has 23 terms or clauses in it.	Facts
The clauses complained of are 5 and 9, which may be reproduced here 5.	None
The redistribution stockist shall use his best endeavours to maintain and increase the trade of the products in the said town and for this purpose he shall at all times keep and maintain adequate stocks of the products in all its packings and he shall carry out all instructions and directions including those as to the maximum resale price which may from time to time be given by the company or by the companys accredited representatives in respect of the sale or resale or disposal by the redistribution stockist of stocks of the products supplied to him in pursuance of this agreement.	None
The redistribution stockist is prohibited from charging in excess of the maximum resale prices stipulated by the company, but he may, at his discretion, charge prices lower than the said maximum resale prices.	None
The redistribution stockist shall purchase and accept from the company such stock as the company shall at its discretion send to the redistribution stockist for fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement.	None
9.	None
In order to ensure equitable and reasonable distribution of stocks at fair prices, the redistribution stockist shall not rebook or in any way convey, transport or despatch parts of stocks of the products received by him outside the aforesaid town except when he is so expressly directed in writing by the company.	None
He shall also whenever so required by the company make available from the stocks of companys merchandise purchased by him such part as the company directs him to do for purposes of resale on his behalf by the companys employee 2.	None
It is alleged that the two clauses, set out above, found in identical agreements entered into by the company with its stockists, whose number is quite large, constitute or authorise restrictions which are unreasonable and illegal.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, it was submitted by the respondents that it must be struck down or modified so as to make the business and trade of the appellantcompany and its stockists conform to the requirements of law.	Arguments of Respondent
The Commission had accepted the case brought to its notice by the informant and made the following order (1).	None
Clause 5 of the agreement (exhibit F) shall stand modified so that the following shall be substituted in place thereof 5.	None
The redistribution stockist shall use his best endeavours to maintain and increase the trade of the products in the said town and for this purpose he shall at all times keep and maintain adequate stocks of the products in all its packings and he shall carry out the instructions and directions including those as to maximum resale price which may from time to time be given by the company or by the companys accredited representatives in respect of the sale or resale or disposal by the redistribution stockist of stocks of the products supplied to him in pursuance of this agreement.	None
The redistribution stockist is prohibited from charging in excess of the maximum resale prices stipulated by the company but he may at his discretion charge prices lower than the said maximum resale prices .	None
(2).	None
The practices of resale price maintenance and fullline forcing to which original clause 5 of the agreement related, shall be discontinued and shall not be repeated.	None
(3) Clause 9 of the agreement (exhibit F) shall be void.	None
(4) The practice of area allocation to which clause 9 of the agreement (exhibit F) related, shall be discontinued and shall not be repeated.	None
(5) In all future price circulars or lists to be issued by the respondents, it shall be clearly stated that the prices therein mentioned are maximum prices and that prices lower than those prices may be charged.	None
(6) This order shall come into force with effect from 1st July, 1976.	None
On or before the said date, the respondents shall intimate all redistribution stockists of the modifications in clause 5 of the agreement (exhibit F) and the voidity of clause 9 of the agreement (exhibit F) .	None
3.	None
There was some argument before us on the question whether proceedings before the Commission were maintainable at the instance of a complainant who had reasons to nurse a grievance against the company and whose motives could be questioned.	None
It was pointed out that the agreement of the company with the informant had been terminated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The version of the informant was that this had been done because his firm had sold vanaspati at the rate of Rs. 127 per tin which was below the price of Rs. 129.05 per tin fixed by the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The informant stockist said that the price had to be reduced by him to remove public discontent.	Arguments of Petitioner
We think that the motives of the informant are quite irrelevant in such a case.	None
All that the Commission, and, on appeal, this court, has to examine is whether what would undoubtedly be a practice by the appellantcompany, of introducing the two clauses complained of, in its agreements with its stockists, amounted to a restrictive trade practice.	None
The distinction sought to be made on behalf of the appellant between a practice and clauses in a contract which give a company the power to regulate trade in a manner which may constitute a restriction, appears to be inconsequential here.	None
We do not think that we can isolate the terms of a contract from the actual practice of the company.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the company anywhere that the clauses in its agreement with its stockists are to be treated as deadletter.	Reasoning
Its case is that they do not operate as restrictions.	Reasoning
The introduction of such clauses in so many agreements meant to regulate relations, either between a principal and an agent or the seller and the stockist who acquires complete proprietary rights in the stock of goods purchased, is itself a trade practice.	Reasoning
The simple question before us is Can powers conferred upon the company under such clauses be exercised in such a way as to constitute restrictive trade practices ?	None
4.	None
It is true that the practice of imposing restrictions under such clauses is one thing and the practice of introducing such clauses is quite another thing.	None
Both may constitute separate practices.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the introduction of such clauses into an agreement between the manufacturer and the seller who purchases and stocks his goods is in itself something practised.	Reasoning
It is immaterial that the use of powers under such clauses may constitute another set of practices which depend upon the existence of such clauses as sources or springs.	None
Inasmuch as the introduction of clauses in such an agreement is a practice, taken by itself, the question whether such a practice amounts to a restrictive trade practice or not could only be decided by considering whether the clauses could be so used as to unjustifiably restrict trade ?	Issue
It would be specious reasoning, in such a case, to separate the clauses in the agreement from action under the agreement and then to urge that, as evidence of action under the clauses is meagre or even absent, the clauses are innocuous and should not be modified or struck down because we are only concerned with what is actually being practised under them or with the use that is being made of such clauses and not with what is permissible or possible under the clauses of the agreement of the kind before us.	Reasoning
This argument seems to us to overlook the definition of restrictive trade practice contained in section 2(o) of the Act which lays down (o) restrictive trade practice means a trade practice which has, or may have, the effect of preventing, distorting or restricting competition in any manner and in particular,  (i) which tends to obstruct the flow of capital or resources into the stream of production, or (ii) which tends to bring about manipulation of prices, or conditions of delivery or to affect the flow of supplies in the market relating to goods or services in such manner as to impose on the consumers unjustified costs or restrictions.	Reasoning
5.	None
It is clear from a bare perusal of the abovementioned definition that it is not only the actual practice of a restriction under a clause which is struck by the provisions of the Act, but also a trade practice which may have the effect of restrictions falling within the mischief provided for.	None
In other words, if the introduction of the clause in itself is a trade practice and could be used to prevent, distort or restrict competition in any manner it may be struck down.	Reasoning
A trade practice is defined by section 2(u) of the Act as follows (u) trade practice means any practice relating to the carrying on of any trade, and includes (i) anything done by any person which controls or affects the price charged by, or the method of trading of, any trader or any class of traders (ii) a single or isolated action of any person in relation to any trade .	None
6.	None
This definition is wide enough to include any trade practice if it is in relation to the carrying on of a trade.	None
It cannot be argued that the introduction of the clauses complained of does not amount to an action which relates to the carrying on of a trade.	Reasoning
If the result of that action or what could reasonably flow from it is to restrict trade in the manner indicated, it will, undoubtedly, be struck by the provisions of the Act.	None
Reliance was sought to be placed by learned counsel for the appellantcompany on a recent decision of this court in Tata Engineering Locomotive Co. Ltd. v. Registrar of Restrictive Trade Agreements 1977 47 Comp Cas 520, 528, 535 (SC) (hereinafter referred to as the Telco case), where it was held The definition of restrictive trade practice is an exhaustive and not an inclusive one.	None
The decision whether trade practice is restrictive or not has to be arrived at by applying the rule of reason and not on the doctrine that any restriction as to area or price will per se be a restrictive trade practice.	None
Every trade agreement restrains or binds persons or places or prices.	None
The question is whether the restraint is such as regulates and thereby promotes competition or whether it is such as may suppress or even destroy competition.	Arguments of Petitioner
To determine this question three matters are to be considered.	None
First, what facts are peculiar to the business to which the restraint is applied.	None
Second, what was the condition before and after the restraint is imposed.	None
Third, what is the nature of the restraint and what is its actual or probable effect.	None
It was also held there The question of competition cannot be considered in vacuo or in a doctrinaire spirit.	None
The concept of competition is to be understood in a commercial sense.	None
Territorial restriction will promote competition whereas the removal of territorial restriction would reduce competition.	None
As a result of territorial restriction there is in each part of India open competition among the four manufacturers.	None
If the territorial restriction is removed there will be pockets without any competition in certain parts of India.	None
If the dealer in Kashmir is allowed to sell anywhere in India, wealthy cities like Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta will buy up trucks allocated for Kashmir and the buyer in Kashmir will not be able to get the trucks.	None
The other three manufacturers whose trucks are not in equal demand will have Kashmir as an open field to them without competition by Telco.	None
Therefore, competition will be reduced in Kashmir by the successful competitor being put out of the field.	None
7.	None
It is evident that in the Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC), this court was considering the territorial restrictions placed upon the stockists of Telco in the light of the special facts and circumstances of that particular case.	None
Each type of business has, undoubtedly, its peculiarities, its own mode of operation, the special features relating to the market for it, and the requirements of distribution of particular goods which may be the subjectmatter of an agreement so as to secure a just and equitable distribution consistently with maintenance of freedom of competition so that prices are not artificially pushed up.	None
In the Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC), the subjectmatter of the agreement was sale of trucks of a type in which the Telco had a monopoly inasmuch as no other firm produced trucks which were of such special quality and specifications.	None
Hence, there was great demand for these trucks, which were in short supply.	None
Again, for the maintenance and running of these especially designed trucks the manufacturer had to provide especially trained and skilled personnel and special equipment and tools so as to enable stockists to service and repair trucks distributed.	None
Unless the manufacturers were able to impose restrictions upon sales outside the areas in which they had established their stockistcumservicing suppliers, they could not at all render the kind of service they were giving in addition to selling.	None
In other words, it was a mixed practice for purchase of trucks and provision of specialised service to the consumers, through the stockists.	None
On the peculiar facts and circumstances of that case, it was found that the agreements did not, on the whole, result in restricting trade or curtailing competition.	None
8.	None
The facts of the case before us are entirely different.	None
We are concerned here with a manufacturer of mixed consumer goods of different varieties.	Reasoning
The appellantcompany produces dehydrogenated oil (known in the market as Vanaspati ), toilet preparations of various kinds such as soaps, shaving creams, toothpastes and baby milk powder, and animal feeds.	Reasoning
The soaps manufactured by it are undoubtedly the main type of goods supplied.	Reasoning
But, it manufactures other types of goods too.	Reasoning
It can, therefore, compel stockists to buy them, whether stockists want these other goods or not, if the terms of the agreement are to be held to be binding and enforceable.	Reasoning
The manufacturer is under no obligation to render any service in relation to maintenance of the goods supplied.	Reasoning
The whole trade is completely unlike that of manufacture and sale of motor trucks for which the stockists, selling to the actual consumers, had to, as already pointed out, also have the services of the manufacturers trained personnel for the purposes of maintenance and repair of the vehicles supplied.	Reasoning
It would amount to an application of the law in a thoroughly doctrinaire fashion if we were to deduce some general principles, from the very different facts of the Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC) and attempt to apply them to those of the case now before us.	Reasoning
Thus, the contention advanced on behalf of the appellant against a doctrinaire approach in such cases really weighs against the appellantcompany.	None
In the Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC) the agreement could not be understood without reference to the actual facts to which they were sought to be applied.	None
These facts explained the nature of the special agreements for restriction or distribution of areas.	None
In the case before us, the problem is entirely different.	Reasoning
This is not a case in which certain terms of the agreement require to be explained by the facts to which they were meant to be applied.	Reasoning
It is a clear case in which the meanings of the clauses are decisive.	None
If these clauses are capable of being so used on the meanings which appear unambiguously from them so as to undoubtedly restrict trade, the intention to so use them to restrict trade could reasonably be inferred without any difficulty.	Issue
Otherwise, why have them ?	Issue
No oral evidence could be led to deduce their meaning or to vary it in view of the provisions of sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act, the principles of which were, we think, rightly applied by the Commission.	None
TheTelcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC), on the other hand, was one in which extraneous evidence could be led under section 92, proviso (6), of the Evidence Act which may be set out here with section 92 92.	Reasoning
When the terms of any such contract, grant or other disposition of property or any matter required by law to be reduced to the form of a document, have been proved according to the last section, no evidence of any oral agreement or statement shall be admitted, as between the parties to any such instrument or their representativesininterest, for the purpose of contradicting, varying, adding to or subtracting from, its terms Proviso (6)Any fact may be proved which shows in what manner the language of a document is related to existing facts.	None
The principle embodied in section 92(6) of the Evidence Act, which was applicable in Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC) is not, for the reasons given above, applicable in the case now before us.	Reasoning
Indeed, no attempt has been made by reference to any case law apart from the Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC), which we have distinguished above, to show that extraneous evidence could have been led here in order to apply section 92, proviso (6), of the Evidence Act.	Reasoning
In the Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC), this provision was not directly referred to, but, we think, that it could have been applied there.	Reasoning
Thus, we think that the basic difficulty, placed before us by learned counsel for the appellant, in the way of examining the plain meaning and effect of clauses 5 and 9 of the distribution stockists agreement does not exist at all in the case now under consideration.	Reasoning
We must, therefore, proceed to examine the meanings of these clauses from the point of view of what could be done by the company under them.	Reasoning
If what may be done under these clauses could be a restrictive practice, as defined by the Act, it was enough to vitiate them.	Reasoning
A clause having been introduced in an agreement entered into, as a part of the settled practice of the company, could be struck by the provisions of section 2(o) of the Act, set out above, quite apart from what is actually done under it.	Reasoning
We do not think that any other question is really relevant or need be considered by us at all in such a case.	Reasoning
It is not a case in which we could be taken through the oral evidence, as has been attempted to be done, because that is shut out by an application of the provisions of sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act if all we need do is to interpret the agreement.	Reasoning
We are unable to see why those provisions do not apply here.	Reasoning
Not much argument appears to us to be needed to demonstrate that the last sentence in paragraph 5 of the above mentioned clause places the redistribution stockist at the mercy of the company which can dictate to him what amounts of various commodities he shall purchase and accept from the company in the form of a total lot supplied to him.	Reasoning
The company need only send to the redistribution stockists what it shall at its discretion send to the redistribution stockists for fulfilling its obligations under this agreement .	None
9.	None
The meaning and effect are obvious here.	None
The introduction of the word shall does not bind down the exercise of the discretion by reference to any requirements of the consumers in a particular area which the stockists may convey to the company.	None
Hence, if the stockists want to remain on the list of the redistribution stockists of the company, the stockist is bound to accept and carry out the decision of the company.	None
Even if in view of some other practice adopted by the company, a power given in such wide terms was not meant to be exercised unreasonably, its presence in the agreement would be a needless surplus age which could, whenever the company wanted it, be used to impede freedom of competition and trade.	None
This result was enough to make it quite objectionable.	None
We, therefore, think that the Commission was quite right in reframing clause 5 in the way it did.	None
We are unable to find any flaw in the detailed reasons given by the Commission for doing that.	None
10.	None
The Commission rightly points out that, among agreements the registration of which is compulsory according to the provisions of Chapter V of the Act, under section 33(1)(b) is any agreement requiring a purchaser of goods, as a condition of such purchase to purchase some other goods .	None
The last part of clause 5, as we have observed, clearly makes it necessary for the stockist to purchase such goods and in such combination as the company may decide.	Reasoning
Hence, it would be struck by section 33(1)(b) of the Act.	Reasoning
It has not been shown to have been registered under the Act.	None
It is also submitted on behalf of the respondent that clause 5 of the agreement infringes section 33(1)(f) of the Act which requires registration of any agreement to sell goods on condition that the prices to be charged on resale by the purchaser shall be the prices stipulated by the seller unless it is clearly stated that prices lower than those prices may be charged.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
The Commission held that clause 5 of the agreement meant provision for prices stipulated and that it had been so treated by the company in its circulars stating that prices lower than the maximum resale price stipulated by the company may be charged.	None
If that was so clear, there was no reason why the company should have attempted to clarify by means of its circulars what, according to it, the stockist is free to do under the agreement.	Reasoning
Even if the practice of the company by issuing circulars is established, it does not justify the retention of clause 5 in a form which can be used to compel stockists to act on the companys behests, whether reasonable or not.	Reasoning
On the other hand, it justifies its clarification by an alteration of it in the manner directed by the Commission so as to make the clause covering price regulation also very clear.	Reasoning
The order of the Commission modifying clause 5 only makes the position crystal clear.	Reasoning
Inasmuch as clause 5, even before deletion of the last sentence of it by the Commission, expressly gives the stockist the discretion to sell at lower than maximum resale prices stipulated, the agreement was not struck by section 33(1)(b) of the Act.	Reasoning
But the deletion of the last sentence was essential to prevent possible misuse of the companys powers, by resort to it, so as to even regulate prices contrary to express provisions found earlier in the clause.	Reasoning
Turning now to clause 9 of the agreement, we think that the Commission was right in rejecting the argument that evidence led on behalf of the company was enough to establish that clause 9 fell within one of the de gateways provided by section 38 of the Act.	Reasoning
A power to impose restrictions falling under this provision had to be justified by the company by actual proof of a public interest which could not be better served without it.	Reasoning
The submission that section 38 could be applied here amounts at least to a concession that a clause conferring such wide power upon the manufacturer may be so used as to amount to a restrictive practice.	Reasoning
It is the practice of putting in such a clause which has to be justified.	None
12.	None
The power given to the company under clause 9 is very wide.	None
The manufacturer can compel the redistribution stockists to make available to the company any stocks purchased by the stockist.	None
It also compels the stockist to take the permission of the company for conveying, transporting, or despatching parts of stocks of the products received by him outside a specified town except when he is so expressly directed in writing by the company.	None
It directly prevents him from doing so without the companys permission.	None
If the stockist violates this condition the whole agreement can be revoked by the company so that the stockist loses his right to carry on the business under the agreement.	None
If what had to be justified is not how this power is actually used, but the practice of conferring such power upon the company by placing the stockist at the mercy of the company, the evidence of facts showing how the power is exercised could be relevant only very indirectly.	None
However, if it could be shown that some facts did exist which make it imperative to confer such a power on the company for the benefit of the public, that may be relevant to establish the existence of a gateway under section 38.	None
But, it could certainly not be used to determine the meaning of a clause for which it is not necessary here to go beyond the language of the clause involved.	None
We are primarily concerned in this case, as we have repeatedly emphasized, with the clear meanings of the two clauses.	None
As the Commission pointed out, it is immaterial that a purchaser from outside may be able to get round clause 9 by purchasing across the counter from the stockist inside a town.	Reasoning
The clause itself, however, gives to the company an unreasonably wide power of deciding what is actually fair and equitable distribution.	Reasoning
The Commission very rightly points out that this is more properly a part of the duty of governmental authorities which may be entrusted with powers of rationing such consumers goods if this is found to be necessary in public interest.	Reasoning
However, before any question of reasonableness of a power to ration any goods is entrusted by any method to any person or authority those goods must be shown to be scarce or in short supply.	Reasoning
That was the position in the Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC).	Reasoning
Evidence establishing such a need has not been shown to exist.	Reasoning
And, in any case, it has to be a very exceptional set of facts indeed which could justify lodging of such a power in the manufacturer.	Reasoning
The Commission has dealt with a good deal of evidence to justify its conclusion that the need to justify the lodging of such a power in the company has not been established.	Reasoning
We see no reason to disturb it.	None
13.	None
Under the provisions of section 55 of the Act, an appeal lies to this court only on one of the grounds mentioned in section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
It is, therefore, necessary in all such cases for counsel to clearly formulate and direct our attention to only questions of law which arise so that these may be decided.	Reasoning
It is not permissible to go over the whole range of evidence led as was attempted before us.	None
14.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant, when asked by us to formulate the questions of law which arise, mentioned the following questions Firstly, whether the Commission was right in applying what he described as the per se rule as opposed to the rule of reason .	None
It was submitted that the correct rule which should have been applied is stated in Board of Trade of the City of Chicago v. United States of America (62 L Ed 231, 237) as follows Every agreement concerning trade, every regulation of trade, restrains.	Arguments of Petitioner
To bind to restrain, is of their very essence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The true test of legality is whether the restraint imposed is such as merely regulates and perhaps thereby promotes competition, or whether it is such as may suppress or even destroy competition.	Arguments of Petitioner
To determine that question the Court must ordinarily consider the facts peculiar to the business to which the restraint is applied its condition before and after the restraint was imposed the nature of the restraint and its effect, actual or probable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The history of the restraint, the evil believed to exist, the reason for adopting the particular remedy, the purpose or end sought to be attained, are all relevant facts.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is not because a good intention will save an otherwise objectionable regulation, or the reverse but because knowledge of intent may help the court to interpret facts and to predict consequences .	None
15.	None
We find no objection whatsoever in adopting the rule indicated above in cases to which it applies.	None
That was a case in which a rule adopted by the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago prohibiting offers to purchase during the period between the close of the call and the opening of the session on the next business day for sales of wheat, corn, oats or rye at a price other than at the closing bid, was challenged.	None
Hence, questions relating to effects of the rule arose so as to determine its reasonableness.	None
Such questions could not be determined without examining evidence of facts to which the rule was meant to apply and findings as to how it operated.	None
The issue was whether the rule, having regard to the facts to which it was to be applied, offended against the Antitrust laws.	None
The Governments case was thus stated by Mr. Justice Brandeis The Government proved the existence of the rule and described its application and the change in business practice involved.	None
It made no attempt to show that the rule was designed to or that it had the effect of limiting the amount of grain shipped to Chicago or of retarding or accelerating shipment or of raising or depressing prices or of discriminating against any part of the public or that it resulted in hardship to anyone.	None
The case was rested upon the bald proposition that a rule or agreement by which men occupying positions of strength in any branch of trade fixed prices at which they could buy or sell during an important part of the business day is an illegal restraint of trade under the Antitrust Law.	None
But the legality of an agreement or regulation cannot be determined by so simple a test as whether it restrains competition .	None
16.	None
Apparently, Dr. Singhvi means, by his plea against the use of a per se rule , nothing more than an assumption, that a restriction is illegal in itself, should not be made without examining its impact upon the particular trade involved.	None
As contrasted with any such assumption what the learned counsel describes as the rule of reason was stated in the earlier passage quoted above giving the nature of facts to be considered so as to determine the context in which the restraint was imposed.	None
This court accepted the correctness in the Telcos case 1977 47 Comp Cas 520 (SC) of the approach that no bald or simple test, divorced from the context or surrounding circumstances, should be adopted in judging the legality of a restraint upon trade.	None
Such a view, applicable to actual restrictions imposed, has really nothing to do with the rules relating to interpretation of documents which are used in finding out the effect and intent of words used in a document.	None
It is after a difficulty of interpretation, if any, is resolved and a rule or a clause in an agreement is found to have either a clear meaning or to be ambiguous that its effect can be considered.	None
No doubt that effect has to be examined to determine how a restraint actually imposed affects trade.	None
It is one thing to say that the impact of the restraint imposed on trade should be considered with reference to the nature of the trade or business to be regulated.	None
It is quite another to say that the effect cannot be gauged, sometimes, even by a bare examination of the meaning of a clause giving power to impose restraints apart from other evidence of what its actual effects are or may be.	None
In some cases, the effect itself is given primarily by the clear meaning of the language used in the clause which is alleged to infringe the law.	None
We do not think that any per se rule , if we may use this somewhat quaint expression, is adopted whenever a court determines the meaning and effect of the words of a rule or a clause in an agreement.	None
All that the court does in such a case is simply to interpret the clause, the effect of which may become obvious on a bare determination of the meaning or may be seen from other evidence too.	None
Where that effect is not obvious, as we have already indicated, evidence may be led to show how the language used is actually applied to the facts to which it was meant to apply.	None
That is also a recognised rule of interpretation.	None
It is the function of courts to indicate and explain the varying facts and circumstances to which different rules of interpretation may apply.	None
Where meaning and intent of language used is given by the words used nothing more is needed.	None
Furthermore, the Commission held that, taking into account the nature of goods or the business to be regulated by the agreements under consideration, the clauses, as they stood, were not permissible.	None
It had applied the rule of reason in arriving at the conclusion that, upon the facts of a business in commonly used consumer goods of several varieties, which are not shown to be scarce, clauses under consideration having the obvious meaning and effect which their language carried with them, are unreasonable and illegal.	None
We are unable to see how any law laid down in American decisions, dealing with Antitrust laws, or in English cases, dealing with agreements in restraint of trade, lay down rules of reason at variance with the ones we are applying here.	None
The rules of reason applicable to a case like the one before us may be simply stated as follows Firstly, the meaning of the impugned clause or clauses in an agreement said to offend the law must be determined according to law secondly, the possible effects of such a clause upon competition in the trade to be regulated must be determined.	Reasoning
We think that the Commission had rightly applied these rules and found the clauses to be capable of misuse.	Reasoning
We think that this was enough to vitiate the impugned clauses.	None
17.	None
We would like to make it clear that we are really concerned only with the law as we find it in our own statute and can only examine evidence in the light of our own law of evidence.	None
We think that the confusion which may be created by using termssuch as per se rulewhich could perhaps be more usefully applied to indicate doctrines or to describe practices developed under very different sets of circumstances in other countries with statutory provisions couched in language which differs from that before us, should be avoided as far as possible.	None
Secondly, it was submitted that we should look at evidence of what takes place in the trade under consideration rather than clauses 5 and 9 of the agreement we have considered.	None
We have already indicated the correct procedure in such cases as the one before us.	Reasoning
Indeed, we think that a consideration of extraneous evidence is not required at all when the practice complained of is the introduction of clauses conferring wide powers which may be used to impose restrictions contrary to the Act.	Reasoning
In such a case, the introduction of clauses constitutes the restrictive practice.	Reasoning
Hence, their interpretation is all that we are really concerned with here in accordance with our law.	Reasoning
Evidence of what is actually practised could only be relevant for purposes other than a determination of the meaning and the effect which follows logically or reasonably from such determination.	None
18.	None
Thirdly, it was submitted that, in holding clause 9 to be invalid, the purpose of equitable distribution , which imposes a limit on the powers of the company, was overlooked by the Commission.	None
For the reasons already given, we do not think that this supposed limitation reasonably restricts the companys power to decide what to distribute.	Reasoning
The company is left entirely to itself to decide what is equitable distribution .	Reasoning
An interpretation of a document, according to wellestablished rules, cannot be dispensed with by labelling it as an application of a per se doctrine.	Reasoning
We think that the clause, as it stands, confers too wide a power and has to be struck down wholly as unreasonable on that ground.	None
19.	None
Fourthly, our attention was sought to be drawn to the absence of evidence of distortion of competition and the presence of evidence that competition prevails in the market despite these clauses.	None
We have already held such oral evidence to be really unnecessary for judging the possible effects of the clauses.	Reasoning
The probability of the effect is only part of the rule of reason to be applied where extraneous evidence is admissible.	Reasoning
In the instant case we are only, as already indicated above, concerned with a reasonable and natural interpretation of the clauses of the agreement and their reasonably possible effects.	None
Fifthly, it was submitted that there was clear evidence of public benefit from an equitable distribution in actual practice so that the requirements of a gateway under section 38 were satisfied.	None
We cannot assume public benefit from a mere declaration of intention to exercise a power so as to benefit the public.	Reasoning
We are not satisfied, on the evidence actually adduced and placed before us, that this power was necessary so as to benefit the public.	None
20.	None
Furthermore, we cannot reassess evidence.	None
Actual benefit to the public is a question of fact on which findings cannot be reopened unless some error of law is revealed.	None
No error of law in assessing evidence is disclosed.	None
This is an additional reason for not disturbing the findings of fact recorded by the Commission.	None
21.	None
Sixthly, it was submitted that the Commission had ignored the last sentence of clause 9 in interpreting it.	None
We have, however, considered it and find that, far from making clause 9 more acceptable and reasonable, the last part of it makes it more objectionable and unreasonable inasmuch as it enhances the powers of the company.	None
22.	None
Learned counsel for the appellantcompany has pointed out that the order of the Commission was to come into force from July 1, 1976, so that the appellantcompany had nearly four months to rewrite the agreements which are over four thousand in number.	None
He prays for extension of time for six months from today for executing fresh agreements.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not really necessary for us to fix any particular time within which the company will print or get new agreements executed on freshly printed forms in accordance with law.	None
That is a matter for parties themselves to each agreement to decide and work out.	Reasoning
All that we need make clear is that all agreements which are operative and binding between parties will be so interpreted now as if clause 9 was not there at all and clause 5 was there only in the modified form which omits the last sentence from clause 5 as it originally stood.	Reasoning
However, if the company wants to complete any formalities for bringing each individual agreement into line with the law as declared by this court it may do so and, it will file, within six months from today an affidavit showing that it has done this.	Reasoning
The requirement to file such an affidavit showing compliance will ensure that the company has taken due steps to inform each stockist of the correct legal position.	Reasoning
The time given for doing this will not, however, authorise it to act under those parts of the agreement which this court has declared to be illegal.	Reasoning
23.	None
Subject to the observations made above, we uphold the Commissions order and dismiss this appeal with costs.	Decision
