Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
The controversy involved in the present case lies with a very narrow compass and, therefore, a brief reference to the factual aspects would suffice.	None
RespondentSubhash Kimtee (hereinafter referred to as assessee) was the proprietor of a concern known as M s. Subhash and Company.	Facts
He was registered as a dealer under the M.P. General Sales Tax Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) w.e.f. 28.5.1973.	Facts
The registration continued to be operative till 22.10.1987.	Facts
The assessment periods to which the dispute relates are (a) 27.10.1981 to 15.11.1982, (b) 16.11.1982 to 4.11.1983 and (c) 5.11.1983 to 24.10.1984.	Facts
The assessment were originally completed for the assessment years 198182, 198283 and 198384 vide orders dated 12.9.1984, 29.8.1985 and 29.8.1985 respectively.	Facts
Respondent applied cancellation of the certificate of registration on 14.12.1987 and the same was cancelled w.e.f. 23.10.1987.	Facts
The Assessing Officer initiated proceedings for reassessment under Section 19(1) of the Act on the basis of information that the respondent had purchased iron and steel from M s. Steel Terro.	Facts
Indore and had enjoined certain benefits by issuing declaration forms in Form XIIJ.	Facts
The Assessing Officer was of the view that the benefits were not permissible in law and, therefore, there was short levy of tax and escapement of assessment.	Facts
Accordingly, notices were issued for reassessment in respect of the three years.	Facts
The notices issued on the address as indicated in the certificate of registration.	Facts
It was indicated in the notices that the same may be pasted if the respondentassessee was not available or he refused to accept the notice.	Facts
Since it was learnt that the respondentassessee was not residing at the address given, service by affixture was resorted to.	Facts
Vide orders dated 13.12.1990, 13.12.1990 and 31.12.1990, reassessments were done under Section 19(1) of the Act, on 23.4.1992.	Facts
Respondentassessee challenged the orders of reassessment by filing revision petition before the revisional authority at Indore under Section 39(1)(b) of the Act on the ground that the notices and the orders of reassessment as well as the original assessment orders were not served on him, rendering the reassessment proceedings illegal.	Facts
The revisional authority vide 3 separate but common order dated 23.4.1993 dismissed the revision petition recording a finding that service in both the original assessments as well as reassessment proceedings had been duly effected by affixture and the orders were valid.4.	Facts
It was noted that respondents certificate of registration remained in force till he applied for cancellation on 14.12.1987.	Facts
As the notices were issued for service at the address given in the registration certificate, there was nothing illegal.5.	Facts
Respondentassessee filed a writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the Constitution) in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, at Indore Bench on the ground that the procedure prescribed for service of notice as contemplated under Rule 63 of the M.P. General Sales Tax Rules, 1959 (in short the Rules) has not been followed.	Facts
Accordingly, the principles of natural justice were violated .	Facts
He took a stand that after closure of business in October 1980, he was appointed as a clerk.	Facts
Grade II in Reserve Bank of India in November, 1980, Revenue contested the writ petition by filing a counter affidavit specifically stating that service had been duly effected at the last known address as per the registration certificate.	Facts
There was a duty enjoined on the dealer under Section 32 of the Act to provide necessary information regarding change of address which has not been done by the respondentassessee who continued to enjoy the benefits by issuing declaration forms by virtue of the certificate of registration up to 23.10.1987.6.	Facts
Learned Single Judge with reference to Rule 63 held that the service was effected properly inasmuch as the Assessing Officer had failed to record the reasons for his satisfaction that the assessing was evading service or that the service was not possible in any other manner before resorting to service by affixture as prescribed under Rule 63.7.	Facts
The writ petition was allowed with a direction that the reassessments were to be done de novo in accordance with law after hearing the respondentassessee within a period of 6 months from the date of order and no further notice was required as the respondentdealer was already appearing in the matter.8.	Facts
Challenge was made by the respondentassessee before a Division Bench on the ground that after having held that there was no valid service of notice, the direction for de novo assessment was untenable.	Facts
It was further contended that challenge on the question of limitation was precluded by the direction.9.	Facts
The Division Bench held that the direction for de novo assessment without reserving any right for the respondentassessee to raise the plea of limitation was not proper.	Facts
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the respondentassessee cannot take advantage of his own lapses.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was required under Section 32 of the Act to indicate the change of address.	Arguments of Petitioner
Admittedly, he did not do so.	Arguments of Petitioner
Merely because at some point of time the departmental authorities sent letters by redirecting service by post to deposit the arrear of tax, it does not do away with the statutory requirement to inform the authorities about the change of address.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, learned Single Judge had only found some procedural irregularity which did not invalidate the service of notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the direction of de novo assessment was in order.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response, learned counsel for the respondentasssessee submitted that the learned Single Judge clearly held that there was no proper service of notice and, therefore, there was no service in the eye of law.	Arguments of Respondent
That being the position, the reassessment proceedings which were to be completed within a particular period could not have been extended by permitting de novo assessment.12.	Arguments of Respondent
Whether service of notice is valid or not is essentially a question of fact.	Issue
In the instant case, learned Single Judge found that certain procedures were not followed while effecting service by affixture.	None
There was no finding recorded that such service was nonest in the eye of law.	None
In a given case if the assessee knows about the proceedings and there is some irregularity in the service of notice, the direction for continuing proceedings cannot be faulted.	None
It would depend upon the nature of irregularity and its effect and the question of prejudice which are to be adjudicated in each case on the basis of surrounding facts.	None
If however, the service of notice is treated as nonest in the eye of law, it would not be permissible to direct de novo assessment without considering the question of limitation.	None
There also the question of prejudice has to be considered.	None
Both learned Single Judge and Division Bench have missed to notice that Section 19(1) does not speak of notice before reassessment.	None
It only prescribes giving of reasonable opportunity of being heard.	None
It reads as follows Where an assessment has been made under this Act or any act repealed by Section 52 and if for any reason by Section 52 and if for any reason any sale or purchase of goods chargeable to tax under this Act or any Act repealed by Section 52 during any period has been underassessed or has escaped assessment or assessed at a lower rate or any deduction has been wrongly made therefrom, the Commission may, at any time within five calendar years from the date of order of assessment, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after making such enquiry as he considers necessary, proceed in such manner as may be prescribed to reassess within a period of two calendar years from the commencement of such proceedings, the tax payable by such dealer and the Commissioner may, where the omission leading to such reassessment is attributable to the dealer, direct that the dealer shall pay, by way of penalty in addition to the amount of tax so assessed a sum not exceeding that amountProvided that in case of an assessment made under any Act repealed by Section 52, the period for reassessment on the ground of underassessment, escapement or wrong deduction shall be as provided in such Act notwithstanding the repeal thereofProvided further that any reassessment proceedings pending on the date of commencement of the Madhya Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1978, be completed in accordance with the provisions in force before the date of such commencement and within a period of two calendar years from the date of such commencement.	None
Rule 63 deals with methods of serving notice or summons or order under the Act or any rules made thereunder.	None
The term notice is originated from the Latin word notifia which means a being known or a knowing is wide enough in legal circle to include a plaint filed in a suit.	None
Notice has been defined in various Judicial Dictionaries and Dictionaries as followsThe Judicial Dictionary, Words and Phrases Judicially Interpreted, Second End.	None
F, Stroud, (p.1299) Notice is a direct and definite statement of a thing, as distinguished from supplying materials from which the existence of such thing may be inferred.	None
Websters Universal College Dictionary, 1997 Edn.	None
(P.543)Information, warning or announcement of something impending notification to give notice of ones intentions a written or printed statement conveying such information or warning as for renting or employment, that the agreement will terminate on a specified date.	None
She gave her employer two weeks notice.	None
Oxford Concise Dictionaryan intimation intelligence, warning and has the meaning in expression like give notice, have notice or formal intimation of something or instruction to do something and has the expression like notice to quit, till further notice.	None
Chambers 20th Century Dictionary 1993 (p.1154)Intimation announcement information warning a writing placard, etc conveying an intimation or warning time allowed for preparation, etc.	None
Chamber is Dictionary vide Allied Chambers (India) Ltd Reprint 1994, 1995 (p.1154) intimation announcement a formal announcement made by one of the parties to a contract of his or her intention to terminate that contract information, specially about a future event warning a writing placard, board.	None
etc, conveying an intimation or warning time allowed for preparation cognizance observation heed mention, a dramatic or artistic review civility or respectful treatment a notice.	None
etc.	None
Law Lexicon Dictionary  A Legal Dictionary of Legal Terms and Phrases Judicially Defined, Fourth Edition.	None
Vol.II. 1989	None
(p.226) A person is said to have notice of a fact, when he actually knows that fact, or when, but for wilful abstention from an enquiry or search which he ought to have made, gross negligence, he would have known it.	None
The Law Lexicon Dictionary, Second Edition, 1997 (p.1322) Intimation a writing placard, board, etc. conveying an intimation or warning (section 154, IPC and Article 61(2)(1), Constitution of India) (2) knowledge or cognizance (Section 56.	None
Indian Evidence Act).16.	None
Notice, in its legal sense, may be defined as information concerning a fact actually communicated to a party by an authorised person person, or actually derived by him from a proper serious, or else presumed by law to have been acquired by him, which information is regarded as equivalent to knowledge in its legal consequences.	None
Dictionary further statesCo.	None
Lit 309 Tomlins state Notice is making something known, of what a man was or might be ignorant of before.	None
And it produces diverse effects, for, by it, the party who gives the same shall have same benefit, which otherwise he should not have had the party to whom the notice is given is made subject to some action or charge  not been liable to and his estate in danger of prejudice.	None
Notice is a direct and definite statement of a thing as distinguished from supplying materials from which the existence of such thing may be inferred, (Per Parke.	None
B. Burgh v Lege 5 M and W 420 8 LJ.	None
Ex. 258)	None
The Dictionary gives some other definitions of Notice as  The legal instrumentality by which knowledge is conveyed, or by which one is charged with knowledge.  	None
The term notice in its full legal sense embraces a knowledge of circumstances that ought to induce suspicion or belief, as well as direct information of that fact.  	None
In its popular sense notice is equivalent to information intelligence or knowledge.	None
In Anandjit Haridas and Co. (P) Ltd. vs. S.P. Kasture and Others (AIR 1968 SC 565 ), it was observed as follows We are unable to accept the contention of Mr. Gokhale that a notice under Section 11 (4) (a) or IIA(1) is a condition precedent for initiating proceedings under those provisions or that it is the very foundation for the proceedings to be taken under those provisions.	None
The notice contemplated under Rule 32 is not similar to a notice to be issued under Section 34(1)(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1922.	None
All that Sections 11(4) and 11A(1) prescribe is that before taking proceedings against an assessee under those provisions, he should be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.	None
In fact, those sections do not speak of any notice.	None
But Rule 32 prescribes the manner in which the reasonable opportunity contemplated by those provisions should be afforded to the assessee.	None
The period of 30 days prescribed in Rule 32 is not mandatory.	None
The rule itself says that ordinarily note less than 30 days notice should be given.	None
Therefore, the only question to be decided is whether the defects noticed in those notices had prejudiced the appellants.	None
It may be noted that when the assessees received the notices in question, they appeared before the assessing authority, but they did not object to the validity of those notices.	None
They asked for time for submitting their explanation.	None
The time asked for was given.	None
Therefore, the fact that only nine days were given to them for submitting explanation could not have in any manner prejudiced them.	None
So far as the mistake in the notice as regards the assessment year is concerned, the assessees kept silent about that circumstance till 1958.	None
It was only when they were sure that the period of limitation prescribed by Section 11A had expired, they brought, that fact to the notice of the assessing authority.	None
It is clear that the appellants were merely trying to take advantage of the mistakes that had crept into the notices.	None
They cannot be permitted to do so.	None
We fail to see why those notices are not valid in respect of the periods commencing from February 1, 1953 till 31.10.55.	None
We are unable to agree with Mr. Gokhales contention that each one of those notices should be read separately and that we should not consider them together.	None
If those notices are read together as we think they should be, then it is clear that those notices given the appellants the reasonable opportunity contemplated by Sections 11(4) (a) and 11A(1).	None
In Chatturam vs. Commr. of Income Tax Bihar, (1947 (15) ITR 302) (AIR 1947 FC 32), the Federal Court held that any irregularity in issuing a notice under S. 22 of the Income Tax Act, 1922 does not vitiate the proceeding that the income tax assessment proceedings commence with the issue of the notice but the issue or receipt of the notice is, however, not the foundation of the jurisdiction of the income tax officer to make the assessment or of the liability of the assessee to pay the tax.	None
The liability to pay the tax is founded on Sections 3 and 4 of the Income Tax Act which are the charging sections, Section 22 and others are the machinery sections to determine the amount of tax.	None
The ratio of that decision applies to the facts of the present case.	None
In our opinion, the notices issued in the year 1955 are valid notices so far as they relate to the period commencing from February 1, 1953 to October 31. 1955.	None
Whenever an order is struck down as invalid being violation of principles of natural justice, there is no final decision of the case and, therefore, proceedings are left open.	None
All that is done is that the order assailed by virtue of its inherent defect is vacated but the proceedings are not terminated.	None
(See Guduthur Bros vs. Income Tax Officer, Special Circle, Bangalore (1960 (40) ITR 298 SC) and Superintendent (Tech.	None
I) Central Excise, I.D.D. Jabalpur and others vs. Pratap Rai (1978 (114) ITR 231 SC).	None
In Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. vs. R.P.	None
Dixit Saghidar (2001 (9) SCC 324 ), it was held as follows We are unable to subscribe to the view of the High Court.	None
The aforementioned passage quoted from the Tribunals order shows that the Tribunal was of the view that once the order is quashed by the Assistant Commissioner, he could not in law remand the case for a decision afresh.	None
As has been noted, before the Assistant Commissioner the counsel for the respondent had contended that the exparte order should have been set aside because no notice had been received.	None
When principles of natural justice are stated to have been violated it is open to the appellate authority, in appropriate cases, to set aside the order and require the Assessing Officer to decide the cases de novo.	Reasoning
This is precisely what was directed by the Assistant Commissioner and the Tribunal.	None
In our opinion, was clearly in error in taking a contrary view.	None
The view is clearly applicable to the facts of the present case.	None
The emerging principles are Nonissue of notice or mistake in the issue of notice or defective service of notice does not affect the jurisdiction of the assessing officer, if otherwise reasonable opportunity of being heard has been given(ii) Issue of notice as prescribed in the Rules constitutes a part of reasonable opportunity of being heard.(iii)	Reasoning
If prejudice has been caused by nonissue or invalid services of notice the proceeding would be vitiated.	Reasoning
But irregular service of notice would not render the proceedings invalid more so, if assessee by his conduct has rendered service impracticable or impossible.(iv)	Reasoning
In a given case when the principles of natural justice are stated to have been violated it is open to the appellate authority in appropriate cases to set aside the order and require the Assessing Official to decide the case de novo.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench have not considered the question of prejudice, grant of reasonable opportunity in the aforesaid perspective.	None
In view of what has been stated in R.P. Dixits case (supra), learned Single Judge was justified in directing de novo assessment by an order of remand.	None
The direction was appropriate as the only ground on which the interference was made related to the violation of principles of natural justice by alleged improper service of notice.	Reasoning
The Division Bench was not justified in upsetting the direction.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed but in the circumstances without any order as to costs.25.	Decision
We however make it clear that no opinion has been expressed by us on any aspect except limitation.	Decision
It shall be open to the assessee top raise all other issues before the Assessing Officer which shall be considered in the proper perspective and in accordance with law.	Decision
