 N. Variava, J. These Appeals are against a Judgment dated 30th January, 1991.	Issue
Briefly stated the facts are as follows Car bearing No. KLO 4828, driven by the 1st Respondent (herein), met with an accident on 9th April, 1987.	Facts
One of the passengers viz.	Facts
one Anthony Alexander was seriously injured in that accident.	Facts
The said Anthony Alexander thereafter succumbed to his injuries on 10th April, 1987.	Facts
Respondents 1 to 6 are the legal representatives of the said Anthony Alexander.	Facts
They filed a claim before the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the MACT) against the Appellant, the 1st Respondent and the 8th Respondent (Insurance Company).	Facts
Before MACT the Appellant claimed that he had sold the car, on 7th May, 1986, to one Smt.	Facts
M.K. Bhavani.	Facts
It was claimed that Smt.	Facts
Bhavani had thereafter sold the car, on 12th May, 1986, to Sh.	Facts
Aboobacker.	Facts
It was claimed that on 15th August, 1986 Sh.	Facts
Aboobacker had sold the car to one George Mathew.	Facts
The said George Mathew had supposedly thereafter sold the car to one Roy Thomas on 18th August, 1986.	Facts
The Appellant claimed that on the date of the accident the car belonged to Roy Thomas.	Facts
However it was an admitted position that the transfer of ownership of the car was never intimated to the R.T.O. and that in the records of R.T.O. the name of the Appellant continued to be shown as the owner.	Facts
An Insurance policy bearing No. 100505/22/1/0067/86 had been issued by the 8th Respondent.	Facts
It was valid from 25th November, 1986 to 24th November, 1987.	Facts
This Policy had been issued in the name of the Appellant.	Facts
Before MACT the Appellant claimed that he had not taken out the insurance Policy.	Facts
The 1st Respondent claimed, before the MACT, that the real owner was the Appellant.	Facts
The 1st Respondent claimed that he was employed by the Appellant.	Facts
The 8th Respondent claimed that the Policy was only an Act Policy (Third Party Policy) and, therefore, it did not cover liability towards passengers.	Facts
Before MACT the Appellant examined himself.	Facts
He also examined Smt.	Facts
M.K. Bhavani, her son Sh.	Facts
Aboobacker and George Mathew to the show that the car had been sold by him.	Facts
The 1st Respondent gave evidence to the effect that the Appellant was still the owner of the car.	Facts
After considering the evidence MACT gave an Award dated 5th May, 1988.	Facts
It held that the Appellant was not the owner of the car and was, therefore, not liable.	Facts
It held that the Insurance Company was also not liable as the Policy had been got issued in the name of the Appellant when he was not the real owner.	Facts
It held that the driver was rash and negligent and responsible for the accident.	Facts
MACT passed an Award in a sum of Rs. 1,40,700/ with interest at 12 per cent per annum.	Facts
MACT held that the driver was bound to pay the sum to the claimants.	Facts
The 1st Respondent and Respondents 1 to 6 filed Appeals before the High Court.	Issue
The High Court disposed of both the Appeals by the impugned Judgment dated 30th January, 1991.	Issue
The High Court held that all the documents disclosed the Appellant to be the owner of the car.	Facts
The High Court held that the Appellant was thus the owner of the car.	Issue
The High Court held that as such owner the Appellant was liable to pay compensation to the claimants.	Issue
The High Court confirmed the finding that the driver had been rash and negligent and was the cause of the accident.	Issue
The High Court held that the Policy was an Act only (Third Party Policy) and, therefore, the Insurance Company was not liable.	Facts
The High Court however reduced the compensation to a sum of Rs. 1,32,000/ with interest at 12 per cent per annum from 7th July, 1987.	Issue
Hence these Civil Appeals.	Issue
Mr. Iyer appearing for the Appellant submitted that the High Court was wrong in ignoring the oral evidence on record.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the oral evidence clearly showed that the appellant was not the owner of the car on the date of the accident.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Iyer submitted that merely because the name had not been changed in the records of the R.T.O. did not mean that the ownership of the vehicle had not been transferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Iyer submitted that the real owner of the car was Mr. Roy Thomas.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Iyer submitted that Mr. Roy Thomas had been made party Respondent No. 9 to these Appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that an Advocate had filed appearance on behalf of Mr. Roy Thomas but had then applied for and was permitted to withdraw the appearance.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that Mr. Roy Thomas had been duly served and a public notice had also been issued.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that Mr. Roy Thomas had chosen not to appear in these Appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the liability, if any, was of Mr. Roy Thomas.	Arguments of Petitioner
We agree with Mr. Iyer that the High Court was not right in holding that the Appellant continued to be the owner as the name had not been changed in the records of R.T.O. There can be transfer of title by payment of consideration and delivery of the car.	Reasoning
The evidence on record shows that ownership of the car had been transferred.	Reasoning
However the Appellant still continued to remain liable to third parties as his name continued in the records of R.T.O. as owner.	Reasoning
The Appellant could not escape that liability by merely joining Mr. Roy Thomas in these Appeals.	Reasoning
Mr. Roy Thomas was not a party either before MACT or the High Court.	Reasoning
In these Appeals we cannot and will not go into the question of inter se liability between the Appellant and Mr. Roy Thomas.	Reasoning
It will be for the Appellant to adopt appropriate proceedings against the Mr. Roy Thomas if, in law, he is entitled to do so.	Reasoning
Mr. Iyer then submitted that the Policy was in the name of the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He admitted that this was a third party Policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that even in a third party policy the Insurance Company would be liable for a claim by a passenger in the car.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that in any case the terms of this policy made the Insurance Company liable even for a claim by a gratuitous passenger.	Arguments of Petitioner
He produced certain terms and conditions and claimed that these governed this policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
He then relied upon Section II (1)(a) wherein it is provided as follows SECTION II  LIABILITY TO THIRD PARTIES.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) The Company will indemnify the insured in the event of the accident caused by or arising out of the use of the Motor Car against all sums including claimants costs and expenses which the Insured shall become legally liable to pay in respect of (a) death of or bodily injury to any person including occupants carried in the Motor Car provided that such occupants are not carried for hire or reward but except so far as is necessary to meet the requirements of Section 95 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, the Company shall not be liable where such death or injury arises out of and in the course of employment of such person by the Insured.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx Mr. Iyer then showed to Court the Policy which is on record.	Arguments of Petitioner
From it he showed that I.M.T. Endorsement No. 2(a) had been excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that I.M.T. Endorsement 2(a) only excluded Sections I and III of the Policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that this clearly showed that Section II continued to apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that Clause 1(a) of Section II clearly showed that the Insurance Company was liable for death or bodily injury to any person including the occupant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that, therefore, the 8th Respondent was liable to reimburse the Appellant. 12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Iyer further submitted that under Section 94 and 95 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 it was compulsory that all cars be insured.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the minimum insurance which was required under Section 95(1)(b) was as follows 95.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx xxx (a)	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx xxx xxx (b) insures the person or classes of persons specified in the policy to the extent specified in subsection (2)  against any liability which may be incurred by him in respect of the death of or bodily injury to any person or damage to any property of a third party caused by or arising out of the use of the vehicle in public place (ii) against the death of or bodily injury to any passenger of a public service vehicle caused by or arising out of the use of the vehicle in a public place Provided that a policy shall not be required  to cover liability in respect of the death, arising out of and in the course of his employment, of the employee of a person insured by the policy or in respect of bodily injury sustained by such an employee arising out of and in the course of his employment other than a liability arising under the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923), in respect of the death of, or bodily injury to, any such employee  (a) engaged in driving the vehicle, or (b) if it is a public service vehicle, engaged as a conductor of the vehicle or in examining tickets on the vehicle, or (c) if it is a goods vehicle, being carried in the vehicle, or (ii) except where the vehicle is a vehicle in which passengers are carried for hire or reward or by reason of or in pursuance of a contract of employment, to cover liability in respect of the death of or bodily injury to persons being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or alighting from the vehicle at the time of the occurrence of the event out of which a claim arises, or (iii) to cover any contractual liability.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that even a third party policy covers liability for bodily injury to any person or damage to the property of a third party.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the term any person and the term third party would also include gratuitous passengers in the car.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Iyer relied upon the authority in the case of Amrit Lal Sood v. Kaushalya Devi Thapar reported in 1998(2) RCR (Civil) 297 (SC) 1998(3) SCC 744, whereunder it has been held that the term any person would include an occupant of the car who was gratuitously travelling in the car.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, at this stage, it must be noted that this Court has in Para 4 of this Judgment held as follows The liability of the insurer in this case depends on the terms of the contract between the insured and the insurer as evident from the policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 94 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 compels the owner of a motor vehicle to insure the vehicle in compliance with the requirements of Chapter VIII of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 95 of the Act provides that a policy of insurance must be one which insures the person against any liability which may be incurred by him in respect of the death or bodily injury to any person or damage to any property of third party caused by or arising out of the use of the vehicle in a public place.	Arguments of Petitioner
The section does not however require a policy to cover the risk to passengers who are not carried for hire or reward.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statutory insurance does not cover injury suffered by occupants of the vehicle who are not carried for hire or reward and the insurer cannot be held liable under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
But that does not prevent an insurer from entering into a contract of insurance covering a risk wider than the minimum requirement of the statute whereby the risk to gratuitous passengers could also be covered.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such cases where the policy is not merely a statutory policy, the terms of the policy have to be considered to determine the liability of the insurer.	Arguments of Petitioner
The finding that the term any person would include an occupant who is gratuitously travelling in the car is clearly in respect of a comprehensive policy and not in respect of a third party policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Iyer also relied upon the authority in the case of National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. V.S.R. Kumaresan reported in AIR 1991 Madras 3.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case the Policy had a term which said used only under a stage carriage permit and the accident occurred when the vehicle was being test driven on a private road.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court held that the Insurance Company was still liable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court further held that the expression third party in Section 95(1)(b) does not mean one outside the vehicle.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Vishnu Mehra appearing for the 8th Respondent submitted that the policy was a third party policy.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that the premium paid was only Rs	Arguments of Respondent
. 120/.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that in the Policy, which was on record, there was a Clause which reads as follows Add Personal Accident Benefit as per IMT 5, Death benefit Rs He pointed out that I.M.T. 5 was for accident to passengers other than the insured, his paid driver or cleaner.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the premium, required to be paid to cover passengers or occupants of the car had not been paid.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that this policy did not cover liability to such persons.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that the terms and conditions of the policy relied upon by the Mr. Iyer were not on record.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that what was being shown to the Court were some terms and conditions of a comprehensive policy for private cars.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that those terms did not apply to a third party policy and would not help the claimants.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Vishnu Mehra relied upon the Judgment in the case of P.P. Udeshi v. Ranjit Ginning and Pressing Co. reported in 1977(2) SCC 745.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case the question was the identical, i.e. whether a third party Policy would cover risk to a passenger.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court has held as follows As Section 95 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1935 as amended by Act 56 of 1969 is based on the English Act it is useful to refer to that.	None
Neither the Road Traffic Act, 1960, or the earlier 1930 Act required users of motor vehicles to be insured in respect of liability for death or bodily injury to passengers in the vehicle being used except a vehicle in which passengers were carried for hire or reward or by reason of or in pursuance of a contract of employment.	None
In fact, subsection 203(4) of the 1960 Act provided that the policy shall not be required to cover liability in respect of death of or bodily injury to persons being carried in or upon, or entering or getting on to or alighting from, the vehicle at the time of the occurrence of the event out of which the claims arise.	None
The provisions of the English Act being explicit the risk to passengers is not covered by the insurance policy.	None
The provisions under the English Road Traffic Act, 1960, were introduced by the amendment of Section 95 of the Indian Motor Vehicles Act.	None
The law as regards general exclusion of passengers is stated in Halsburys Laws of England, Third Edition, Vol. 22, at p. 368, para 755 as follows Subject to certain exceptions a policy is not required to cover liability in respect of the death, of or bodily injury to, a person being carried in or upon, or entering or getting into or alighting from, the vehicle at the time of the occurrence of the event out of which the claim arises.	None
It is necessary to refer to the subsequent development of the English law and as the subsequent changes have not been adopted in the Indian statute, suffice it to say that the Motor Vehicle (Passenger Insurance) Act, 1971, made insurance cover for passenger liability compulsory by repealing paragraph (a) and the proviso of subsection 203(4).	None
But this Act was repealed by Road Traffic Act, 1972 though under Section 145 of 1972 Act the coming into force of the provisions of the Act 1971 covering passenger liability was delayed under December 1, 1972 (vide Binghams Motor Claims Cases, 7th Ed., p. 704).	None
Sections 95(a) and 95(b)(i) of the Motor Vehicles Act adopted the provisions of the English Road Traffic Act, 1960, and excluded the liability of the insurance company regarding the risk to the passengers.	None
Section 95 provides that a policy of insurance must be a policy which insures the persons against any liability which may be incurred by him in respect of death or bodily injury to any person or damage to any property of a third party caused by or arising out of the use of the vehicle in a public place.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plea that the words third party are wide enough to cover all persons except the person and the insurer is negatived as the insurance cover is not available to the passengers made clear by the proviso to subsection which provides that a policy shall not be required except where the vehicle is a vehicle in which passengers are carried for hire or reward or by reason of or in pursuance of a contract of employment, to cover liability in respect of the death of or bodily injury to persons being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or alighting from the vehicle at the time of the occurrence of the event out of which a claim arises.	None
Therefore it is not required that a policy of insurance should cover risk to the passengers who are not carried for hire or reward.	Arguments of Petitioner
As under Section 95 the risk to a passenger in a vehicle who is not carried for hire or reward is not required to be insured the plea of the counsel for the insurance company will have to be accepted and the insurance company held not liable under the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
The insurer can always take policies covering risks which are not covered by the requirements of Section 95.	None
In this case the insurer had insured with the insurance company the risk to the passengers.	None
By an endorsement to the policy the insurance company had insured the liability regarding the accidents to passengers in the following terms In consideration of the payment of an additional premium it is hereby understood and agreed that the Company undertakes to pay the compensation on the scale provided below for bodily injury as hereinafter defined sustained by any passenger The scale of compensation is fixed at Rs. 15,000.	None
The insurance company is ready and willing to pay compensation to the extent of Rs. 15,000 according to this endorsement but the learned Counsel for the insured submitted that the liability of the insurance company is unlimited with regard to risk to the passengers.	None
The counsel relied on Section II of the Policy which relates to liability to third parties.	None
The clause relied on is extracted in full Section II  Liability to Third Parties	None
The Company will indemnify the insured in the event of accident caused by or arising out of the use of the Motor Car against all sums including claimants costs and expenses which the insured shall become legally liable to pay in respect of (a) death of or bodily injury to any person but except so far as is necessary to meet the requirements of Section 95 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, the Company shall not be liable where such death or injury arises out of and in the course of the employment of such persons by the insured.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the wording of clause 1 is wide enough to cover all risks including injuries to passengers.	None
The clause provides that the Company will indemnify the insured against all sums including claimants costs and expenses which the insured shall become legally liable.	None
This according to the learned Counsel would include legal liability to pay for risk to passengers.	None
The legal liability is restricted to clause 1(a) which states that the indemnity is in relation to the legal liability to pay in respect of death of or bodily injury to any person but except so far as in necessary to meet the requirements of Section 95 of the Motor Vehicles Act, the Company shall not be liable where such death or injury arises out of and in the course of the employment of such person by the insured.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clauses 1 and 1(a) are not very clearly worded but the words except so far as is necessary to meet the requirements of the Section 95 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939.	None
would indicate that the liability is restricted to the liability arising out of the statutory requirements under Section 95.	None
The second part of the clause 1(a) refers to the nonliability for injuries arising in the course of the employment of such person.	None
The meaning of this subclause becomes clear when we look to the other clauses of the insurance policy.	None
The policy also provides for insurance of risks which are not covered under Section 95 of the Act by stipulating payment of extra premium.	None
These clauses would themselves indicate that what was intended to be covered under clause 1 and 1(a) is the risk required to be covered under Section 95 of the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
Mr. Vishnu Mehra further pointed out that in Amrit Lal Soods case (supra) also it has been held that the Section 95 of the Motor Vehicles Act does not require a policy to cover the risk to passengers who are not carried for hire or reward.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that in that case the Policy was a comprehensive policy and because of that it was held that the risk passengers was covered.	Arguments of Respondent
18.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Vishnu Mehra also relied upon the case of National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Jugal Kishore reported in 1988(1)	Arguments of Respondent
SCC 626, wherein it has been held that as the liability under the policy was in excess of the statutory liability the award against the insurance company could only be in accordance with the statutory liability.	Arguments of Respondent
19.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case only the first sheet of the policy is on record.	Reasoning
This clearly shows that the policy is a third party policy.	Reasoning
The terms and conditions governing this Policy are not on record.	Reasoning
What was shown to Court was terms and conditions of a comprehensive policy relating to private cars.	Reasoning
These cannot apply to this policy.	Reasoning
In the absence of terms and conditions governing this policy it is not possible to accept the submission of Mr. Iyer that this policy covered liability to occupants of the car.	Reasoning
As has been set out hereinabove, the law on this subject is clear, a third party policy does not cover liability to gratuitous passengers who are not carried for hire or reward.	Reasoning
The 8th Respondent Company will, therefore, not be liable to reimburse the Appellant.	Reasoning
Faced with this situation, Mr. Iyer relied upon Jugal Kishores case (supra) and submitted that it was the duty of the Insurance Company to have produced the terms and conditions of the original Policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that they should even now be called upon to produce the terms and conditions governing this policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this submission.	Reasoning
It has not been the Appellants case, either before MACT or before the High Court, that the policy contained any term which covered liability to passengers.	Reasoning
Before MACT the case was that the Appellant was not the owner and was, therefore, not liable.	Reasoning
Before the High Court the case that because of the Circular issued by the Tariff Advisory Committee the Insurance Company was liable.	Reasoning
The High Court held that the Circular only dealt with comprehensive policy.	Reasoning
That Circular has not been produced before us.	Reasoning
Therefore, the finding of the High Court that the Circular only covered comprehensive policies cannot be challenged.	Reasoning
Now a new case cannot be allowed to be made out.	Reasoning
Section II(1)(a) relied upon is a term which is incorporated pursuant to that Circular.	Reasoning
If the Circular only applies to comprehensive policies then this terms also applies to comprehensive policies only.	Reasoning
In our view it is now too late in the day to call upon the 8th Respondent to produce the original terms and conditions.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances, we see no substance in these Appeals.	Decision
The same stand dismissed.	Decision
There will be no Order as to costs.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
