 Venkatarama Ayyar, J.1.	None
The properties which are the subject matter of this litigation are agricultural lands of the extent of 18 acres 23 cents situate in Mauza Chowki.	Facts
They originally belonged to Khiran Rai, Firangi Rai and others, and were usufructuarily mortgaged by them on 1081900 to Babunath Prasad and Babu Misri Lal under two sudbharana deeds, Exhibits 2 and 3, for a sum of Rs. 1,600.	Facts
The defendants of first party are the representatives of these mortgagees.	None
In execution of a money decree passed against the mortgagors 9 acres 6 cents out of the above lands were brought to sale on 1161907 and purchased by Rameshwar Prasad Singh, the undivided uncle of the first plaintiff.	Facts
On 23121913 the remaining extent of 9 acres 17 cents was purchased by the first plaintiff from the mortgagors, and thus, the plaintiffs who were members of a joint Hindu family became entitled to all the interests of the mortgagors in the suit lands.	Facts
In 1943 they deposited under S. 83, T. P. Act, the amounts due on the mortgage deeds, Exhibits 2 and 3, in the Court of the District Munsif, Monghyr.	None
The defendants of the first party withdrew the amount, and the mortgages thus became redeemed.	None
When the plaintiffs attempted to take khas or actual possession of the lands they were obstructed by the defendants of the second party who claimed occupancy rights therein.	Facts
The plaintiffs then instituted the suit out of which the present appeal arises in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Monghyr, for recovery of possession of the lands from the second party defendants.2.	Facts
The plaintiffs alleged that the lands were kamat khudkasht, which had been in the personal enjoyment of Khiran Rai and Firangi Rai and therefore of the mortgagees and the defendants of the first party by virtue of the sudbharna deeds, Exhibits 2 and 3, that the second party defendants claimed rights as occupancy raiyats under a settlement by the mortgagees, that the settlement was not real or bona fide, and was not binding on the mortgagors.	Facts
In the alternative the plaintiffs claimed damages against the defendants of the first party, if it was found that the second party had acquired occupancy rights under a settlement from them.	None
Both sets of defendants denied that the lands were kamat lands, or that the defendants of the first party settled the defendants of the second party as raiyats on the land.	Facts
They pleaded that the latter had been in possession even prior to the mortgages, Exhibits 2 and 3, under a settlement with the mortgagors, and that accordingly the plaintiffs were entitled neither to possession from the second party nor damages from the first party.3.	None
The Subordinate Judge of Monghyr who tried the suit, held that the lands were private lands of the proprietors, that the defendants of the second party or their predecessorsintitle had not been inducted on the lands by the mortgagors that they were put into possession by the mortgagees only under the lease deed, Exhibit 2(a) dated 2751905, that they were mere creatures of the first party, and that the settlement was not bona fide and not binding on the plaintiffs.	Facts
He accordingly granted a decree in favour of the plaintiffs in ejectment.	None
Against this judgment, there was an appeal by the defendants to the High Court of Patna, which agreed with the Subordinate Judge that the defendants of the second party were inducted into possession only in 1905 under the lease deed, Exhibit 2(a), and that they were not raiyats settled by the mortgagors prior to 1900.	Facts
But the learned Judges held that the suit lands were not proved to be sir or private lands, that the second party defendants were not the creatures of the first party, that the lease deed Exhibit 2(a) was a bona fide transaction and the recognition of the defendants of the second party by the mortgagees as tenants would confer occupancy rights on them.	None
In the result, the suit was dismissed.	None
The plaintiffs appeal.	Facts
It was be stated that the alternative claim for damages against the first party was abandoned by the plaintiffs, and the only relief now claimed is possession of lands as against the second party.	None
Mr. Misra, counsel for the first party, had accordingly nothing to say abut the merits of the controversy between the appellants and the second party defendants, and merely pressed for his costs being awarded.	None
It was the second party appearing by counsel Mr. Tarachand Brijmohan Lal, that vigorously contested the appeal.4.	None
The substantial question that arises for our decision is whether the lands in dispute are private lands of the proprietor.	None
S. 120(2), Bihar Tenancy Act 8 of 1885, hereinafter referred to as the Act, enacts a presumption that land is not a proprietors private land, until the contrary is shown.	None
And further, there was a cadastral survey in 1908, and in the final notification published under S. 103A of the Act, the lands were recorded as in the possession of the second party defendants, whose status was described as kaimi or settled raiyats.	None
Under S. 103B(3), every entry in a recordofrights so published shall be evidence of the matter referred to in such entry, and shall be presumed to be correct until it is proved by evidence to be incorrect.	None
The result of both these provisions is that the burden is on the proprietor clearly to establish that the lands are his private lands.	None
Some oral evidence has been adduced by both sides as to the character of the lands but it is too vague, recent and interested to be of much value, and the question therefore falls primarily to be decided on the documentary evidence in the case.5.	None
The earliest document bearing on the question is Exhibit 1, which is a mortgage deed executed by the previous owner Firangi Rai and others, to Harbans Narain Singh on 1041893 over a portion of the suit lands.	None
Therein it is recited that the mortagors mortgage, hypothecate and render liable the properties constituting the proprietary mukarari interests, with all the zamindari rights and claims including the khudkasht kamat lands.	None
The word khudkasht means personal cultivation, and that is a neutral expression, which might include both private lands and bakasht lands that is to say, raiyati lands, which had come into the possession of the proprietor by surrender, abandonment or otherwise.	None
But the word kamat has a definite connotation, and means private lands.	None
(vide S. 116, Bihar Tenancy Act).	None
If the recital in Exhibit 1 is to be accepted as correct, the lands were on that date in the personal cultivation of the proprietor as private lands.	None
Exhibits 2 and 3 are the sudbharna deeds dated 1081900 under which the first party defendants got into possession of the suit lands.	None
They are in the same terms, and recite that the morgagees are to enter into possession and occupation of lands, cultivate or cause to be cultivated the same for their selfsatisfaction, and that after the expiry of the period fixed for redemption, the mortgagors are to pay the mortgage amounts in the lump and take back the properties in our sir and khas possession.	None
The word sir is synonymous with kamat and ziraat, and means private lands of the proprietor.	None
(Vide S. 116).These recitals are of considerable importance, as they occur in deeds interparties.	Reasoning
The respondents are right in contending that they cannot be regarded as admissions by the mortgagees as the deeds were executed by the mortgagors but they are certainly admissible under S. 13, Evidence Act, as assertions of title and as it is under these documents that the first party defendants claim, their probative value as against them and as against the second party defendants who claim under them is high.	Reasoning
Exhibit 1(b) is a simple mortgage executed by Firangi Rai and others on 21121901 in favour of one Chhotu Singh over some properties forming part of the suit lands.	None
It also contains the recital that these properties are kamat khudkasht lands.	Reasoning
There is finally the lease deed executed in favour of the first party by the defendants of the second party, Exhibit 2(a) under which the latter came into possession of the lands.	None
It recites that the lands had been in the exclusive cultivation of Babu Nath Prasad and Babu Misri Lal, that the lessees will give up possession of the lands at the end of the term which was a period of 2 years, and the lessors will be competent to bring the lands mentioned in this kabuliat under their exclusive cultivation.	None
As these documents are antelitem motam, and as some of them are interparties and extend over a considerable period of time, they from cogent and strong evidence that the lands are private lands.6.	None
Now, what is the evidence adduced by the defendants to rebut the inference to be drawn from them?	None
None.	None
They simply trust to the presumptions in their favour enacted in Ss. 120(2) and 103B of the Act to nonsuit the plaintiffs.	Reasoning
But these are rebuttable presumptions, and they have, in our opinion, been rebutted by the evidence in the suit, which is all one way.7.	None
It was argued for the respondents that even if the evidence referred to above was accepted, that would be insufficient under S. 120 of the Act to support a finding that the lands were private lands.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 120 runs as follows (1) The Revenue Officer shall record as a proprietors private land (a) land, which is proved to have been cultivated as khamar, ziraat, sir, nij, nijjot or kamat by the proprietor himself with his own stock or by his own servants or by hired labour for twelve continuous years immediately before the passing of this Act, and(b) cultivated land which is recognised by village usage as proprietors khamar, zirrat sir, nij, nijjot or kamat.(2)	None
In determining whether any other land ought to be recorded as a proprietors private land, the officer shall have regard to local custom, to the question whether the land was, before the second day of March, 1883, specifically let as proprietors private land, and to any other evidence that may be produced but shall presume that land is not a proprietors private land until the contrary is shown.	None
(3) If any question arises in a Civil Court as to whether land is or is not a proprietors private land, the Court shall have regard to the rules laid down in this section for the guidance of Revenue Officers.	None
The contention of the respondents is that under this section before lands could be held to be private, it must be shown that they had been cultivated as private lands for 12 years prior to the date of the Act, and that as the evidence in the case went back only to 1893, that requirements of the section were not satisfied.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument proceeds on a misconception about the true scope of S. 120.	None
That section does not enact that no land shall be recorded as private, unless it is proved to have been cultivated as private land for 12 years prior to the date of the Act.	Reasoning
It only provides that when that is proved, it shall be recorded as private land.	None
But when not such evidence is forthcoming, it does not preclude that fact from being established by any other evidence that may be produced, if that is relevant and admissible under the provisions of the Evidence Act.	None
That was the view taken in  Kesho Prased Singh v. Parmeshri Prasad Singh, AIR 1923 Pat 276 (A), and on appeal, the Privy Council agreed with it in  Bindeshwari Prasad Singh v. Kesho Prasad Singh, AIR 1926 PC 79 (B).The position, therefore, is that S. 120 merely enacts certain rules of evidence to be followed in an enquiry as to whether a disputed land is ziraat.	None
When in such enquiry the facts mentioned in S. 120 (1) are established, the law raises a presumptio juris et de jure that the lands are private.	None
But where such evidence is not available, that fact can still be established by other and satisfactory evidence.	None
What has to be decided therefore is whether the evidence actually adduced by the plaintiffs in the present case is sufficient to discharge the burden which the law casts on them and to prove that the lands are kamat or sir lands.	None
For the reasons already given, we are of opinion that it is sufficient to justify a finding in the affirmative.8.	None
Strong reliance was placed by the respondents on Exhibits F1 and F1(1) which are khatians relating to the suit lands published on 7121909 recording them as in the possession of the defendants of the second party as kaimi and on the presumption under S. 103B that entry is correct.	None
This presumption, it is contended, is particularly strong in the present case, because the predecessorsintitle of the plaintiffs were parties to the proceedings and contested the same, and that the record of rights was made after considering their objections.	None
The plaintiffs, however, denied that they were parties to the proceedings, and contended that they were taken behind their back by the mortgagees and the second party defendants acting in collusion with a view to defeat their rights.	Arguments of Petitioner
Exhibits A1 and A1(1) are certified copies of the objection petitions stated to have been filed by the mortgagors under S. 103A of the Act, and they purport to have been signed by one Chulai Mahto as karpardaz of some of the mortgagors.	None
The plaintiffs deny the genuineness of the signatures in Exhibits A1 and A1(1) and also the authority of Chulai Mahto to represent the mortgagors.	None
There is no evidence that the signatures on Exhibits A1 and A1(1) are true, but the defendants rely on the presumption enacted in S. 90, Evidence Act, in favour of their genuineness.	None
But Exhibits A1 and A1(1) are merely certified copies of the objection petitions filed before the Survey Officer and not the originals, and it was held in  Basant Singh v. Brij Raj Saran Singh, AIR 1935 PC 132 (C)that the presumption enacted in the section can be raised only with reference to original documents and not to copies thereof.	None
There is the further difficulty in the way of the respondents that the documents are signed by Chulai Mahto as agent, and there is no proof that he was an agent, and S. 90 does not authorise the raising of a presumption as to the existence of authority on the part of Chulai Mahto to represent the mortgagors.	None
It is again to be noted that the objection on the merits raised in Exhibits A1 and A1(1) that the lands are bakasht lands in the possession of mortgagees is not one which it was to the interests of the mortgagors to put forward, as, if accepted, it would preclude them from admitting tenants in respect of them, without conferring on them the status of settled raiyats and occupancy rights under S. 21 of the Act.	Reasoning
It was only if the lands were private lands that the proprietor would be entitled to cultivate them personally, and that was the claim which they had been making consistently from 1893 onwards.	None
The claim put forward in Exhibits A1 and A1(1) is destructive of the rights claimed all along by the mortgagors, and amounts to an admission that the lands are not private and raises the doubt that the petitions were not really inspired by them.	None
It should also be mentioned that at the hearing of the petition, no evidence was adduced by the mortgagors, and the decision of the Survey Officer was given practically exparte.	None
The mortgagees were parties to the proceedings, and they did not appear and produce the mortgage deeds, Exhibits 2 and 3, under which they got into possession, and which described the lands as sir.	None
It was to the interests of the mortgagees that the lands should be held to be sir, and it was further their duty to defend the title of the mortgagors as against the claim made by the tenants that they were raiyati lands.	None
Why then did they not produce Exhibits 2 and 3 at the hearing?	None
The recitals in the lease deed, Exhibit 2(a) which was executed by the defendants of the second party, were inconsistent with their claim that the lands were raiyati.	None
Why did they not produce it at the hearing?	None
There is, therefore, must to be said for the contention of the appellants that the proceedings evidenced by Exhibits A1 and A1 (1) were collusive in character.9.But even assuming that they were real, that would not materially affect the result, as the true effect of a record of rights under S. 103 A is not to create rights where none existed but simply to raise a presumption under S. 103B that such rights exist, and that presumption is one liable to be rebutted.	None
There is a long line of authorities that a person who attacks a record made under S. 103A as incorrect discharges the burden which the law casts on him under S. 103B by showing that it was not justified on the materials on which it is based.	None
Vide  Bagha Mowar v. Ram Lakham, AIR 1918	None
Cal 807 (D) and  Eakub Ali v. Muhammad Ali, AIR 1929 Cal 450 (E).	None
And where, as here, no evidence was placed before the authorities who made the record, he has only to produce evidence which satisfies the Court that the entry is erroneous.	None
Whether the question is considered with reference to the presumption under S. 120(2) or S. 103B, the position is the same.	None
The plaintiffs who claim that the lands are kamat have to establish it by clear and satisfactory evidence.	None
If the evidence adduced by them is sufficient, as we have held it is, to establish it, the presumption under S. 103B equally with that under S. 120(2) becomes displaced.	Reasoning
In the result, we are of opinion that the suit lands are the private lands of the proprietor.10.	None
It was next contended that even if the lands were private lands, that would not prevent the acquisition of occupancyrights by the tenants under Chapter V, as the restriction provided in S. 116 in that behalf did not apply on the facts of the present case, and that in consequence no relief in ejectment could be granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 116 enacts, omitting what is not material, that nothing is Chapter V shall confer a right of occupancy in a proprietors private land where any such land is held under a lease for a term of year or under a lease from year to year.	None
In the present case, the tenants got into possession under Exhibit 2(a), which was a lease for two years, and they would therefore be precluded from acquiring occupancy rights by virtue of that demise.	None
But it is argued that the tenants continued in possession of the holdings even after the expiry of the term under Exhibit 2(a), paid the rent of the mortgagees who recognised them as tenants, and that their status therefore was not that of tenants holding under a lease for a term or from year to year, and that accordingly there was no impediment to their acquiring occupancy rights under Chapter V.	Arguments of Petitioner
The point has not been argued whether, as Exhibit 2(a) is an agricultural lease the tenants who held over after the expiry of the period fixed therein, should not be considered to hold as tenants from year to year, on the principle enacted in Ss. 106 and 116.11.	None
We shall proceed on the footing that on the findings of the High Court that the tenants were not the creatures or servants of the mortgagees, and that they had been in continuous possession paying rent to them, S. 116 did not debar them from acquiring rights under Chapter V.	None
But the question is whether they acquired such rights under the Chapter Section 21 provides that every person who is a settled raiyat in a village shall have a right of occupancy in all land for the time being held by him as a raiyat in that village.	None
Section 20 defines a settled raiyat as a person who holds continuously land for a period of 12 years in any village.	None
Section 5(2) defines raiyat as a person who has acquired a right to hold land for the purpose of cultivating it by himself or members of his family or servants or partners, and S. 5(3) provides that a person shall not be deemed to be a raiyat unless he holds land either immediately under a proprietor or immediately under a tenureholder.	None
The position therefore is that before a person can claim occupancy rights under S., 21 he must establish that he is a raiyat as defined in Ss. 5(2) and 5(3), and as the defendants of the second party acquired the right to hold the lands for the purpose of cultivation from the first party mortgagees and not under the mortgagors, they are not raiyats as defined in S. 5(3), and can claim no rights under S. 21.	None
On behalf of the tenants, it was contended that as under S. 58, T. P. Act, a mortgage is a transfer of interest in land, the mortgagee is the owner of that interest and therefore a proprietor for the purpose of S. 5(3).	None
Section 3(2) defines a proprietor as meaning a person owning whether in trust or for his own benefit an estate or part of an estate.	None
A mortgagee is no doubt the transferee of an interest in immovable property, and may in a loose sense be said to be the owner of that interest.	None
But the definition of a proprietor requires that he should own the estate or part thereof and not merely an interest therein.	Reasoning
It would be a contradiction in terms to say of a mortgagee that he owns the estate over which he owns an interest.	None
As observed in Ghose on the Law of Mortgage in India, Volume I, page 77.Interest which passes to the mortgagee is not the ownership or dominion which, notwithstanding the mortgage, resides in the mortgagor.	None
The question whether for purposes of S. 21 of the Act a tenant from a mortgagee can be held to be a raiyat as defined in section 5(3) was considered by this Court in  Mahabir Gope v. Harbans Narian Singh, AIR 1952 SC 205 at p. 207 (F), and it was held that a mortgagee is neither a proprietor nor a tenureholder, and a tenant inducted by him on the lands is not a raiyat within the definition of those terms under the Act.	Reasoning
That decision governs this case.12.	Reasoning
The contention of the respondents that the mortgagees could be considered as tenureholders within S. 5(3) is equally untenable.	Reasoning
Section 5(1) defines a tenureholder as meaning a person who has acquired a right to hold lands for collecting rents or for bringing them into cultivation by establishing tenants thereon.	Reasoning
In the present case, the lands were under the personal cultivation of the mortgagors at the time when they were mortgaged under Exhibits 2 and 3.	Reasoning
There were then no raiyats on the land and no question of transferring the right to collect rent from them.	None
The respondents relied on the terms in Exhibits 2 and 3 that the mortgagees might cultivate the land or cause them to be cultivated at their pleasure, as authorising the establishment of tenants.	None
But that clause would apply only if the lands had to be brought afresh under cultivation, and that was not the position here.	None
As the mortgagees are neither proprietors nor tenureholders as defined in the Act, the tenants holding under them could not claim to be raiyats as defined in Ss. 5(2) and 5(3), and no occupancy rights could therefore be acquired by them under section 21 of the Act.13.	Reasoning
It was next contended that the mortgagees had the power under S. 76, T. P. Act, to induct tenants on the land for purposes of cultivation, that such a transaction would be binding on the mortgagors, and that its effect would be to confer on the tenants the status of raiyats and that they would get occupancy rights under S. 21 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The decisions in  Manjhil Lal Biswa Nath Sah Deo v. Mahiuddin, 97 Ind Cas 852 (Pat) (G)  Rajendra Nath v. Dinu Prodhan, AIR 1930 Cal 738 (H) and  Pramatha Nath v. Sashi Bhusan, AIR 1937 Cal 763 (I) were relied on in support of this contention.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument proceeds on a confusion of two wholly independent concepts distinct in their origin and different in their legal incidents.	None
The law is that a person cannot confer on another any right higher than what he himself possesses, and therefore, a lease created by a usufructuary mortgagee would normally terminate on the redemption of the mortgage.	None
Section 76(a) enacts an exception to this rule.	None
If the lease is one which could have made by the owner in the course of prudent management it would be binding on the mortgagors, notwithstanding that the mortgage has been redeemed.	None
Even in such a case, the operation of the lease cannot extend beyond the period for which it was granted.	None
In the present case, assuming that the mortgagees had the power under S. 76(a), T. P. Act, to continue the lessees under Exhibit 2(a) as tenants on the lands after the termination of the period fixed therein, that would confer on them at best the status of tenants from year to year and not given them the right to continue in possession after the termination of the agricultural year during which the redemption takes place.	None
In this view, the power of the mortgagee under S. 76(a), T. P. Act, to induct tenants in the usual course of management would not avail the respondents to claim occupancy rights over the lands.14.	None
Turning next of the provisions of the Bihar Tenancy Act, S. 21 confers on settled raiyats a permanent right of occupancy provided the conditions mentioned in that section are satisfied.	None
But this right is a creature of the statute, and cannot be claimed apart from its provisions.	None
A mortgagee is, as already stated, neither a proprietor nor a tenureholder, and a person settled by him on the lands does not enjoy the status of a raiyat under Ss. 5(2) and 5(3).	Reasoning
He is, therefore, not a person entitled under the terms of the statute to any occupancy rights.	None
Thus, if the respondents cannot resist the suit for ejectment either by reason of S. 76(a), T. P. Act, or S. 21, Bihar Tenancy Act, it is difficult to see how they could get such a right as the result of the interaction of both those sections.15.	None
In 97 Ind Cas 852 (Pat) (G), the suit was by a mortgagor after redemption to recover possession of lands, which had been leased by the mortgagee.	None
The proprietor claimed that the lands were zirait but the finding, however, was that they were raiyat lands, and that the mortgagee had inducted tenants into possession in the usual course of management.	None
It was held that the tenants could not be ejected.	None
The decision was expressly based on the fact that the lands were raiyati lands, and the learned Judges distinguished the cases in the learned Judges distinguished the cases in  Mahadeo Prasad v. Gajendhar Prasad, AIR 1924 Pat 362 (J) and  Jogeshwar Mazumdar v. Abed Mahomed Sirkar, 3 Cal WN 13 (K) on the ground that the lands which were the subject of mortgage therein were zerait lands.	None
This decision does not support the broad proposition for which the respondents contend, and is really against them, as the mortgage in the present case is of kamat lands.16.	None
In AIR 1930 Cal 738 (H), the facts were similar to those in 97 Ind Cas 852 (Pat) (G), except that the lands do not appear to have been raiyati lands.	None
In holding that the mortgagor was not entitled to possession, Guha J. observed that the mortgage deed did not stand in the way of the tenants being settled by the mortgagee, and that whey they were so settled they had well defined rights under the Act, and could not be ejected.	None
If S. 5(3) of the Act did not apply  and it would not, unless the letting was by the proprietor or tenureholder  it is not stated what other provision of law operated to confer occupancy rights on the tenant.	None
The learned Judge then referred to  Binad Lala Pakrashi v. Kalu Pramanik, 20 Cal 708 (L) as furnishing the principle on which the decision should rest.	None
There, a tenant was put into possession by a person who claimed to be the proprietor, and though it subsequently turned out that he was not, it was held that the letting by him conferred on the tenant the status of a raiyat.	None
As pointed out in  Peary Mohan Mondal v. Radhika Moham Hazra, 8 Cal WN 315 (M) and  Krishna Nath v. Mohomed Wafiz, AIR 1916 Cal 598 (N), the basis of the decision in 20 Cal 708 (L) was that the word proprietor in S. 5(3) would include a de facto as well as a de jure proprietor, and a tenant who is bona fide inducted into possession by him would have the status of a raiyat.	None
This decision makes an inroad on the general principle that no one can confer a better right than what he has got, and later decisions have generally shown a disposition to confine its application within narrow limits.	None
But even on its own ground, it can have no application when the person who admits a tenant is not, as required by S. 5(3), a proprietor de facto or de jure, but a mortgagee.	None
The principle of the decision in 20 Cal 708 (L) does not therefore support the conclusion in AIR 1930 Cal 738 (H) that a tenant admitted by a mortgagee into possession acquires the status of a raiyat.17.	None
In AIR 1937 Cal 763 (I), a permanent lease was granted by a mortgagee after he had obtained a decree for foreclosure.	None
Subsequently, that decree was recalled in a suit by the Official Receiver representing one of the mortgagors and a fresh decree for redemption was passed.	None
After redemption, the Official Receiver received rent from the lessee treating him as a tenant on the land.	None
A transferee from the Official Receiver having subsequently instituted as suit in ejectment against the tenant, it was held that the latter had acquired a right of occupancy under S. 21 of the Act, and that the relief for khas possession could not be granted as against him.	None
Notwithstanding that some of the observations in the judgment are widely expressed, the ground of the decision really is that when the Official Receiver accepted rent from the tenant, that amounted to an affirmance of the lease by him, and that would have the effect of bringing S. 5(3) directly into play and conferring on the tenant the status of a raiyat.	None
The decisions discussed above do not lay down any acceptable principle that the lease by a mortgagee which is protected by S. 76(a), T. P. Act, operates by itself to confer a right of occupancy on the tenant under S. 21 of the Act.18.	None
Some argument was founded by the respondents on the clause in Exhibits 2 and 3 that the mortgagee could get the lands cultivated.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that this clause conferred authority on the mortgagee to settle raiyats on the lands, and that the tenants admitted in pursuance of this authority would be in the same position as if they had been admitted by the proprietor and the conditions of S. 5(3) would be satisfied.	Arguments of Respondent
But then, the lands are private lands, and the clause in question is followed by the provision that on redemption the mortgagors would be entitled to resume sir and khas possession, and that would be rendered nugatory if the deed is construed as authorising the mortgagees to settle tenants on the lands with the status of raiyats.	None
The authority to get lands cultivated can only mean getting them cultivated through hired labour as contemplated in the definition of private lands.	None
We are clearly of opinion that the mortgage deed conferred no authority on the mortgagees to admit tenants so as the confer on them rights of occupancy.19.	Reasoning
In the result, we must hold that the defendants of the second party have failed to establish that they have any rights of occupancy over the suit lands, and that the plaintiffs are accordingly entitled to a decree in ejectment, with future mesne profits as claimed in the plaint.	Reasoning
This appeal is allowed, the decree of the lower court is set aside, and that of the Subordinate Judge of Monghyr restored as against second party defendants with costs throughout.	Decision
The suit as against the first party defendants is dismissed, but in the circumstances, there will be no order as to costs.20.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
