 FAZAL ALI, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Delhi High Court dated 23rd May, 1967 affirming the decree of the District Judge, Delhi and dismissing the plaintiffs suit for damages against the defendants on the ground that they had violated the copyrighted work of the plaintiff which was a drama called Hum Hindustani.	Issue
2.	None
The facts have been succinctly stated by the District Judge in his judgment and summarised by the High Court, and, therefore, it is not necessary for us to repeat the same all over again.	Facts
We would, however, like to give a brief resume of some of the striking facts in the case which may be germane for the purpose of deciding the important issues involved in this appeal.	Facts
We might mention here that the High Court as also the District Judge negatived the plaintiffs claim and prima facie the appeal appears to be concluded by finding of fact, but it was rightly argued by Mr. Andley appealing for the appellant that the principles of violation of copyright in the instant appeal have to be applied on the facts found and the inferences from proved facts drawn by the High Court which is doubtless a question of law and more particularly as there is no clear authority of this Court on the subject, we should be persuaded to go into this question without entering into findings of facts.	Facts
Having heard counsel for the parties, we felt that as the case is one of first impression and needs to be decided by this Court, we should enter into the merits on the basis of the facts found and inferences drawn by the High Court and the District Judge.	Facts
It is true that both the District Judge and the High Court have relied upon some well established principles to determine whether or not in a particular case a violation of copy right has taken place, but learned counsel for the appellant has challenged the validity of the principles enunciated by the High Court.	Facts
The plaintiff is an architect by profession and is also a playwright, dramatist and producer of stage plays.	Facts
Even before Hum Hindustani the plaintiff had written and produced a number of other plays like Des Hamara, Azadi and Election which were staged in Delhi.	Facts
The subject matter of the appeal, however, is the play entitled Hum Hindustani.	Facts
According to the plaintiff, this play was written by him in Hindi in the year 1953 and was enacted by him for the first time on 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th February, 1954 at Wavell Theatre, New Delhi under the auspices of the Indian National Theatre.	Facts
The play proved to he very popular and received great approbation from the Press and the public as a result of which the play was restaged in February and September, 1954 and also in 1955 and 1956 at Calcutta.	Facts
In support of his case the plaintiff has referred to a number of comments appearing in the Indian Express, Hindustan Times, Times of India and other papers.	None
3. Encouraged by the success and popularity of the aforesaid play the plaintiff tried to consider the possibility of filming it.	None
In November, 1954 the plaintiff received a letter dated 19th November, 1954 from the second defendant Mr. Mohan Sehgal wherein the defendant informed the plaintiff that he was supplied with a synopsis of the play by one Mr. Balwant Gargi a common friend of the plaintiff and the defendant The defendant had requested the plain tiff to supply a copy of the play so that the defendant may consider the desirability of making a film on it.	Facts
The plaintiff, however, by his letter dated 30th November?	Facts
1954 informed the defendant that as the play had been selected out of 17 Hindi plays for National Drama Festival and would be staged on 11th December, 1954, the defendant should take the trouble of visiting Delhi and seeing the play himself in order to examine the potentialities of making a film, and at that time the matter could be discussed by the defendant with the plaintiff.	Facts
The plaintiffs case, however, is that some time about January, 1955 the second and the third defendants came to Delhi, met the plain tiff in his office where the plaintiff read out and explained the entire play to the defendants and also discussed the possibility of filming it.	Facts
The second defendant did not make any clear commitment but promised the plaintiff that he would inform him about his reaction after reaching Bombay.	Facts
Thereafter the plaintiff heard nothing from the defendant.	Facts
Sometime in May, 1955 the second defendant announced the production of a motion picture entitled New Delhi.	Facts
One Mr. Thapa who was one of the artists in the play produced by the plaintiff happened to be in Bombay at the time when the picture New Delhi was being produced by the defendant and informed the plaintiff that the picture being produced by the defendant was really based on the plaintiffs play Hum Hindustani.	Facts
The plaintiff thereupon by his letter dated 30th May, 1955 wrote to the second defendant expressing serious concern over the adaptation of his play into a motion picture called New Delhi.	Facts
The defendant, however, by his letter dated 9th June, 1955 informed the plaintiff that his doubts were without any foundation and assured the plaintiff that the story treatment, dramatic construction, characters etc. were quite different and bore not the remotest connection or resemblance with the play written by the plaintiff.	None
4.	None
The picture was released in Delhi in September, 1956 and the plaintiff read some comments in the papers which gave the impression that the picture was very much like the play Hum Hindustani written by the plaintiff.	Facts
The plaintiff himself saw the picture on the 9th September, 1956 and he found that the film was entirely based upon the said play and was, therefore, convinced that the defendant after having heard the play narrated to him by the plaintiff dishonestly imitated the same in his film and thus committed an act of piracy so as to result in violation of the copy right of the plaintiff.	Facts
The plaintiff accordingly filed the suit for damages, for decree for accounts of the profits made by the defendants and a decree for permanent injunction against the defendants restraining them from exhibiting the film New Delhi.	Facts
The suit was contested by defendants No. 1 and 2 as also by other defendants who adopted the pleas raised by defendants No. 1 and 2. 5.	None
The defendants, inter alia, pleaded that they were not aware that the plaintiff was the author of the play Hum Hindustani nor were they aware that the play was very well received at Delhi.	Facts
Defendant No. 2 is a film Director and is also the proprietor of defendant No. 1 Delux Films.	Facts
The defendants averred that in November, 1954 the second defendant was discussing some ideas for his new picture with Mr. Balwant Gargi who is a play wright of some repute.	Facts
In the course of the discussion, the second defendant informed Mr. Gargi that the second defendant was interested in producing a motion film based on provincialism as its central theme.	Facts
In the context of these discussions Mr. Gargi enquired of defendant No. 2 if the latter was interested in hearing the play called Hum Hindustani produced by the plaintiff which also had the same theme of provincialism in which the second defendant was interested.	Facts
It was, therefore, at the instance of Mr. Gargi that the second defendant wrote to the plaintiff and requested him to send a copy of the script of the play.	Facts
The defendant goes on to state that the plaintiff read out the play to the second defendant in the presence of Rajinder Bhatia and Mohan Kumar, Assistant Directors of the second defendant when they had come to Delhi in connection with the release of their film Adhikar.	Facts
The second defendant has taken a clear stand that after having heard the play he informed the plaintiff that though the play might have been all right for the amateur stage, it was too inadequate for the purpose of making a full length commercial motion picture.	Facts
The defendants denied the allegation of the plaintiff that it was after hearing the play written by the plaintiff that the defendants decided to make a film  based on the play and entitled it as New Delhi.	Facts
The defendant thus submitted that there could be no copyright so far as the subject of provincial ism is concerned which can be used or adopted by any body in his own way.	Facts
He further averred that the S motion picture was quite different from the play Hum Hindustani both in contents, spirit and climax.	Facts
The mere fact that there were some similarities between the film and the play could be explained by the fact that the idea, viz., provincialism was the common source of the play as also of the film.	Facts
The defendant thus denied that there was any violation of the copy right.	None
6.	Facts
On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, the learned trial Judge framed the following issues 1.	None
Is the plaintiff owner of the copyright in the play Hum Hindustani ?	Facts
2. Is the film New Delhi an infringement of the plaintiffs copyright in the play Hum Hindustani?	Facts
3. Have defendants or any of them infringed the plaintiffs copyright by producing, or distributing or exhibiting the film New Delhi ?	Facts
4. Is the suit bad for misjoinder of defendants and cause of action ?	Facts
5.	Facts
To what relief is the plaintiff entitled and against whom ?	None
7. Issue No. 1 was decided against the defendants and it was held by the trial Judge that the plaintiff w as the owner of the copyright in the play Hum Hindustani.	Facts
Issue No. 4 was not pressed by the defendants and was accordingly decided against them.	Facts
The main case however turned upon the decision on issues No. 2 and 3 which were however decided against the plaintiff as the learned Judge held that there was no violation of the copyright of the plaintiff.	Facts
The plaintiff then went up in appeal to the Delhi High Court where a Division Bench of that Court affirmed the decision of the District Judge and upheld the decree dismissing the plaintiffs suit.	Facts
The findings of fact arrived at by the learned trial Judge and the High Court have not been assailed before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
The only argument advanced by h the appellant was that the principles enunciated and the legal inferences drawn by the courts below are against the settled legal principles laid down by the courts in England, America and India.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted by Mr. Andley that the two courts have not fully understood the import of the violation of copyright particularly when the similarities between the play and the film are so close and sundry that would lead to the irresistible inference and unmistakable impression that the film is nothing but an imitation of the play.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was argued by Mr. Hardy counsel for the respondents that the two courts below have applied the law correctly and it is not necessary for this Court to enter into merits in view of the concurrent findings.	Arguments of Respondent
of fact given by the two courts.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that even on the facts found it is manifest that there is a vast difference both in the spirit and the content between the play Hum Hindustani and the film New Delhi and no question of violation of the copy right arises.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate the argument of both the parties it may be necessary to discuss the law on the subject.	Arguments of Respondent
To begin with there is no decided case of this Court on this point.	Reasoning
Secondly, at the time when the cause of action arose Parliament had not made any law governing copyright violations and the courts in the absence of any law by our Parliament relied on the old law passed by the British Parliament, namely, the Copy Right Act of 1911.	Reasoning
Section 1 sub section (2) (d) defines copyright thus(2)	Reasoning
For the purposes of this Act, copyright means the sole right to produce or reproduce the work or any substantial Part thereof in any material form whatsoever to perform, or in the case of a lecture to deliver, the work or any substantial part thereof in public.	Reasoning
If the work is unpublished, to publish the work or any substantial part thereof and shall include the sole right, (d) in the case of a literary, dramatic, or musical work, to make any record, perforated roll, cinematograph film, or other contrivance by means or which the work may be mechanically performed or delivered.	None
8. Section 2 provides the contingencies where a copyright could be infringed and runs thus2(1)	None
Copyright in a work shall be deemed to be in fringed by any person who, without the consent of the owner or the copyright , does anything the sole right to do which is by this Act conferred on the owner of the copy right.	None
It is, therefore, clear that the Act of 1911 defines copyright and also indicates the various contingencies where copyright can not be in fringed.	None
The statute also provides exceptions which would not amount to violation of copyright.	None
In the instant case the play written by the appellant falls within section 1(2)(d) because it is a dramatic work.	None
The learned District Judge has rightly held that emotions like mere ideas are not subject to preemption because they are common property.	None
Quoting from the law of copyright and Movierights by Rustom R. Dadachanji the learned Judge observed as followsI t is obvious that the underlying emotion reflected by the principal characters in a play or look may be similar and yet that the characters and expression of the same emotions be different.	None
That the same emotions are found in plays would not alone be sufficient to prove infringement but if similar emotions are portrayed by a sequence of events presented in like manner expression and form, then infringement would be apparent .	None
Similarly in the case of Hanfstaengl v. W. H. Smith and Sons(1905 1 Ch. D. 519.)	None
it has been held by Bayley, J. that a copy is that which comes so near to the original as to give to every person seeing it the idea created by the original.	None
In Halsburys Laws of England by Lord Hailsham Fourth Edition the following observations are madeonly original works are protected under Part I of the Copyright Act 1956, but it is not requisite that the work should be the expression of original or inventive thought, for Copyright Acts are not concerned with the originality of ideas, but with the expression of thought, and, in the case of a literary work, with the expression of thought in print or writing .	None
There is copyright in original dramatic works and adaptations thereof, and such copyright subsists not only in the actual words of the work but in the dramatic incidents created, so that if these are taken there may be an infringement although no words arc actually copies.	None
There cannot be copyright in mere science effects or stage situations which are not reduced into some permanent form.	None
Similarly, it was pointed out by Copinger in his book on Copyright 11th Edition that what is protected is not the original thought but expression of thought in a concrete form.	None
In this connection, the author makes the following observations based on the case lawWhat is protected is not original thought or information, but the original expression of thought or information in some concrete form.	None
Consequently, it is only an infringement if the defendant has made an unlawful use of the form in which the thought or information is expressed.	None
The defendant must to be liable, have made a substantial use of this form he is not liable if he has taken from the work the essential, ideas how ever original, and expressed the idea in his own form, or used the idea for his own purposes.	None
The author also points out that there is no infringement unless the plaintiffs playwrighted work has been actually used so, that it may be said that the latter work reproduces the earlier one.	None
In this connection the author observes as followsA further essential matter, and one whichrather strangelyis not anywhere precisely stated in the Act of 1956 is that there can be no infringement unless use has been made, directly or indirectly, of the plaintiffs work.	None
9.	None
Moreover, it seems to us that the fundamental idea of violation of copyright or imitation is the violation of the Eighth Commandment Thou shalt not steal which forms the moral basis of the protective provisions of the Copyright Act of 1911.	None
It is obvious 11 that when a writer or a dramatist produces a drama it is a result of his great labour, energy, time and ability and if any other person is allowed to appropriate the labours of the copyrighted work, his act amounts to theft by depriving the original owner of the copyright of the product of his labour.	None
It is also clear that it is not necessary that the allege d infringement should be an exact or verbatim copy of the original but its resemblance with the original in a large measure, is sufficient to indicate that it is a copy.	None
In Article 418 Copinger states thusIn many cases the alleged infringement does not consist of an exact, or verbatim copy, of the whole, or any part, of the earlier work, but merely resembles it in a greater or lesser degree.	None
In Article 420 the author lays down the various tests to determine whether an infringement has taken place and observes as followsVarious definitions of copy have been suggested, but it is submitted that the true view of the matter is that, where the court is satisfied that a defendant has, in producing the alleged infringement, made a substantial use of those features of the plaintiffs work in which copyright subsists, an infringement will be held to have been committed, if he has made such use, he has exercised unlawfully the sole right which is conferred upon the plaintiff.	None
Ball in Law of Copyright and Literary Property page 364 points out that where the defendant materially changes the story he cannot be said to have infringed the copyright.	None
In this connection, the author observes as followsIn such a composition the story is told by grouping and representing the important incidents in the particular sequence devised by the author whose claim to copyright must depend upon the particular story thus composed and not upon the various incidents, which, if presented individually, without such unique sequential arrangement, would be common literary property.	None
Consequently another dramatist who materially changes the story by materially varying the incidents should not be held to be infringer.	None
It is also pointed out by Mr. Ball that sometimes even though there may be similarities between the copyrighted work and the work of the defendant they may be too trivial to amount to appropriation OF  copyrighted material.	None
The author observes thusWhen two authors portray in literary or dramatic form t	None
he same occurrence, involving people reacting to the same emotions under the influence of an environment constructed of the same materials.	None
similarities in incidential details necessary to the environment or setting are inevitable but unless they are accompanied by similarities in the dramatic development of the plot or in the lines or action .	None
Of the principal characters, they do not constitute evidence of copying.	None
They are comparable to similarities in two works of art made by different artists from the same original subject, and in the usual case are too trivial and unimportant to amount to a substantial appropriation of copyrighted material.	None
The author further says that unless there is any substantial identity A between the respective works in the scenes, incidents and treatment a case of infringement of copyright is not made and observes thusBut there was no substantial identity between the respective works in the scenes, incidents, or treatment of the common Them, the court held that the plaintiffs copyright were not infringed by the defendants photoplays.	None
Dealing with the infringement of copyright of a play by a motion picture which appears to be an identical case in the present appeal.	None
the author observes as followsIn an action for the alleged infringement of the copy right of a play by a motion picture, wherein it appeared that both authors had used life in a boys reform school as a background, but the only similarity between the two productions consisted to a few incidents and points in dialogue, such as one would expect to find in stories set against the same background, there was no infringement of copyright To the same effect are the following observations to the authorWhere the only evidence of similarities between two plays was based upon t he authors analysis and interpretation of an extensive list of parallel, from which he infer red that many incidents, scenes and characters in the alleged infringing play were adapted from the plaintiffs copy righted play but no such resemblance would be apparent i. to an ordinary observer, it was held that the meaning or interpretation which the author gives to his literary work cannot be accepted as a deciding test of plagiarism and that, in the absence of any material resemblance which could be recognised by an ordinary observation.	None
each play must be regarded as the independent work of the named author Similar observations have been made in Corpus Juris Secundum VOL 18 at page 139 where it is observation as followsAn author has, at common law, a property in his intellectual production before it has been published, and may obtain redress against anyone who deprives him of it, or, by improperly obtaining a copy, endeavours to publish or to use it without his consent.	None
This right exists in the written seenario of a motion picture photoplay an d in the photoplay itself as recorded on the photographic film.	None
There is, however, no commonlaw literary property right in the manner and postures of the actors used by them in performing the play.	None
Infringement of a copyright is a trespass on a private domain owned and occupied by the owner of the copyright, and, therefore, protected by law, and infringement of copy right, or piracy, which is a synonymous term in this connection consists in the doing by any person, without the con sent of the owner of the copyright, of anything the sole right to do, which is conferred by the statute on the owner of the copyright.	None
This view was taken by the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of BobbsMerrill Company v. Isidor Straus and Nathan Straus.(21	None
O U.S .	None
339.)In the American Jurisprudence also it is pointed out that the law does not recognize property rights in abstract idea, nor is an idea protected by a copy right	None
and it becomes a copyright work only when the idea is given embodiment in a tangible form.	None
In this connection the following observations are madeGenerally speaking, the law does not recognize property rights in abstract ideas and does not accord the author or proprietor the protection of his ideas.	None
which the law does accord to the proprietor of personal property.	None
In cases involving motion pictures or radio or television broadcasts, it is frequently stated that an idea is not protected by a copyright or under the common law, or that there is no property right in an idea, apart from the manner in which it is expressed.	None
When an idea is given embodiment in a tangible form, it becomes the subject of commonlaw property rights which are protected by the courts, at least when it can be said to be novel and new.	None
It was also pointed out in this book as to what constitutes colorable imitation.	None
In this connection, the following observations have been madeInfringement involves a copying, in whole or in part, either in haec verba (sic) or by colorable variation . . .	None
A copy as used in copyright cases, signifies a tangible object which is a reproduction of the original work.	None
The question is not whether the alleged infringer could have obtained the same information by going to the same source used by the plaintiff in his work, but whether he did in fact go to the same source and do his own independent research.	None
In other words, the test is whether one charged with the infringement made an independent product ion, or made a substantial and unfair use of the plaintiffs work.	None
Intention to plagiarise is not essential to establish liability for infringement of a copyright or for plagiarism of literary property in unpublished books, manuscripts, or plays.	None
One may be held liable for infringement which is unintentional or which was done unconsciously.	None
Similarity of the alleged infringing work to the authors or proprietors copyrighted work does not of itself stablish copyright infringement, if the similarity results from the fact that both works deal with the same subject or have the same common source Nevertheless, it is the unfair appropriation o	None
f the labour of the author whose work has been infringed that constitutes legal infringement, and while identity of language will often prove that the offence was committed, it is not necessarily the sole proof on the other hand, relief will be afforded, irrespective of the existence or nonexistence of any similarity of language, if infringement in fact can be proved.	None
The appropriation must he of a substantial or material part o f the protected work	None
The test is whether the one charged with the infringement has made substantial and unfair use of the complainants work.	None
Infringement exists when a study of two writings indicates plainly that the defendants work is a transparent rephrasing to produce essentially the story of the other writing, but where there is no textual copying and there are differences in literary style, the fact that there is a sameness in t he tricks of spinning out the yarn so as to sustain the readers suspense, and similarities of the same general nature in a narrative of a long, complicated search for a lost article of fabulous value, does not indicate infringement.	None
We shall now discuss some of the authorities that have been cited at the Bar as also some others with whom we have come across and which throw a flood of light on the point in issue.	None
Dealing with the question of similarities Lord Kekewich, J. in Hanfstaengl case (Supra) described various qualities of a copy and observed as followsIn west v. Francis(1822 r. B. Al d. 737, 743.)	None
Bayley J. uses language coming, as Lord Watson says, nearer to a definition than anything which is o be found in the books.	None
It runs thus A copy is that which comes so near to the original as to give to Every person seeing it the idea created by the original If it were altered thusa copy is that which comes so near to the original as to suggest that original to the mind of every person seeing it the substance of the definition would be preserved and Lord Watsons criticism would be avoided.	None
The learned Judge aptly pointed out that an imitation will be a copy which comes so near to the original as to suggest the original to the mind of every person seeing it.	None
In other words, if after having seen the picture a person forms a definite opinion and gets a dominant impression that it has been based on or taken from the original play by the appellant that will be sufficient to constitute a violation of the copyright.	None
In the case of Ladbroke (Football) Ltd. v. William Bill (Foot ball) Ltd Reid (1964 1 All E.R. 465.) made the following pertinent observations.	None
But, in my view, that is only a short out, and more correct approach is first to determine whether the plaintiffs work a whole is original and. protected by copyright, rand then to inquire whether the part taken by the defendant is substantial.	None
A wrong result can easily be reached if one begins by dissecting the plaintiffs work and asking, could section A be the subject of copyright if it stood by itself, could section be protected it stood by itself, and so on.	None
To my mind, it does not follow that, because the fragments taken separately would not be copyright, therefore the whole cannot be.	None
Lord Hodson expressed similar views at p. 475 in the following A wordsThe appellants have sought to argue that the coupons can be dissected and that on analysis no copy right attaches to any of their component parts and accordingly no protection is available.	None
In my opinion this approach is wrong and the coupons must be looked at as a whole.	None
Copy right is a statutory right which by the terms of s. 2 of the Act of 1956 would appear to subsist, if at all, in the literary or other work as one entity.	None
This case clearly lays down that a similarity here or a similarity there is not sufficient to constitute a violation of the copyright unless the imitation made by the defendant is substantial.	None
In the case of Corelli v. Gray(29 T.L.R. 570.)	None
Sargent, J. Observed as followsThe plaintiffs case is entirely founded on coincidences or similarities between the novel and the sketch.	None
Such coincidences or similarities may he due to any one of the four hypothesesnamely (1) to mere chance, or (2) to both sketch and novel being taken from a common source (3) to the novel being taken from the s ketch, or (4) to the sketch being taken from the novel.	None
Any of the first three hypothesis would result in the success of that defendant it is the fourth hypothesis alone that will entitle the plaintiff to succeed.	None
Looking now at the aggregate of the similarities between the sketch and the novel, and the case is essentially one in which the proof is cumulative.	None
I am irresistibly forced to the conclusion that it is quite impossible they should be due to mere chance coincidence and accordingly that they must be due to a process of copying or appropriation by the defendant from the plaintiffs novel.	None
10.	None
Thus it was pointed out in this case where t he aggregate of the similarities between the copyrighted work and the copy lead to the cumulative effect that the defendant had imitated the original and that the similarities between the two works are not coincidental, a reasonable inference of colorable imitation or of appropriation of the labour of the owner of the copyright by the defendant is proved.	None
This case was followed by the Master of Rolls in the case of Corelli v. Gray (30 T.L. R. 116.)	None
.The case of Hawkes and Son (London) Limited v. Paramount Film Service Limited(19341 Ch. D. 593.) was whether a musical composition made by the owner was sought to he imitated by producing a film containing the said composition.	None
An action for violation of the copyright was fired by the owner.	None
Lord Hansworth, M. R. found that the quantum taken was substantial and a substantial part of the musical copyright could be reproduced apart from the actual film.	None
In this connection, Lord Hansworth observed as followsHaving considered and heard this film I am quite satisfied that the quantum that is taken is substantial, and although it might be difficult, and although it might be difficult and although it may be uncertain whether it will be ever used again, we must not neglect the evidence that a substantial part of the musical copy right could be reproduced apart from the actual picture film.	None
Similar observations were made by Lord Slesser which may be extracted thusAny one hearing it would know that it was the march called Colonel Bogey and thought it may be that it was not very prolonged in its reproduction, it is clearly, in my view, a substantial, a vital and an essential part which is there reproduced.	None
That being so, it is clear to my mind that a fair use has not been made of its that is to say, there has been appropriated and published in a form which will or may materially injure the copyright that in which the plaintiffs have a proprietary right.	None
In the case of Harman Pictules N.V. v. Osborne ors.(196711 W.L.R. 723.)	None
it was held that similarities of incidents and situation undoubtedly afforded prima facie evidence of copy and in the absence of any explanation by the defendant regarding the sources, the plaintiffs must succeed.	None
It was however held that there was no copyright in ideas, schemes or systems or method and the copyright is confined only to the subject.	None
In this connection Coff, J. Observed as followsThere is no copyright in ideas or schemes or systems or methods it is confined to their expression But there is a distinction between ideas (which are not copy right) and situations and incidents which may be one must, however, be careful not to jump to the conclusion that there has been copying merely because of A similarity of stock incidents, or of incidents which are to be found in historical, semihistorical and fictional literature about characters in history.	None
In such cases the plaintiffs, and that includes the plaintiffs in the present case, are in an obvious difficulty because of the existence of common sources.	None
But I have read the whole of the script very carefully and compared it with the book and I find many similarities of detail there also.	None
Again it is prima facie not without significance that apart from the burial of Captain Nolan the play ends with The very quotation which Mrs. WodhamSmith used to end her description of the battle As Sir Andrew Clark points out, some of these might well be accounted for as being similar to other events already in the scripts, and in any event abridgment was necessary, but that may not be a complete answer.	None
Similarly in the case of Donoghue v. Allied Newspapers(1937 3 All E.R. 503.)	None
it was pointed out that there was no copyright in an idea and in this connection Farwell, J. Observed as followsThis.	None
at any rate, is clear, and one can start with This beyond all question that there is no copyright in an idea, or in ideas of the idea, however brilliant and however clever it may be, is nothing m ore than an idea, and is not put into any form of words, or any form of expression such as a picture or a play, then there is no such thing as copyright at all.	None
It is not until it is (If I may but it in that way) reduced into writing, or into some tangible form, that you get any right to copyright at all, and the copyright exists in the particular form of language in which, or, in the case of a picture, in the particular form of the picture by which, the information or the idea is conveyed to those who are intended to read it or look at it.	None
Similarly in the case of Bobl and Anr.	None
v. Palace Theatre (Limited) and Anr.(28 T.L.R. 22.)	None
Justice Hamilton observed as follows .If similarity between two works was sufficiently strong the evidence of copying would be so cogent that no one would believe any denial, but here the intrinsic evidence was really the other way The matter had been considered by Justice Scrutton in his book on Copyright, and the conclusion there come (sic) to (Note h p. 83 of fourth edition) was that to which his own reflection during the progress of this case would have led him.	None
He considered, therefore, that where the similarity was a mere coincidence there was no breach of copyright.	None
In the case of Tate v. Fullbrook(77 L.J.R. 577.)	None
Lord Vaughan Williams observed as follows .I do not think that I need go at length through the similarities and dissimilarities of the two sketches.	None
It is practically admitted that, so far as the words are concerned the similarity is trifling All that we find here is a certain likeness of stage situation and scenic effect, which, in my opinion, ought not to he taken into consideration at all where there is appreciable likeness in the words.	None
In the case of Frederick B. Chatterton and Benjamin Webster v. Joseph Arnold Cave((1878) 3 A.C. 483.)	None
Hatherley observed as followsAnd if the quantity taken be neither substantial nor material if, as it has been expressed by some Judges, a fair use only be made of the publication, no wrong is done and no action can be brought.	None
It is not, perhaps, exactly the same with dramatic performances.	None
They are not in tended to be repeated by others or lc be used in such a way as a book may be used, but slill the principle de minimis non curat lex applies to a supposed wrong in Laking a part of dramatic works, as well as in reproducing a part of a book.	None
I think.	None
my Lords, regard being had to the whole of this case to the finding of the Lord Chief Justice that the parts which were so taken were neither substantial nor material parts, and the impossibility of damage being held to have accrued to the plaintiff from such taking, and the concurrence of the other Judges before whom the case was, brought that this appeal should be dismissed, and dismissed with costs.	None
In the case of Sheldon v. MetroGclden Pictures Corporation(81 F 2d 40.)	None
Judge Learned Hand stated that while considering a case which is very similar to the case in this appeal observed as followsBut it is convenient to define such a use by saying that others may copy the theme or ideas, or the like, of a work, though not its expression.	None
At any rate so long as it is clear what is meant, no harm is done Finally, in concluding as we do that the defend ants used the play pro tanto, we need not charge their witnesses with perjury.	None
With so many sources before them they might quite honestly forget what they took nobody knows the origin of his inventions memory and fancy merge even in adults.	None
Yet unconscious plagiarism is actionable quite as much as deliberate.	None
The play is the sequence of the confluents of all these means, bound together in an inseparable unity it may often be most effectively pirated by leaving out the speech, for which a substitute can be found, which keeps the whole dramatic meaning.	None
That as it appears to us is exactly what the defendants have done here the dramatic significance of thevwcenes we have recited is the same, almost to the letter It is enough that substantial parts were lifted no plagiarist can excuse the wrong by showing how much of his work he did not pirate.	None
In the aforesaid case the Court held that there was no plagiarism or violation of the copyright.	None
In the case of Shipman v. R. K. O. Radio Pictures (100 F 2d 533.) which holding that an idea cannot be the subject of copyright great stress was laid on the impression which the audience for ms after seeing the copy.	None
In this connection, Menton, J. Observed as followsThe Court concluded that it was the idea or impression conveyed to the audience which was the determining factor, and since the impressions were the same, held there was an infringement From this case stand the modern law of copyright cases, with the result that it is now held that ideas are not copyrightable but that sequence of events is the identity of impression must be capable of sensory perception by the audience.	None
In the case of Michael V. Moretti v. People of the State of Illinois(248 F 2d 799356 U.S. 947)	None
It was held that law does not recognise property rights in ideas but only in the expression of the same in a particular manner adopted by the author.	None
A writ of certiorari was taken against this judgment to the U.S. Supreme Court which was denied.	None
To the same effect is an earlier decision in the case of Funkhouser v. Loews(208 F 2d 185.) where the following relevant observations were made on the various aspects of the matterWe are also mindful that the test used to determine infringement in cases of this case is whether ordinary observation of the motion picture photoplay would cause it to be recognised as a picturisation of the compositions allow ed to have been copied, and not whether by some hypercritical dissection of sentences and incidents seeming similarities are shown to exist It recognised that there were similar incidents in the productions, but such similarities were due to the nature of the subject matter and not to copying.	None
Both the motion picture and plain tiffs story old John Santa Fe were set in the same geo graphical area and both had the typical western back ground Appellants attempt to s how similarities by comparing a word or phrase taken from his manuscript with the word or words appearing in the lyrics of a song in appellees motion picture is not in conformity with the test used in infringement cases an d to which we have referred to above.	None
We find no merit in the contention that any of the songs in defendants movie were taken from plaintiffs manuscripts Considering that both the movie and the manuscript presented activities of Harvey Girls, and information concerning them was received from the same source, we think it reasonable that some similarities in character portrayal could be discovered.	None
In view of the aforesaid observation too much stress cannot always be laid on similarities or similar situations.	None
A writ of certiorari against the judgment of the U.S. Courts Appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court was taken but the certiorari was denied and the petition was rejected in limine as it appears from 348 U.S. 843.	None
This was also a case where a film was made on the basis of a play claimed to have been written by the plaintiff.	None
The case of Warner Bros. Pictures v. Columbia Broadcasting System(216 F 2d 945.) is another illustration of the manner in which a copyright can be violated.	None
Dealing with this aspect of the matter Stephens, J observed as followsIt is our conception of the area covered by the copy right statute that when a study of the two writings is made and it is plain the study that one of them is not in fact the creation of the putative authority, but instead has been copied in substantial part exactly or in transparent phrasing to produce essentially the story of the other writing, it in fringes.	None
A writ of certiorari was taken against the decision to the U.S. Supreme B, Court but was denied as reported in 348 U.S. 971.	None
In the case of Otto Eisenchiml v. Fowcett Publications(246 2d 598.)	None
Duffy, Chief Judge observed as followsAn infringement is not confined to literal and exact repetition or reproduction it includes also the various modes in which the matter of any work may be adopted, imitated, transferred, or reproduced, with more or less colorable alterations to disguise the piracy.	None
Paraphrasing is copying and an infringement, if carried to a sufficient extent The question of infringement of copyright is not one of quantity but of quality and value.	None
A writ of certiorari against this decision was taken to the U.S. Supreme Court but was denied which was reported on 2 L.Ed.	None
2d 260355 U.S. 907.In	None
the case of Dorsey v. Old Surety Life Ins.	None
Co.(98 2d 872.)	None
Phillips, J. 1 observed as followsThe right secured by a copyright is not the right to the use of certain words, nor the right to employ ideas expressed thereby.	None
Rather it is the rig ht to that arrangement or words which the author has selected to express his ideas To constitute infringement in such cases a showing of appropriation in the exact form or substantially so of the copy righted material should be required.	None
Similar observations were made in the case of Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation v. Stonesifer(140 2d 579) which are as followsIn copyright infringement cases involving original dramatic compositions and mot ion picture productions, in as much as literal or complete appropriation of the protected property rarely occurs, the problem before the court is concrete and specific in each case to determine from all the facts and circumstances in evidence whether there has been a substantial taking from an original and copyrighted property, and therefore an unfair use of the protected work The two works involve d in this appeal should be considered and tested, not hypercritically or with meticulous scrutiny, but by the observations and impressions of the average reasonable reader and spectator We find and conclude, as did the court below, that the numerous striking similarities in the two works cannot in the light of all the evidence be said to constitute mere chance.	None
The deduction of material and substantial unlawful copying of appellees original play in appellants motion picture is more in consonance with the record and with the probabilities of the situation therein disclosed.	None
This authority lays down in unmistakable terms the cases where an infringement of t he copyright would take place and as pointed out that before the charge of plagiarism is levelled against the defendant it must be shown that the defendant has taken a substantial portion of the matter from the original and have made unfair use o f the protective work The two works involved must be considered and tested not hypercritically but with meticulous scrutiny.	None
Similarly, in the case of Oliver Wendell Holmes v. George D. Hirst(174 U.S. 82.)	None
Justice Brown speaking for the Court and describing the incidents of a violation of the copyright observed as followsIt is the intellectual production of the author which the copyright protects, and not the particular form which such production ultimately takes.	None
The Judicial Committee in the case of Macmillan Company Limited v. K. and J. Cooper(51 I.A. 109.)	None
while pointing out the essential ingredients of the infringement of copyright Lord Atkinson observed as followsThird, that to constitute piracy of a copyright it must be shown that the original has been either substantially copied or to be so imitated as to be a mere evasion of the copyright.	None
In the case of Florence A. Deeks v. H .	None
G. Wells ors(60 I.A. 26.)	None
Lord Atkin speaking for the Judicial Committee summarised the nature of the evidence required to prove as a violation of copyright and observed as followsNow their Lordships are not prepared to say that in the case of two literary works intrinsic evidence of that kind may Br not be sufficient to establish a case of copying, even if the direct evidence is all the other way and appears to be evidence that can be accepted but such evidence must be of the most cogent force before it can be accepted as against the oath of respectable and responsible people whose evidence otherwise would be believed by the Court.	None
12.	None
In the case of N.T. Raghunathan Anr.	None
v. All India Reporter Ltd., Bombay(A.I.R. 1971 Bom. 48 .)	None
it was held that copyright law did not protect ideas but only the particular expression of ideas.	None
In that case, the Bombay High Court however held that the defendant had copied not only the ideas but also the style of abridgment, the expression of ideas and the form in which they were expressed and thus held that a case for violation of copyright was made out.	None
K. R. Venugopalan Sarma v. Sangu Ganesan(1972	None
Cr.	None
L.J. 1098.) was a case of infringement of copyright in picture and it was held that an infringement of the copyright was complete even though the reproduction was not exact, but the effect on the mind by study of the two pictures was that the respondents picture was nothing but a copy of the plaintiffs picture.	None
The Court while applying the various tests Observed as followsApplying this test, the degree of resemblance between the two pictures, which is to be judged by the eye, must be such that the person looking at the respondents pictures must get the suggestion that It is the appellants picture one picture can be said to be a copy of another picture only if a substantial part of the former picture finds place in the reproduction.	None
To the same effect is an earlier decision of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court in the case of The Daily Calendar Supplying Bureau, Sivakasi v. The United Concern(A.T.R. 1967 Mad. 38.) where the Court observed as followsWhat is essential is to see whether there is a reproduction of substantial part of the picture.	None
There can be no test to decide what a substantial part of a picture is.	None
One useful test, which has been followed in several decisions of Courts, is the one laid down by Lord Herschel, L.C. in Hanjastaengl v. Bains Co. (1895 A.C. 20, 25.)	None
it depends really, on the effect produced upon the mind by a study of the picture and of that which is alleged to be a copy of it, or at least of its design.	None
In the case of C. Cunniah and Co. v. Balraj Co. (A.I.R. 1961 Mad. 111 .)	None
the Court applying the test of resemblance ob served as followsApplying this test, the degree of resemblance between the two pictures, which is to be judged by the eye, must be such that the person looking at the respondents picture must get the suggestion that it is the appellants picture.	None
In this sense, the points of similarity or dissimilarity in the picture assume some importance We agree that this could not be the sole test, though, incidentally, the points of resemblance and dissimilarity assume some importance in the case of finding out whether, taken as a whole, the respondents picture produces the impression in the mind of any observer, which amounts to a suggestion of the appellants picture.one picture can be said to be a copy of another picture only if a substantial part of the former picture finds place in the reproduction.	None
In the case of Mohendra Chandra Nath Ghosh and ors.	None
v. Emperor(A.I.R. 1928	None
Cal 359.)	None
the Court while defining what a copy is held that a copy is one which is so near the original as to suggest the original to the mind of the spectator and observed as followsBut the question is whether the offending pictures are copies of substantial portions of the copyright picture The figures may have been reduced in the offending pictures and slight modifications may have been introduced, or the clothes and colours may have been different, but there can be no doubt whatsoever that the main figures have an identical pose.	None
These are not, in my opinion, coincidences due to A the pictures being produced to represent common stock idea.	None
Similarly in the case of S.K. Dutt v. Law Book Co. ors.(A.I.R. 1954	None
All.	None
570, ) it was held that in order to be an infringement of a mans copyright there must be a substantial infringement of the work.	None
A mere fair dealing with any work falls outside the mischief of the Copyright Act.	None
Similarly, in the case of Romesh Chowdhry Ors. v. Kh.	None
Ali Mohamad Nowsheri Ors.(A.I.R. 1965	None
J K. 101.)	None
the Division Bench of the Court to which one of us (Fazal Ali, J.) was a party and had written the leading judgment it was thus observedIt is well settled that in order to be actionable the infringement must be a colorable imitation of the originals with the purpose of deriving profit.	None
13.	None
In the case of Mohini Mohan Singh Ors. v. Sita Nath Basak(A.I.R. 1931 Cal. 230.)	None
a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court while laying down the necessary concomitants of a colorable imitation Mukherji, J. Observed as followsThe question there is where a colorable imitation has been made.	None
Whether a work is a colorable imitation of another must necessarily be a question of fact.	None
Similarly is a great point to be considered in this connection but mere similarity is not enough as it may be due to any one of four hypotheses as Copinger points out at p. 134, Edn. 6, viz., (1) to mere chance, (2) to both works being taken from a common force, (3) to plaintiffs work being taken from the defendants and (4) defendants work being taken from the plaintiffs and each case must depend upon its own circumstances.	None
Guha, J. Observed as followsIt has to be determined whether in a particular case the work is a legitimate use of another mans publication in the fair exercise of a mental operation deserving the character of original work.	None
14.	None
Thus, the position appears to be that an idea, principle, them e, or subject matter or historical or legendary facts being common property cannot be the subject matter of copyright of a particular person.	None
It is always open to any person to choose an idea as a subject matter and develop it in his own manner and give expression to the idea by treating it differently from others.	Reasoning
Where two writers write on the same subject similarities are bound to occur because the central idea of both are the single but the similarities or coincidences by themselves cannot lead to an irresistible inference of plagiarism or piracy.	Reasoning
Take for instance the great poet and dramatist Shakespeare most of whose plays are based on GreekRoman and British mythology or legendary stories like Mer chant of Venice, Hamlet, Romeo Juliet, Jullius Caesar etc.	Reasoning
But the treatment of the subject by Shakespeare in each of his dramas is so fresh, so different, so full of poetic exuberance.	Reasoning
elegance and erudition and so novel in character as a result of which the end product be comes an original in itself.	Reasoning
In fact, the power and passion of his expression, the uniqueness, eloquence and excellence of his style and pathos and bathos of the dramas become peculiar to Shakespeare and leaves precious little of the original theme adopted by him.	Reasoning
It will thus be preposterous to level a charge of plagiarism against the great playwright.	Reasoning
In fact, thoughout his original thinking, ability and incessant labour Shakespeare has converted an old idea into a new one, so that each of the dramas constitutes a masterpiece of English literature.	Reasoning
It has been rightly said that every drama of Shakespeare is an extended metaphor.	Reasoning
Thus, the fundamental fact which has to be determined where a charge o f violation of the copyright is made by the. plaintiff against the defendant is to determine whether or not the defendant not only adopted the idea of the copyrighted work but has also adopted the manner, arrangement, situation to situation, scene to scene with minor changes or super additions or embellishment here and y there.	Reasoning
Indeed, if on a perusal of the copyrighted work the defendants work appears to be a transparent rephrasing or a copy of a substantial and material part of the original, the charge of plagiarism must stand proved.	Reasoning
Care however must be taken to see whether the defendant has merely disguised piracy or has actually reproduced the original in a different form, different tone, different tenor so as t o infuse a new life into the idea of the copyrighted work adapted by him.	Reasoning
In the latter case there is no violation of the copyright.	Reasoning
Thus, on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above, the following propositions emerge1.	Reasoning
There can be no copyright in an idea, subject matter, themes, plots or historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the author of the copyright work.	Reasoning
2. Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur.	Reasoning
In such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the copyrighted work.	Reasoning
If the defendants work is nothing but a literal imitation of the copyrighted work with some variations here and there it would amount to violation of the copyright.	Reasoning
In other words, in order to be actionable the copy must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.	Reasoning
3.	None
One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of copyright is to seeing the reader, spectator or the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.	Reasoning
4. Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of violation of copyright arises.	Reasoning
5. Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two works are clearly incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.	Reasoning
6.	Facts
As a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the case law discussed above.	Reasoning
7.	None
Where however the question is of the violation of the copyright of stage play by a film producer or a Director the task of the plaintiff becomes more difficult to prove piracy.	Reasoning
It is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has a much broader prospective, a wider field and a bigger background where the defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour and complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has expressed the idea.	Reasoning
Even so, if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play, violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.	Reasoning
15.	None
We would now endeavour to apply the principles enunciated above and the tests laid down by us to the facts of the present case in order to determine whether or not the plaintiff has been able to prove the charge of plagiarism and violation of copyright levelled against the dependant by the plaintiff.	None
The learned trial Judge who had also had the advantage of seeing the picture was of the opinion that the film taken as a whole is quite different from the play written by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
In order to test t he correctness of the finding of the trial Court we also got the play read to us by the plaintiff in the presence of counsel for the parties and have also seen the film which was screened at C.P.W.D. Auditorium, Mahadev Road, New Delhi.	Reasoning
This was done merely to appreciate the judgment of the trial Court and the evidence led by the parties and was not at all meant to be just a substitute for the evidence led by the parties.	None
16.	None
To begin with, we would like to give a summary of the play Hum Hindustani which is supposed to have been plagiarized by the defendants.	Reasoning
The script of the play Ex.	Reasoning
P.1 has been placed before us and we have gone through the same.	Reasoning
The main theme of the play is provincialism and the prejudice of persons belonging to one State against persons belonging to other States.	Reasoning
In the play however the author chooses two families, viz., a Punjabi family and a Madrasi family to show what havoc can be caused by provincial parochialism possessed by the two families.	Reasoning
The Punjabi family and the Madrasi family were living as close neighbours having good and cordial relations and are on visiting terms with each other.	Reasoning
The Punjabi consists of Dewan Chand, contractor, his wife Krishna, their grown up daughter Chander and son Tinnu aged about 8 or 10 years.	Reasoning
The Madrasi family however consists of Subramaniam, Government officials, his wife Minakshi and grown up son Amni and daughter Pitto who is aged about 8 or 10 years.	Reasoning
As a result or the close association between the two families it appears that Amni the son of Subramaniam falls in love with Chander the daughter of Dewan Chand of the Punjabi family.	Reasoning
When the parents are out Amni and Chander meet and talk.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, however, the parents of both Amni and Chander arc extremely adverse to the matrimonial union of Amni and Chander because the two families belong to two different provinces.	Reasoning
When they get some scent of the love affair between Amni and Chander the parents of Chander make a serious attempt to find a suitable match for her amongst their own caste namely Punjabis.	Reasoning
Similarly, the parents of Amni also try to arrange a match for him amongst Madrasis.	Reasoning
For this purpose, the services of a marriage broker named Dhanwantri are enlisted by both the parties without knowing that Dhanwantri was trying to negotiate marriages for both the couples.	Reasoning
Later on, when this fact is discovered the relations of the two families become s trained.	Reasoning
Amni and Chander also persuade Dhanwantri to assist there in bringing about their marriage by persuading their parents to agree.	Reasoning
This gives a chance to Dhanwantri to make a lot of money out of the two couples.	Reasoning
Dewan Chand and his wife Krishna in sheer desperation hurriedly arranged the marriage of their daughter Chander to Bansi, a simpleton, son of Murari Lal who is a friend of Dewan Chand.	Reasoning
In fact, Dewan Chand is not very impressed with Bansi but in view of the critical situation arising out of the love affair between his daughter and Amni he prefers Bansi to the Madrasi boy.	Reasoning
When Chander and Amni come to know of this Chander asked Amni to speak to his parents in a free and frank manner and express his strong desire to marry Chander.	Reasoning
Amni who appears to be a cowardly fellow prefers to commit suicide rather than dare to talk out this matter with his parents.	Reasoning
Realising that no hope is left for Chander and Amni to go through the marriage ceremony both of them entered into a suicidal pact and wrote letters to their parents indicating their intention to commit suicide because they were not prepared to marry anybody else.	Reasoning
Dhanwantri, however, intervenes and persuades Chander and Amni not to commit suicide as according to him they were not destined to die unless they had been actually married.	Reasoning
Meanwhile, the parents of Amni and Chander on getting the suicide note mourn the loss of their children and it now dawns upon them that they had committed the saddest mistake of their life in refusing to marry the couple and repent for their act.	Reasoning
Just at that time Amni and Chander appear on the scene after having been married to each other.	Reasoning
The marriage was performed by Dhanwantri him self.	Reasoning
Thus ends the story with the realisation by both the families that provincialism helps nobody.	Reasoning
This in short is the story of the play written by the appellant.	Reasoning
We might mention that before the play starts the author show some voices reciting various persons proclaiming that they come from different States like the slogan that they belong to a particular state rather than that they belong to India.	Reasoning
17.	None
Analysing therefore the essential features of the play the position is as follows1.	None
That the central idea of the play is based on provincialism and parochialism.	Reasoning
2.	None
The evils of provincialism are illustrated by the cordial relations of the two families being married because of an apprehended marriage tie which according to both the families was not possible where they belonged to different States.	Reasoning
3.	None
That the Madrasi boy Amni is a coward and in spite of his profound love for Chander he doe s not muster sufficient courage to talk the matter out with his parents.	Reasoning
4.	None
That in sheer desperation while the parents of the families are trying to arrange a match for the couple belonging to the same State Amni and Chander enter into a suicidal pact and write letters to their parents intimating their intention.	Reasoning
5.	Facts
It was only after the letters are perused by the parents that they realise the horror of parochialism and arc repentant for having acted so foolishly.	Reasoning
6.	Facts
That after this realisation comes the married couple Amni and Chander appear before the parents and thus all is well that ends well.	None
18.	None
As the play was read to us by the appellant we find that it was very exquisitely presented and the plot was developed with great skill.	None
It must be noted however that the author in writing out the play has concentration only on one aspect of provincialism namely whether the re can be a marriage between the persons belonging to one State with those belonging to other States.	Reasoning
This is the only aspect of provincialism which has been stressed in the play.	Reasoning
The play does not touch any other aspect nor does it contain anything to throw light on the evils of society or that of dowry etc.	Reasoning
We have mentioned these acts particularly because the film revolves around not only the aspect of marriage but other aspects also which are given the same importance as the problem of marriage.	Reasoning
We shall now give the summary of the film.	Reasoning
The script of which is Ex. D2.	Reasoning
The film starts showing Anand a young graduate from Punjab who comes to New Delhi for a course in Radio Engineering.	Reasoning
At the Railway Station Anand meets a Madrasi girl Janaki and due to some misunderstanding an altercation between the two takes place, as a result of which Janaki feels that Anand was trying to tease her.	Reasoning
Thereafter Anand comes and stays in a Sarai opposite the Railway Station , but he is allowed to stay there only for three days after which he was expected to find accommodation elsewhere.	Reasoning
Thereafter Anand runs from house to house trying to get some accommodation but is sadly disappointed because wherever he goes he finds t hat in every case the landlord is not prepared to give the house to any person who does not belong to his province.	Reasoning
We might mention here that this is one of the very important aspect of provincialism which pervades through the entire film, vi z., that so parochial are the landlords that they were not even prepared to let out their houses or rooms to any person coming from outside their State.	Reasoning
This particular aspect is completely absent from the story revealed in the play written by the appellant.	Reasoning
One Kumaraswamya South Indian attendant at the Sarai comes to the rescue of Anand and suggests to him that he should attire as a South Indian and then go to any South Indian landlord to get the house.	Reasoning
Thereafter Anand disguised as a South Indian approaches one Iyer for giving him accommodation and Iyer is only too glad to accommodate Anand on the ground that Anand is also a South Indian.	Reasoning
Anand then meets Subramaniam father of Janaki the girl with whom he had all altercation at the station.	Reasoning
The film then proceeds involving several sequences of the meeting between Anand and Janaki, Murli Dhar the Principal of a Dancing School takes Anand is his student and there he is introduced to Janaki who is a Professor of Dance and Music in that Institute.	Reasoning
Janaki then discovers that Anand is a good singer and is slowly and gradually attracted towards him.	Reasoning
Janaki invited him to her house for the celebration of Pongal festival and Anand goes there as usual attired as South Indian to witness the dance performance of Janaki.	Reasoning
He also comes to know that Janakis father Subramaniam does not hold any good opinion about the Punjabis.	Reasoning
Thereafter Anand leaves the place after making an appointment with Janaki to meet near Rashtrapati Bhawan the following day.	Reasoning
When Anand returns to his house he comes to know that his father Daulat Ram had been transferred to New Delhi and was expected at any moment.	Reasoning
Daulat Ram was posted as Manager in the same commercial company in which Subramaniam was employed ill a subordinate position.	Reasoning
Anand receives his parents and his grown up sister Nikki at the railway station and takes them to his house.	Reasoning
He also brings Kumaraswamy, the attendant, at the Sarai to his own house as a cook.	Reasoning
Thereafter Anand goes out on the pretext of taking his sister Nikki around the city.	Reasoning
When they reach the Red Fort he meets Ashok Banerjee, a young Bengali painter whom he had met earlier in connection with the search for accommodation of the house but was refused accommodation because Anand did not happen to be a Bengali.	Reasoning
Ashok Banerjee is impressed by Nikki and requests her to allow him to make Nikkis portrait.	Reasoning
Leaving his sister there Anand meets Janaki and both of t hem come to the Red Fort.	Reasoning
When Anand and Janaki meet Nikki and Ashok, Anannd in order to conceal his real identity tells Janaki that Nikki is the daughter of his fathers friend, which naturally angers Nikki hut later Anand apologies to her and explains that he did not want Janaki or her father lo know that he was not a Madrasi and thus upset the love affair between Anand and Janaki.	Reasoning
Subramaniam, father of Janaki takes a fancy for Anand and asks Janaki to invite Anands father to the house so that he could negotiate Janakis marriage with Anand.	Reasoning
This puts Anand in a most awkward position In order to save the situation Anand hits upon an idea by introducing his cook Kumaraswamy to Subramaniam as his father.	Reasoning
Just at that time Daulat Ram happens to pass through Subramaniams house and is called in by Subramaniam, but the situation is saved by Kumaraswamy feigning illness as a result of which he is taken to a room where he hides his face in a blanket.	Reasoning
Anand leaves the house and returns with a false beard posing as a doctor.	Reasoning
Similarly, Ashok and Nikki get attached to each other and Ashok receives a telegram from his father summoning him to Calcutta.	Reasoning
Before he leaves Ashok frankly declares his love to Nikki and gets her consent to marry him.	Reasoning
The love affair of Nikki however is not in the knowledge of her parents.	Reasoning
Murli Dhar, Principal of the Institution of Dance and Music arranges a performance in which the principal role is played by Anand and Janaki.	Reasoning
Up to this time neither Janaki nor her father Subramaniam had ever known the real identity of Anand but both of them had taken him to be a South Indian.	Reasoning
We might like to add that here the picture makes a complete departure from the story contained in the play where both the parents of the couple knew the identity of each other.	Reasoning
Before the performance starts Anand tries to disclose his identity to Janaki but is unable to do so because Janaki is in a hurry.	Reasoning
The performance is applauded by The audience which includes Subramaniam, Daulat Ram and Kumaraswamy.	Reasoning
In the theater hall where the performance is staged Kumaraswamy is given a prominent place as he is taken to be the father of Anand.	Reasoning
Daulat Ram resents this fact because Kumaraswamy was his servant.	Reasoning
After the performance Murli Dhar introduces Subramaniam Janakis father to the audience.	Reasoning
Murli Dhar then calls Kumaraswamy and introduces him to the audience as the father of Anand.	Reasoning
This infuriates Daulat Ram who comes to the stage and gives a thrashing to Kumarswamy.	Reasoning
It is at this stage that the entire truth is revealed and both Subramaniam and Janaki come to know that Anand was not a South Indian hut a Punjabi and his father was Daulat Ram.	Reasoning
Daulat Ram also does not like the relations of his son with Janaki because he thinks that if the son marries outside the caste that will create difficulties for the marriage of his daughter Nikki Subramaniam then starts negotiation for Janakis marriage with a South Indian boy.	Reasoning
Anand goes to Janaki and asks her to delay the negotiations for about a month or two till Nikkis marriage is over after which he would marry Janaki.	Reasoning
Janaki feels completely let down and when she goes home she is given a serious rebuke by her father.	Reasoning
In utter frustration Janaki decides to commit suicide and leaves suicide note.	Reasoning
She proceeds to Jamuna river.	Reasoning
Before she is able to jump into the river she is saved by Sadhu Ram, a Punjabi Ghee Merchant, and a friend of Subramaniam Sadhu Ram scoffs at the peoples preference for provincialism and their lack of appreciation of intrinsic human values.	Reasoning
He takes Janaki to his own house and tells Daulat Ram that she is her niece and on that basis negotiates for the marriage of Janaki with Anand.	Reasoning
Daulat Ram accepts the proposal because Janaki appears as a Punjabi girl on receiving the suicide note Subramaniam feels extremely sorry and realises his mistake.	Reasoning
In the meanwhile when Daulat Ram returns to his house he finds Ashok Banerjee on very intimate terms with Nikki Daulat Ram gets furious and turns out Ashok from his house.	Reasoning
Thereafter Daulat Ram arranges the marriage of his daughter Nikki with the son of one Girdhari Lal.	Reasoning
After the marriage party comes to the house of Daulat Ram, Girdhari Lal insists upon Rs. 15, 000 as dowry from Daulat Ram.	Reasoning
Daulat Ram does not have such a large sum of money and implores Girdhari Lal not to insist and to save his honour but Girdhari Lal is adamant.	Reasoning
Daulat Ram tries to enlist the support of his caste men but no one is prepared to oblige him.	Reasoning
At this juncture Ashok Banerjee appears on the scene and offers his mothers jewellery to Daulat Ram to be given in dowry to Girdhari Lal and thus seeks to save the honour of Daulat Ram.	Reasoning
This act of Ashok Banerjee brings about a great mental change in the attitude of Daulat Ram, who stops Nikkis marriage with Girdhari Lals son and turns them out along with the men of his brotherhood.	Reasoning
Daulat Ram declares his happiness that he has found a bigger brotherhood, namely, the Indian brotherhood and asks Ashok to marry Nikki at the same marriage Pandal.	Reasoning
At that time Sadhu Ram requests Daulat Ram that Mohini who is none other than Janaki should also be married to Anand.	Reasoning
Sadhu Ram discloses the true identity of Janaki and then Daulat Ram realises his short sightendness and welcomes the idea of the marriage of Anand with Janaki.	Reasoning
Subramaniam who is present there feels extremely happy and blesses the proposed marriage.	Reasoning
Ashok and Nikki as also Anand and Janaki are then married and thus the film ends.	Reasoning
Analysing the story of the film it would appear that it protrays three main themes (1) Two aspects of provincialism viz.	Reasoning
the role of provincialism in regard to marriage and in regard to renting out accommodation (2) Evils of a caste ridden society, and (3) the evils of dowry.	Reasoning
So far as the last two aspects are concerned they do not figure at all in the play written by the plaintiff appellant.	Reasoning
A close perusal of the script of the film clearly shows that all the three aspects mentioned above are integral parts of the story and it is very difficult to divorce one from the other with out affecting the beauty and the continuity of the script of the film.	Reasoning
Further, it would appear that the treatment of the story of the fills in many respects different from the story contained in the play.	Reasoning
19. Learned counsel for the appellant however drew our attention to para 9 of the plaint at pages 1819 of the paper book wherein as many as 18 similarities have been detailed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The similarities may be quoted thus(i) Before the actual stage play, the producer gives a narrative.	Arguments of Petitioner
He states that although we describe ourselves as Hindustanis we are not really Hindustanis.	Arguments of Petitioner
He questions their audience as to what they are and various voices are heard to say in their own provincial language that they are Punjabis, Bengalis, Gujratis, Marathas, Madarasis, Sindhis, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said film the same idea is conveyed and the hero of the picture is shown searching for a house in New Delhi and wherever he goes he is confronted by a landlord who describes himself not as Hindustanis but as a Punjabi, Bengali Gujrati, Maratha, Madarasi or Sindhi.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) Both the said play and the said film deal with the subject of provincialism.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iii)Both the said play and the said film evolve a drama around the lives of two families, one a Punjabi and the other a Madrasi family.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iv) In both the said play and the said film the name of the Madrasi father is Subramanyam.	Arguments of Petitioner
(v) Both the said play and the said film have their locale in New Delhi.	Arguments of Petitioner
(vi) Both the said play and the said film show cordiality of relations between the two families.	Arguments of Petitioner
(vii)Both the s aid play and the said play and the said film show the disruption of cordial relations as soon as the head of the families discover the existence of love affairs between their children.	Arguments of Petitioner
(viii)In both the said play and the said film, both the parents warn their respective children not to have anything to do with each other on pain of corporal punishment.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ix) The entire dialogue in both the said play and the said film before and after the disruption is based upon the superiority of the inhabitants of one Province over the inhabitants of the others.	Arguments of Petitioner
(x) In both the said play and the said film the girl is shown to be fond of music and dancing.	Arguments of Petitioner
(xi) In both the said play and the said film the hero is shown as a coward to the extent that he has not the courage to go to his parents and persuade them to permit him to marry a girl hailing from another Province.	Arguments of Petitioner
(xii) Both in the said play and in the said film, when the parents of the girl are discussing marrying her off to some body the girl is listening to the dialogue from behind a curtain.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter the girl runs to the boy and explains the situation to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
(xiii)In both the said play and the said film, the girl writes a letter of suicide.	Arguments of Petitioner
(xiv)In the said play reconciliation takes place when the children o f the two families, who were in love, go out to commit suicide by drowning etc., whereas in the said film, it is only the daughter who goes out to commit suicide by drowning herself in the Jamuna.	Arguments of Petitioner
(xv)	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said play the children are stopped from commit ting suicide by an astrologer whereas in the said film the girl is stopped from committing suicide by a friend of the family.	Arguments of Petitioner
(xvi)In the said play reconciliation between the two families takes place only after they have experienced the shock of their children committing suicide on account of their provincial feelings whereas in the film, the father of the girl realised his mistake after experiencing the shock of his daughter committing suicide.	Arguments of Petitioner
(xvii)In both the said play and the said film, stress is laid on the fact that although India is one country, yet there is acute feeling of provincialism between persons hailing from its various States even though they work together and live as neighbors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(xviii)Both in the said play and in the said film, even the dialogue centres around the same subject of provincialism.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	None
In the course of the argument also our attention was Drawn to a comparative compilation of the similarities in the film and the play.	None
The learned trial Judge after considering the similarities was of the opinion that the similarities are on trivial points and do not have the effect of making the film a substantial and material imitation of the play.	Reasoning
Moreover apart from the fact that the similarities and coincidences mentioned above are rather insignificant as pointed out by the trial Judge and the High Court, in our opinion, they are clearly explainable by and referable to the central idea, namely, evils of provincialism and parochialism which is common to both the play and the film.	Reasoning
Nothing therefore turns upon the similarities categorised by the plaintiff (in para 9 of the plaint), in the peculiar Facts and circumstances of this case.	None
21.	None
After having gone through the script of the play and the film we are inclined to agree with the opinion of the Courts below.	None
We have already pointed out that mere similarities by themselves are not sufficient to raise in inference of colourable imitation on the other hand, there are quite a number of dissimilarities also, for instance(i) In the play provincialism comes on the surface only when the question of marriage of Amni with Chander crops up but in the picture it is the starting point of the story when Anan d goes around from door to door in search of accommodation but is refused the same because he does not belong to the State from which the landlord hails as a result thereof Anand has to masquerade him self as a Madrasi.	None
This would, therefore, show that the treatment of the subject of provincialism in the film is quite different from that in the play and is actually a new theme which is not developed or stressed in the play.	None
(ii) Similarly, in the play the two families are fully aware of the identity of each other whereas in the film they are not and in fact it is only when the dance performance of Janaki and Anand is staged that the identity of the two ( families is disclosed which forms one of the important climaxes of the film.	None
Thus, the idea of provincialism itself is presented in a manner or form quite different from that adopted in the play.	None
(iii)In the film there is no suicidal pact between the lovers but only a suicide note is left by Janaki whereas in the play both the lovers decide to end their lives and enter into a suicidal pact and leave suicide note to this effect.	None
Furthermore, while in the play Amni and Chander get married and then appear before the parents in the picture the story takes a completely different turn with the intervention of Sadhu Ram who does not allow Janaki to commit suicide but keeps her with him disguised as his niece and the final climax is reached in the last scene when Janakis real identity is disclosed and Subramaniam also finds out that his daughter is alive.	None
(iv) The story in the play revolves around only two families, namely, the Punjabi and the Madrasi families, but in the film there are three important families, namely, the Punjabi family, the Madrasi family and the Bengali family and very great stress is laid down in the film on the role played by Ashok Banerjee of the Bengali family who makes a supreme sacrifice at the end which turns the tide and brings about a complete revolution in the mind and ideology of Daulat Ram.	Reasoning
(v) The film depicts the evil of caste ridden society and exposes the hollowness of such a society when, in spite of repeated requests no member of the brotherhood of Daulat Ram comes to his rescue and ultimately it is left to Ashok Banerjee to retrieve the situation.	Reasoning
This aspect of the matter is completely absent in the play.	None
(vi) The film depicts another.	Reasoning
important social evil, namely, the evil of dowry which also appears to be the climax of the story of the film and the horrors of dowry are exhibited and demonstrated in a very practical and forceful fashion.	Reasoning
The play however does not deal with this aspect at all.	Reasoning
The aspects mentioned above which are absent from the play are not mere surplusage or embellishments in the story of the film but are important and substantial parts of the story.	None
22.	None
The effect of the dissimilarities pointed out above clearly go to show that they tar outweigh the effect of the similarities mentioned in para 9 of the plaint set out above.	None
Moreover, even if we examine the similarities mentioned by the plaintiff they are trifling and trivial and touch insignificant points and do not appear to be of a substantial nature.	Reasoning
The mere fact that the name of the Madrasi father was Subramaniam in both the film and the play, is hardly of any significance because the name of a particular person cannot be the subject matter of copyright because these are common names.	Reasoning
After careful consideration of the essential features of the film and the play we are clearly of the opinion that the plaintiff has not proved by clear and cogent evidence that the defendants committed colourable imitation of the play and have thus violated the copyright of the plaintiff.	Reasoning
23.	None
It was lastly contended by counsel For the appellant that the correspondence between the plaintiff and the defendant would show that defendant No. 2 himself was aware of the story contained in the play even before he proceeded to make the film in New Delhi.	None
This is undoubtedly so because defendant No. 2 admits in his evidence that he had come to Delhi and the entire play was narrated to him by the plaintiff.	None
There is however a serious controversy on the question as to whether the defendant after hearing play said that the play was not suitable for being filmed as alleged.	Reasoning
The plaintiff, however, seems to suggest that defendant No. 2 was undoubtedly Attracted by the play and it was on the basis of this play that he decided to make the film.	Reasoning
However, there is no reliable evidence to show that defendant No. 2 at any time expressed his intention to film the play written by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that defendant	Reasoning
No. 2 was aware of the story contained in the play and a part of the film was undoubtedly 6 to some extent inspired by the play written by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
But the definite case of defendant No. 2 also is that he was in search of story based on provincialism and the play written by the plaintiff may have provided the opportunity for defendant No. 2 to produce his film though with a different story, different theme, different characterisation and different climaxes.	Reasoning
Thus, applying the principles enunciated above and the various tests laid down to determine whether in a particular case there has been a violation of the copyright we are of the opinion that the film produced by the defendants cannot be said to b e a substantial or material copy of the play written by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
We also find that the treatment of the film and the manner of its presentation on the screen is quite different from the one written by the plaintiff at the stage.	Reasoning
We are also satisfied that after seeing the play and the film no prudent person can get an impression that the film appears to be a copy of the original play nor is there anything to show that the film is a substantial and material copy of the play.	Reasoning
At the most the central idea of the play, namely, provincialism is undoubtedly the subject matter of the film along with other ideas also but it is well settled that a mere idea cannot be the subject matter of copyright.	Reasoning
Thus, the present case does not fulfill the conditions laid down for holding that the defendants have made a colourable imitation of the play.	None
24.	None
On a close and careful comparison of the play and the picture but for the central idea (provincialism which is not protected by copyright), from scene to scene, situation to situation, in climax to anti climax.	None
pathos, bathos, in texture and treatment and purport and presentation, the picture is materially different from the play.	Reasoning
As already indicated above, applying the various tests outlined above we are unable to hold that the defendants have committed an act of piracy in violating the copyright of the play.	None
25.	None
Apart from this the two courts of fact, having considered the entire evidence, circumstances and materials before them have come to a finding of fact that the defendants committed no violation of the copyright.	None
This Court would be slow to disturb the findings of fact arrived at by the courts below particularly when after having gone through the entire evidence, we feel that the judgment of the courts below are absolutely correct.	Reasoning
The result is that the appeal fails and is accordingly dismissed.	Reasoning
But in the circumstances there will be no order as to costs in this Court only.	Reasoning
JASWANT SING H, J. 26.	None
Bearing in mind the well recognised principles and tests to determine whether there has been an infringement of the law relating to copyright in, a particular case which were brought to our notice by the counsel on both sides and which have been elaborately considered and discussed by my learned brother Murtaza Fazal Ali in the course of the judgment prepared by him, we proceeded at the re quest of the counsel to hear the script of the play Hum Hindustani which WAS re ad out to us by the plaintiff himself in a dramatic style and to see the film New Delhi produced by defendants 1 and 2, the exhibition of which was arranged by the defendants themselves.	None
On a careful comparison of the script of the plaintiffs copyrighted play with the aforesaid film, although one does not fail to discern a few resemblances and similarities between the play and the film, the said resemblances are not material or substantial and the degree of similarities is not such as to lead one to think that the film taken as a whole constitutes an unfair appropriation of the plaintiffs copyrighted work.	Reasoning
In fact, a large majority of material incidents, episodes and situations portrayed by defendants I and 2 in their aforesaid film are substantially different from the plaintiffs protected work and the two social evils viz.	None
caste system and dowry system sought to be exposed and eradicated by defendants 1 and 2 by means of their aforesaid film do not figure at all in the plaintiffs play.	None
As such I am in complete agreement with the conclusions arrived at by my learned brother Murtaza Fazal Ali that there has been no breach on the part of the defendants of the plaintiffs copyright and concur with the judgment proposed to be delivered by him.	None
ATHAK, J.It appears from a comparison of the script of the stage play Hum Hindustani and the script of the film New Delhi that the authors of the film script have been influenced to a degree by the salient features of the plot set forth in the play script.	None
There can be.	None
little doubt from the evidence that the authors of the film script were aware of the scheme of the play.	None
But on the other hand, the story portrayed by the film travels beyond the plot delineated in the play In the play, the theme of provincial parochialism is illustrated only in the opposition to a relationship by marriage between two families hailing from different parts of the country.	None
In the film the theme is also illustrated by the hostile attitude of proprietors of lodging accommodation towards prospective lodgers who do not belong to the same provincial community.	None
The plot then extends to the evils of the dowry system, which is a theme independent of provincial parochialism.	None
There are still other themes embraced within the plot of the film.	None
Nonetheless, the question can arise whether there is an infringement of copyright even though the essential features of the play can be said to correspond to a part only of the plot of the film.	None
This can arise even where changes are effected while planning the film so that certain immaterial features in the film differ from what is seen in the stage play.	None
The relative position in which the principal actors stand may be exchanged or extended and embellishments may be introduced in the attempt to show that the plot in the film is entirely original and bears no resemblance whatever to the stage play.	None
All such matters fell for consideration in relation to the question whether the relevant part of the plot in the film is merely a colourable imitation of the essential structure of the stage play.	None
If the treatment of the theme in the stage play has been made the basic of one of the themes in the film story and the essential structure of that treatment is clearly and distinctly identifiable in the film story, it is not necessary, it seems to me, for the Court to examine all the several themes embraced within the plot of the film in order to decide whether infringement has been established.	None
In the attempt to show that he is not guilty of infringement of copyright, it is always possible for a person intending to take advantage of the intellectual effort and labours of another to so develop his own product that it covers a wider field than the area included within the scope of the earlier product, and in the common area covered by the two productions to introduce changes in order to disguise the attempt at plagiarism.	None
If a reappraisal of the facts in the present case had been open in this court, I am not sure that I would not have differed from the view taken on the facts by the High Court, but as the matter stands, the trial Court as well as the High Court have concurred in the finding that such similarities as exist between the stage play Hum Hindustani and the film New Delhi do not make out a case of infringement.	None
The dissimilarities, in their opinion, are so material that it is not possible to say that the appellants copyright has been infringed.	None
This Court is extremely reluctant to interfere with concurrent findings of fact reached by the Courts below and for that reason I would allow the judgment under appeal to stand.	None
In another, and perhaps a clearer case, it may be necessary for this Court to interfere and remove the impression which may have gained ground that the copyright belonging to an author can be readily infringed by making immaterial changes, introducing insubstantial differences and enlarging the scope of the original theme so that a veil of apparent dissimilarity is thrown around the work now produced.	None
The court will look strictly at not only blatant examples of copying but also at reprehensible attempts at colourable imitation.	None
27.	None
The appeal is dismissed, but without any order as to costs.	Decision
28.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
