 Mitter, J. 1.	None
The question involved in this appeal by special leave from an order of the Bombay High Court rejecting summarily a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ of certiorari or other appropriate writ for examining the legality of the award made by the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra on July 27, 1965 and published in the Maharashtra Gazette on August 19, 1965 and for quashing the same appears to be one of first impression so far as this Court is concerned.	Issue
2.	None
The appellant before this Court is an institution which came into existence as far back as 1834.	Facts
It originated in the desire of certain Hindu and Parsee gentlemen of the City of Bombay to put a stop to the practice of killing of stray dogs by the sepoys of the East India Company.	Facts
The deed of October 18, 1834 shows that certain Hindu, Parsees and Mahajuns had resolved to start a Panjrapole with suitable buildings by raising subscription and also by promising to pay certain fees on stated mercantile commodities to the Panjrapole to be established for the keeping of stray cattle and other animals and for protecting their lives.	Facts
This was followed by a deed of declaration of trust executed on 2nd November, 1850.	Facts
This shows that the institution mentioned in the earlier document had been established and the management of its funds had been placed in the hands of certain Banias under the superintendence of Sir Jamshedjee Jeejeebhoy and that out of the surplus funds collected Rupees 75, 057/ had been invested in the purchase of Government Promissory notes.	Facts
The trustees were to stand possessed of the said notes and interest and dividends thereof upon trust for the use and benefit of the said institution.	Facts
3.	None
On 2nd November, 1850 a deed of assignment and declaration of trust in favour of Panjrapole was executed by Sir Jamshedjee Jeejeebhoy to Khimchand Motichand.	Facts
This document shows that a part of the surplus funds had been invested in the purchase of several pieces or parcels of lands, houses etc. and the new trustees were to stand possessed of the same upon trust for the use and benefit of the said institution.	Facts
Another trust deed was executed on 5th September, 1851 by Khimchand Motichand, Sir Jamshedjee Jeejeebhoy and others.	Facts
This document shows that the institution was then possessed of considerable wealth comprising of Government promissory notes, houses, lands and other immovable estate in the Island of Bombay, besides cash balances.	Facts
4.	None
The funds of the institution appear to have been augmented further under a deed of 10th June, 1871.	Facts
According to this document certain charitably disposed persons, Hindus and Parsees, had raised a fund for releasing animals in Surat meant for slaughter on the occasion of BakriId and IdEKurbani.	Facts
The trustees of the said fund being desirous of transferring the sums in their hands with all accumulations of interest, income etc.	Facts
and also the trust thereof to the trustees of the Bombay Panjrapole had requested the trustees of the said Panjrapole to become the trustees of Surat BakriId fund to which the latter had agreed.	Facts
This document shows further that the trustees of the Bombay Panjrapole had agreed to use the said funds towards the purchasing, releasing and redeeming from slaughter some of the cows, sheep and other animals intended or likely to be sacrified at Surat on BakriId or IdKurbani occasions and for conveyance of the animals so purchased to be kept there according to the custom and rules of that institution.	Facts
In 1915 the Government declared the institution as an infirmary under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (IX of 1890).	Facts
5.	None
It would appear that the Bombay Panjrapole expanded its activities considerably over the years and had besides its original seat at Bombay, branches at three other places, viz., at Raita, Bhiwandi and Chembur.	Facts
Cattle, birds and other animals were kept and maintained at all these places.	Facts
A very large number of persons was pursuing manifold activities at the said places.	Facts
Latterly the workers of the institution were not satisfied with their wage scales and other service conditions.	Facts
On the basis of the report submitted by the Conciliation Officer under subsection (4) of Section 12 of the Industrial Disputes Act the Government of Maharasntra referred the dispute for adjudication to the Tribunal constituted under a Government notification.	Facts
An order of reference was made on 25th June, 1963 and the heads of disputes were the wages, privilege, sick and casual leave, bonus, gratuity and reinstatement of certain workmen.	Facts
6.	None
In the written statement filed by Panjrapole it was stated inter alia (a)	Facts
The main aims and objects of the institution were purely charitable.	Facts
Whatever income the institution had was not at all to be distributed either to the donors or the trustees.	Facts
It was wholly and solely for the maintenance and treatment of animals of the Bombay Panjrapole.	Facts
To achieve the above objects the means to be adopted were (i), maintenance of a shelter house for aged and unserviceable animals (ii) the feeding and treatment of all animals entrusted to the institution either by the owners anxious to pension their old animals or rescued by philanthropic persons from the hands of butchers and the protection of animals remanded by magistrates.	Facts
(iii) the breeding of bulls under ideal and sanitary conditions (iv) the maintenance of a dairy farm with special attention to proper feeding, accommodation and water supply, the proceeds to go to the benefit of other animals of the Panjrapole and (v) bringing up of calves of the young cows under healthy conditions.	None
(b) The Managing Committee of trustees of the institution was advised that in fulfilment of their primary and only object of maintaining sick and infirm cattle and dogs etc, it was necessary that they should have healthy food and nutrition.	Facts
Since milk from outside would not fulfil that condition it was decided to upgrade the infirm cattle and rear them into good animals so as to get good and pure milk for the inmates of the Panjrapole.	Facts
Thus the milk that was produced and remained surplus after feeding the old cows, motherless calves and dogs and other such animals was sold to members of public instead of being thrown off.	Facts
The income derived therefrom was again utilised only after maintenance of the Panjrapole animals.	Facts
The sale proceeds of the milk was never utilised nor meant for the benefit or the profit of the donors or trustees nor was it produced and sold for the purpose of satisfying human needs or desires or with any object of rendering material service to the community.	None
(c) The cows which yielded milk were kept by the Panjrapole till the end of their lives.	None
The milk derived from them could only be considered as natural and incidental product in the maintenance of cows.	Facts
7.	None
It was submitted on the basis of the above that essentially the object with which the institution received animals was not for doing service to their owners or others but to the animals themselves.	None
The Tribunal examined meticulously the activities of the institution over a number of years.	None
The workers served various interrogatories on the trustees to elicit from them various facts relating to the income by way of rent , from buildings etc.	None
the income from milk and milk products, the income from sale of other commodities, the number and categories of animals in the Panjrapole, the number of animals, if any, purchased, the number of dry and wet cows owned by the Panjrapole and the number of stud bulls either purchased by or bred at the Panjrapole for the last ten years.	None
The society answered all the particulars.	None
The Chart below prepared by the respondent shows the total cattle strength of the Panjrapole in all its four branches comprising of productive animals (whether milch cows, milch buffaloes, stud bulls and working bullocks), the number of unproductive animals, including cows, buffaloes, buffalo calves, heifers and calves and bullocks.	None
The chart was compiled from the documents disclosed by the appellant and contains the figures for the years 1958 to 1962 ?TABLE?	None
8.	None
The following chart was prepared by the respondents showing the values of the milk supplied to the animals as also the amounts fetched by sale of the surplus milk for same years. ?	None
CHART?	None
9.	None
The facts found by the Tribunal may be summarised as follows(1)	Facts
At the end of the year 1962 there were altogether, 445 cows, 48 bulls, bullocks and oxen, other cattle (cows and bullocks) 508, calves 495, dogs 160, goats and sheep 32, horses 12, hares 18, cocks, hens and ducks18 and parrots 8 the total number was 1754.	Facts
(2) The total income for the year was Rupees 6,64,043 including the amount of Rupees 1,73,588 received by way of donation.	Facts
The income proper was thus Rupees 4,90,459/. (3) Some lands of the institution were under its personal cultivation.	Facts
The sale proceeds of the yield thereof was Rupees 6,492/.	Facts
The rent fetched by the immovable property was Rupees 2,20,549/	Facts
The milk yielded by the cows was regularly collected and sold, the sale proceeds for the year being Rs. 4,30,034/.	Facts
A large number of workmen was employed to attend to the cows and to feed them, to milk the cows and to carry and sell the milk to the public.	Facts
(4) The number of cows yielding milk at the end of the year was 242.	Facts
At that time there were 75 pregnant cows.	Facts
There were 57 other cows, 101 grownup calves (female) and 91 other small calves (female) all described as reserved.	Facts
In the opinion of the Tribunal all these calves would in course of time grow into cows.	Facts
(5) The institution maintained some stud bulls.	Facts
Besides there were bullocks which were used for plying the carts or for cultivation of the lands of the institution.	Facts
(6) There were 36 head of cattle described as arrivals from Bombay.	Facts
There were another 87 cows described as danger the rest of the cattle (cows and bullocks) were 57 lame and blind, 177 weak 51 infirm, quite infirm 80 and sick 108, the total of this category being 473 including the danger cows the total was 560.	Facts
These animals depended entirely on the charity of the institution.	Facts
10.	None
The Tribunal found the activities of the institution in connection with its movable property and collection and sale of milk to be an industry while the maintenance of danger cows, blind, lame, infirm and sick, the dogs and other animals did not constitute an industry.	Facts
11.	None
As already noted, the application under Article 227 by the Panjrapole to the Bombay High Court was dismissed summarily and therefore we do not have the benefit of a judgment of the High Court.	Issue
As the records stand we must proceed on the facts found by the Tribunal and such light as is thrown thereon by arguments of Counsel.	Issue
12.	None
Before looking into the relevant authorities on the subject, we may note the points canvassed in support or against the appeal by learned counsel on either side.	None
Referring to the trust deeds it was argued on behalf of the appellant that the essential purpose of the institution was to keep and foster animals which were either rejected by their owners as old and infirm or of no use to them as suckling calves, dry cows etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not necessary to take into account the other animals which were maintained by the institution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Leaving out of account the number of dogs kept, the number of other animals was insignificant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that although the sale of milk produced a fair amount of income, certain portion of it was necessary for the maintenance of the sick and infirm animals and the sale of the balance of the milk ought to be regarded as incidental to the keeping of cows thrown on the hands of the institution and ought not to lead to an inference that the institution was pursuing an industry.	Arguments of Petitioner
With regard to the immovable properties, it was said that they had been purchased out of surplus funds in the hands of the institution over 50 years back and on a conspectus of the activities of the institution it should be held that it was merely doing charity to animals and it was not producing food or giving service to humans to constitute its activity as an industry within the meaning of S. 2 (i) of the Industrial Disputes Art.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent drew our attention to certain facts which according to him went to show that so far as the activity of keeping cattle, specially cows and she buffaloes was concerned, there could be little doubt that it was pursued as an industry.	Arguments of Respondent
He handed over two charts containing analysis of the cattle population as called from the documents placed before the Tribunal by the institution itself.	Arguments of Respondent
The total strength of cattle in all the four branches of the institution in the year 1958 was 1674, 1598 in the year 1959, 1533 in the year 1960 and 1488 in 1961 and 1459 in 1962 The sick, old and infirm cattle for the year 1958 was 456 or roughly 25 per cent of the total strength.	Arguments of Respondent
Young animals numbered 243 and other cattle which were not at all sick was 975 in number.	Arguments of Respondent
The percentage of sick, old and infirm cattle in the year 1959 was roughly 20 in the year 1960 and 1961, 10 per cent and in the year 1962, 15.	Arguments of Respondent
The rest of the cattle according to counsel were neither old nor infirm but were either producing milk or being put to use immediately or capable of yielding milk or work in the future.	Arguments of Respondent
Another chart handed over by him went to show that the total value of milk produced in the year 1958 was Rupees 1,53,849/ and leaving out of account Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
3,995/. being the value of milk supplied to the sick cattle, the institution derived an income of Rupees 1,49,854/ from the sale of milk.	Arguments of Respondent
The corresponding figures for 1959 were total sales Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
1,86,912/, value of milk consumed Rs.17,447, income from milk Rs.1,69,465/.	Arguments of Respondent
The figures for 1960 were Rs. 2,24,118, Rs. 11,011 and Rs. 2,13,117/ those for 1961 were Rs. 2,31,931/, Rs. 8,836/ and Rupees 2,23,095/.	Arguments of Respondent
The figures for the last year 1962 were Rs. 2,40,202/, Rupees 10,159/ and Rs. 2,30,043/.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus according to the above figures, the percentage of milk given to the animals out of the total production was 2.6 in 1958, 9.5 in 1959, 5 in 1960 and 4 in the years 1961 and 1962.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel drew our attention to the figures of expenses of tending the sick and infirm cattle either by employment of hospital workers or for medical expenses and compared the same with the total expenses of the institution and the number of men employed.	Arguments of Respondent
The value of medical relief to animals either by way of salary to workers, dearness allowance paid to them, medical expenses and feeding of milk to the animals for the Bombay Panjrapole in the year 1961 was Rs. 11,762/ for Raita Rs. 5,551/, for Chembur Rs. 5,028/ and for Bhiwandi Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
28,805/.	Arguments of Respondent
The expenses of feeding and maintenance of sick animals for the said branches were Rs. 1,825/, 13,596/, 7,554/ and 81,464/.	Arguments of Respondent
But it is pertinent to note that medical expenses accounted for very small sums, namely, Rs. 1,267/ for Bombay, Rs. 559/ for Raita Rs. 1,696/ for Chembur and Rs. 552 for Bhiwandi.	Arguments of Respondent
The figures of medical expenses for the year 1962 were equally negligible.	Arguments of Respondent
The number of people employed for giving medical relief at the Bombay Panjrapole in the year 1961 was only 7, namely, a doctor, a dresser, 4 coolies and other workers and a sundry worker.	Arguments of Respondent
Their total salary came to Rs. 6,000/besides dearness allowance of Rupees 2,448/. Similarly at Raita there were a doctor, two coolies, two dressers and sundry workers and expenditure was only Rs. 552 out of the total expenditure on all these items Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
4,992/. 14.	None
It was argued on the basis of these figures that if the object of the Panjrapole was only to maintain and treat the old, diseased or infirm or rejected cattle on its hands acquired from different sources, the number of men employed would be very small and the milk required for the sick and infirm cattle could be had from only a few milch cows and shebuffaloes.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that the fact that a large number of milch cattle were to be found every year among the cattle population yielding milk regularly of the value of over Rs. 2,00,000/ for the last 3 or 4 years went to show that the institution was pursuing an activity more or less like that of a dairy farm.	Arguments of Respondent
It was maintaining a number of stud bulls and had actually purchased one, the obvious object behind it being improving the cattle wealth of the institution by the production of good and healthy cattle, the females of which would come to yield milk in future.	Arguments of Respondent
It was said that the value of milk sold could not be as high as disclosed by the figures unless the institution was getting a number of milch cattle every year to replace those which were going dry for the time being.	Arguments of Respondent
This could only be possible if the institution was in a position to keep up its number of milch cattle from the young ones either given to the Panjrapole or those which were bred at the Panjrapole.	Arguments of Respondent
The only difference between the Panjrapole and a well organised dairy farm was that the Panjrapole was not buying milch cattle of good quality nor destroying or getting rid of any which were found to become useless.	Arguments of Respondent
As the objects of the institution did not permit it to get rid of any cattle it undoubtedly had to maintain whatever cattle came to it	Arguments of Respondent
but nevertheless the activities displayed by the facts were enough to show that it was being run on the lines of a business or an undertaking, though not of the normal type of a well organised dairy business.	Arguments of Respondent
15.	None
In our view the arguments of learned counsel for the respondent have considerable force.	None
The main heads of the income of the institution were income from immovable properties, donation from charitably disposed members of the public and the sale of milk.	None
No doubt the immovable property had been acquired many years back from the surplus funds in the hands of the trustees.	None
These were old houses and buildings but the Panjrapole was maintaining them in tenantable condition by incurring considerable expenses every year over the repairs.	None
The more significant factor was the steadily growing income from the sale of milk derived from milch cows and buffaloes, the number of which though not steady was always considerable.	None
Regard must also be had to the written statement of the institution itself before the Tribunal showing that the Managing Committee of the trustees had decided some time back to upgrade the infirm cattle and rear them into good animals so as to get good and pure milk for the inmates of Panjrapole.	None
In fact however the upgrading was to such an extent that the milk, yielded always was far in excess of the needs of the inmates of the Panjrapole.	None
Although the sale proceeds of the milk was never utilised nor was ever meant for the benefit or profits of the donors or trustees, the very production of it in such large bulk wholly unrelated to the needs of the sick cattle showed that the institution was pursuing an activity with the central idea of obtaining a steady income therefrom.	None
In our view, the facts justifiably lead to the conclusion that the institution deliberately diversified its objects from only tending to the sick, infirm or unwanted cattle by adopting the policy of keeping cattle not merely for their own sake but for the sake of improving the cattle population committed to its care with an eye to serve human beings by making large quantities of good milk available to them and thereby getting an income which would augment its resources.	Reasoning
It pursued its policy just as any dairy owner would by having a few good quality bulls to impregnate the cows and thereby ensuring a steady production of milk and also improve the quality of the progeny.	Reasoning
16.	None
We have then to consider whether on the above facts an inference ought properly to be drawn that the activities of the Panjrapule constituted an industry.	Issue
It is not necessary to go through the plethora of cases decided by this Court to find out whether the Tribunal had come to a proper conclusion.	None
Although there is no decision of this Court arising out of the affairs of a Panjrapole, there are several dealings with the question as to whether hospitals constituted industries.	None
The contention of learned counsel for the appellant was that the main and chief object of the appellant institution being the keeping and fostering of animals, incidental activities ought to be disregarded and the institution ought to be considered as a hospital.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the activities relating to the production of milk could be said to be incidental to the maintaining of sick, infirm and diseased or rejected cattle, the argument would, in our opinion, rest on solid foundation.	None
17.	None
At the time when the application under Art.	None
227 of the Constitution was presented before the Bombay High Court, the decision of this Court in State of Bombay v. The Hospital Mazdoor Sabha, (1960) 2	None
SCR 866 (AIR 1960 SC 610 ) held the field and it can be assumed that it was on the strength of this decision that the Bombay High Court did not feel called upon to examine the merits of the case by issuing a rule.	None
In the Hospital Mazdoor Sabhas case, (supra) the dispute arose out of the retrenchment of respondents 2 and 3 before this Court who had been engaged as ward servants in the J. J. Group of Hospitals, Bombay under State control and management without payment of compensation as required by S. 25F (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
The decision of this Court shows that there was a group consisting of five hospitals under the administrative control of the Surgeon General of the appellant and its day to day affairs were conducted and controlled by a Superintendent who was a fulltime employee of the appellant.	None
The residential staff including the Resident Medical Officers, Housemen, Nurses etc, were all fulltime employees of the appellant and their salaries were drawn on the establishment pay bills of the appellant and paid entirely by the appellant.	None
According to this CourtThis group serves as a clinical training ground for students of the Grant Medical College which is a Government Medical College run and managed by the appellant for imparting knowledge of medical sciences leading to the Degrees of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery of the Bombay University as well as various Post Graduate qualifications of the said University and the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Bombay the group is thus run and managed by the appellant to provide medical relief and to promote the health of the people of Bombay.	None
On the question as to whether the activities of this group of hospitals would be covered by the definition of industry in S. 2 (i) of the Industrial Disputes Act, the Court observed (see at p. 878)In considering the question as to whether the group of Hospitals run by the appellant undoubtedly for the purpose of giving medical relief to the citizens and for helping to impart medical education are an undertaking or not, it would be pertinent to enquire whether the activity of a like nature would be an undertaking if it is carried on by a private citizen or a group of private citizens.	None
There is no doubt that if a hospital is run by private citizens for profit it would be an undertaking very much like the trade or business in their conventional sense . . . . . .	None
Thus the character of the activity involved in running a hospital brings the institution of the hospital within Section 2 (j).	None
Does it make any difference that the hospital is run by the Government in the interpretation of the word undertaking in S. 2 (j)?	None
In our opinion, the answer to this question must be in the negative.	None
It is the character of the activity which decides the question as to whether the activity in question attracts the provision of section 2 (j) who conducts the activity and whether it is conducted for profit or not do not make a material difference.	None
As to the attributes which made the activity an undertaking it was stated (see at p. 879)It is difficult to state these possible attributes definitely or exhaustively as a working principle it may be stated that an activity systematically or habitually undertaken for the production or distribution of goods or for the rendering of material services to the community at large or a part at such community with the help of employees is an undertaking.	None
Such an activity generally involves the cooperation of the employer and the employee and its object is the satisfaction of material human needs.	None
It must be organised or arranged in a manner in which trade or business is generally organised or arranged.	None
It must not be casual nor must it be for oneself nor for pleasure.	None
Thus the manner in which the activity in question is organised or arranged, the condition of the cooperation between the employer and the employee necessary for its success and its object to render material service to the community can be regarded as some of the features which are distinctive of activities to which S. 2 (j) applies.	None
Judged by this test, there would be no difficulty in holding that the State is carrying on an undertaking when it runs the group of Hospitals in question.	None
18.	None
The recent decision of this Court in Safdar Jung Hospital, New Delhi v. K. S. Sethi and Management of M s. T. B. Hospital, New Delhi.	None
v. The Workmen.	None
AIR 1970 SC 1407 is a pointer in the contrary direction.	None
There was also another appeal relating to the Kurji Holy Family Hospital.	None
The Court proceeded to consider the general proposition whether a hospital could be considered to fall within the concept of industry in the Industrial Disputes Act and whether all hospitals of whatever description could be covered by the concept or only some hospitals under special conditions.	None
19.	None
According to this Court in Safdar Jung Hospital case, AIR 1970 SC 1407 (see P. 1412 paragraph 13)?an industry is to be found when the employers are carrying on any business, trade, undertaking, manufacture or calling of employers.	None
If they are not, there is no industry as such.	None
The Court referred to the decision of this Court in Gymkhana Club Union v. Management, (1968) 1	None
SCR 742 (AIR 1968 SC 554 ) and the conclusion therein thatPrimarily therefore, industrial disputes occur when the operation undertaken rests upon cooperation between employers and employees with a view to production and distribution of material goods, in other words, wealth, but they may arise also in cases where the cooperation is to produce material services.	None
The normal cases are those in which the production or distribution is of material goods or wealth and they will fall within the expressions, trader business or manufacture.	None
With regard to trade and business.	None
It was saidBusiness too is a word of wide import.	None
In one sense it includes all occupations and professions.	None
But in the collocation of the terms and their definitions these terms have a definite economic content of a particular type and all the authorities of this Court have been uniformly accepted as excluding professions and are only concerned with the production, distribution and consumption of wealth and the production and availability of material services.	None
With regard to the Hospital Mazdoor Sabha case, AIR 1960 SC 610 (supra) it was remarked (see p. 1414)The case proceeds on the assumption that there need not be an economic activity since employment of capital and profit motive were considered unessential.	None
It is an erroneous assumption that an economic activity must be related to capital and profitmaking alone.	None
An economic activity can exist without the presence of both.	None
Having rejected the true test applied in other cases before, the test applied was can such activity be carried on by private individuals or group of individuals?	None
Holding that a hospital could be run as a business proposition and for profit, it was held that a hospital run by Government without profit must bear the same character.	None
With respect, we do not consider this to be the right test.	None
This test was employed to distinguish between the administrative functions of Government and local authorities and their functions analogous to business but it cannot be used in this context.	None
When it was emphasised in the same case that the activity must be analogous to business and trade and that it must be productive of goods or their distribution or for producing material services to the community at large or a part of it, there was no room for the other proposition that privately run hospitals may in certain circumstances be regarded as industries.	None
This Court held that the Hospital Mazdoor Sabha case, AIR 1960 SC 610 took an extreme view of the matter which was not justified.	None
With regard to the activities of the individual hospitals it was said the Safdar Jung hospital had not embarked on an economic activity which could be said to be analogous to trade or business.	None
There was no evidence that it was more than a place where persons could get treated.	None
This was a part of the functions of Government and the hospital was run as a Department of Government and could not therefore be said to be an industry Again, with regard to Tuberculosis hospital it was found not to be an independent institution but a part of the Tuberculosis Association of India.	None
The hospital was wholly charitable and was a research institute.	None
The dominant purpose of the hospital was research and training, but as research and training could not be given without beds in a hospital, the hospital was run.	None
According to this Court, treatment is thus a part of research and training.	None
In these circumstances the Tuberculosis hospital could not be described as an industry.	None
With regard to the Kurji Holy Family Hospital again it was found to be entirely charitable.	None
It carried on the work of training, research and treatment its income was mostly from donations and distribution of surplus as profit is prohibited.	None
It could not therefore be an industry as laid down in the Act.	None
20.	None
Reference may also be made to the case of Lalit Hari Ayurvedic College Pharmacy v. Its Workers Union, AIR 1960 SC 1261 .	None
In this the Appellate Tribunal found that the pharmacy run by the appellant sold medicines in the market and realised about Rs. one lakh per annum whereas in the hospital run by it about 30 of the medicines manufactured by it were consumed and about 70 were sold in the market.	None
This judgment was delivered on the same date by the same Bench which decided the Hospital Mazdoor Sabha case, AIR 1960 SC 610 (supra).	None
On the facts found this Court held that there could be no doubt that the activity of the appellant in running the pharmacy and the hospital was an undertaking under S 2 (j) and was an industry.	None
21.	None
The only case of Panjrapole which appears to have come before the High Court was that of the Madras Pinjrapole v. Labour Court, (1960) 2 Lab LJ 686 (AIR 1961 Mad 239 ) which was the subject matter of an industrial dispute referred to in the year 1958 by the State Government for adjudication by the Labour Court Madras.	None
This was decided after the Hospital Mazdoor Sabha case.	None
The facts referred to by the High Court were that the Madras Panjrapole was a charitable society registered under the Societies Registration Act occupying an area of about Ac. 1200 of land within the city of Madras on which the munificence of several donors had enabled the construction of shelters for animals as well as sanctuary for birds.	None
The objects of the society, as stated in the memorandum of association, are protection, care and treatment of old infirm and injured cows, calves, bullocks etc. and affording freedom to such animals from being slaughtered unnecessarily and to guarantee old age relief to the old, infirm and unserviceable animals till they die of natural causes.	None
To achieve these objects, the means envisaged to be adopted were (a) maintenance of shelterhouse for aged and unserviceable animals.	None
(b) the feeding and treatment of all animals entrusted to the care of the society either by the owners anxious to pension their old animals or rescued by philanthropic persons from the hands of butchers and the protection of animals remanded by magistrates (c) the breeding of bulls under ideal and sanitary conditions (d) the maintenance of a dairy form with special attention being paid to proper feeding, accommodation and water supply, the proceeds of which will go to the benefit of the other animals of the Panjrapole and (e) the bringing up of the calves of the young cows under healthy conditions.	None
The Court observed (see p. 689)It is a matter of common knowledge that a number of dry cows in the City of Madras are sold away to butchers by the poor milkmen who could not support them.	None
Butchers themselves offer tempting prices for such cows, a temptation which the poverty of the milkmen could not but lead him to succumb.	None
Dry cows were admitted into the Pinjrapole to prevent them from going into the slaughter house.	None
Maintenance of the dry cows called for stud bulls.	None
Stud bulls were presented to the society by the Government.	None
In the course of time the dry cows brought forth their progeny and began to yield milk.	None
The Pinjarapole was, therefore, in a position to sell milk yielded by the cows which were received by it with a view to protect them from the slaughterhouse. .	None
.details of the sale amounts in respect of the milk produced. . .	None
.show	None
that the institution had been receiving substantial sums every year by sale of milk.	None
So far as the activities of the Madras Panjrapole and Bombay Panjrapole are concerned they are practically identical except that in the present case the maintenance of a dairy farm is not explicitly referred to anywhere but the facts as culled from the evidence make the same only too obvious.	None
There was however a certain difference in the case of the Madras Panjrapole inasmuch as the Madras High Court found that (see p. 691)During certain years, it even went a step further.	Reasoning
The Pinjrapole purchased cows, maintained a dairy farm and supplemented their own production of milk with outside milk and sold them.	None
These activities would certainly partake the character of a business, though the profit of such business might have gone to the humanitarian activities undertaken by the society.	None
But the activities have long ago ceased.	None
What the society is now having is the milk yielded by its own cows.	None
Those cows are admittedly kept by the Pinjrapole till their lives.	None
They are not sold.	None
They are the property of the Pinjrapole.	None
The milk yielded by those cows could only be considered as an incidental product in the maintenance of the cows.	None
The sale of cowdung cakes and manure and of the calves after the mother cows become dry are also incidental.	None
It cannot be held that a trade or business is conducted by the institution.	None
According to the learned single Judge who heard the petition the activities of the Pinjrapole had nothing to do with human needs.	None
They were solely devoted to the needs of helpless animals though incidentally such activities have a business tinge about them it cannot be said to be for human need or material welfare.	None
The objects were mainly religious and humanitarian.	None
Following the test laid down in the Hospital Mazdoor Sabha case, AIR 1960 SC 610 the learned Judge was of opinion that there was no industrial dispute which could be referred by the State Government to the Labour Court for adjudication.	None
The case went in appeal to a Letters Patent Bench Workmen Employed in Madras Pinjarapole v. Madras Pinjarapole, (1962) 2 Lab LJ 472 (AIR 1963 Mad 89 ).	None
The Bench took a somewhat different view from that of the learned single Judge.	None
It demurred to the observations of the trial Judge that there is no element of trade or business involved in the various activities of the society.	None
According to the Bench These observations, however, do not extend to subsequent developments, the result of the growth of the institution, and its attempt to achieve selfsufficiency.	None
There were(1) purchase and sale of milk, upon a fairly wide scale, (2) the maintenance of a dairy farm during a period of the history of the institution, and (3) similarly, the maintenance of stud bulls, to enable dry cows to conceive and bear calves.	None
The Bench felt compelled to allow the appeal to the extent of modifying the writ of certiorari and laying down that the actual decision would have to be arrived at after the record of adequate evidence by the Labour Court in the light of the principles formulated, the available evidence being both inadequate and contradictory.	None
For the guidance of the Labour Court the Bench observedEven if the institution at the inception and as basically defined, be purely humanitarian, nonindustrial and hot amenable to any of the tests upon which the definition has been applied, it cannot be gainsaid that, if the institution had largely altered its complexion through the years, so as to have become a focus of economic production, the definition again might be applicable.	None
The Bench also examined the question whether the activity of the Panjrapole was in essence religious or spiritual, as according to it a temple or a church could not be considered to be an industry.	None
22.	None
The net result of the above scents to be, that although the Bench was inclined to hold that the Madras Panjrapole at its inception was not an industry the complexion of its activities might have been altered by later developments so as to render the institution as then organised an industry within the meaning of the Act.	Reasoning
Further according to the Bench individual units of the organisation (like the district dairy farm) might constitute an industry though the society itself may not be one.	Reasoning
23.	None
The matter came up again before the Madras High Court (see 19672 Lab.	Reasoning
L. J. 399 1968 Lab IC 65 (Mad) ).	Reasoning
The Tribunal held in favour of the workman and the learned Judge dismissed the application for the issue of a writ by the Panjrapole.	Reasoning
The learned Judge referred to the reports of the institution in several years past from 1937 to 1957.	Reasoning
He found that the object of the society had been amended in 1937 to enable it to receive young cows and charge fees from the owners.	Reasoning
The idea of starting a dairy farm was for supporting the infirm cows, bullocks and horses and in pursuance of that idea stud bulls were acquired for improving the cattle breeding.	Reasoning
The income from the sale of milk rose phenomenally reaching the figure of Rs. 60,000 in the year 1957.	Reasoning
The learned Judge found himself unable to hold that maintaining cows and stud bulls and selling milk were only subsidiary in nature to the humane activity of the society, namely, to provide shelter for the decrepit and useless and infirm animals.	Reasoning
The learned Judge held that if the Madras Pinjrapole had confined itself to the objectives at its inception namely, to give protection to the old, infirm and decrepit animals, it could well be contended that it was only for the purpose of satisfying purely spiritual needs, as it is common knowledge that Hindus consider cow protection as one of their religious duties If the Madras Ponjrapole had not extended its activities, following the authorities cited above, I would have had no hesitation in holding that it is not an industry A reading of the annual reports show that a large number of high milk yielding cows and buffaloes were purchased by the society and due to the successful working of the dairy farm the Pinjrapole was able to supply milk to various institutionsThe reports show that considerable profits were made by the Pinjrapole, the sale of milk fetching a sum of Rs. 60,000 in the year 1957.	Reasoning
In the result the petition was dismissed and the labour court was directed to determine the other issues.	Reasoning
24.	None
We have referred at some length to the Madras Panjrapole case to show the analogy of the activities of the Madras Panjrapole to the Bombay Panjrapole.	Reasoning
Save for the fact that the Madras Panjrapole definitely and expressly changed its objective by starting a dairy farm and purchasing milch cows and stud bulls there is very little difference between the facts of the case before us from that in the Madras Panjrapole case.	Reasoning
In the present case only one stud bull there is purchased but the activities pursued by the Bombay Panjrapole make it clear that they were pursuing the same kind of activity, namely, that of using stud bulls for the purpose of breeding healthy cattle including cows so as to be able to make a very sizable income from the sale of milk.	Reasoning
For the last few years from 1958 to 1962 the number of milch cows was always considerable which could only be accounted for by the fact that from time to time the place of cows which had become dry was being taken up by cows fecundated by the bulls maintained for the purpose of keeping up a steady supply of milk.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the fact that the value of milk supplied to the sick and infirm cattle was infinitesimal compared to that sold in the market.	Reasoning
The expenses incurred in connection with the treatment of sick and infirm animals were also negligible compared to the total expenses of the institution.	Reasoning
The number of men employed for such treatment was very small at all times.	Reasoning
The mere fact therefore that the Panjrapole never purchased milch cow and never purchased stud bulls except once makes no difference to the question as to whether their activity of maintaining cows and bulls could only be considered as an investment.	Reasoning
It was certainly carried on as a business although it was not pursued in the same way as astute businessmen only out to make profit would, namely, get rid of the animals which were no longer fit for any use.	Reasoning
The value of the milk supplied for the last 3 or 4 years was well in excess of Rupees 2 lakhs per annum and this could only be possible if the cows and buffaloes had been kept and maintained not merely to keep them alive but with the idea of getting as much production out of them as possible.	Reasoning
25.	None
In this view of the matter, it is hardly necessary to consider the other cases which were cited at the Bar, namely, Gymkhana Club Union case, AIR 1968 SC 554 (supra), Cricket Club v. Labour Union, (1969) 1	None
SCR 600 (AIR 1969 SC 276 ) and Harinagar Cane Farm v. State of Bihar, (1964) 2	None
SCR 458 (AIR 1964 SC 903 ).	None
It was remarked in the Gymkhana Club case that the activity of the club is conducted with the aid of employees who follow callings or avocations and that the activities of the club was not a calling or business of its members of Managing Committee and there was no undertaking analogous to trade or business.	None
In the Cricket Clubs case, (supra) the Court examined the different activities of the club and came to the conclusion that they did not lead to the inference that the club was carrying on an industry.	None
26.	None
On the facts of this case we hold that the activities of the Panjrapole as disclosed in this case constituted an industry within the meaning of section 2 (i) of the industrial Disputes Act and the appeal must therefore be dismissed with costs.	Decision
27.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
