 Bhargava, J. 1.	None
The assessee in the proceedings out of which this appeal has arisen was Bidhu Bhushan Sarkar, who died and is now represented in these proceedings through his legal representative.	Facts
The assessee used to be assessed by the Incometax Officer of District 24 Parganas in Bengal.	Facts
For the assessment year 194748, the assessee filed a voluntary return before the Incometax Officer on December 22, 1947, showing a net loss of Rs. 330.	Facts
This return was filed without any notice under S. 22 (2) of the Incometax Act having been served on him.	Facts
Before any proceedings could be completed on that return, there was change in territorial jurisdiction and as a result, the assessees place of business came within the jurisdiction of the Incometax Office District I (2), Calcutta.	Facts
In this Incometax Office, there were a number of Incometax Officers.	Facts
The seniormost Incometax Officer used to be designated as Incometax Officer, District I (2) and was treated as the principal Incometax Officer (hereinafter referred to as the P. I. T. O.).	Facts
Since there were a number of Additional Incometax Officers, there was distribution of jurisdiction, and the case of the assessee fell within the jurisdiction of the 8th Additional Incometax Officer District I (2) (hereinafter referred to as the A. I. T. O.), and consequently, came up before him.	Facts
On January 16, 1949, the A. I. T. O. started departmental proceedings with the object of taking proceedings under S. 34, presumably because he considered the voluntary return declaring a loss of Rs. 330 as invalid.	Facts
He, therefore, issued a notice under S. 34 on February 23, 1950.	Facts
In the meantime, on March 31, 1949, the assessee had filed another voluntary return for the same assessment year in respect of his income from military contracts before the P. I. T. O., and in this return he declared a loss of Rs. 11,33,940.	Facts
The proceedings pending before the A. I. T. O. in pursuance of his notice dated 23rd February, 1950 came up before him on the 4th February, 1952.	Facts
On that date, he passed the following order which may, for convenience, be reproduced in full, as this case turns mainly upon the interpretation of this order Mr. Kalipada Bose, constituted attorney, appears and submits that the old return already submitted may be treated to he submitted in response to notice under S. 34 (1) (a).	Facts
The income should be taken in the assessment of the military contract income for which there is another file.	Facts
The case is, therefore, filed.	Facts
2.	None
The proceedings before the P. I. T. O. on the voluntary return filed by the assessee on the 31st March, 1949, were continuing, and in those proceedings he issued a notice under S. 23 (2) on 1st August, 1950.	Facts
Subsequently on 12th February, 1952, he cancelled those proceedings on the view that a voluntary return of loss was not valid, took proceedings under S. 34, and issued a notice under that section on the same day.	Facts
These proceedings under S. 34 culminated in an order of assessment by the P. I. T. O. under S. 34 (4) passed on 31st January, 1953.	Facts
The assessee filed an appeal against that order of assessment and when the appeal came up, the P. I. T. O. himself drew the attention of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to the fact that he had no jurisdiction over the assessee as there was already a file of the assessee with the A. I. T. O. He, therefore, requested that the assessment should be set aside as it was void ab initio.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner accepted this request of the P. I. T. O., set aside the assessment on 7th December, 1955, and made a direction that the assessment could be competed according to law by the officer having proper jurisdiction over the case.	Facts
Thereafter, on the 30th December, 1955, the Commissioner of Incometax made an order transferring the case of the assessee from the A. I. T. O. to the P. I. T. O. There was an appeal by the assessee against the direction of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner that the assessment should he completed by the officer having proper jurisdiction over the case.	Facts
That appeal was allowed by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal on the 23rd April, 1957, and the direction of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was set aside.	Facts
In the meantime, in pursuance of the direction of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner contained in his order dated 7th December. 1955, and the order of transfer by the Commissioner made on 30th December 1955, the P. I. T. O. on 11th February, 1956, issued a fresh notice under S. 34 to the assessee, and in pursuance of that notice, made an assessment on 2nd May, 1956.	Facts
3.	None
Against this assessment dated 2nd May, 1956, there was an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner challenging the assessment on various grounds, one of which was that the notice dated 11th February, 1956 was invalid, because the proceedings instituted on the notice under S. 34 dated 23rd February, 1950 were still pending, and while those proceedings had not terminated, another fresh notice under S. 34 could not be validly issued.	Facts
A further ground was that if the notice dated 23rd February, 1950 is considered as still effective when the assessment was made on 2nd May, 1956, that assessment was barred by time.	Facts
These pleas were accepted by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, but the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, on appeal, referred his decision and decided both the points against the assessee and in favour of the department.	Facts
On an application under S. 66 (1), the Tribunal then referred the following two questions for opinion of the Calcutta High Court(1)	Issue
Were the notice u s. 34 issued by the Principal Incometax Officer on 11th February , 1956 and the assessment raised in pursuance thereof, valid in law, in view of the fact that the proceedings commenced by the 8th Addl.	Facts
Incometax Officer u s. 34 on the basis of notice dated 23rd February, 1950 were filed?	Facts
(2) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the assessment dated 2nd May, 1956 made by the Principal (main) Incometax Officer.	Facts
Dist.	Issue
I (2) was barred by time?	Facts
4.	None
The High Court disagreed with the view of the Tribunal and held that the notice dated 23rd February, 1950 was valid and proceeding on it were continuing, so that the revenue authorities could not extend the period of limitation by assessing after the expiry of eight years by issuing a second notice on the eve of the expiry of eight years to obtain a period of one additional year from the date of the service of the second notice.	Issue
The assessment was, therefore, held to be barred by limitation on the ground that it should have been completed by 31st March, 1956.	Issue
This appeal has now been brought up to this Court by the Commissioner of Incometax, Calcutta on a certificate granted under S. 66A (2) by the High Court 5.	Facts
It appears in this case that at one stage there was a contest between the parties as to whether the notice dated 23rd February, 1950 was validly issued under S. 34 or not.	Reasoning
Even before the High Court it seems that some attempt was made on behalf of the assessee to raise the question that the notice dated 23rd February, 1950 under S. 34 was invalid on the ground that it was issued without completing the assessment on the voluntary returns submitted on December 22, 1947 and March 31, 1949.	Reasoning
On behalf of the Commissioner, the contention before the High Court was that on the question referred to the Court it was not open to the assessee to raise this contention.	Reasoning
The objection raised by the Commissioner was rightly accepted by the High Court.	Reasoning
It is plain from the two questions referred to the High Court that the High Court was not celled upon to express any opinion about the validity of the notice dated 23rd February, 1950.	Reasoning
The first question referred to the Court it was not open to the assessee to raise this whether, in view of the fact that proceedings commenced by the A. I. T. O. on the basis of notice dated 23rd February, 1950 were merely filed, the notice under S. 34 issued by the P. I. T. O. and the assessment based on it were valid in law.	Reasoning
The only other question was whether the order of assessment dated 2nd May, 1956 made by the P. I. T. O. was barred by time.	Reasoning
Neither of these questions enlarged the scope of the reference before the High Court so as to permit it to examine the validity of the notice dated 23rd February, 1950, and the Court, therefore, was right in refusing to go into this question 6.	Reasoning
In this appeal, consequently, we are only concerned with the correctness of the answer returned by the High Court to the two questions referred to it by the Tribunal.	Issue
The answer given by the High Court to the two questions referred to it is clearly based on the view taken by that Court that the order of the A. I. T. O. dated 4th February 1952, did not terminate or put an end to the proceedings which were going on before him in pursuance of the notice under S. 34 dated 23rd February, 1950, and it is the correctness of this view of the High Court that has to be examined.	Issue
7. Learned SolicitorGeneral, appearing on behalf of the Commissioner, urged before us that in interpreting the effect of the order made by the A. I. T. O. on the 4th February, 1952, we should try to discover what was the real intention of the A. I. T. O. when he ordered that the case be filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The intention has to be inferred from all the surrounding circumstances in which the order was made.	None
At the time when this case came up before him on 4th February, 1952, the A. I. T. O. was expecting a return to be filed by the assessee in response to the notice which had been issued by him under S. 34.	Reasoning
A constituted attorney appeared for the assessee and requested that the return already filed on the 22nd December, 1947 may be treated as the return submitted in response to the notice.	Reasoning
The A. I. T. O. noted this fact.	Reasoning
Further, it appears that he was already aware that another proceeding on the basis of a voluntary return was pending before the P. I. T. O., and consequently, in his order he recorded his opinion that the income (referring to the income to which the voluntary return dated 22nd December, 1947 related) should be taken in the assessment of the military contract income for which there was another file.	Reasoning
This remark recorded by him in his order gives clear indication that he felt at that stage that it would not be right for him to continue the proceedings which were pending before him, obviously because another proceeding for assessment of the same assessee was pending before his senior Officer viz.	Reasoning
, the P. I. T. O. He, therefore, ordered the case to be filed.	Reasoning
In making this order, the only intention the A. I. T. O. could have was that the proceedings before him should no longer remain in existence as being unnecessary proceedings.	Reasoning
The very income which he was called upon to assess to tax was to be taken into account by his senior officer and, therefore, he felt that he should not continue simultaneous proceedings for the same purpose as the proceedings before his senior Officer.	Reasoning
In ordering that the case be filed, therefore, he clearly intended that the proceedings before him should be terminated or dropped.	Reasoning
There is no indication in the order that what the A. I. T. O. intended was that the proceedings before him should continue to remain pending and should be dealt with by him at subsequent stage.	Reasoning
In fact, if the A. I. T. O. had thought that those proceedings before him had to continue and he did not want any conflict with his senior officer, the order that ha would have made in the circumstances before him was that these proceedings be also submitted to the P. I. T. O.	Reasoning
He seems to have considered it unnecessary to do so, because hits opinion was that, in the assessment proceedings going on before the P. I. T. O., the income to which the proceedings before him related would also be included, so that there was no need for any proceedings remaining in existence before him.	Reasoning
The intention, thus, clearly was to drop the proceedings and not to continue them any further.	Reasoning
Of course, he could have expressed his intention more clearly by saying that he was cancelling the proceedings before him, or was terminating them.	Reasoning
We think that the learned counsel for the Commissioner has rightly contended that, in the circumstances of this case, the word filed should be interpreted as being equivalent to disposed of, so that after that order, no proceedings on the basis of notice dated 23rd February, 1950 remained pending before the A. I. T. O.	Reasoning
In effect, therefore, what he did was to terminate the proceedings before him without making any order of assessment, on the ground that the order of assessment in respect of the income in question would be made by the P. I. T. O. in the proceedings before him.	Reasoning
8.	None
An order in language not contemplated by the Incometax Act in proceedings on a notice under S. 34 (1) came for interpretation before this Court in Esthuri Aswathiah v. Incometax Officer, Mysore State, 41 ITR 539 (AIR 1961 SC 1149 ).	None
In that case, the assessee had submitted a return showing that he had no assessable income.	None
Thereupon, the Incometax Officer made an order no proceedings.	None
Subsequently, when a notice under S. 34 (1) for reassessment was issued, an objection was taken that the notice was incompetent, because proceedings on the return filed were still pending.	None
This Court held that the submission that the previous return had not been disposed of and until the assessment pursuant to that return was made, no notice under S. 34 (1) for reassessment could be issued, had no substance.	None
It was further held that the Incometax Officer had passed the order no proceeding and such an order, in the circumstances of the case, meant that the Incometax Officer accepted the return and assessed the income as nil.	None
In that case, thus, the order no proceeding was interpreted in the light of the circumstances in which that order was passed.	None
In the case before us, the order directing that the case be filed has to be similarly interpreted in the circumstances in which it was passed, and as we have indicated above, the only proper interpretation is that the A. I. T. O. intended to conclude the proceedings before himself in view of the fact that proceedings were going on before his senior officer.	None
9.	None
Our attention was also drawn to a decision of the Calcutta High Court in Incometax Ref.	None
No. 128 of 1961 (Cal)  Haji Mohamed Mian v. Commr., of Incometax Calcutta in which judgment was delivered on February 23, 1965.	None
In that case also, proceedings had begun on the basis of a notice under S. 22 (2) of the Incometax Act, and, at a later stage, the Incometax Officer ordered that the proceedings be filed on the ground that no return had been filed by the assessee in response to the notice.	None
The order of the Incometax Officer was interpreted as amounting to dropping of the proceedings and it was further held that the dropping of the proceedings meant the termination thereof without any order of assessment.	None
In that case also, therefore, the subsequent issue of notice under S. 34 was held to be valid and not vitiated on the ground that proceedings for assessment in pursuance of the notice under S. 22 (2) were still going on.	None
10.	None
Mr. A. K. Sen, on behalf of the assessee, urged before us that once proceedings had been started under S. 34 by issue of the notice dated 23rd February, 1950, the proceedings brought into existence could not be dropped, because the scheme of the Incometax Act is that such proceedings must end in some final order of assessment, even though that order may be to the effect that there is no taxable income and no tax is determined as payable.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied on a decision of the Bombay High Court in P. T. Anklesaria v. Commr. of Incometax, Bombay South, (1959) 35 ITR 532 (Bom) in which the Incometax Officer received a voluntary return, though without any notice under S. 22 (2), issued a notice under S. 23 (2), and again, after obtaining the permission of the Commissioner to issue a notice under S. 34, he issued a notice under S. 23 (2), and failed to issue any notice under S. 34.	None
Thereafter, the Incometax Officer made the following orderReturn has been filed under S. 34 claiming a loss of Rs. 74,140 only.	None
Since I find that no income has escaped assessment proceedings under Section 34 are dropped.	None
In these circumstances, the High Court held that as there was a valid return voluntary filed by the assessee, the order of the Incometax Officer was invalid and bad in law.	None
There was no provision by which the Incometax Officer could refuse to assess the loss shown in the return, especially when he had actually issued a notice under S. 23 (2) after the return had been made.	Reasoning
It was urged before us that, on the principle laid down in that case, the order made by the A. I. T. O. directing that the case be filed must be held to be an invalid order as it was essential that he should have passed an order assessing the income and then determining the tax payable under S. 23, even if the result of the determination was that the tax payable was nil.	Reasoning
Even if it be accepted that the order made by the A. I. T. O. in the present case was invalid, its effect cannot be that the proceedings before the A. I. T. O. must be held to have continued after that order was made by him.	Reasoning
Even an invalid order terminating proceedings has the effect of terminating them and in such a case, the appropriate method for correcting the illegality committed is to have that order vacated by appellate or other higher authorities having jurisdiction to intervene.	Reasoning
As long as the order is not set aside, it remains in force and takes full effect.	Reasoning
The order was not totally without jurisdiction at best, it was an order not contemplated by law and it could not be treated as a nonexistent order.	Reasoning
In the present case also, the order of the A. I. T. O. direction that the case be field could have been set right on appeal, or by a reference to the High Court, in case the Tribunal refused to correct it.	Reasoning
While it was not set aside, the only conclusion possible is that the proceedings before the A. I. T. O. terminated and did not any longer continue to remain pending.	Reasoning
11.	None
The High Court, in dealing with this question, proceeded on the further basis that when the order of transfer was made by the Commissioner of Incometax on 30th December.	Reasoning
1955, this proceeding must have been treated as pending, because, otherwise, the order of transfer would not relate to any pending case at all.	Reasoning
The High Court held Therefore when the transfer of the case was made under S. 5 (7A), it cannot be said that the notice issued by the Additional Officer had been wiped out or did not remain alive.	Reasoning
If there was no case, there could not be any transfer of the case.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept the view of the High Court that an order of transfer could not have been made unless some specific proceeding for assessment of the assessee to tax was actually pending.	Reasoning
The explanation to S. 5 (7A) makes it clear that the word case, in relation to any person whose name is specified in the order of transfer, means all proceedings under the Act in respect of any year which may be pending on the date of the transfer, and also includes all proceedings under the Act which may be commenced after the date of the transfer in respect of any year.	Reasoning
The word case is thus used in a comprehensive sense of including both pending proceedings as well as proceedings to be instituted in future.	Reasoning
Consequently, an order of transfer can be validly made even if there be no proceedings pending for assessment of tax and the purpose of the transfer may simply be that all future proceedings are to take place before the officer to whom the case of the assessee is transferred.	Reasoning
In the present case, the proceedings on the notice dated 23rd February, 1950, had already been terminated by the A. I. T. O. by his order directing that the case be filed Consequently, the effect of the order of transfer was that all the records relating to the assessment of the assessee had to be sent to the P. I. T. O., and this was with the object that, in future, all proceedings relating to assessment of this assessee were to be taken by the P. I. T. O. and not the A. I. T. O.	Reasoning
The order does not necessarily indicate that those proceedings which the A. I. T. O. had actually terminated were still to be treated as pending and to stand transferred as pending proceedings.	Reasoning
12.	None
Since the case of the assessee was transferred to the P. I. T. O. at the stage when no proceeding was pending before the A. I. T. O., the P. I. T. O. became seized of the jurisdiction to take any proceedings against the assessee which the law permitted.	Reasoning
It was clearly in exercise of this jurisdiction that the P. I. T. O. issued the subsequent notice dated 11th February, 1956.	Reasoning
That notice was, therefore, competently issued by him and was also valid, because it was issued before the expiry of eight years from the end of the relevant assessment year 194748.The notice having been issued validly within the period of limitation permitted by S. 34(3), the actual order of assessment could be made validly before the expiry of the period of one year from the date of the notice.	Reasoning
The order of assessment dated 2nd May, 1956, was consequently a valid order and was not barred by time.	Reasoning
13.	None
In the circumstances, the answer returned by the High Court to the two questions referred to it has to be held to be incorrect.	Decision
Both the questions have to be answered against the assessee and in favour of the Commissioner of Incometax, so that the answer returned by the High Court to the two questions is set aside, the first question is answered in the affirmative, and the second in the negative.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly allowed with costs in this Court as well as in the High Court.	Decision
14.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
