 N. Phukan, J. This appeal is directed against the Judgment and Order passed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court at Jabalpur in Misc.	Issue
Petition No. 1826 of 1993.	None
A few facts leading to this appeal deserve to be noted at the outset for highlighting the grievance of the appellant in the present appeal.	Facts
The Central Government, Ministry of Production wrote a letter dated 8th January, 1955 to the Chief Secretaries of the States of West Bengal, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
In this letter it was indicated that it was under consideration of the Central Government to establish Russian technical assistance steel plants at three places in the three States.	Facts
For this purpose a piece of land measuring about 50 sq. miles, would be required.	Facts
Therefore, the Central Government by letter dated the 8th January, 195 wanted to know from the State Government whether the Governments would be prepared to accord facilities.	Facts
The said three facilities are stated below  (1) 50 sq. miles of land, free to the extent it is the property of the State Government, and guarantee of a ceiling cost for the acquisition of privately owned land, it being understood that any cost in excess of the guaranteed ceiling would be borne by the State Government concerned.	None
A guarantee of adequate and continuous water supply, as required for the steel plant, associated projects and the town, at rates to be mutually agreed upon between the State Government and the Government of India and or an autonomous State Co. to be registered for the purpose.	None
Guarantee of prior claim on all unleased mining concessions in respect of ironore, coal, limestone, dolomite and any other raw material discovered or to be discovered within the territory of the State concerned and required for the steel project.	None
By letter dated 11th of January, 1955 the Government of Madhya Pradesh informed the Central Government that the State Government was prepared to accord all the above facilities.	Facts
Another letter was sent dated 25th of September, 1958 by the Government of Madhya Pradesh bringing to the notice of the Central Government the rules framed by the Secretary of State in 1925.	Facts
Two salient features of the rules particularly A and B were stated in the said letter.	Facts
These features are When any land is required by the Central Government that Government are required to pay(i) cost of acquisition, if the land is occupied and market value of land, if the land belongs to the State Government and (ii) capitalized value of land revenue at the assessment to the State Government the loss of land revenue, as no land revenue can be recovered from the Central Government.	Facts
When any land is not required by the Central Government for the purpose for which it was acquired, the State Government are given the first option to take it back on payment of its market value.	None
Should the State Government exercise the option and pay the market value of the land then they are at liberty to dispose it of in such a manner as they deem fit.	Facts
By this letter Central Government was informed that the land for the Bhilai Steel Plant might be classified in two categories namely land belonging to private persons and land belonging to State.	Facts
It was brought to the notice of the Central Government that the Central Government agreed to pay the cost of acquisition of land and that the State Government was also entitled to claim the amount awarded, that is, market value plus 15 on account of compulsory nature of acquisition from the Central Government.	Facts
It was further brought to the notice of the Central Government that the State Government would be entitled to recover capitalized value of land revenue at 25 times the amount of land revenue in accordance to above 1925 rules.	Facts
Regarding land which belonged to State Government as per earlier agreement it was agreed to transfer such land free of cost.	Facts
We may like to quote paragraph 10 of the said letter which is as follows  The State Government are, therefore, of the view that the land shall be held by the Central Government on the following terms and conditions  Land acquired transferred for the Bhilai Steel Plant should be treated as if it were in possession of the Central Government for the purposes of the Union.	Facts
(2) in respect of occupied land, i.e. land belonging to private persons, the Central Government should pay the cost of acquisition, including 15 on account of compulsory nature of acquisition, to the owners of the land and capitalized value at 25 times the amount of land revenue assessed on such land to the State Government.	None
(3) in respect of unoccupied land, i.e. land belonging to the State Government, neither the cost nor capitalized value of land revenue shall be payable by the Central Government.	None
The State Government shall be entitled to recover royalty on all minor and major minerals extracted from lands acquired transferred at rates fixed by the State Government.	None
(5) if any land acquired transferred for Bhilai Plant is not required for the purposes of the plant, the first option to take it back should be given to the State Government and the State Government should pay the cost of acquisition minus 15 on account of compulsory nature of the acquisition, where at the time of acquisition.	Facts
where at time of acquisition, it was paid for.	Facts
In cases where the Central Government have not been required to pay the cost of any land, the State Govt.	Facts
should get it back without any payment whatsoever and If, however, the Central Government wants to transfer any land acquired transferred for Bhilai Plant or any right therein to any private persons, the terms and conditions of such transfer should be intimated to the State Government and their concurrence obtained before the transfer and in appropriate cases, divide or allocated the proceeds between the Central and State Govt.	Facts
on agreed terms.	Facts
By two deeds of assignment executed on 31st day of March, 1959 and 27th of March, 1978 the Central Government transferred land etc. as indicated in the schedules to a company wholly owned by the Central Government namely Hindustan Steel Ltd.	Facts
The present company is a successor company of Hindustan Steel Ltd. in respect of Bhilai Steel Plant.	Facts
We may state here also that by letter dated 7th of May, 1963 the Central Government informed the State Government that as divided land could be acquired for Union of India for the Bhilai Steel Plant though the project had been handed over to the Hindustan Steel Ltd. and for this purpose Central Government authorised the General Manager of the Bhilai Steel Plant to act for the Central Government in all matters relating to acquisition of land and while doing so the General Manager would not deemed to be acting on behalf of the company.	Facts
The Deputy Collector, Drug by letter dated 4th of March, 1987 informed the Bhilai Steel Plant authority that a sum of Rs. 3,27,90,220.00 was due as land revenue for the years 196287 from the above Steel Plant and amount had to be realised.	Facts
From the letter in the subject it was mentioned that this was so done in view of the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India for the year 198182.	None
From the letter dated 23rd of June, 1987 issued by Deputy Collector, Drug to the Assistant Estate Manager (Land), Bhilai Steel Plant it appears that a piece of land measuring 32759.00 acres was allotted to the Steel Plant and revenue was payable	Facts
Rs. 40/ per acre per annum and assessment for the land revenue was for the years 196286.	None
Finally, the Collector, Drug by an order dated 27th of January, 1990 assessed the land revenue at Rs. 3,73,96,873.20 after making some deduction and passed an order for immediate realisation of the above amount.	None
The area of land was assessed by the Collector for 32759.00 acres and land revenue was assessed Rs. 40 per acre per annum.	Facts
An appeal was filed before the Commissioner, Raipur Division which was dismissed by order dated 19th January, 1992.	Facts
Thereafter matter was taken up before the Board of Revenue and by order dated 16th of November, 1992 it was dismissed.	None
The appellantcompany approached the High Court by filing misc.	None
Petition No. 1826/93 under Article 226 and 227 of the constitution of India which was dismissed by order dated 29.4.1993.	Facts
Hence the present appeal.	Facts
We have heard Mr. C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned Additional Solicitor General for the appellant and Mr. B.S. Banthia, learned advocate for the respondents.	None
Section 58 of the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959 (for short the Code) which fixes the liability of land to payment of land revenue is quoted below  Sec.	None
58  (1) All land, to whatever purpose applied and wherever situate, is liable to the payment of revenue to the State Government, except such land as has been wholly exempted from such liability by special grant of or contract with the State Government, or under the provisions of any law or rule for the time being in force.	Reasoning
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Such revenue is called land revenue and that term includes all moneys payable to the State Government for land notwithstanding that such other manner in any enactment, rule, contract or deed.	None
We also quote Section 264 of the Code  393 ?	None
Sec.  	None
264.	None
Nothing contained in this Code shall apply to a person who holds land from the Central Government.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The only point to be decided is whether in view of the above facts and laws the appellant is liable to pay any land revenue for the land in occupation of Bhilai Steel Plant.	Issue
It will be noticed that we are concerned with two separate pieces of land, one assigned by the Central Government to the Company on 31st March, 1959 and another on 27th March, 1978.	None
The assessment to land revenue by the State of Madhya Pradesh covers the period from 19621987.	None
The contention for the appellant is a follows  So far as the first assignment is concerned, no doubt, during this period i.e. from 1962 the said extent was owned by the Company after assignment by the Central Government on 31st March, 1959.	Arguments of Petitioner
This land not being owned by the Central Government for 1959 (i.e. after 1962) is not covered by Article 285 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be assumed that this piece of land is also not held by a person from the Central Government so as to claim the benefit of Section 264 of the Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the right to levy land revenue can be lost by contract and by rules as provided in subcluase (1) of Section 58.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the present case, there is a contract implied by the correspondence that Central Government should make a one time payment of land revenue for 25 years.	Arguments of Petitioner
In addition, the 1925 Rules also provided that if land is transferred by the State to Central Government, and if such a payment is made, the Central Government, and if such a payment is made, the Central Government need not pay any further land revenue to the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both on ground of contract and Rules, the Central Government gets exemption under subclause (1) of Section 58.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as the extent covered by the second assignment dated 27.3.1979 is concerned, the contention is two fold  the Central Government is exempted in view of the Article 285 and Section 264 of the Code upto 26.3.1979.	Arguments of Petitioner
No levy on its successor, (the Company) can be made upto 26.3.1979.	Arguments of Petitioner
On or before 27.3.1979, the Company is not liable because of the contract (evidenced by correspondence) and also because of the 1925 Rules, the case comes within subclause (1) of Section 58.	None
On the other hand, the contention for the respondentState of Madhya Pradesh is that the company is liable for the whole period 19621987 in respect of both the pieces of land assigned to the company on 31st March, 1959 and 27th March, 1978  inasmuch as Article 285 cannot help the Company, even if all its shares are held by the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The Company is a different juristic entity.	Arguments of Respondent
Nor can Section 264 of the Code apply because the Company is not holding the land for the Central Government for after the assignments, the Central Government cannot be said to be holding the land through the Company.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as subclause (1) of Section 58 is concerned, there is no contract entered into between the Central and State Governments in accordance with Article 299 of the Constitution of India, waiving the further land revenue on the ground that once 25 times of land revenue was paid, no further land revenue need by paid.	Arguments of Respondent
There can be no estoppel against statute.	Arguments of Respondent
The 1925 Rules cannot also help the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
Nor has any exemption been granted under Section 59 of the Code.	Arguments of Respondent
It will be noticed that in the letter of the Madhya Pradesh Government dated 25.9.58 which was referred to above, the salient features of the rules framed by the Secretary to the Madhya Pradesh Government in 1925 were referred to.	Reasoning
The condition No.	Reasoning
A clearly lays down that the capitalized value of the land revenue has to be assessed and paid to the State Government towards loss of land revenue as no land revenue can be recovered from the Central Government later on.	Reasoning
From paragraph 10 of the letter which has been quoted above we also find that land revenue in respect of land held by the private persons has to be capitalized at 25 times and capitalized value of land revenue shall be payable by the Central Government to the Government of Madhya Pradesh.	Reasoning
A memorandum dated 17th July, 1958 from the Government of Madhya Pradesh was issued to the Commissioner of Raipur division raising a query as to whether capitalized value of land revenue had been recovered or not and if not, the amount to be reported to the Government so that it could be claimed from the Central Government.	None
According to the Blacks Law Dictionary (Fifth Edition) the word capitalize means To convert a periodical payment into an equivalent capital sum or sum in hand.	None
To compute the present value of an income extended over a period of time According to the Oxford English Dictionary (Being a Corrected Reissue with an Introduction, Supplement, and Bibliography of a New English Dictionary on Historical Principles, Volume IIC) the word Capitalize means 2 To Convert (a periodical income or payment) into an equivalent capital sum to compute or realise the present value of such a payment for a definite or indefinite length of time The object of the Rules framed by the Secretary of State in 1925 is clear that land revenue was to be capitalized and collected once for all and that no land revenue could be further recovered thereafter.	None
Land revenue had to be paid periodically and in view of the above dictionary meanings and in view of the rules framed in 1925, once land revenue was capitalized and paid, no further amount could be realised by the State Government for the land transferred.	Reasoning
Thereafter the case falls under subclause (1) of Section 58 which states that by virtue of provisions in a rule made land revenue could become exempt.	Reasoning
Though Mr. Banthia has urged that as no reply was sent to the letter of the State Government dated 25th September, 1958, therefore, there was no contract under Article 299 of the Constitution of India between the Central Government and the State Government regarding the nonpayment of land revenue, we are unable to accept the contention of the learned counsel inasmuch as by the conduct of the parties it is very clear that both the Governments agreed with the terms mentioned in the letter of the State Government dated 25th September, 1958 and, therefore, there was also a contract between the parties regarding the exemption from payment of land revenue, if 25 times of the land revenue was paid once for all.	Reasoning
The contention that such a contract is not executed in the form required under Article 299 cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
This point was not raised inthe High Court.	Reasoning
Apart from that it is clear that Article 299 applies only to contracts to be executed in exercise of executive power and not to those executed by virtue of statutory power like Section 58 of the Code.	Reasoning
(See State of Haryana v. Lal Chand, 1984(3) SCC 634 Lalji Khimji v. State of Gujarat, 1993 Suppl.	Reasoning
(3) SCC 567 .	Reasoning
In the latter case, Anand, J. (as he then was) observed as follows  There is a marked distinction between contracts which are executed in exercise of the executive powers and agreements or orders made which are statutory in nature In State of Haryana v. Lal Chand, this Court considered a contract granting exclusive privilege of liquor vending, in exercise of the statutory powers referable to Punjab Excise Act, 1914 and Punjab Liquor Licence Rules, 1956, and held that the grant of the exclusive privilege gave rise to a contract of a statutory nature, distinguished from the one executed under Article 299(1) and, therefore, compliance with Article 299(1) was not required in such a case.	Reasoning
Section 58 of the Code provides that land revenue is payable in respect of all land unless it is exempted from such liability by special grant or contract with the State Government.	Reasoning
In view of the agreement between both the Governments and in view of the above provisions of Section 58 of the Code we hold that no land revenue is payable for the land in question more particularly as it has been capitalized at 25 times of the land revenue prevailing at that time.	Reasoning
Thus, whether it is because of the 1925 Rules or the Contract, Central Government was not liable to pay land revenue once it had paid the 25 times land revenue as a one time payment.	None
The next question is whether after the land was transferred to the Company, the company would be liable to pay any land revenue under the Code ?	None
Two deeds of assignment were executed on consideration for transferring shares by the Company to the Central Government.	None
We may refer to relevant portions of the assignment deeds the Government both hereby grant convey transfer assign and assure unto the Company all those several pieces or parcels of lands and hereditariness situate rights, liberties, privileges, easements, advantages, and opportunas whatsoever to the said lands, hereditaments and premises appertaining to or with the same or any part thereof now or hereto have or may hereafter be occupied or enjoyed or reported or known as part and parcel or member thereof or appertaining thereto (hereinafter called the said lands and buildings).	None
and all the estate, right, title and interest, claim and demand of the Government into and upon the lands and buildings, the plant or every part thereof and also all the deeds and other evidences of title in any way relating to the said lands and hereditaments and all receipts and documents and other evidence of title to the plant and the component parts thereof an installed or brought in by the Government in connection with the said Bhilai Steel Project 29.	None
thus it is clear from the above clauses of the deeds of assignment that while transferring the land to the Company rights, liberties, privileges etc. to the said land were also transferred.	None
Therefore, the privileges of or right to exemption accrued to the Central Government not to pay land revenue to the State Government under Section 58 of the Code would also be available to the appellantcompany, as a successor in interest to the Central Government.	Reasoning
Another point has been urged on behalf of the appellant that assessment of land revenue is barred by limitation.	None
We need not entertain into this aspect as we have held that the appellant company is not liable to pay any land revenue.	None
We may mention that the State Government was also were that no land revenue was payable but the proceedings were started in view of the audit objection.	Reasoning
32.	None
For the reasons stated above the appeal is allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgments and orders are set aside.	Decision
We also quash the demand of the land revenue made by the Collector from the appellant.	Decision
No order as to costs.	Decision
