 Nageswara Rao, J. The Appellant is a wholly owned Public Sector Undertaking of the Government of Orissa.	None
The Appellant finances medium and large scale industries within the State of Orissa and is also involved in setting up joint sector industries with private entrepreneurs.	Facts
The Appellant extended a term loan of Rs.	None
40,74,000/ to M s.	None
Josna Casting Centre Orissa Pvt.	None
Ltd.	Facts
As the loan amount was not repaid, the Appellant exercising its power under Section 29 of the State Finance Corporation Act, 1951, took over the assets of M s. Josna Casting Centre Orissa Private Limited on 14021992.	None
On 23011996, the Appellant insured the said assets with Respondent No. 1 for a sum of Rs.	None
46,00,000/ under the Miscellaneous Accident Policy, Rs.	None
60,40,000/ under the Fire Policy and Rs.	None
46,00,000/ under the Burglary and House Breaking Policy.2.	None
The seized assets were put to auction by the Appellant on 22011997 at which point of time it was detected that some parts of the plant and machinery were missing from the factory premises.	Facts
The Appellant registered an FIR on 25011997 in the Remona Police Station, Balasore regarding the theft burglary of the plant and machinery.	Facts
On 07021997, the Appellant informed Respondent No. 1 about the theft and requested for issuance of a claim form.	Facts
A claim was lodged with Respondent No. 1 on 16121997 for an amount of Rs.	None
34,40,650/ under the Burglary and House Breaking Policy.	None
The valuation reports given by GEC, Calcutta, the machines supplier and Alpha Transformer Ltd., Bhubaneswar were relied upon by the Appellant Claimant.	Facts
The claim of the Appellant was repudiated by Respondent No. 1 on 31031998 on the ground that the alleged loss did not come within the purview of the insurance policy.3.	Facts
The Appellant filed compensation application No. 45 of 2001 under Section 12B read with Section 36A of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices (MRTP) Act, 1969, which was rejected by the MRTP Commission, New Delhi by its Order dated 17082005.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said Order, the Appellant has preferred the present Appeal.	None
Mr. Raj Kumar Mehta, counsel for the Appellant took us through the proposal form for Burglary and House Breaking Insurance (Business) Premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
The scope of cover in the said proposal form is as follows SCOPE OF COVERThis Insurance Policy provides cover against loss or damage by Burglary or House breaking i.e. (theft following an actual, forcible and violent entry of and or exit from the premises) in respect of contents of offices, warehouses, shops, etc. and cash in safe or strong room and also damage caused to the premises, except as detailed below It was further submitted by Mr. Mehta that the rule of contra proferentem would be applicable to the present case and he relied upon the judgment of this Court in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Orient Treasures (P) Ltd. reported at (2016) 3 SCC 49.	None
Mr. Mehta submitted that the words theft following an actual forcible and violent entry or exit from the premises are with reference only to house breaking and not burglary.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, forcible and violent entry is not necessary for making a valid claim under the policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would be sufficient that there is theft of certain goods from the factory premises, which fact has been proved by the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Mehta referred to a judgment of this Court in United India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Harchand Rai Chandan Lal reported in (2004) 8 SCC 644 which related to a claim pertaining to a theft and attempted to distinguish it.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the clause in the policy in that case is different from that involved in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that the Commission committed an error in relying upon the said judgment to reject the Claim Application for the Appellant.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Salil Paul, Advocate for Respondent No.1 submitted that there is no difference in the policies involved in the case cited supra and the instant case.	Arguments of Respondent
He also urged that an insurance policy is akin to a commercial contract and has to be construed strictly.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Paul submitted that a forcible entry and or exit is compulsory for maintainability of a claim under the policy.	Arguments of Respondent
Having considered the submissions made on both sides, we are of the opinion that there is no error committed by the MRTP Commission in rejecting the Claim of the Appellant.	Reasoning
It is clear from the facts of the present case that the Appellant has made out a case of theft without a forcible entry.	Reasoning
The case of the Appellant is that forcible entry is not required for a claim to be made under the policy.	Reasoning
Following the wellaccepted principle that a contract of insurance which is like any other commercial contract should be interpreted strictly, we are of the opinion that the policy covers loss or damage by burglary or house breaking which have been explained as theft following an actual, forcible and violent entry from the premises.	Reasoning
A plain reading of the policy would show that a forcible entry should precede the theft, and unless they are proved, the claim cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
The provisions of the policy in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Harchand Rai Chandan Lal (supra) read as under THE COMPANY HEREBY AGREES subject to the terms and conditions contained herein endorsed or otherwise expressed hereon that if, (a) the property hereinafter described or any part thereof be LOST or DAMAGED by BURGLARY and or HOUSE BREAKING, or (b) ANY DAMAGE be caused to the premises to be made good by the insured from BURGLARY and or HOUSE BREAKING or any attempt thereat.	Reasoning
The term burglary and or house breaking has been defined in terms of the policy which are as follows Burglary and or house breaking shall mean theft involving entry to or exit from the premises stated therein by forcible and violent means or following assault or violence or threat thereof to the insured or to his employees or to the members of his family.	None
A comparison of the above terms as defined in the policy in the case of United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Harchand Rai Chandan Lal (supra) and the scope of cover in the proposal form in the instant case are similar.	None
This Court in the said judgment of United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Harchand Rai Chandan Lal (supra) considered the scope of a policy involving burglary and house breaking and held as follows The policy is a contract between the parties and both parties are bound by the terms of contract.	Reasoning
As per the definition of the word burglary, followed with violence, makes it clear that if any theft is committed it should necessarily be preceded with violence i.e. entry into the premises for committing theft should involve force or violence or threat to insurer or to his employees or to the members of his family.	None
Therefore, the element of force and violence is a condition precedent for burglary and housebreaking.	None
The term burglary as defined in the English Dictionary means an illegal entry into the building with an intent to commit crime such as theft.	None
But in absence of violence or force the insurer cannot claim indemnification against the insurance company.	None
The terms of the policy have to be construed as it is and we cannot add or subtract something.	None
Howsoever liberally we may construe the policy but we cannot take liberalism to the extent of substituting the words which are not intended.	None
It is true that in common parlance the term burglary would mean theft but it has to be preceded with force or violence.	None
If the element of force and violence is not present then the insurer cannot claim compensation against theft from the insurance company.	None
This expression appearing in the insurance policy came up for interpretation before the English Courts and the English Courts in no uncertain terms laid down that burglary or theft has to be preceded with force or violence in order to be indemnified by the insurance company.	None
In this connection reference may be made to the statement of law as summarized in Halsburys Laws of England Fourth Edition (2003 Reissue)	None
Para 646.	None
It reads as under646.	None
Forcible and violent entry.	None
The terms of a burglary insurance may exclude liability in certain circumstances unless there is forcible and violent entry into the premises.	None
If so, the entry must be obtained by the use of both force and violence or the definition is not satisfied and the policy does not apply.	None
An entry obtained by turning the handle of an outside door or by using a skeleton key, though sufficient to constitute a criminal offence, is not within the policy since the element of violence is absent.	None
However, an entry obtained by picking the lock or forcing back the catch by means of an instrument involves the use of violence and is therefore covered.	None
The policy may be so framed as to apply only to violent entry from the outside or the violent entry into a room within the insured premises may be sufficient.	None
In any case, the violence must be connected with the act of entry if the entry is obtained without violence, the subsequent use of violence to effect the theft, as for instance where a showcase is broken open, does not bring the loss within the policy.	None
It is wellsettled law that there is no difference between a contract of insurance and any other contract, and that it should be construed strictly without adding or deleting anything from the terms thereof.	None
On applying the said principle, we have no doubt that a forcible entry is required for a claim to be allowed under the policy for burglary house breaking.10.	Reasoning
We proceed to deal with the submission made by counsel for the Appellant regarding the rule of contra proferentem.	Reasoning
The Common Law rule of construction verba chartarum fortius accipiuntur contra proferentem means that ambiguity in the wording of the policy is to be resolved against the party who prepared it.	Reasoning
MacGillivray on Insurance Law (MACGILLIVRAY ON INSURANCE LAW (9th ed., 1997) (Nicholas LeghJones et al, eds.)	None
at p. 280) deals with the rule of contra proferentem as follows The contra proferentem rule of construction arises only where there is a wording employed by those drafting the clause which leaves the court unable to decide by ordinary principles of interpretation which of two meanings is the right one.	None
One must not use the rule to create the ambiguity one must find the ambiguity first.	Reasoning
The words should receive their ordinary and natural meaning unless that is displaced by a real ambiguity either appearing on the face of the policy or, possibly, by extrinsic evidence of surrounding circumstances.(footnotes omitted)	None
Colinvauxs Law of Insurance (COLINVAUXS LAW OF INSURANCE (6th ed., 1990) (Robert and Merkin, eds.)	None
at p.42) propounds the contra proferentem rule as under Quite apart from contradictory clauses in policies, ambiguities are common in them and it is often very uncertain what the parties to them mean.	Reasoning
In such cases the rule is that the policy, being drafted in language chosen by the insurers, must be taken most strongly against them.	Reasoning
It is construed contra proferentes, against those who offer it.	Reasoning
In a doubtful case the turn of the scale ought to be given against the speaker, because he has not clearly and fully expressed himself.	Reasoning
Nothing is easier than for the insurers to express themselves in plain terms.	Reasoning
The assured cannot put his own meaning upon a policy, but, where it is ambiguous, it is to be construed in the sense in which he might reasonably have understood it.	Reasoning
If the insurers wish to escape liability under given circumstances, they must use words admitting of no possible doubt.	Reasoning
But a clause is only to be contra proferentes in cases of real ambiguity.	Reasoning
One must not use the rule to create an ambiguity.	Reasoning
On must find the ambiguity first.	Reasoning
Even where a clause by itself is ambiguous if, by looking at the whole policy, its meaning becomes clear, there is no room for the application of the doctrine.	Reasoning
So also where if one meaning is given to a clause, the rest of the policy becomes clear, the policy should be construed accordingly.	Reasoning
(footnotes omitted)	None
This court in General Assurance Society Ltd. v. Chandmull Jain and Anr., reported in 1966 3 SCR 500 held that there is no difference between a contract of insurance and any other contract except that in a contract of insurance there is a requirement of uberima fides, i.e., good faith on the part of the insured and the contract is likely to be construed contra proferentes, i.e., against the company in case of ambiguity or doubt.	Reasoning
It was further held in the said judgment that the duty of the Court is to interpret the words in which the contract is expressed by the parties and it is not for the Court to make a new contract, however reasonable.12.	Reasoning
In United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v.	Reasoning
Orient Treasures (P) Ltd. (supra) cited by the Counsel for the Appellant, it was held that there is no ambiguity in the insurance policy and so the rule of contra proferentem was not applicable.	Reasoning
A standard policy of insurance is different from other Contracts and in a claim under a standard policy the rule of contra proferentem is to be applied.	Reasoning
The Policy in this case is in a standard form.	Reasoning
The policy for Burglary and House Breaking in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Orient Treasures (P) Ltd .	Reasoning
(supra) and the policy in this case are identical.	Reasoning
If there is any ambiguity or doubt the clause in the Policy should be interpreted in favour of the insured.	Reasoning
But we see no ambiguity in the relevant clause of the policy and the rule of contra proferentem is not applicable.13.	Reasoning
For the aforementioned reasons, we uphold the order of the MRTP Commission and dismiss the Appeal with no order as to costs.	Decision
