 B. Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by the Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay, by special leave and it raises a short question of law under S. 33B of the Incometax Act.	Facts
The respondent assessee had been registered as a firm under S. 26A of the Act for the year 194647.	Facts
For the assessment years 194748, 194849 and 194950, the Incometax Officer made the assessment on the respondent on June 7, 1949, June 7, 1949 and September 23, 1949 respectively under S. 23(3) of the Act.	Facts
The Incometax Officer made an estimate about the profits of the respondent under the proviso to S. 13 and computed the total income of the respondent at Rs. 95,053, Rs. 93,430 and Rs. 83,752 for the said years respectively.	Facts
The respondent had applied for and obtained renewal of registration of the firm.	Facts
The Incometax Officer had also passed an order under S. 23(6) of the Act and allocated the shares of the various parties.2.	Facts
Against the said assessment orders the respondent preferred an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
On November 4, 1950, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner reduced the respondents estimated profit by Rs. 28,250 in the assessment year 194748 and by Rs. 19,000 in the assessment year 194849.	Facts
The respondents appeal in regard to the assessment year 194950 was pending before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.3.	None
Meanwhile it has come to the notice of the Commissioner of Incometax that the respondent firm which had been granted renewal of registration by the Incometax Officer was not firm which could be registered under the Act as one of the partners of the firm was a minor.	Facts
The Commissioner then took action under S. 33B(1) of the Act and issued notice to the respondent to show cause why the assessment made under S. 23(3) of the Act and the registration granted under S. 26A should not be cancelled.	Facts
After hearing the parties, the Commissioner passed an order under S. 33B (1) on June 5, 1952, by which he cancelled the registration of the firm under S. 26A and directed the Incometax Officer to make fresh assessments against the respondent as an unregistered firm for all the three years.	Facts
As a result of this revisional order passed by the Commissioner of Incometax, the Incometax Officer passed fresh orders.4.	Facts
The respondent preferred five appeals to the tribunal two of these were against the orders passed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner under S. 31 and related to the assessment years 194748 and 194849 while the remaining three challenged the orders passed by the Commissioner of Incometax under S. 33B(1) of the Act and related to the assessment years 194748, 194849 and 194950.	Facts
In these three appeals, with which we are concerned, the respondent had urged that the Commissioner was not competent in law to pass an order setting aside an assessment which had been confirmed or modified by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner that the orders passed by the Commissioner under S. 33B(1) were bad in law as they directed the Incometax Officer to pass an order in a particular manner and that the orders passed by the Incometax Officer subsequent to the cancellation of the respondents registration were bad in law as they were passed without giving notice to, or hearing the respondent.	Facts
On January 2, 1952, the Tribunal upheld the contentions raised by the respondent and allowed the appeals.5.	Facts
The appellant then moved the tribunal under S. 66(1) of the Act for referring the questions specified in its application for the opinion of the High Court.	Facts
The tribunal accordingly framed the following three questions and referred them to the High Court of Bombay.(1)	None
Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the Commissioner of Incometax acting under S. 33B (1) can set aside the orders passed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, for the assessment years 194748 and 194849?(2)	Facts
Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the order passed by the Commissioner of Incometax dated 561951, is bad in law as it directs the Incometax Officer to pass an order in a particular manner?(3) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case orders passed by the Incometax Officer dated 21652 are bad in law, as fresh notices as required by Sections 22 and 23 of the Incometax Act were not given by the Incometax Officer to the assessee?6.	Facts
This matter was heard by the High Court on March 5, 1953.	None
In regard to the assessments made for the years 194748 and 194849 the High Court held that the question raised by the appellant was concluded by the judgment already delivered by it in the Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay North v. Tejaji Farasram, 195323	Facts
ITR 412 (AIR 1954 Bom 93 ) (A).	Facts
In Tejajis case the High Court had held that when an appeal is provided from a decision of the tribunal and the appeal court, after hearing the appeal, passes an order, the order of the original court ceases to exist and is merged in the order of the appeal court and although the appeal court may merely confirm the order of the trial court, the order that stands and is operative is not the order of the trial court but the order of the appeal court.	Facts
In that view of the matter, since the Incometax Officers order granting registration to the respondent was assumed to have merged in the appellate order, the revisional power of the Commissioner could not be exercised in respect of it.	Facts
The same view has been taken in the majority decision of the Patna High Court in Durgabati v. Commissioner of Incometax, 195630 ITR 101 (AIR 1956 Pat 446 ) (B).	Facts
In respect of the Incometax Officers order renewing registration to the respondent for the year 194950, the High Court took the view that the revisional power of the Commissioner could not be exercised even in respect of this order because the propriety or the correctness of this order was open to consideration by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner in the respondents appeal then pending before him, Commissioner of Incometax v. Amritlal Bhogilal and Co., 195323 ITR 420 (AIR 1954	Facts
Bom 161 ) (C).	Facts
In respect of this order the High Court had framed an additional question.	Facts
It was in these terms Whether the order of the Commissioner acting under S. 33B (1) setting aside the order of the Incometax Officer where an appeal against that order was pending before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was valid?	Facts
The High Court answered this additional question also in favour of the assessee.	Facts
In the result the High Court held that the Commissioners order cancelling the respondents registration for all the three years in question was invalid.	Facts
That is why the High Court did not think it necessary to answer the remaining two questions framed by the tribunal.7.	Facts
The application subsequently made by the appellant to the High Court for a certificate under S. 66A (2) was rejected by the High Court.	Facts
Thereupon the appellant applied for and obtained special leave from this Court on March 22, 1954.	None
The appellants contention is that the view taken by the High Court that the Commissioner of Incometax could not have exercised his revisional power in respect of the Incometax Officers order granting registration to the respondent with regard to all the three years in question is based on a misconstruction of the relevant provisions of S. 33B of the Act.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 33B (1) which confers revisional powers on the Commissioner provides that the Commissioner may call for and examine the record of any proceeding under the Act and if he considers that any order passed therein by the Incometax Officer is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the interests of the revenue, he may, after giving the assessee an opportunity of being heard and, after making and causing to be made such enquiry as he deems necessary, pass such order thereon the circumstances of the case justify including an order enhancing or modifying the assessment or cancelling the assessment or directing a fresh assessment.	None
Subsection (2) provides that orders of reassessment made under S. 34 cannot be revised under S. 33B(1) and adds that the said revisional power cannot be exercised after the lapse of two years from the date of the order sought to be revised.	None
Subsection (3) gives the assessee the right to prefer an appeal to the appellate tribunal against the Commissioners revisional order within the prescribed period and subs.	None
(4) provides for the procedure for filing such an appeal.9.	None
In the present appeal two short questions fall to be decided under S. 33B (1).	None
Does the order passed by the Incometax Officer granting registration to the assessee firm continue to be an order passed by the Incometax Officer even after the assessees appeal against the assessment made by the Incometax Officer on the basis that the assessee was a registered firm has been disposed of by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner?	Issue
In other words, where the appeal preferred by an assessee against his assessment has been considered and decided by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, does the order of registration along with the subsequent order of assessment merge in the appellate order?	Issue
If, in law, the order of registration can be said to merge in the final appellate order, then clearly the Commissioners revisional power cannot be exercised in respect of it.	None
This question arises in respect of the registration order in regard to the two assessment years 194748 and 194849.	None
The other questions which also falls to be decided is whether the order of registration in respect of the assessment year 194950 can be made the subjectmatter of the exercise of the Commissioners revisional power even though the assessees appeal against the assessment for the said year is pending before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner at the material time.10.	Issue
There can be no doubt that, if an appeal is provided against an order passed by a tribunal, the decision of the appellate authority is the operative decision in law.	None
If the appellate authority modifies or reverses the decision of the tribunal, it is obvious that it is the appellate decision that is effective and can be enforced.	None
In law the position would be just the same even if the appellate decision merely confirms the decision of the tribunal.	None
As a result of the confirmation or affirmance of the decision of the tribunal by the appellate authority the original decision merges in the appellate decision and it is the appellate decision alone which subsists and is operative and capable of enforcement but the question is whether this principle can apply to the Incometax Officers order granting registration to the respondent.11.	None
In dealing with this question it would be necessary first to refer to the relevant provisions of the Act in regard to the granting of registration.	None
Section 26A of the Act lays down the procedure for the registration of firms.	None
An application has to be made by the firm in that behalf specifying the particulars prescribed by the said Section and by the material rules framed under t he Act.	None
If registration is granted by the Incometax Officer it enables the Incometax Officer to adopt the procedure prescribed by S. 23 (5) (a) for making assessment orders in respect of the registered firm.	None
If a firm is not registered the Incometax Officer is required to follow the procedure prescribed by S. 23(5) (b) in making assessment orders in respect of unregistered firms.	None
A firm is an assessee under S. 2 (2) whether it is registered under S. 26A or not.	None
The Act does not impose an obligation on firms to apply for and obtain registration.	None
The Act in terms does not purport to define the effect of registration nor does it enumerate the rights of parties on registration of firms.	None
Section 23 (5) (a) and (b) provide for the machinery for collecting or recovering the tax and in no sense can they be treated as charging Sections.	None
Broadly stated, even if a firm is registered in pursuance of an application made under S. 26A, no difference arises in the liability of the firm or its individual partners to be taxed for the total income as may be determined by the Incometax Officer under Ss. 3 and 4 of the Act.	None
The computation of taxable income is not at all affected by the machinery provided by S. 23 (5).	None
The decision in Shapurji Pallonji and Co. v. Commissioner of Incometax Bombay, 194513 ITR 113 (AIR 1945 Bom 238 ) (D) on which Mr. Ayyangar himself relied clearly brings out and emphasizes this position.	None
It is true that the Incometax Officer is empowered to follow the two methods specified in S. 23 (5) (a) and (b) in determining the tax payable by registered and unregistered firms respectively and making the demand for the tax so found due but this does not affect the computation of taxable income.	None
It is important to bear in mind that the order granting registration to an assessee firm is an independent and separate order and it merely affects or governs the procedure to be adopted in collecting or recovering the tax found due.	None
It is not disputed that the registration granted by the Incometax Officer to an assessee firm can be cancelled by him either under S. 23 (4) or under R. 6B.	None
It is also clear that the Incometax Officers order granting registration can be cancelled by the commissioner under S. 33B (1).	Reasoning
The argument for the respondent, however, is that, as a result of the decision of the appeal preferred by him against the Incometax Officers order of assessment, the order of registration passed by the Incometax Officer in favour of the respondent has ceased to be the order passed by the Incometax Officer as such.12.	Arguments of Respondent
It is therefore necessary to inquire whether the order of registration passed by the Incometax Officer can be challenged by the department before the appellate Assistant Commissioner where the assessee firm has preferred an appeal against the order of assessment.	None
The decision of this question would obviously depend upon the relevant provisions of the Act in respect of appeals to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the powers of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	None
Section 30 (1) gives the assessee the right to prefer appeals against the orders specified in the said Section.	Reasoning
The assessee firm can, for instance, object to the amount of income assessed under S. 23 or S. 27.	Reasoning
The assessee firm can also object to the order passed by the Incometax Officer refusing to register it under S. 23 (4) or S. 26A.	Reasoning
It can likewise object to the cancellation by the Incometax Officer of its registration under Section 23 (4).It is significant that, whereas an appeal is provided against orders passed by the Incometax Officer under S. 23 (4) or section 26A either refusing to register the firm or cancelling registration of the firm, no appeal can be filed by the department against the order granting registration.	Reasoning
Indeed it is patent that the scheme of the Act in respect of appeals to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner is that it is only the assessee who is given a right to make an appeal and not the department.	Reasoning
Thus there can be no doubt that the Incometax Officers order granting registration to a firm cannot become the subjectmatter of an appeal before the Appellate AssistantCommissioner.13.	Reasoning
The next question which must be considered is whether the Incometax Officers order granting registration to a firm can be challenged by the department during the hearing of the firms appeal against the final order of assessment made by the Incometax Officer?	None
The powers of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner are to be found in S. 31 of the Act.	None
Section 31 (3) (a) authorises the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment under appeal.	Reasoning
Under S. 31 (3) (b), wide powers are given to the appellate authority to set aside the assessment or direct the Incometax Officer to make fresh assessment after making such further enquiry as the Incometax Officer may think fit or as the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may direct.	Reasoning
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner is also given the authority, in the case of an order cancelling the registration of the firm under subs.	Reasoning
(4) of S. 23 or refusing to register a firm under subs.	Reasoning
(4) of S. 23 or S. 26A or to make a fresh assessment under S. 27, to confirm such order or cancel it and direct the Incometax Officer to register the firm or to make a fresh assessment as the case may be.	Reasoning
This Section further lays down that, at the hearing of an appeal against the order of an Incometax Officer, the Incometax Officer shall have the right to be heard either in person or by his representative.	Reasoning
It is thus clear that wide powers have been conferred on the Appellate Assistant Commissioner under S. 31.	Reasoning
It is also clear that, before the appellate authority exercises his powers, he is bound to hear the Incometax Officer or his representative.	Reasoning
It has been urged before us by Mr. Ayyangar on behalf of the respondent that these provisions indicate that, in exercise of his wide powers the Appellate Assistant Commissioner can, in a proper case, after hearing the Incometax Officer or his representative, set aside the order of registration passed by the Incometax Officer.	Reasoning
We are not prepared to accept this argument.	Reasoning
The powers of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, however wide, have, we think, to be exercised in respect of the matters which are specifically made appealable under Section 30 (1) of the Act.	Reasoning
If any order has been deliberately left out from the jurisdiction of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner it would not be open to the appellate authority to entertain a plea about the correctness, propriety or validity of such an order.	Reasoning
Indeed, if the respondents contention is accepted, it would virtually give the department a right of appeal against the order in question and there can be no doubt that the scheme of the Act is not to give the department a right of appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner against any orders passed by the Incometax Officer.	Reasoning
The order granting registration can be cancelled by the Incometax Officer himself either under R. 6B or under S. 23 (4).	Reasoning
It may be cancelled by the Commissioner in exercise of his revisional power under S. 33B but it cannot be cancelled by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner in exercise of his appellate jurisdiction under Section 31 of the Act.	Reasoning
It is true that, in dealing with the assessees appeal against the order of assessment, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may modify the assessment, reverse it or send it back for further enquiry but any order that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may make in respect of any of the matters brought before him in appeal will not and cannot affect the order of registration made by the Incometax Officer.	Reasoning
If that be the true position, the order of registration passed by the Incometax Officer stands outside the jurisdiction of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and does not strictly form part of the proceedings before the appellate authority.	Reasoning
Even after the appeal is decided and in consequence the appellate order is the only order which is valid and enforceable in law, what merges in the appellate order is the Incometax Officers order under appeal and not his order of registration which was not and could never become the subjectmatter of an appeal before the appellate authority.	Reasoning
The theory that the order of the tribunal merges in the order of the appellate authority cannot therefore apply to the order of registration passed by the Incometax Officer in the present case.14.	Reasoning
In this connection we may refer to the argument which Mr. Ayyangar, for the respondent, seriously pressed before us.	None
He contended that, when the Appellate Assistant Commissioner hears the assessees appeal, he is himself computing the total taxable income of the assessee and, in discharging his obligation in that behalf, he may be entitled to consider all relevant and incidental questions.	None
In support of this argument Mr. Ayyangar referred us to the decision in Rex v. The Special Commissioner of Incometax Ex parte Elmhirst, 193520 Tax Cas 381 (E).	Arguments of Respondent
The point which arose before the Kings Bench Division in this case was whether, when a notice of appeal has been given, it was open to the assessee to withdraw his appeal and the Court held that once notice of appeal is given the appellate authority was entitled and indeed bound to see that a true assessment of the amount of the taxpayers liability was arrived at.	None
We are unable to see how this decision can really help the respondent in the present case.	None
When an appeal is taken before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner undoubtedly he is bound to examine the case afresh	None
but that cannot bring within the purview of his appellate jurisdiction matters which are deliberately left out by the Act.	None
If S. 30 (1) does not provide for an appeal against a particular order, legislature obviously intends that the correctness of the said order cannot be impeached before the appellate authority.	None
The jurisdiction and powers of the appellate authority must inevitably be determined by the specific and relevant provisions of the Act.15.	None
In this connection it may be useful to compare the relevant and material features of the revisional powers conferred on the Commissioner by Ss. 33A and 33B respectively.	None
The Commissioners revisional power under S. 33A, cannot be exercised to the prejudice of the assessee in any case.	None
It can be exercised in respect of orders passed by any authority subordinate to the Commissioner but in no case can the revisional order prejudicially affect the assessee.	None
It is significant that the explanation to S. 33A expressly provides that the Appellate Assistant commissioner shall be deemed to be an authority subordinate to the Commissioner.	None
In other words, in exercise of this revisional power the Commissioner may modify or reverse in favour of the assessee even the orders passed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	None
The position under S. 33B, however, is different.	None
The Commissioners revisional power under S. 33B can be exercised only in respect of orders passed by the Incometax Officer.	None
The appellate orders are outside the purview of S. 33B.	None
That is one important distinction between the two revisional powers.	None
The other important distinction is that, whereas under S. 33A the revisional jurisdiction cannot be exercised to the prejudice of the assessee, under S. 33B the Commissioner can, in exercise of his revisional power, make orders to the prejudice of the assessee.	None
It is not disputed that under S. 33B erroneous orders passed by the Incometax Officer which the prejudicial to the revenue can be revised by the Commissioner.	None
Now, the Incometax Officers order registering the firm is not appealable and so it cannot become the subjectmatter of an appeal before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Reasoning
Such an order can therefore be revised by the Commissioner under S. 33B whenever he considers that it has been erroneously passed.	None
In the present case there is no doubt that the respondent firm cannot be validly register in view of the fact that one of its partners is a minor and so, on the merits, the Commissioners order is clearly right.	None
We must accordingly hold that the High Court was in error in taking the view that the Commissioner had no authority to set aside the registration order passed by the Incometax Officer granting registration to the respondent for the years 194748 and 19481949.16.	None
The case in regard to the subsequent year 194950 presents no difficulty.	Reasoning
The appeal preferred by the respondent against the Incometax Officers assessment order in respect of this year was pending at the material time before the Appellate Assistant.	Reasoning
Commissioner and so no question of merger arose in respect of the order granting renewal of registration for this period.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt even on the theory of merger the pendency of an appeal may put the order under appeal in jeopardy but until the appeal is finally disposed of the said order subsists and is effective in law.	Reasoning
It cannot be urged that the mere pendency of an appeal has the effect of suspending the operation of the order under appeal.	Reasoning
The High Court, however, appears to have taken the view that the revisional power is an extraordinary power and can be exercised only for unusual and extraordinary reasons.	Reasoning
It was also assumed by the High Court that, in the pending appeal, the department would have an alternative remedy because, according to the High Court, the department could have challenged the validity or the propriety of the respondents registration and could have asked the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to cancel it.	Reasoning
As we have already pointed out, the department could not challenge the validity of the registration order in the assessees appeal before the appellate authority and so the argument that the department had an alternative remedy is not correct.	Reasoning
It is clear from the judgment of the High Court that it is the assumption that the department had an alternative remedy which weighed with the learned judges in reaching their final conclusion.	Reasoning
Then the argument that the extraordinary revisional power must be exercised only for extraordinary reasons is really not very material.	Reasoning
Whether or not the revisional power can be exercised in a given case must be determined solely by reference to the terms of S. 33B itself.	Reasoning
Courts would not be justified in imposing additional limitations on the exercise of the said power on hypothetical considerations of policy or the extraordinary nature of the power.	Reasoning
We must, therefore, hold that the High Court was also in error in holding that the Commissioner was not authorised in cancelling the order of the respondents registration for the year 194950.	None
The result is that the view taken by the High Court must be reversed and the first question framed by the tribunal as well as the additional question framed by the High Court must be answered in favour of the appellant.17.	None
Then there remain two other questions which were framed by the tribunal but have not been considered by the High Court.	None
The learned counsel appearing for both the parties agree that we need not remit these two questions to the High Court with the direction that the High Court should deal with them in accordance with law it has been conceded before us that, if the principal question about the Commissioners power under S. 33B (1) to cancel the respondents registration is answered in favour of the appellant, then the two remaining questions would become academic and answers to them would also have to be in favour of the appellant.	None
It is true, by his order the Commissioner purported to set aside the assessment orders made under S. 23(3) and S. 55 and directed the Incometax Officer to make fresh assessments according to law for each of the years in question.	None
If this part of the order is literally construed it would clearly be open to the objection raised by the respondent.	Reasoning
The assessment orders passed by the Incometax Officer for the years 194748 and 194849 had been modified by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and in that sense they had ceased to be the orders of assessment passed by the Incometax Officer himself and so the Commissioner could not have exercised his revisional power under S. 33B (1) in respect of the said appellate orders but we are inclined to think that the Commissioner did not intend to set aside the assessments in this sense.	Reasoning
It is clear from the order read as a whole that, having cancelled the respondents registration, the Commissioner wanted to direct the Incometax Officer to make suitable consequential amendment in regard to the machinery or procedure to be adopted to recover the tax payable by the respondent.	Reasoning
In fact it is conceded that, in his subsequent order, the Incometax Officer has accepted the figure of the taxable income of the respondent as determined by the appellate authority for the relevant years and has proceeded to act under S. 23(5)(b) on the basis that the respondent is an unregistered firm.	Reasoning
Therefore we cannot hold that the order passed by the Commissioner is bad in law on the ground that he directed the Incometax Officer to pass the order in a particular manner.	Reasoning
The answer to question No. 2 would accordingly be in the negative.	Reasoning
Then as regards question No. 3, it is difficult to understand how this question can be said to arise from the proceedings before the tribunal.	Reasoning
This question challenges the validity of the procedure adopted by the Incometax Officer in passing fresh orders against the respondent.	Reasoning
This proceeding is clearly subsequent to the impugned order of the Commissioner under S. 33B (1) and so we are unable to see how the tribunal allowed the respondent to raise this contention in appeals which had been filed by the respondent against the Commissioners order under Section 33B (1).Besides, it has been fairly conceded by Mr. Ayyangar before us that, when the Incometax Officer merely proceeded to adopt a different machinery to recover the tax due from the respondent in consequence of the cancellation of the respondents registration, there was no occasion or need to issue another notice against the respondent.	Reasoning
We must accordingly answer question No. 3 also in the negative.18.	Reasoning
In the result all the questions framed in this case are answered in favour of the appellant.	Decision
The order passed by the High Court is set aside and the appeal is allowed with costs throughout.19.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
