 Shah, J.1.	None
Respondent in this appeal is the owner of a building used as a cinematograph theatre.	Facts
By a registered deed, dated December 23, 1960, the appellant obtained a lease of the theatre at a monthly rental of Rs. 1,801.	Facts
The appellant applied under S. 11 of the Saurashtra Rent Control Act 22 of 1951hereinafter called the Act for an order fixing the standard rent of the theatre.	Facts
He submitted that the rent stipulated to be paid under the lease was excessive, exorbitant and improper and that the standard rent of the theatre, having regard to its situation and size and the amenities provided therein, could not exceed Rs. 350 per mensem.	Facts
The respondent by his written statement submitted that the rent stipulated under the lease was reasonable.2.	Facts
The Court of First Instance fixed the standard rent of the whole theatre at Rs. 1,030120 being the onetwelfth of the gross return at 6 per cent on the cost of construction of the theatre and the cost of furniture installed therein.	Facts
But the learned Judge held that the respondent had not delivered to the appellant possession of the basement and of a part of the building which was intended to be used for a restaurant, and on that account reduced the standard rent payable by the appellant by Rs. 220.3.	Facts
Against the order of the Civil Judge, the respondent preferred an appeal under S. 28 (1) of the Act to the District Court, Gohilwad, and the appellant preferred crossobjections to the order appealed from.	Facts
The District Court agreed with the Trial Court that the cost of construction of the building and cost of the furniture was Rs. 2,06,150, and held that standard rent should be fixed on the basis of a return of 7 per cent of the cost of the building and furniture, and on that footing computed the standard rent of Rs. 1,200 Per mensem.	Facts
The District Court further held that possession of the space reserved for a restaurant was delivered to the appellant and since about June 1952 it was in the appellants occupation.	Facts
It was, however, common ground between the parties that possession of the cellar was not delivered by the respondent to the appellant.	Facts
It was the case of the respondent that the cellar was not included in the premises let out.	Facts
It was the case of the appellant that it was so included.	Facts
On the view that the cellar was not included in the tenancy, the District Court directed that standard rent of the premises in the occupation of the appellant be fixed at Rs. 1,150 per mensem.4.	Facts
Against the order of the District Court, second appeal No. 552 of 1959 preferred by the appellant to the High Court of Judicature at Bombay was by order, dated March 30, 1959 dismissed under O. 41, R. 11 (1) of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Facts
The respondent also preferred an appeal to the High Court.	Facts
For reasons which we are unable to ascertain this appeal was not made ready for hearing before the Bombay High Court and on reorganisation of the State of Bombay that appeal was transferred to the High Court of Gujarat and we were informed at the Bar that the appeal is now pending before that High Court.5.	Facts
Against the order of the Bombay High Court dismissing his appeal, the appellant has appealed to this Court.6.	Issue
It is somewhat unfortunate that the appeal filed by the respondent has been admitted to the file and is to be heard on the merits, while the appeal filed by the appellant was summarily dismissed.	Reasoning
Counsel for the appellant submitted that we should set aside the order of the High Court of Bombay, since a second appeal under S. 28 of the Act lay to the High Court on a question of fact as well as of law, and as there was voluminous evidence on the record which had to be considered in determining the appropriate standard rent, the High Court of Bombay committed a grave error in summarily dismissing the appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to agree with that plea.7. Section 28 (1) of the Act providesNotwithstanding anything contained in any law, but subject to the provisions of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, as adapted and applied to the State of Saurashtra, an appeal shall lie from a decree or order made by a Civil Judge or a Munsif exercising jurisdiction under S. 27 to the District Court and a second appeal to the High Court.	None
It was said that the expression second appeal in S. 28 (1) of the Act means an appeal from an appellate decree, but restrictions imposed by S. 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure upon the power of the High Court are not attracted to a second appeal under S. 28 of the Act.	None
Ordinarily, says counsel for the appellant, an appellate Court is competent to examine the correctness of the decision appealed from on the ground that the decision is erroneous in point of law or fact, and in the absence of any express provision to the contrary, restrictions imposed on the power of the High Court under one statute cannot be imported merely because of similarity of nomenclature, when exercising jurisdiction under another statute unless those restrictions are imposed by express enactment or necessary intendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that the State of Saurashtra has not imposed restrictions upon the power of the High Court in dealing with a second appeal under S. 28 of the Act, and the High Court was competent and was indeed bound to entertain all objections to the correctness of the judgment appealed from.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that in the body of S. 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure the Legislature has not used the expression second appeal.	Reasoning
That expression, however, occurs in the marginal note of S. 100 and in the text of Ss. 101, 102 and 103.	None
Section 101 is enacted to make explicit what is clearly implied in S. 100, Code of Civil Procedure S. 102 prohibits second appeals from decrees in certain classes of suits and S. 103 confers upon the High Court power to determine questions of fact in certain conditions.	None
It is clear, therefore, that the expression second appeal in the Code means an appeal to a High Court from the decision in a civil suit or proceedings of a first appellate Court subordinate to the High Court.9.	None
Section 27 of the Act does not confer any special jurisdiction upon the Courts described therein, for the Act creates no new rights, it only seeks to regulate the rights and obligations of landlords and tenants in respect of certain classes of tenancies in urban areas.	None
The disputes directed to be dealt with under the Act are essentially disputes of a civil nature and the Courts invested with power under S. 27 of the Act have to adjudicate upon the disputed rights in the light of the special provisions and not by the Transfer of Property Act and the Contract Act.	None
The Act has again merely declared that a second appeal will lie to the High Court against decrees or orders passed by the Courts exercising jurisdiction under S. 27, but thereby the essential character of a second appeal under the Code is not altered.	None
The procedure in the trial of suits, applications and proceedings under the Act is the procedure prescribed by the Code of Civil Procedure, except where it is otherwise provided expressly or by clear implication.	None
It is true that certain orders contemplated to be made under the Act determining rights and obligations of the parties are made appealable under S. 28, though such orders are not appealable under the Code, but that is not a ground for holding that the Legislature intended to confer upon litigants a right of second appeal unhampered by the restrictions imposed by S. 100 of the Code.10.	None
In Doshibai Khanna v. Sandhi Suleman, 19656	None
Guj LR 342, a single Judge of the Gujarat High Court, following an unreported judgment of that Court in Nagardas Harichand v. Modi Mohanlal, S. A. No. 381 of 1960, dated 2191964 (Guj),observed that in a second appeal under the Act correctness of the decision of the District Court on questions of fact was liable to be canvassed in the High Court.	None
For reasons already mentioned, we are unable to agree with the view that in a second appeal under S. 28 of the Act, questions which may not be raised in an appeal under S. 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure may be raised.11.	None
It is true that in Union of India v. Mohindra Supply Co., 19823 SCR 497 (AIR 1962 SC 256 ), this Court held that by providing in S. 39 (2) of the Arbitration Act, 1940, that no second appeal shall lie from an order passed in appeal under this section, it was intended to prohibit an appeal under the Letters Patent.	None
But the Court reached that conclusion because of the scheme of the Arbitration Act.	None
The Legislature having prohibited a second appeal, under the Arbitration Act obviously the limits of the power which the Court could exercise if such an appeal were entertained could not fall to be determined in that case.12.	None
Section 11 of the Act does not contemplate that the decision of the Court determining standard rent shall be incorporated into a decree of the Court, and by S. 28 of the Act a second appeal lies to the High Court against an order determining standard rent.	None
The orders which determine on the merits, rights and obligations of the parties arising out of the relation of landlord and tenant, may have serious consequences, and the Legislature has conferred a right of appeal to the party aggrieved by those orders.	None
But the right of appeal on that account is not released from the restrictions which are attracted by its very nature.	None
We are of the view that a second appeal under S. 28 of the Act may be entertained by the High Court within the limits prescribed by S. 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and it is not open to the parties to demand reappraisal of the evidence by the High Court on the ground that the District Court has erred in its view of the evidence.	Reasoning
The High Court of Bombay was apparently of the view that no question of law arose in the appeal, and it was competent to dismiss the appeal under O. 41, R. 11 (1) of the Code.13.	None
It was then urged that the judgment of the District Court proceeded upon misconception of the evidence on the record, and on that account a second appeal would lie within the limits prescribed by S. 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that in computing the cost of construction, the appellate Court had taken into consideration several items of expenditure which may not properly enter into the cost of construction.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the hooks of account of the respondent the total cost incurred by the respondent was Rs. 2,11,79050.	None
This amount included the cost of transport, miscellaneous items, pan Bidi, tips, distribution of sweets, and Puja totaling Rs. 8,855153.	None
The Trial Judge was of the view that certain miscellaneous items were not allowable in the computation of the total cost of the building and he held that an amount of Rs. 5,64050 should be disallowed and with that view the appellate Court agreed.	None
We do not think that the Courts below committed any error of law or misconceived the evidence in holding that only Rs. 5,64050 be disallowed out of the total cost of construction on the round that they could not reasonably enter the computation.14.	None
It was then said that the Court below committed an error in taking into consideration the whole price paid by the respondent for the land and building purchased by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant had purchased for Rs. 30,701 an area of land together with houses thereon and had demolished the houses and had erected the theatre in respect of which this dispute has arisen.	None
The houses had, it appears, been let out and rent was being received by the owner.	None
It was urged by the appellant that the rent should be capitalised and the value of the land determined by deducting from the price paid by the respondent such capitalised value of the structure.	None
But that would be a wholly faulty method of valuation.	None
Rent received from a structure, is determined not merely by the nature of the structure and the accommodation provided thereby, but also by the situation and the amenities provided by the land on which the structure stands.	Reasoning
A building when let out forms a composite unit with the land on which it stands, and the rent received from the buildings cannot be wholly attributed to the building.	Reasoning
The respondent purchased the property with a view to pull down the houses thereon and to put up a building adapted for use as a cinematograph theatre.	Reasoning
It is true that some rent was recovered from the tenants before the structures were pulled down.	Reasoning
But since the respondent purchased the land and the buildings for putting up a new building thereon, he may reasonably be regarded as having paid for the property purchased the value of the land and of the debris of the superstructures.	Reasoning
The debris which by sale fetched Rs. 9,17130 has been given credit for in arriving at the total cost of the theatre.15.	Reasoning
It is also worthy of note that one Masataram a consulting architect estimated the cost of the structure to be Rupees 2,35,77712 at the rates prevailing in 1950.	Reasoning
He stated that the prices prevailing in 1954 when he gave evidence were a little lower than the prices prevailing in 19.50, though in respect of certain items the prices may have gone up.	Reasoning
The Trial Court and the District Court regarded his evidence as reliable, but having regard to the fact that in constructing the theatre the respondent had used some secondhand material, the Courts below held that the cost of the structure was truly shown by the accounts of the respondent, and that conclusion must be accepted.16.	None
It is then urged that ordinarily in towns like Bombay, Ahmedabad and Poona standard rent is determined as equivalent to onetwelfth of the gross return on the sum invested by the landlord at the rate of 8.66 per cent on the cost of the building, and at the rate of 6 per cent on the value of the land, and since the gross rate includes municipal taxes which vary between 25 per cent to 38.33 per cent of the letting value standard rent is considered as reasonable if it fetches to the landlord 41/2 per cent per annum on the value of the land and 5 1/2 per cent on the cost of building.	None
It is true that in the city of Bhavnagar no municipal taxes and rates were, at the material time, Charged by the Municipality, and, therefore, some adjustment would have to be made in ascertaining the percentage of gross return on the investment in determining standard rent.	None
It is common ground that charges for water supply are made by the Municipality.	Reasoning
There is, however, no evidence on the record to show as to what the rates for water supplied by the Municipality were.	Reasoning
It was faintly suggested by counsel for the appellant that the water charges are payable by the tenant, but there is nothing to support that contention.	Reasoning
The appellate Court has, on a consideration of the evidence, come to the conclusion that an overall rate of 7 per cent on the investment for the building and land may be regarded in the town of Bhavnager as an adequate return to the landlord.	Reasoning
What rate of return in respect of the landed property may be regarded as reasonable in determining the standard rent under S. 11 of the Act depends upon certain variable factors.	Reasoning
Normal expected yield from immovable property in the locality, return from alternative investments, municipal and other charges, the use to which the property is to be put, its condition, repairs it needs to keep it in tenantable condition and a host of other related circumstances must enter into the determination.	Reasoning
On a review of the reasons given, it cannot be said that the District Court committed any error of principal in coming to the conclusion that 7 per cent gross return on the cost of construction should be regarded as an adequate return from the property in the town of Bhavnagar which is utilized for a cinematograph theatre.17.	Reasoning
Two other questions remain to be considered.	None
Even though it was not pleaded in the petition filed by the appellant that possession of a part of the building let out was not delivered, the appellant was permitted, without objection, to raise that question at the trial.	None
It was the case of the appellant that possession of the cellar and the space reserved for a restaurant were not delivered to him, and on that account appropriate deduction should be made from the standard rent.	None
The respondent conceded that possession of the cellar was not given to the appellant, but his case was that he did not deliver the cellar because it was not included in the premises demised in favour of the appellant.	None
Unfortunately the lease has not been printed in the paper book and the parties have not chosen to produce for our perusal a copy of the lease.	None
We have not thought it necessary to hold up the proceeding in this Court in view of the ultimate order we propose to make in this appeal.	None
The Trial Court was of the view that having regard to the carpet area of the cellar Rs. 100 per mensem should be deducted from the standard rest of the entire building.	None
The District Court without giving any reasons observed that fair standard rent for the cellar would be Rs. 50 per mensem In our view the Court was not right in reducing the proportionate rent of the cellar from Rs. 100 to Rs. 50.	None
The question whether the cellar was let out to the appellant under the terms of the lease will be determined by the High Court of Gujarat before which the appeal flied by the respondent is pending.	None
We have for the purpose of this appeal held, agreeing with the District Court that the standard rent of the entire building is Rs. 1,200 per mensem.	None
If the cellar is not included in the tenancy, Rs. 100 will have to be deducted and the standard rent will be Rs. 1,100 per mensem.18.	Reasoning
The other matter in dispute relates to the space intended to be used for a restaurant.	None
The respondent contended that possession of that room was delivered to the appellant the appellant denied that it was so delivered.	Arguments of Respondent
It is common ground that it was part of the premises leased.	Reasoning
Enquiry into the question whether by reason of default on the part of the landlord in delivering possession of a part of the premises let out under the lease any loss was occasioned to the tenant and to what relief the tenant is entitled on that account is foreign to the determination of standard rent.	Reasoning
We, therefore, decline to enter into the question whether possession of the pace intended for use as restaurant was delivered by the respondent to the appellant.	Reasoning
The decision of the Courts below on that part of the case is vacated.19.	Reasoning
We accordingly modify the order passed by the District Court and declare that the standard rent of the whole building including the space for the restaurant and the cellar is Rs.1,200 per mensem.	Decision
We further declare that if the cellar is not included in the tenancy, standard rent of the premises let out will be Rs. 1,100 per mensem.	Decision
The appellant has substantially failed in this appeal.	Decision
He will pay 7/8th of the cost of the respondent in this appeal.20.	Decision
Order accordingly.	Decision
