 Ramaswami, J.1.	None
This appeal is brought by special leave from the judgment of the Bombay High Court dated 12th December, 1962, in First Appeal No. 436 of 1958 by which the High Court dismissed the appeal and allowed the crossobjections filed by the respondents in the said appeal.2.	Decision
The relationship of the parties will appear from the following pedigreeGoudappa had one daughter by name Gangabai, while Apparaya had three children (i) Nenappa II, (ii) Revagowda and (iii) Subhadrabai.	Facts
In 1930 Nenappa II was given in adoption to Goudappa.	Facts
He had two wives Kashibai and Sidgangawa.	Facts
Revagowda married another Sidgangavva.	Facts
In 1938 Revagowda was murdered.	Facts
Thereafter Goudappa and Apparaya purported to effect a partition between themselves.	Facts
At the time of the death of Nenappa I, six plots of lands belonged to the joint family.	Facts
Five of these plots are survey Nos. 43, 59, 65, 66 and 69 measuring 137 acres and 15 guntas and assessed at Rs.	Facts
120/12/ and are located in Borgi Khurd.	Facts
The other plot survey No. 77 which was in Borgi Budruk measured 14 acres and 24 guntas and was assessed at Rs.	Facts
10/14/.	Facts
The total area of the ancestral lands was, therefore, 151 acres and 27 gunthas assessed at Rs. 143/. Between 191 and 1940, 12 other pieces of lands in both these villages measuring 137 acres and 39 gunthas and assessed at Rs.	Facts
18/10/ were acquired in various names.	Reasoning
After Nenappa II was murdered in 1944, both the brothers denied his adoption by Goudappa and purported to effect a partition on 28th April, 1944.	Facts
After the partition deed was executed various alienations were made by the two brothers.	Facts
On 25th September, 1944 by Ex. 161 Goudappa gifted S. Nos. 61 and 62 of Borgi Budruk and Survey No. 45 of Borgi Khurd to defendant No. 4, Subhadrabai.	Facts
By Ex. 162 dated 1st October, 1946 Goudappa made a gift of plot Survey Nos. 62 and 63 of Borgi khurd and Survey No. 11/3 of Borgi Budruk to defendant No. 3 who is the daughter of Nenappa II.	Facts
On 20th April, 1948 by Ex. 159 Apparaya sold Survey Nos. 77 and 43 to defendant No. 3 for a sum of Rs. 5000/.	Facts
On the same day by Ex. 160 Goudappa sold Survey No. 79 or Rs. 1000/ to Apparaya.	Facts
Again on 17th May, 1948, by Ex. 158 Goudappa made a gift of plot Survey Nos. 59 and 60 of Borgi Khurd to defendant	Facts
No 3.	Facts
By Ex. 117 dated 7th December,1948 Goudappa by a Vardi transferred Survey No. 66 of Borgi Khurd, to defendant No. 3 his widowed daughter.	Facts
On l5th December, 1948 Goudappa gave a portion of plot No. 96 to Sidgangawa, wife of Apparaya for maintenance.	Facts
By Ex.166, dated 25th May, 1950, Goudappa and defendant No. 1 together sold to defendant No. 5 portion of survey No. 23 for a sum of Rs. 3000/. Finally on 19th November, 1953, Apparaya executed his last Will which is Ex. 168 whereby be bequeathed survey No. 79 to defendant No. 4 and one house to his daughter defendant No. 4.	Facts
The plaintiff claimed to be the adopted son of Revagouda and brought the present suit on 10th June, 1954, challenging the partition deed as fraudulent.	Facts
He allege that it was intended to defeat the rights of the widows, that it was never acted upon and that the family continued to be joint.	Facts
The defendants contested the suit on the ground that the partition deed Ex, 157 was a genuine transaction and was acted upon.	Facts
that Apparaya and Goudappa became separate in status and managed their properties separately.	Facts
The defendants supported all the alienations as being genuine and effective.	Facts
The trial Court came to the conclusion that the 12 pieces of lands which were acquired between 1911 and 1940 formed part of the joint family properties, that the partition deed Ex. 157 was not intended to be acted upon but was executed to defeat the rights of the widows.	Facts
The trial Court held that none of the alienations except the sale deed Ex, 159 executed by Apparaya in respect of Survey plots Nos. 43 and 77 in favour of defendant No. 3 was binding on the plaintiff.	Facts
The trial Court accordingly made a decree for partition with appropriate directions.	Facts
The defendants took the matter in appeal to the High Court.	Facts
The plaintiff also filed a crossobjection with regard to the saledeed Ex. 159.	Facts
By its judgment dated 12th December, 1962, the High Court dismissed the appeal of the defendants and allowed the crossobjection of the plaintiff holding that the saledeed Ex. 159 regarding Survey plots Nos. 43 and 77 was also not binding upon the plaintiff.3.	Facts
The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether the partition deed executed by Goudappa and Apparaya on 28th April 1944 was a sham transaction and not intended to be effective.	Issue
Both the trial Court and the High Court have reached a concurrent finding after an elaborate examination of the evidence that the partition deed was not genuine and that it was effected for an ulterior purpose in order to defeat the rights of the widows in the joint family.	None
It is manifest that the finding of the lower Courts upon this question is essentially a finding upon a question of fact, and in an appeal by special leave it is the normal practice of this Court to accept such a concurrent finding of fact as correct.	None
It was, however, contended by Mr. Sanghi that the findings of the lower Courts is vitiated in law because there was no evidence in support of that finding.	None
In our opinion, there is no justification for this argument.	None
In the partition deed it is recited that the lands were partitioned with the help of Panchas but the names of Panchas are not mentioned in the document and none of the Panchas has signed.	Reasoning
As to the division of the properties, Goudappa has been given 101 acres and 39 gunthas while Apparaya has been given 50 acres and 10 gunthas only.	Reasoning
The total assessment of lands given to Goudappa is Rs. 82/3/ while the assessment of the lands given to Apparaya is Rs. 61/7/.	Reasoning
There appears to be no division of the house at all, since nothing is mentioned in the partition deed about the house.	Reasoning
The unequal division of the lands in the socalled partition deed is a strong circumstance which indicates that the transaction was not genuine.	Reasoning
It should also be noticed that at the time of the partition deed there were widows of two sons in the family, Nenappa the second and Revagouda.	Reasoning
At about this time, after Nenappas death, the adoption of Nenappa by Goudappa was denied.	Reasoning
The scheme of the partition was, therefore, to deprive the two widows of any claim for maintenance out of the joint family properties but to limit their rights to about 50 acres of land given to Apparaya.	Reasoning
There is also evidence that after the partition deed, the two brothers continued to be in joint possession of the lands and they lived joint in the same house as before.	Reasoning
It appears that the two brothers had a joint mess even after the date of partition.	None
It was contended by Mr. Sanghi that there was no evidence that the two brothers continued to be in joint possession of the lands.	None
But it is not possible to accept this argument as correct.	Reasoning
On a perusal of the evidence it is apparent that P. Ws. 1 to 4 all supported the case of the joint possession of the two brothers and their evidence has been believed by both the lower Courts.	Reasoning
There is another circumstance which strongly leads support to the plaintiffs case on this point.	Reasoning
It was at one time supposed that the doctrine of Mitakshara law was that if the last surviving coparcener died and the property passed to his heir such as a widow or a collateral, the power of the widow of a predeceased coparcener to adopt was at an end.	Reasoning
(Chandra v. Gojrabai, (1890) ILR 14 Bom 463 and Adivi Suryaprakasarao v. Nidamarty Gangaraju, (1910) ILR 33 Mad 228) .	Reasoning
The cases on this point were considered in 1936 by the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in Balu Sakharam Powar v. Lahoo Sambhaji, AIR 1937	Reasoning
Bom 279 (FB).	Reasoning
It was held in that case that where a coparcenery exists at the date of the adoption the adopted son becomes a member of the coparcenary, and takes his share in the joint property, but where the partition takes place after the termination of the coparcenary by the death, actually or fictionally, of the last surviving coparcener, the adoption by a widow of a deceased coparcener has not the effect of reviving the coparcenary and does not divest property from the heir of the last surviving coparcener (other than the widow) or those claiming through him or her.	Reasoning
But the decision of the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court was expressly overruled by the Judicial Committee in Anant v. Shankar, AIR 1943 PC 196 .	Reasoning
It was held that the power of a Hindu widow does not come to an end on the death of the sole surviving coparcener.	Reasoning
Neither does it depend upon the vesting or divesting of the estate, nor can the right to adopt be defeated by partition between the coparceners.	Reasoning
The rights of the adopted son relate back to the date of the adoptive fathers death and the adopted son must be deemed by a fiction of law to have been in existence as the son of the adoptive father at the time of the latters death.	Reasoning
If, therefore, there was a coparcenery in existence when the adoptive father died, then whether it came to an end by the death of the last surviving coparcener or by subsequent partition among the remaining members, an adoption validly made by the widow of the deceased coparcener would have the effect of divesting the estate in the hands of the heir to the last surviving coparcener in the first case and of putting an end to the partition in the second case and enabling the adopted son to claim a share in the family properties as if they were still joint.	Reasoning
The decision of the Judicial Committee in AIR 1943 PC 196 (supra) was unexpected and revolutionary in character.	Reasoning
It is likely that in view of the fluid and uncertain state of the law on this point the two brothers Goudappa and Apparayya decided to execute a bogus deed of partition in order to avoid any legal consequence which may follow if either of the widows should take a son in adoption.	Reasoning
We are accordingly of the view that there is proper evidence to support the concurrent finding of the lower Courts and there is no reason to disturb that finding.4.	Reasoning
It was also contended on behalf of the appellants that even though the partition deed was bogus there was in law a severance of joint family status and the family could not continue to be joint after 20th April, 1944 which was the date of the partition deed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the argument was that there was a declaration by the coparceners of their intention to separate and that declaration was sufficient to put an end to the joint family status of the two brothers.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, there is no substance in this argument.	None
It is now well established that an agreement between all the coparceners is not essential to the disruption of the joint family status, but a definite and unambiguous indication of intention by one member to separate himself from the family and to enjoy his share in severalty will amount in law to a division of status.	Reasoning
It is immaterial in such a case whether the other members assent or not.	Reasoning
Once the decision is unequivocally expressed, and clearly intimate to his cosharers, the right of the coparcener to obtain and possess the share to which he admittedly is entitled, is unimpeachable.	Reasoning
But in order to operate as a severance of joint status, it is necessary that the expression of intention by the member separating himself from the joint family must be definite and unequivocal.	Reasoning
If however the expression of intention is a mere pretence or a sham, there is in the eye of law no separation of the joint family status.	None
See for instance the decision of the Judicial Committee in M. Ramanna v. C. Jagannadha Rao, AIR 1941 PC 48 .5.	None
We pass on to consider the next question arising in this appeal, viz., whether the High Court was right in holding that the 12 pieces of lands were joint family properties and were not the selfacquisition of Goudappa.	Issue
The case of the appellants was that these lands were selfacquisition of Goudappa, but the respondents contended that they were joint family properties.	Arguments of Respondent
The law on this aspect of the case is well settled.	None
Of course there is no presumption that a Hindu family merely because it is joint, possesses any joint property.	Reasoning
The burden of proving that any particular property is joint family property, is, therefore, in the first instance upon the person who claims it as coparcenery property.	Reasoning
But if the possession of a nucleus of the joint family property is either admitted or proved, any acquisition made by a member of the joint family is presume to be joint family property.	Reasoning
This is however subject to the limitation that the joint family property must be such as with its aid the property in question could have been acquired.	Reasoning
It is only after the possession of an adequate nucleus is shown, that the onus shifts on to the person who claims the property as selfacquisition to affirmatively make out that the property was acquired without any aid from the family estate.	Reasoning
In Appalaswami v. Suryanarayanamurti, ILR (1948)	Reasoning
Mad 440(AIR 1947 PC 189 )	Reasoning
Sir John Beaumont observed as followsThe Hindu law upon this aspect of the case is well settled.	Reasoning
Proof of the existence of a joint family does not lead to the presumption that property held by any member of the family is joint, and the burden rests upon anyone asserting that any item of property was joint to establish the fact.	Reasoning
But where it is established that the family possessed some joint property which from its nature and relative value may have formed the nucleus from which the property in question may have been acquired, the burden shifts to the party alleging selfaquisition to establish affirmatively by that the property was acquired without the aid of the joint family property.	Reasoning
See Babubhai Girdharlal v. Ujamlal Hargovandas, ILR (1937)	Reasoning
Bom 708 (AIR 1937	Reasoning
Bom 446 ), Venkatramayya v. Seshamma, ILR (1937)	Reasoning
Mad 1012(AIR 1937	Reasoning
Mad 538 ) and Vythianatha v. Varadaraja, ILR (1938)	Reasoning
Mad 696(AIR 1938 Mad 841 ).6.	Reasoning
In the present case, both the lower Courts have found that there was an adequate nucleus of joint family properties from which the acquisitions could have been made.	Reasoning
It is admitted that when Nenappa I died, the joint family was possessed of 151 acres and 27 gunthas of and assessed at Rs. 143/. It is further admitted by defendant No. 1 that out of the four ancestral lands, one land was Bagayat land.	Reasoning
Witnesses on behalf of the plaintiff, assessed the income between Rs. 5,000/ to Rs.	Reasoning
6,000/ before the First World War.	Reasoning
It is also conceded that the family had between 8 to 12 bullocks for the purposes of cultivation and most of the lands were cultivated personally by the family members.	Reasoning
Between 1911 and 1940, 12 other pieces of lands measuring 137 acres and 39 gunthas assessed at Rs.	Reasoning
18/10/ were acquired in various names.	Reasoning
The total price of the sale deeds is Rs. 4,800/ spread over a period of 30 years.	Reasoning
In view of this evidence, we see no reason to differ from the finding of the lower Courts that the income from the nucleus was more than sufficient for the purchase of the properties on the different dates.	None
The respondents alleged that these properties belonged to the joint family, an unless it is shown by the appellants that Goudappa carried on any other business and that these properties were acquired out of that income, the appellants must fail.	Arguments of Respondent
The case of defendant No. 1 was that Goudappa made these acquisitions out of his business.	None
D. W. 1 however did not state the nature of the business.	None
In crossexamination he said that Goudappa was trading in cotton and this information he had got from Goudappa after his adoption.	None
D. W. 1 was however unable to say with whom Goudappa had dealings in cotton.	None
If Goudappa was doing cotton business it should not have been difficult for the defendants to have produced more direct evidence of persons with whom he had business dealing.	None
The High Court has rejected the evidence of D. W. 3, Imamsaheb as worthless.	None
It is manifest that there is no proof that Goudappa had any separate income of his own out of which he could have acquired the 12 pieces of land.	None
The lower Courts were, therefore, right in reaching the conclusion that the 12 pieces of lands belonged to joint family and that the plaintiff was entitled to a share thereof in the partition.7.	None
It was lastly contended on behalf of the appellants that in any case the High Court should have allowed the crossobjection of the respondents with regard to Survey plots Nos. 43 and 77.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was made to paragraph 5 of the plaint in which there was no specific mention of the sale deed execute by Apparaya in favour of defendant No. 3 of Survey plots Nos. 77 and 43.	Arguments of Petitioner
But paragraph 4 should be read along with paragraph 7 of the plaint in which the plaintiff challenged the alienations made in favour of the several parties to the suit and had claimed relief in respect of all the lands mentioned in the schedule to the plaint.	Arguments of Petitioner
Survey plots Nos. 77 and 43 are expressly mentioned in the schedule.	None
It is, therefore, not possible to accept the contention of the appellants that the plaintiff had not challenged the sale deed Ex. 167 with respect to survey plots Nos. 77 and 43.	None
The High Court has pointed out that defendant No. 3 was a minor at the time of sale, that Goudappa had acted as her guardian and that defendant No. 3 had no property of her own.	Reasoning
The High Court therefore rightly held that the sale must be held to be without consideration and not genuine and was, therefore, not binding on the plaintiff.8.	Reasoning
For these reasons we hold that the judgment of the Bombay High Court dated 12th December, 1962 is correct and this appeal must be dismissed with costs.9.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
