 Ray, J.1.	None
This is an appeal under S. 116A of the Representation of the People Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) from the judgment and order dated 24, December, 1970 of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana setting aside the election of the appellant.2.	Issue
The appellant was declared elected to the Haryana Legislative Assembly from Bahadurgarh Constituency.	None
The polling took place on 7 June, 1970.	None
The result was declared on 8 June, 1970.	None
The appellant obtained 22436 votes.	None
The respondent obtained 17760 votes.3.	None
The respondent challenged the appellants election on numerous grounds.4.	None
The election petition was filed on 23 July, 1970.	None
The written statement was filed on 2 September, 1970.	None
Seven issues were framed at the trial on various allegations as to corrupt practice.	None
After the conclusion of evidence the petitioner gave up pleas giving rise to issues Nos. 1 and 2.	None
Issues No. 3 (I), (iv),and (vi) were also given up.	None
Issues No. 3 (ii), 3 (iii) 3(v) and 3(vii) were pressed and the Court decided the entire issue No. 3 against the election petitioner.	None
Issues Nos. 4 (a) and (b) were decided against the election petitioner.	None
Issue No. 5 was held to be proved only relating to Chand Ram Rathi and remaining issues were found not to be proved.	None
Issue No. 6 was consequential on issue No. 5 and inasmuch as the election petitioner called in question only the election of the appellant and did not claim any declaration either that the petitioner or any other candidate had been elected, no question of declaration under Section 101 of the Act arose.	None
Issue No. 7 was answered by holding that the appellant was guilty of commission of corrupt practice under Section 123 (7) of the Act.	None
The High Court, therefore, declared the election of the appellant to be void and held the appellant guilty of the commission of corrupt practice under Section 123 (7) of the Act and awarded costs amounting to Rs. 2000/.5.	None
The election petition succeeded only on issue No. 5.	Facts
Issue No. 7 was the consequential relief.	Facts
Issue No. 5 related to Paragraph 16 of the petition and allegations as to corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 123 (7) of the Act.6.	Facts
The only question for determination in this appeal is whether the election petition was maintainable in regard to allegations against the appellant under section 123 (7) of the Act, which were comprised in issue No. 5.7.	Facts
The allegations in Paragraphs 16 of the petition were as follows That the respondent committed the corrupt practice of obtaining and procuring or attempting to obtain and procure the assistance for the furtherance of the prospects of his election from the following persons who are in the service of the Government and belong to the prohibited classes within the meaning of Section 123 (7) of the Act 1.	Reasoning
Shri Chand Ram Rathi, Lecturer in Political Science, Government College, Gurgaon.2.	None
Shri Gulab Singh, B. A., B. Ed., Government High Court (School?)	Facts
Jaharasa (Gurgoan).3.	Facts
Pt. Bhim Singh, Assistant SubInspector, Police Security Lines, Lytton Road, New Delhi.4.	Facts
Ch.	Facts
Chhattar Singh, M. A., B. T. Teacher V and P. O. Bharai via Bahadurgarh District Rohtak.5.	Facts
Ch.	Facts
Mukhtiar Singh, Inspector of Police, Delhi.6.	Facts
Ch.	Facts
Raghbir Singh, M. A., B. T. Bahadurgarh.	Facts
The respondent has written letters under his own signature to the above Government servants soliciting their help and assistance in furtherance of the prospects of his election.89.	Facts
The appellant submitted preliminary objections.	Facts
These were inter alia that Paragraph 16 of the petition was liable to expunction for it does not give the necessary particulars about the nature of assistance and the place and the date where and when such assistance was sought or received from the persons named in the petition.	Facts
The appellant further dealt with Paragraph 16 by denying the allegations.10.	Facts
The High Court by an order dated 11 September, 1970 dealt with the preliminary objection.	Facts
As to allegations in Paragraph 16 of the election petition the High Court said that in form BB filed by the election petitioner particulars of letters written by the appellant to the various persons mentioned therein had been given at Serial Numbers 3 to 8.	Facts
Dates of the letters and the script in which they were written and the persons to whom they were addressed had been mentioned in those items.	Facts
Counsel on behalf of the appellant contended before the High Court that the letters should either be produced or details of their contents should be disclosed so as to enable the appellant to find out whether or not the assistance alleged to have been sought from the addressees of those letters was or was not sought for the furtherance of the prospects of the appellant in election.	Facts
The High Court said that the election petitioner could not be expected to be in possession of letters and in the nature of things it would not be possible for the election petitioner to change the contents of letters and if and when the letters were produced or admitted or proved, it would be a mere matter of argument whether the writing of the letters did or did not fall within the corrupt practice defined in Section 123 (7) of the Act.	Facts
The High Court declined to allow further or better particulars asked for by the appellant.11.	Facts
At the trial Chand Ram Rathi whose name was mentioned in item No. 8 in form BB annexed to the petition as one of the persons to whom the appellant had written a letter was examined on behalf of the election petitioner on 3 December, 1970.	Facts
The election petitioner was also examined on 3 December, 1970.	Facts
The oral evidence of the election petitioner was concluded on 4 December, 1970.	Facts
On the same day, the appellant was examined, by the Court under Order 12, Rule 3 (a) of the Code of Civil Procedure as to whether the appellant had written the letter marked Ex.	Facts
P. W. 34/1 to Chand Ram Rathi.	Facts
On the same day, the appellant asked for an order to recall Chand Ram Rathi.	Facts
One of the grounds given by the appellant to recall the witness was to put a letter dated 27 May, 1970 written by Chand Ram Rathi to the appellant.	Facts
The High Court declined to accede to the prayer of the appellant on the ground that recalling the witness for proving the letter dated 27 May, 1970 written by Chand Ram Rathi to the appellant would be to contradict the statement of Chand Ram Rathi and to show that he was not a truthful witness.12.	Facts
The High Court relied on the oral evidence of Chand Ram Rathi to whom the appellant had written a letter and held that the appellant was guilty of corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 123 (7) of the Act.13.	Facts
The appellant appeared in personas in this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant raised these contentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Paragraph 16 of the election petition did not contained statement of material facts to amount to any allegation of corrupt practice against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court declined to order particulars.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court allowed oral evidence to be adduced by the election petitioner in the absence of any pleading of material facts alleging corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 123 (7) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the appellant contended that first there was not pleading, secondly particulars were not allowed to give the appellant an opportunity of knowing the case and, thirdly, the High Court allowed proof of matters of which there was no foundation in the pleadings.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel on behalf of the election petitioner on the other hand contended that the allegations were that the appellant had sought assistance from Government servants for the furtherance of the prospects of the appellants election and particulars of letters were given and therefore the election petitioner alleged material facts and proved the same in support of the allegations.15.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Sec. 83 of the Act an election petition (a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies, (b) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of the commission of each such practice.	None
It is manifest that the election petition shall not only contain material facts but also set forth particulars of corrupt practice.16.	None
Section 123 (7) of the Act is as follows The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or procure by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent, any assistance (other than the giving of vote) for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidates election from any person in the service of the Government and belonging to any of the following classes, namely.	None
Clauses (a) to (g) which need not be set out here.	None
It has to be noticed that the different expressions obtaining, procuring, abetting or attempting to obtain or procure are various forms of corrupt practices.	None
It has to be found as to whether the allegation of obtaining assistance amounts to an allegation of fact.	None
It is well settled that general expressions like fraudulently, negligently or maliciously in pleadings do not amount to any allegation of fact A fact is after all not a mere word.17.	None
The provisions of the aforesaid section indicate these heads of corrupt practice.	Reasoning
First, the obtaining by a candidate or his agent or by any other giving of vote) for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidates election from any person in the service of the Government as mentioned in the section.	Reasoning
Second, the procuring by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of the election petitioner any assistance (other than the giving of vote) for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidates election.	Reasoning
Third the abetting by a candidate or his agent or by an other person with the consent of the candidate or his election agent any assistance (other than the giving of vote) for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidates election as mentioned.	Reasoning
Fourth, the attempting to obtain or procure by a candidate or his agent, or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent any assistance (other than the giving of vote) for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidates election Fifth, the assistance that is forbidden or prohibited by the statute is any assistance other than the giving of vote.	Reasoning
It is clear that the four different heads of corrupt practices are (a) obtaining, (b) procuring, (c) abetting and (d) attempting to obtain or procure assistance.18.	Reasoning
Therefore material facts are to be alleged as to whether the candidate obtained or procured or abetted or attempted to obtain or procure any assistance other than the giving of vote.	Reasoning
In Paragraph 16 of the election petition it is alleged that the appellant committed the corrupt practice of obtaining and procuring or attempting to obtain and procure assistance for the furtherance of the prospects of his election from the persons mentioned there.	Reasoning
Reading Paragraph 16 of the election petition one will search in vain to find out as to whether the allegations against the appellant are in regard to the assistance under both heads or either head from each of the six persons mentioned there.	Reasoning
One will speculate as to whether the appellant obtained and procured or attempted to obtain and procure assistance from each or some of the persons mentioned there Obtaining or procuring or attempting to obtain or procure assistance are separate and independent forms of corrupt practice.	Reasoning
One will guess as to whether the allegations are that the appellant committed all or one or more of the corrupt practices of obtaining, procuring, attempting to obtain or procure assistance from each of the persons mentioned there.	Reasoning
One will also conjecture and hazard as to what assistance was to obtained or procured or attempted to obtain or procure from each of the persons mentioned there, for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidate election.	Reasoning
The giving of vote is not within the mischief of corrupt practice.	Reasoning
It cannot be understood from the petitioner whether the giving of vote is the assistance alleged.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, apparent that the appellant who was charged by the election petitioner with corrupt practice should be told in the election petition as to what assistance he sought.	Reasoning
The type of assistance, the manner of assistance, the time of assistance, the person from whom assistance is sought are all to be set out in the petition.	Reasoning
There is no allegation in the petition about the actual and the specific assistance with which the appellant can be charged in violation of the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Nor is there any statement in the election petition describing the manner in which the prospects of the election were furthered and the way in which the assistance was rendered.	Reasoning
The allegations against the appellant were in relation to six persons.	Reasoning
Therefore, it was essential and imperative for the election petitioner to set out with exactitude and precision the type of assistance as also the manner in which assistance was obtained or procured from each person.	Reasoning
The time, the date and the place of the assistance were also required to be set out in the particulars Thus it had to be alleged as the material facts as to what assistance the appellant obtained or procured or abetted or attempted to obtain or procure from which person and how the assistance furthered the prospects of the appellants election.	Reasoning
If all the four variants and ingredients were to be charged against the appellant these had to be set out as statements of material facts in relation to each person.19.	Reasoning
The requirements in an election petition as to material facts and the consequences of lack of such allegation of material facts came up for consideration in this Court in the recent decision in Samant N. Balakrishnan v. Goorge Fernandes, (1969) 3	None
SCR 603 (AIR 1969 SC 1201 ).	None
In that case reference was made to Section 81.	None
83 and 86 of the Act as the procedure provisions of election petition.	None
Sec.	None
81 deals with presentation of petitions.	None
Sec.	None
83 deals with contents of petitions.	None
Section 86 deals with trial of petitions.	None
Hidayatullah, C. J. speaking for the Court laid down these propositions.	None
First, Section 83 of the Act is mandatory and requires first a concise statement of material facts and then requires the fullest possible particulars.	None
Second, omission of a single material fact leads to an incomplete material fact leads to an incomplete cause of action and the statement of claim becomes bad.	None
Third, the function of particulars is to present in full a picture of the cause of action to make the opposite party understand the case he will have to meet.	None
Fourth, material facts and particulars are distinct matters.	None
Material facts will mention statements of fact and particulars will set out the names of persons with set out the names of persons with the date, time and place.	None
Fifth, material facts will show the ground of corrupt practice and the complete cause of action and the particulars will give the necessary information to present a full picture of the cause of action.	None
Sixth, in stating the material facts it will not do merely to quote the words of the section because then the efficacy of the material facts will be lost.	None
The fact which constitutes a corrupt practice must be stated and the fact must be correlated to one of the heads of corrupt practice.	None
Seventh, an election petition without the material facts relating to a corrupt practice is no election petition at all.	None
A petition which merely cites the sections cannot be said to disclose a cause of action where the allegation is the obtaining or procuring of assistance unless the each type and form of assistance and the person from whom it is sought and the manner in which the assistance is to further the prospects of the election are alleged as statements of facts.20.	None
The importance of material facts and the distinction between the material facts and particulars was also brought out in another recent decision of this Court in Manubhai Nandlal amersey v. Ponatlal Manilal Joshi (1969) 3	None
SCR 217 (AIR 1969 SC 734 )	None
In that case a charge in the petition was that several persons with the consent of the appellant or his election agents induced or attempted to induce the electors to believe that if they voted for the Congress party candidate they would become the objects of divine displeasure and spiritual censure At a late stage of the trial the High Court gave leave to the election petitioner to amend the petition by adding fresh particulars of the corrupt practice Bachwat, J. speaking for the Court said that Section 83 of the Act was mandatory and particulars of corrupt practice were to be set out in ull.	None
It was said in that case that no amendment in the shape of particulars if corrupt practice was permissible if he corrupt practice was not previously alleged in the petition.	None
The obvious need not be stressed.	None
It is that in election petition has the effect of lecturing an election void.	None
It is a serious remedy.	None
It is therefore, vital that the corrupt practice charged against the respondent should be a full and complete statement of material facts to clothe the petitioner with a complete cause of action and to give an equal and full opportunity to the respondent to meet the case and to defend the charges.	None
Merely, alleging that the respondent obtained or procured or attempted to obtain or procure assistance are extracting words from the statute which will have no meaning unless and until facts are stated to show what that assistance is and how the prospect of election is furthered by such assistance.	None
In the present case, it was not even alleged that assistance obtained or procured was other than the giving of vote.	None
It was said by counsel for the respondent that because the statute did not render the giving of vote a corrupt practice the words any assistance were full statement of material fact.	None
The submission is fallacious for the simple reason that the matter of assistance, the mode of assistance, the manner of assistance, the measure of assistance are all various aspects of fact to clothe the petition with a cause of action which will call for an answer.	None
Material facts are facts which if established would give the petitioner the relief asked for.	None
If the respondent had not appeared could the Court have given a verdict in favour of the election petitioner.	None
The answer is in the negative because the allegations in the petition did not disclose any cause of action.21.	None
The necessity of clear and precise allegations to support a plea of corrupt practice was emphasised by this Court in Harish Chandra Bajpai v. Triloki Singh 12 Election Law Reports 461 (AIR 1957 SC 444 ) Venkatarama Ayyar, J. speaking for the Court in dealing with the powers of the Court to allow amendment in respect of illegal or corrupt practice said that where the allegation in the election petition in regard to the corrupt practice was that the respondents could in furtherance of their election enlist the support of Government servants, the words could enlist did not amount to an averment that in fact they enlisted their support.	None
In other words, it was observed that the words could enlist did not allege a fact which happened.	None
Therefore, the happening of fact as well as the fact itself is material Judged by that test in the present case there is no allegation which will amount to any averment of any assistance as a fact in the absence of the kind of assistance being set out as a fact.22.	None
The allegations in paragraph 16 of the election petition do not amount to any statement of material fact of corrupt practice.	Reasoning
It is not stated as to what kind or form of assistance was obtained or procured or attempted to obtain or procure.	Reasoning
It is not stated from whom the particular type of assistance was obtained or procured or attempted to obtain or procure.	Reasoning
It is not stated in what manner the assistance was for the furtherance of the prospects of the elections.	Reasoning
The gravament of the charge of corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 (7) of the Act is obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or procure any assistance other than the giving of vote.	Reasoning
In the absence of any suggestion as to what that assistance was the election petition is lacking in the most vital and essential material fact to furnish a cause of action.23.	Reasoning
Counsel on behalf of the respondent submitted that an election petition could not be dismissed by reason of want of material facts because section 86 of the Act conferred power on the High Court to dismiss the election petition which did not comply with the provisions of section 81, or section 82 or section 117 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was emphasized that section 33 did not find place in section 86.	None
Under section 87 of the Act every election petition shall be tried by the High Court as nearly as may be in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 to the trial of suits.	None
A suit which does not furnish cause of action can be dismissed.24.	None
In the present case, it is not necessary to go to the question as to whether the High Court was justified in disallowing the particulars and in refusing to recall the witnesses for the reasons given in the order, because paragraph 16 of the election petition on which the High Court relied to declare the election of the appellant void does not amount to an election petition on the grounds mentioned in section 123 (7) of the Act.25.	Reasoning
For these reasons the judgment of the High Court is set aside The appeal is allowed.	Decision
The election petition shall stand dismissed.	Decision
The parties will pay and bear their costs in this appeal.26.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
