 P. Misra, J. Leave granted.	None
The appellantAssociation which is doing the business of transporting goods within the outside the State of Tripura, is aggrieved by the judgment of the Gauhati High Court dismissing the writ Appeal challenging the constitutional validity of the Tripura Sales Tax 11th Amendment Rules, 1994, (for short the Rules) and Sections 29, 32and 36A of the Tripura Sales Tax Act, 1976, (for short the Act) including notifications dated 23rd September, 1994 and 15th October, 1994.	Facts
By means of the aforesaid 11th Amendment, subrule (3) has been inserted after subrule (2) of Rule 46A of the Tripura Sales Tax Rules, 1976, (for short Principal rules), subrule (1A) has been inserted after subrule 63A (1), subrule (2) in Rule 63A has been substituted in place of old subrule (2) of the principal Rules and Rules 64A has been substituted for the old subrule 64A. The resultant effect of such amendment is that the appellants, who are working as Transporters in Tripura, are required to obtain a Certificate of Registration and to comply with various other formalities as prescribed under the Act and the Rules, viz., to maintain accounts according to the prescription made by the respondents under Section 36A of the Act for carrying on transport business while entering into or going outside the State of Tripura including making the declaration in Form XXIV, which is challenged to be beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature and ultra vires the Constitution offending Articles 14, 19(1)(g), 246, 265, 286, 300A and 301 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
The challenge is based on the ground that the appellants are Transporters and are not dealers within the meaning of Section 2(b) of the said Act, hence obligation cast on them under the Act and Rules are beyond the legislative competence of the State legislature.	Facts
By a reasoned order, the learned Single Judge was pleased to dismiss the writ petition of the appellants, except the challenge to the validity of Rule 63A(2) of the principal Rules.	Facts
However, the challenge made by the appellants regarding constitutional validity of Section 36A, which requires a carrier to maintain proper accounts of goods transported to or outside Tripura in the manner prescribed, was not entertained by the learned Single Judge.	Facts
In appeal before the Division Bench though foundation was laid but specific prayer for declaration of Section 36A as ultra vires was not made due to inadvertence, hence the appellants sought amendment to the prayer at the appellate stage which was granted, accordingly it was incorporated at the appellate stage.	Facts
The Division Bench also dismissed the appeal of the appellants.	Facts
Aggrieved by the same, the present appeal is filed.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellants, Mr. M.L. Lahoty, made twofold submissions in support of the challenge.	Arguments of Petitioner
First, the obligation cast under it on the Transporters could only be on a dealer and since the Transporters are neither trading in sale nor purchase of any goods hence not a dealer as defined under Section 2(b) of the Act, hence the impugned provisions lack legislative competence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, when it further casts an obligation on such transporters to obtain certificate of registration under the said Act, when any good is brought within or sent outside the State of Tripura and further to fill From XXIV, it impedes free flow of trade and business of the appellants, hence violative of Article 301 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his first submission, he submitted that Sec.	None
29 refers to offences and penalties not confined to dealers as it begins with the word whoever which includes the transporters.	None
As per subclause (4) whoever fails, when required by or under the provisions of this Act to produce any accounts, evidence or documents or to furnish any information, are liable for conviction by a Judicial Magistrate, punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or with both.	None
Composition of offences is conferred under Section 32.	Arguments of Respondent
The Commissioner may, under it, either before or after institution of criminal proceedings, accept from the person who has committed or is reasonably suspected of having committed an offence under the Act or the Rules made thereunder, by way of composition of offence on such terms and conditions as prescribed, and on payment of such sum as determined by the Commissioner, no further proceeding is to be taken against such person in respect of the such offence.	None
Reference was also made to Section 36A, which requires maintenance of accounts by a carrier including Transporter, the class to which the appellants belongs.	None
This puts an obligation on the Transporter to maintain proper account of goods transported to or outside Tripura in the manner prescribed and is liable to furnish in the prescribed manner such information as the Commissioner may require relating to the transportation of such goods.	None
Reference is also made to Section 38B, which requires the Transporter, carrier or Transporting Agent operating its transport business relating to taxable goods in Tripura to obtain a Certificate of Registration in the prescribed manner from the Commissioner of Taxes on payment of such fees as may be prescribed.	None
To appropriate this controversy, Section 29(1) and (4), Sections 30, 32, 36A and 38B are quoted hereunder Section 29 Offences and penalties (1) Whoever  Carries on business as a dealer and acts in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, or (2) fails, without reasonable cause, to submit in due time any return as required by or under the provisions of this Act, or submits a false return or (3) fails, when required by or under the provisions of this Act to keep accounts or records of sales or (4) fails, when required by or under the provisions of this Act to produce any accounts, evidence or documents or to furnish any information or (5) fails or neglects to comply with any requirement made of him under the provisions of this Act or (6) knowingly produces incorrect accounts, registers or documents, or knowingly furnishes incorrect information or	None
xxx xxx xxx shall, on conviction before a Judicial Magistrate and in addition to any tax including interest if any, or penalty or both that may be due from him, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or with both, and when the offence is a continuing one, with a daily fine not exceeding fifty rupees during the period of continuance of the offence.	None
2.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx Section 30 False statement in declaration.	None
Whoever makes statement in verification or declaration in connection with any proceedings under this Act which is false, and which he either knows or believes to be false, or does not believe to be true, shall on conviction before a Judicial Magistrate, be punishable with simple imprisonment which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.	None
Section 32 Composition of offences (1) Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, the Commissioner may, either before or after institution of criminal proceedings under this Act, accepting from the person who has committed or is reasonable suspected of having committed an offence under this Act or the rules made thereunder, by way of composition of such offence Where the offences consists of the failure to pay, or the evasion of any tax recoverable under this Act, in addition to the tax including interest if any or penalty or both so recoverable, a sum of money not exceeding one thousand rupees or double the amount of the tax recoverable, whichever is greater, and (b) in any other case a sum of money and exceeding one thousand rupees in addition to tax recoverable.	None
On payment of such sum as may be determined by the Commissioner under Subsection (1) no further proceeding shall be taken against the person concerned in respect of the same offence.	None
383 ?	None
Section 36A 36A. Maintenance of Accounts by Carriers (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Act, any transporter, carrier or transporting agent operating its transport business in Tripura, shall maintain proper account of goods transported to or outside Tripura through it in the manner prescribed and shall on demand by the commissioner be liable to furnish in the prescribed manner such information as the Commissioner may require relating to the transportation of such goods and shall also be bound to produce books of accounts for inspection and examination by the Commissioner.	None
Section 38B	None
38B. For carrying out the purposes of section 38 every Transporter, carrier of Transporting Agent operating its transport business relating to taxable goods in Tripura shall be required to obtain a Certificate of Registration in the prescribed manner from the commissioner of Taxes on payment or such fees as may be prescribed.	Arguments of Respondent
The Transporter has to make a declaration in Form XXIV, which is an obligation cast on such Transporter by virtue of Section 38(2) read with subrule (3) of Rule 46A, which requires the Transporter to obtain Form XXIV from the Superintendent of Taxes on payment of such fees as may be specified by the Commissioner.	None
Transporter is further obliged to maintain a register of the accounts of such forms serially.	None
Rule 63A read with Section 38(3) confers power to search at any place on the Officerincharge of a check post, Superintendent of Taxes or any officer specially empowered by the Commissioner to intercept, detain and search any vehicle or place suspected of being used for contravening provisions.	None
Subrule (1A) of this Rule 63A read with Section 38(4) gives power of seizure on the aforesaid officer at the check post when goods are being carried in contravention of any provision of the Act or the Rules.	None
Under subrule (2) the person, from whom such goods are seized, has to make a declaration of the value of such seized taxable goods.	None
Such declaration is to be submitted to the Superintendent of taxes with copies of the relevant bills, invoice, and consignment note issued by the consignor and other documents in support of the basis on which the value is declared.	None
Subrule (3) gives an option to the person from whom such goods are seized to opt for composition of such offence under Section 32 and then to pay for the composition of the offence so determined within seven days from the date of composition of the offence.	None
In case he does not opt, then such goods are liable to be auctioned in terms of subrule (4).	None
Next reference was to Rule 64A which requires registration of Transporter.	None
Rule 46A, Rule 63A and Rule 64A are quoted hereunder Rule 46A	None
46A. (1)	None
Every declaration to be given under subsection (2) of section 38 shall contain a correct and complete accounts of the goods carried by the transporter and shall be in Form XXIV in duplicate, and duly signed by him Provided that if the space provided in Form XXIV is not sufficient for making the entries, separate annexure may be attached to the form for the purpose which should be duly signed by him.	None
The Officerincharge of the check post or the barrier on being satisfied about the correctness of the statements made and particulars contained in the declaration in Form XXIV, shall seal it with his official seal and give a permit.	None
One copy of the permit shall there upon be returned to the transporter and the other shall be retained by the Officerincharge Provided that a transporter who has obtained a permit at the first check post or barrier under subrule (2) shall not be required to make any further declaration at other checkposts or barrier in respect of only so much of the consignments to which the permit relates.	None
The transporter shall obtain Form XXIV from the Superintendent of Taxes concerned on payment of such price as may be specified by the Commissioner.	None
The Form shall be serially numbered and account shall be maintained in register.	None
No other Form XXIV except those supplied from the office of Superintendent of Taxes shall be entertained with effect from such date as the Commissioner may notify by publication in the local newspapers and Official Gazette.	None
Rule 63A 63A. (Power to search at any place by Officerincharge of a check post, Superintendent of Taxes or any officer specially empowered by the Commissioner.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of these Rules, at every check post or barrier or at any other place, when so required by the Officerincharge of such check post or barrier, by any Superintendent of Taxes or by any officer empowered by the Commissioner of Taxes in this behalf for the purpose of preventing the evasion of taxes payable under the Act, the driver or any other persons in charge of goods vehicles shall stop the vehicle and keep it stationary as long as may be required by such officer to search the goods vehicle or part thereof, examine the contents therein and inspect all records relating to the goods carried which are in the possession of such driver or other person in charge thereof, who shall, if so required, give his name and address and the name and address of the owner of the vehicle as well as those of the consignor and consignee of the goods.	None
1A  One search, as aforesaid, if it is found that the goods are being carried in contravention of any provision of the Act or the Rules, such officer conducting search may seize the goods found in the vehicle along with any container or materials used for packing.	None
When any taxable goods are seized, the person from whom such goods are seized shall make a declaration in respect of the value of the seized taxable goods and this value shall be the retail prices or the aggregate of retail prices of such goods at which these are likely to be sold in Tripura at the relevant time.	None
Such declaration shall be submitted to the Superintendent of Taxes with copies of the relevant bills, invoice, and consignment note issued by the consignor and other documents in support of the basis of the value declared.	None
The copies so furnished may be returned to the person after the Superintendent satisfies himself about the value of the goods declared.	None
When the person from whom the taxable goods are seized opts for composition of such offence under Section 32 within a period of 15 days from the date of seizure of the goods, the amount of composition money so determined shall be payable within 7 days from the date of composition of the offence by payment into Government treasury.	None
Union production of the receipted copy of the challan in support of payment to the Superintendent the seized goods be released.	None
If the person from whom the goods are seized does not opt for composition of the offence within a period of 15 days from the date of seizure or having compounded the offence, does not pay the amount in due time as provided in subrule (3) the Superintendent with the previous sanction of the Commissioner, shall issue a proclamation in form No. XXI for auction for sale of such seized goods on a fixed date, place and time.	None
The description of the taxable goods shall be mentioned in the proclamation.	None
The proclamation shall be published in at least one local newspaper.	None
The auction shall be conducted by the Superintendent or any other official authorised by the Commissioner.	None
The auction shall be governed by the conditions laid down in the proclamation (Form No. XXI).	None
Rule 64A 64A. Registration of Transporter etc.	None
No transporter, carrier, or transporting agent shall operate its transport business in Tripura relating to taxable goods without being registered with the Commissioner of Taxes in such a manner as he may direct.	None
A transporter, carrier, or transporting agent already operating transport business in Tripura relating to taxable goods shall, within a period of 30 (thirty) days from the date of commencement of these rules (Eleventh Amendment) apply to the Commissioner of Taxes for registration.	None
If a transporter, carrier or a transporting agent carries or transports any taxable goods in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the rules, his registration shall be liable to be cancelled or suspended for such period as may be determined by the Commissioner of Taxes after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.	None
Every transporter, carrier or transporting agent operating its transport business in Tripura shall maintain a Register in Form No.	None
XXII a true and correct account of every consignment of goods transported into Tripura, and in Form No. XXIII of goods transported outside Tripura, through it.	None
No taxable goods shall be delivered by the transporters carriers or transporting agents unless the requirements laid down in Rule 46 and 47 have been complied with.	None
No delivery of taxable goods shall be given by the transporter without obtaining a copy of declaration in Form XVIII signed by the superintendent of Taxes Inspector of Taxes.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants vehemently urged that the appellants are mainly the Transporters carrying goods of the consignor to the consignee and are neither a dealer nor doing any business of sale or purchase of any goods, hence the aforesaid obligations cast on the transporters including punishment for the said offences are beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature under List II of Entry 54 on the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel for the respondents, Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, submits that none of the said provisions require the appellants (Transporter) to perform any of such obligations so as to construe it to be that which could only be on a dealer.	Arguments of Respondent
The aforesaid provisions are only to streamline assessment and to check the evasion of sales tax.	Arguments of Respondent
The said obligation casts on the Transporters to achieve such purpose, is a necessary concomitant of any taxing statute.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that the offence and penalties referred to in Section 29(4), which is strongly relied by learned counsel for the appellants, when read with other subclauses of that Section and further read with Section 30, reveal that it is only a mechanism to make collection of tax more effective and purposeful.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsection (4) of Section 29 constitutes offence only when one fails to produce such account or form as he is required under the law when required by the concerned authority.	None
This is a necessary corollary for which an obligation is cast on the Transporters to do certain thing.	Arguments of Respondent
This threat of offence is only to keep him on guard so that he may not fail to produce such documents as required, but for this the very objective to trace a real dealer for tax and penalty would be defeated.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus this obligation cast on the Transporter is really in aid to the taxing authorities.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 30 constitutes offence when a false statement is declared.	Arguments of Respondent
This is followed by the composition of offences under Section 32.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 36A requires the maintenance of accounts.	Arguments of Respondent
Similar is the position with respect to the aforesaid Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
They are all in aid of the mechanism evolved to check evasion of tax.	Arguments of Respondent
Next requirement of obtaining a Certificate of Registration under Section 38B and making declaration on From XXIV under subRule 3 of Rule 46A could not be construed as to constitute an inference that it impedes any free flow of trade or business while entering into and going out of the State of Tripura.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the question for consideration with respect to the first submission is, whether such provisions could be held to be beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature ?	None
The law in this regard is wellsettled, if any legislature makes any ancillary or subsidiary provision which incidentally transgresses over it jurisdiction, for achieving the object of such legislation then it would be a valid peace of legislation.	None
In Express Hotels Private Ltd. v. State of Gujarat and another, 1989(3) SCC 677, this Court held We are dealing with an entry in a Legislative List.	None
The entries should not be read in a narrow or pedantic sense but must be given their fullest meaning and the widest amplitude and be held to extend to all ancillary and subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in them.	None
In Elel Hotels and Investments Ltd. and others v. Union of India, 1989(3) SCC 698, this Court held In interpreting expressions in the legislative lists a very wide meaning should be given to the entries.	None
In understanding the scope and amplitude of the expression income in Entry 82, List 1, any meaning which fails to accord with the plenitude or the concept of income in all its width and comprehensiveness should be avoided.	None
The cardinal rule of interpretation is that the entries in the legislative lists are not to be read in a narrow or restricted sense and that each general word should be held to extend to all ancillary or subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in it.	None
The widest possible construction, according to the ordinary meaning of the words in entry, must be put upon them In P.N. Krishna Lal and others v. Government of Kerala and another, 1995 Suppl.(2) SCC 187, this Court held The legislature derives its power under Article 246 and other related articles in the Constitution.	None
The language of an entry should be given the widest meaning fairly capable to meet the need of the Government envisaged by the Constitution.	None
Each general word should extend to all ancillary or subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be comprehended within it.	None
When the vires of an enactment is impugned, there is an initial presumption of its constitutionality.	None
If there exists any difficulty in ascertaining the limits of the legislative power, it must be resolved, as far as possible in favour of the legislature, putting the most liberal construction on the legislative entry so that in it intra vires.	None
It is now necessary to scrutinise the impugned provisions to see what are the obligations cast on the transporters, what is the purpose of such obligation, is it in any way taxing such transporters or impeding the transport business to make it beyond the legislative competence and ultra vires Article 301 of the Constitution of India ?	Issue
Whenever any goods is sold or purchased inside or outside the State, the incidence of tax and the quantum of tax has to be ascertained under the provisions of the relevant taxing statute.	None
For this, it is necessary to fix a dealer, the taxable goods, place of sale or purchase of such goods and the quantum of tax.	None
If a dealer in taxable goods transaction of sale or purchase escapes attention of the taxing authority, tax on such goods escapes with resultant loss to the State revenue.	None
To over reach this possible escape a mechanism is invariably brought in a statute to seal such loopholes of escape, of course casting obligations on some to perform certain acts to reach this objective.	None
Thus, maintaining accounts of goods transported into or outside Tripura in the prescribed manner and to furnish in the prescribed manner such information as the Commissioner requires including filing of Form XXIV is only for the said objective to be achieved with the help and aid of such transporter or carrier etc.	None
Such obligation is cast only for identifying the consignor or consignee to fix liability on them in correlation with the goods carried by such transporter further requiring the disclosure of such goods with its quantity, value, weight, to help the taxing authority to assess such goods on such escaping dealer.	None
This helps the taxing authorities in collecting taxes, imposing penalties including punishing one for the offences committed.	None
If such an obligation is not cast on such Transporters then any dealer under a false name, can despatch his taxable goods to another person, through a Transporter escaping his sales tax liability on such goods.	None
It cannot be denied that some such dealers and transporters do indulge in such illegal practices.	None
This fact is brought in through the counteraffidavit filed by the respondentsState that some such consignments are booked with consignee as self, without disclosing the name, registration number and address of the consignee in the appropriate column of Form XXIV.	None
By incorrect, incomplete declaration in such forms, if not made punishable, would defeat the very purpose of enacting these provisions and would help such clandenstile dealers to escape the liability of tax.	None
So each of these provisions are brought in to help the authorities to check the evasion of tax.	None
The maintenance of accounts by the Transporter under Section 36A is only to help the taxing authority to trace the dealer, fix the goods transported correlating with such dealers transporting such goods for fixing taxable liability in this regard.	None
There is no provision, which fixes any liability on the transporters, carriers etc., which is on a dealer.	None
Liability, if at all, is only if such transporters, carriers etc. do not disclose what is required and what is within his knowledge to help the authorities to collect the tax from escaping dealers which, but for this, would escape.	None
Section 29 speaks of offences covering both dealers and nondealers as is evident by the opening word whoever.	None
Subsection (4), to which learned counsel referred to, obligates a person to produce any accounts, evidence or documents or to furnish any information as required by the concerned authority.	None
Of course, all this would be what one is required to maintain and in the case of transporters, carriers etc.	None
what the relevant provisions require him to do.	None
If he is required to maintain or produce some document which he has to maintain under a statute, and if he does not produce it then of course he should be made liable for offence.	None
It is only on his failure to do this, it is treated as an offence, punishment as it is one of the legitimate weapons to enforce one to help the authorities.	None
Such information and documents sought are either with or within the knowledge of Transporter.	None
As aforesaid, this is for the sole objective of ascertaining a consignor and consignee of the taxable goods which the transporter is carrying.	None
Such requirement has no corelation with the sale and purchase of the goods or to treat a Transporter as dealer and consequently, no obligation is cast on him to pay any tax, interest or penalties which a dealer is required to pay.	None
Similarly Section 30 refers to offence only when a false declaration is made in connection with any proceedings under this Act, which he either knows or believes to be false, or does not believe to be true.	Arguments of Respondent
Again, the conviction under it is only for making false declaration which is within his knowledge.	None
How can this constitute to be a ground for legislative competence ?	None
This provision is only to see that the correct statement of facts are brought out.	None
One is punished only if he knows or believes to be false, yet does not disclose it or even does not believe to be true, but still makes statement to the contrary.	None
Under Section 29(4) and Section 30, the offences in case committed by Transporter are relateable to checking of evasion of tax then composition of offence under Section 32 would also confine itself within this sphere.	None
We do not find any of these provisions in any way placing any liability on the Transporter which is otherwise on a dealer under this Act.	None
Similarly, as aforesaid, the maintenance of account by the transporters, carriers etc.	None
under Section 36A is only to render help to the authorities in checking the evasion of tax.	None
This does not put any such obligation on the Transporter to hold that these provisions transfers the legislative competence of the State legislative.	None
Further Rule 46A read with Section 38(2) requires every person transporting taxable goods at any check post or barrier referred to in subsection (1), to file before the Officerincharge of such checkpost or barrier a correct and complete declaration of the goods in such form and in such manner as may be required.	None
It is by virtue of this Rule 46A a Transporter is required at the check post to disclose complete accounts of the goods carried by him on Form XXIV.	None
The question is why such requirement ?	None
Form XXIV, which is the main plank of attack by the learned counsel for the appellants is really based on the offence under Section 29(4) or Section 30 in case declaration under it is found to be false.	None
Now, we proceed to examine what is required to be filled by the transporters in Form No. XXIV.	None
This Form requires to disclose the name and address of the consignor, whether a registered dealer or not, place of despatch and destination of the goods, lorry number, description of consignment, quantity, weight, value, Consignors invoice number and date, railway receipt or bill of lading and in case goods are sent outside the State, the permit number and date authorising such export under	None
Rule 47C.	None
First, the question is why such information is required, if necessary, what possibly is the difficulty of the transporters, finally whether any objection by them is sustainable in law ?	None
As we have said that these informations are required solely for the purpose for checking the evasion of tax.	None
Next, we do not find any difficulty for any transporter to disclose the names and addresses of the consignor and the consignee, the place of destination, he would also be knowing the description of consignment being transported its quantity, weight and value also from the description as disclosed by the consignor.	None
The information, which the Transporter has to give so far with reference to the quantity, weight and value of the good, would be based on the basis of the documents, paper etc. as disclosed by the consignor.	None
The fear expressed by the learned counsel for the appellants that in case such description, specially with reference to its weight or value, is found to be wrong about which he would never be certain as he has to depend on what is disclosed by the consignor, he would be liable for punishment under Section 30.	None
The fear expressed by learned counsel is without substance and is mere imaginary.	None
We have already observed that the offence is only drawn when there is false declaration, knowing the fact to be false, makes a declaration, not believing to be true yet makes declaration to the contrary.	None
By making truthful declaration, believing the statement to be true based on information of the consignor, the offence is not drawn unless there is connivance between the transporter and the consignor.	None
He also referred to subrule (1A) of Rule 63A under which the good are being carried in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the Rules, is liable for seizure and under subrule (3) the transporter is made liable to pay for the composition of such offence in view of Section 32.	None
The aforesaid submissions for the appellants are without any force.	None
So far as the fear with reference to Form XXIV, as we have said above, he is aware of the same and the same is based on the information given by the consignor.	None
The purpose of this form rightly is to ascertain the consignor and consignee and the details of the goods for the purpose of taxing such goods under the Act.	None
No Transporter can escape this declaration as this is one of the essential mechanisms evolved to help the taxing authorities to check the evasion.	None
Submission of the learned counsel, expressing the fear that, if ultimately the statement in case is found to be incorrect as per his disclosure in Form XXIV, that he would be held liable for offence is also unfounded.	None
Apart from what we have recorded above, Column 13(i) of the said form directs the declaration to be made in the following terms	None
I We hereby declare that the above statements are true to the best of my our knowledge and belief.	None
This itself clearly indicates when the liability of the offence punishable under Section 29 or Section 30 would be drawn.	Reasoning
It only arises when such transporter deliberately makes false declaration and not when such declaration is true to his knowledge and belief.	Reasoning
Learned senior counsel for the respondents fairly stated that the purpose mainly is to get the disclosure of the name and address etc. of the consignor and consignee.	Reasoning
The rest of the columns from 7 to 13 are primarily to be filled in on the basis of the information given by the consignor.	Reasoning
Every taxing statute has charging sections.	Reasoning
It lays down the procedure to assess tax and penalties etc.	Reasoning
It also provides provisions to cover pilferage of such revenue by providing such mechanism as it deem fit, in other words, to check evasion of tax and in doing so if any obligation is cast on any person having connections with consignor or consignee in relation to such goods, may be other than a dealer, to perform such obligation in aid, to check evasion and in case he is made liable for any offence, for his dereliction of duty or deliberate false act contrary to what he is obligated to do.	Reasoning
In our opinion, it cannot be construed to be beyond the competence of State Legislature.	Reasoning
The impugned provisions are not charging Sections, no tax liability is placed on the transporters.	Reasoning
We find neither Sections 29, 30, 32 and 36A nor Rules 46A, 63A and 64A lack any legislative competence.	Reasoning
They are within the legislative competence of the State and would fall under List II of Entry 54 of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
In Sodhi Transport Co. and others v. State of U.P. and others, 1986(2) SCC 486, challenge was made to the provisions of Section 28B of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, which requires a Transporter while entering the State of Uttar Pradesh to obtain transit pass for its delivery at the exist barrier where the Transporter leave the State of Uttar Pradesh and on its failure a presumption is drawn the goods carried inside the State have been sold within the State either by the owner or person incharge of the vehicle.	None
The Court held that such goods carried have been sold within the State is a rebuttable presumption.	None
The persons concerned have the opportunity to discharge the presumption by getting a finding recorded in his favour.	None
Thus, if the person proves the presumption to the contrary, no liability is fasten on him.	None
However, in case he fails to avail this opportunity or fails to prove to the contrary then he would be a dealer even according to the definition of the word dealer subject to other conditions, hence it was held that there is no unconstitutionality of this provision.	None
This Court held The words it shall be presumed in Section 28B only require the authorities concerned to raise a rebuttable presumption, that the goods must have been sold in the State if the transit pass is not handed over to the officer at the checkpost or the barrier near the place of exit from the State.	None
A statutory provision which creates a rebuttable presumption as regards the proof of a set of circumstances which would make a transaction liable to tax with the object of preventing evasion of the tax cannot be considered the power to levy a tax which the legislature cannot otherwise levy.	None
A rebuttable presumption has the effect of shifting the burden of proof.	None
The authority concerned before levying sales tax arrives at the conclusion by a judicial process that the goods have been sold inside the State and in doing so relies upon the statutory rule of presumption contained in Section 28B of the Act which may be rebutted by the person against whom action is taken under Section 28B.	None
The person concerned having opportunity to displace the presumption by leading evidence, there is no unconstitutionality in it.	None
When once a finding is recorded that a person has sold the goods which he had brought inside the State, he would be a dealer even according to the definition of the word dealer as it stood from the very commencement of the Act subject to the other conditions prescribed in this behalf being fulfilled.	None
There is, therefore, no substance in the contention that a transporter was being made liable for the first time after 1979 with retrospective effect to pay sales tax on a transaction which is not a sale.	None
This is also a case where obligation is cast on the Transporter to fill up the transit form and, on his failure, an inference was drawn holding such transporter liable to pay the tax like that by a dealer.	None
However, in the case in hand, at no stage the transporter is held liable to pay the tax as payable by a dealer.	None
We have already referred to subrule (1A) to Rule 63A as to when the goods could be seized.	None
Subrule (3) of Rule 63A gives an option to the Transporter in case goods carried by him is in contravention of any provisions of the Act and the Rules, if he so desires, to opt for composition of offence.	None
A transporter can always intimate within the time specified under subrule (3) to a dealer or owner of the goods to come and pay the amount fixed under Section 32.	None
In case not, it is open to a Transporter not to opt for composition of offence.	None
If no liability is fastened on him, then the authorities may proceed to take action under subrule (4).	None
By following the procedure therein, the seized goods are auctioned to recover the liability of a dealer of tax, penalty etc.	None
under the Act.	None
It is significant that subsection (1) of Section 38A records that in case any balance amount is left after the said auction, the same to be returned to the person from whom such goods are seized or to the owner of such goods.	None
It is coherent with the scheme of the Act, to collect the tax and penalty by this mechanism, what otherwise would have escaped assessment.	None
Finally, the second submission is with reference to the requirement of obtaining Certificate of REgistration under Section 38B which, according to the learned counsel, impedes the free flow of trade and business of a Transporter hence violative of Article 301 of the Constitution.	None
For ready reference Section 38B is quoted hereunder For carrying out the purposes of Section 38 every Transporter, or Transporting Agent operating its transport business relating to taxable goods in Tripura shall be required to obtain a Certificate of Registration in the prescribed manner from the Commissioner of Taxes on payment of such fees as may be presented.	None
This section, itself indicates, has been brought in for carrying out the purposes of Section 38, which basically is to check evasion of tax.	None
Under it, the barriers, checkpost are set up, the officers are empowered to check any vehicle, seized goods being carried in contravention of any provision of the Act and the Rule.	None
Thus, the requirement of Certification of Registration by a transporter is also for the same purpose.	None
It only applies to such transporters doing transport business relating to taxable goods in Tripura only.	None
This certainly cannot be construed to be violative of Article 301 of the Constitution of India.	None
Article 301 provides freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
This Article is subject to the other provisions of this part, namely, part XIII which covers Articles 301 to 307.	None
Article 304(b) empowers the State Legislature to impose such reasonable restriction on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse with or within the State as may be required under the public interest.	None
When a provision is made for a Certificate of Registration which in the present case is brought in by amendment as aforesaid, it is really for checking the evasion of tax.	None
By such registration of transporters or carriers it becomes feasible for the authorities to trace out such dealers escaping tax, through such transporters.	None
In State of Bihar and others v. Harihar Prasad Debuka and others, 1989(2) SCC 192, challenge is to the notification issued under Section 31(2a) of the Bihar Finance Act, 1981, urging the requirement that a person transporting goods exceeding the quantity notified under Section 35 on a goods carrier to carry permits in prescribed Form XXVIIIA or XXVIIIB in respect of the goods have brought into or sent out of the State to be restrictive to free flow of trade and hence violative of Articles 301 and 304.	None
This Court rejected the submission and upheld the notification by holding that insistence on permits was intended to prevent evasion and to facilitate assessment of sales tax.	None
The stoppage of transporting vehicle for checking the permit for this purpose would not constitute to be violative of free trade.	None
Finally, learned counsel for the appellants strongly relied on a decision of this Court in State of Haryana and others v. Sant Lal and another, 1993(4) SCC 380.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, this Court held that Section 38 of Haryana General Sales Tax Act to be ultra vires.	Arguments of Petitioner
This section requires that every clearing or forwarding agent, dalal or any other person transporting goods (including manager, agent, driver and employee of the owner) who handles documents of title to goods for or on behalf of any dealer to furnish to the assessing authority particulars and information in respect of transaction of the goods and to obtain licence from the assessing authority and on contravention provided high rate of penalty.	Arguments of Petitioner
The section 38 is quoted hereunder Furnishing of information by clearing and forwarding agents etc.  	None
(1) Every clearing or forwarding agent, Dalal or any other person transporting goods, within the State, who, during the course of his business, handles documents of title to goods for or on behalf of any dealer, shall furnish to the assessing authority the particulars and information in respect of the transactions of the goods in such form and manner, as may be prescribed.	None
No clearing or forwarding agent, Dalal or any other person transporting goods within the State shall carry on his business unless he obtains from the assessing authority, on payment of a fee not exceeding fifty rupees, a license in the form and manner and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.	None
If any clearing or forwarding agent or Dalal or person transporting goods within the State contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2) the Commissioner or any person appointed to assist him under subsection (1) of Section 3 may, after giving the person concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard, direct him to pay by way of penalty, an amount equivalent to twenty per centum of the value of goods in respect of which no particulars and information has been furnished under subsection (1).	None
Explanation  For the purpose of this section  3n3 ?	None
Dalal shall include a person who renders his services for booking of or taking delivery of, consignments of goods at a Railway Station, booking agency, goods transport company office, or any place of loading or unloading of goods or contrives, makes and concludes bargains and contracts for or on behalf of any dealer for a fee, reward, commission remuneration or other valuable consideration or otherwise person transport goods shall, besides the owner, include the manager, agent driver, employee of the owner or person incharge of a place of loading or unloading of goods or of a Railway outagency, city booking office or city booking agency when run by a private person under a contract with the Railways but excluding a rail head or a post office, or of a goods carrier carrying such goods, for despatch to other places or gives delivery of any consignment of such goods th the consignee.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Subsection (1) of Section 38 of the Haryana Act requires every clearing or forwarding agent etc. transporting goods within the State who handles documents of title to goods to be transported within the State for or on behalf of any dealer to furnish to the assessing authority such particulars and information as may be prescribed.	None
Subsection (2) debars all clearing or forwarding agents etc.	None
from carrying on their business unless they are licensed.	None
It is held that a clearing, forwarding agent or dalal etc. transporting goods within the State, even though may not be handling documents of titles to goods, is obliged to take a licence though he may not be liable to a penalty.	None
Hence, it was held to be beyond the competence of the State legislature as it could not be in respect of any matter ancillary or subsidiary to the legislative entry which entitles the State Legislature to impose such tax.	None
This section further imposes a penalty equivalent to 20 of the value of goods in respect of which no particulars and information have been furnished.	None
But this decision holds that such clearing or forwarding agent has to be within a reasonable and proximate connection between the transaction of sale of such goods before the State Legislature would have competence to levy tax.	None
The Court held If a clearing or forwarding agent or dalal or person transporting goods is indeed reasonably and proximately connected with the sale occasioning the liability to the sales tax, it is legitimate to require him to licence himself under the Act and maintain and furnish such information and particulars to the assessing authority thereunder as he would in the course of his business come to possess.	None
It is legitimate then to make him liable for such escapement of tax as has resulted from the breach by him of such obligation and to a reasonable penalty.	None
However, inasmuch as the said Act does not define what precisely it means by the expression documents of title to goods, it is unclear which class of forwarding or clearing agents or dalal or persons transporting goods it intends to bring within the ambit thereof.	None
To clearing and forwarding agents, dalals and other persons transporting goods who do not handle documents of title to goods for or on behalf of any dealer, the provisions of the said Act can have no application at all.	None
In respect of such persons the State Legislature has no power of legislation under the legislative entry concerned.	None
Qua them the legislation is not in respect of any matter ancillary or subsidiary to the legislative entry which entitles the State Legislature to impose a tax on the sale of goods.	None
We find that this decision would render no help to the appellants.	None
The impugned provisions of the Haryana General Sales Tax were different than the provisions we are considering in this case, namely, the impugned Tripura Act and the Rules.	None
We further find that subpara (ii) of the Explanation to Section 38 of the impugned Haryana Act specifically excluded, a goods carrier carrying such goods, for despatch to other places or gives delivery of any consignment of such goods to the consignee.	None
Hence, we hold that the requirement of Section 38B for a transporter operating its transport business relating to taxable goods in Tripura to obtain Certificate of Registration from the Commissioner of Taxes, is not violative of Article 301 of the Constitution.	None
24.	None
In view of the aforesaid findings, we hold that the impugned provisions of the Tripura Sales Tax Act and the Rules of 1976 are valid pieces of legislation.	Decision
The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed.	Decision
Costs on the parties.	Decision
