 Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
Appellant calls in question legality of the order passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi (in short the National Commission) summarily dismissing the Revision Petition filed by the appellantBank observing that the short order passed by the State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Bangalore, Karnataka (in short the State Commission) is absolutely clear and needs no interference.	Issue
Background facts giving rise to the present appeal in a nutshell are as followsThe respondent, (hereinafter referred to as the complainant) availed jewel loans from the appellantBank by pledging gold ornaments on different dates in August 2000, February 2001, April 2001, May 2001 and June 2001.	Facts
AppellantBank insured gold ornaments kept in the locked iron safe of the Bank for a sum of Rs.25,00,000/ with United India Insurance Company Limited.	None
On 4.8.2001 a huge quantity of gold ornaments including those pledged by the complainant with the Bank, were stolen.	Facts
Information was lodged at the police station and a criminal trial is pending.	Facts
On 1.10.2003 the appellantBank submitted its claim to the Insurance Company but the same was repudiated.	Facts
On 17.1.2004, the appellantBank, with a view to return value of the gold ornaments of the pledges convened a meeting where more than 400 persons, who were jewel loan borrowers and authorities of the cooperative societies were present.	Facts
It was resolved that each person who had pledged ornaments shall be paid at the rate of Rs.410/ per gram which was the prevailing market rate at the time of theft.	Facts
It was also resolved that no interest shall be charged on all such jewel loans.	Facts
Complainant issued a notice to the Bank demanding higher value for the gold ornament pledged.	None
AppellantBank requested the complainant to accept the rate fixed on the basis of Resolution dated 17.1.2004.	None
On 8.3.2004 the complainant filed a complaint before the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Udupi (in short District Forum) with a prayer for a direction to the appellantBank to pay the entire amount with upto date interest in respect of six jewel loan accounts and to pay present market rate of gold at the rate of Rs.573/ per gram along with making charges and a compensation for non delivery of gold ornaments amounting to Rs.25,000/ and litigation expenses of Rs.10,000/. On 28.5.2004, the appellantBank filed its statement of defence and denied its liability to pay the amount with interest.	Facts
There was no default of service and nondelivery of the jewel was on account of the admitted theft in the Bank for which criminal case has been instituted and insurance claim has been lodged.	Facts
Subsequently, the appellantBank filed an affidavit before the District Forum stating that it is willing to pay at the rate fixed for all the jewel loan borrowers.	Facts
The District Forum held that the value of the gold was to be computed at the rate of Rs.573/ per gram which was the claim, though the price of gold prevailing on the date of order was Rs.593/ per gram.	Facts
Accordingly, it was held that value of gold payable was Rs.67,041/. Appellant preferred an appeal before the State Forum which by a short order held that there was no illegality or irregularity in the order of the District Forum and if there was any insurance policy covering the theft, it was open to the appellantBank to lodge a claim and pursue the remedy available.	Facts
The revision petition filed before the National Commission as noted supra was dismissed.4.	Facts
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that neither the State Commission nor the National Commission considered the effect of the decision taken on 17.1.2004 in a meeting where more than 400 borrowers had accepted the rate.	Arguments of Petitioner
No other complaint has been lodged, but taking advantage of the order passed by the District Forum as upheld by the State Commission and the National Commission, large number of people are trying to reopen the matter.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent supported the order of the Forums and submitted that a realistic view has been taken by the District Forum which was upheld by the State Commission and the National Commission.	Arguments of Respondent
We find that all through stand of the appellantBank has been that all the borrowers except the respondent have accepted the rate arrived at consensually at the meeting.	Reasoning
The complainant did not dispute that such a decision had been taken.	Reasoning
It is not clear as to whether the complainant had attended the meeting which was convened and where all the borrowers were given the chance to participate.	Reasoning
The decision in the meeting undisputedly was to the effect that the value of gold on the date of theft was to be paid.	Reasoning
It appears that there was no other complaint except the one under consideration.	Reasoning
Both the State Commission and the National Commission passed cryptic orders and did not discuss even the various stands taken by the appellant.	Reasoning
It was open to the State Commission and the National Commission to consider the stand relating to acceptance of rate fixed at the meeting and its effect on the complainants claim.	Reasoning
But, that has not been done.	Reasoning
We, therefore, set aside the order of the National Commission and remit the matter to it for fresh consideration for the purpose of considering the effect of the decision taken on 17.1.2004 where about 400 similarly situated borrowers had accepted the rate.	Reasoning
We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case.7.	Reasoning
Appeal is allowed to the aforesaid extent with no order as to costs.	Decision
