 DUTT, J.	None
In these writ petitions and civil appeals, Lalit Narayan Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change, Patna, a Society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, and its Registrar, Dr. Jagadanand Jha, have challenged the constitutional validity of two Ordinances being Bihar Ordinances Nos. 15 of 1986 and 30 of 1986 replaced by the Bihar Private Educational Institutions (Taking Over) Act, 1987, hereinafter referred to as the Act.	Facts
Dr. Jagadanand Jha has further challenged the validity of the order of termination of his service as the Registrar of the Institute dated April 21, 1986 in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 439 of 1987.	Issue
As disposal of Writ Petition (Civil) No. 431 of 1987 wherein the constitutional validity of the Act has been challenged and Writ Petition (Civil) No. 439 of 1987 in which the legality of the order of termination of service of the said Dr. Jagadanand Jha has been challenged will virtually mean disposal of the other writ petitions and appeals, we propose to deal with these two writ petitions.	Facts
The Institute, Lalit Narain Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change, Patna, hereafter referred to as Institute, was initially named Bihar Institute of Economic Development and was started in 1973 under the Chairmanship of Dr. Jagannath Mishra, the then Minister of Irrigation and later on the Chief Minister of Bihar.	Facts
It was named as Lalit Narain Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change to commemorate the memory of late Shri Narayan Mishra, once upon a time, Union Railway Minister.	Facts
It may be noticed at this stage that the name of the Institute and the name of the Society are the same.	Facts
The Institute was basically started as a research institute.	Facts
In 1974, the Magadh University recognised the Institute for the purpose of research.	Facts
Subsequently, Ranchi, Patna and Bihar Universities also granted recognition to the Institute as a research institute.	Facts
In March 1977, the Magadh university declared the Institute as an autonomous Institute under Section 73 of the Bihar State universities Act, 1975.	Facts
On April 19, 1986, the State Government of Bihar promulgated Ordinance No. 15 of 1986 whereby the Institute was taken over.	Facts
It is alleged that the Ordinance was promulgated and the Institute was taken over at the instance of the then Chief Minister of Bihar Sri Bindeshwari Dubey.	Facts
The petitionerSociety has also alleged mala fides on the part of the Chief Minister of Bihar in taking over the Institute by promulgating the Ordinance.	Facts
On the day the Ordinance was promulgated, possession of the Institute was taken, and the services of Dr. Jagadanand Jha, who was the Registrar of the Institute, were terminated by the impugned order dated April 21, 1986.	Facts
Besides contending that the Ordinance and the order of termination of the petitioner Dr. Jagadanand Jha are illegal and invalid, the petitioner  Society and the said Jagadanand Jha allege that all these have happened because of the personal enmity of the Chief Minister against Dr. Jagannath Mishra, the Chairman of the Society and the Institute.	Facts
The petitioners filed writ petitions before the Patna High Court challenging the validity of the said Ordinance No. 15 of 1986 and the order of termination of services of Dr. Jagadanand Jha.	Facts
The Patna High Court, however, by its judgment dated August 26, 1986 dismissed both the writ petitions.	Facts
Both the Society and Dr. Jagadanand Jha have preferred two appeals by special leave being Civil Appeal No. 4142 of 1986 and Civil Appeal No. 4141 of 1986 respectively against the said judgment of the Patna High Court.	Facts
The Society and Dr. Jagadanand Jha have also challenged the Ordinance No. 30 of 1986 by Writ Petition (Civil) No. 55 of 1987 and, as stated already, they have also challenged the constitutional validity of the Act replacing these Ordinances.	Facts
At this stage, it is necessary to refer to the provisions of the Act which are the same as that of the two successive Ordinances Nos. 15 and 30 of 1986.	Facts
Some submissions have been made at the Bar on the Preamble to the Act which reads as followsAn Act to provide for taking over by the State Government of private educational institutions of the State of Bihar.	Facts
Whereas, the State of Bihar has bright prospects of rapid growth of Industrial and Economic Development, the relevancy and importance of specialised knowledge of Business Management has assumed great importance And, whereas, for that purpose it is necessary to ensure a high level of educational and training facilities and the coordination of the training with important industrial and business units And, whereas, it has been resolved to nationalise this branch of education in phases.	None
Clause (a) of Section 2 of the Act defines Private Educational Institution as follows 2 (a) Private Educational Institution means a private educational college, institute or school, affiliated to any University of the State of Bihar or recognised by the State Government and imparting education, and or training in Business Management or Business Administration or matter connected with Economic and Social Development and or conducting degree or diploma course in one or the other branch of education mentioned above Chapter II of the Act relates to taking over of Private College Institute.	Facts
Section 3 of Chapter II runs as follows 3 (1) With effect from the date of this Act, the institution as specified in the Schedule of this Act shall stand transferred to and shall vest absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances.	Facts
The State Government may from time to time by a notified order amend the Schedule by the inclusion of any institution and the same shall stand vested and transferred to in the State Government with effect from the date mentioned in the notification.	None
All these assets and properties of the institution, Governing Body Managing Committee Association, whether movable or immovable including lands, buildings, workshop stores, instruments, machinery, vehicles, cash balance, reserve fund, investment, furniture and others shall on the date of taking over, stand transferred to and vested in the State Government free from all encumbrances.	Facts
Section 4(1) of the Act provides that the Commissioner shall be deemed to have taken charge of the Institution which stands vested in the State Government under the provisions of the Act.	Facts
Section 6 relates to the determination of terms of services of the teaching staff and the other employees of the Institution.	Facts
The Schedule to the Act specifies the name of Institute, namely, L. N. Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change, Patna in terms of Section 3(1) of the Act.	Facts
Under the Preamble to the Act, it is necessary to nationalise private education relating to business management in view of a very good possibility of a rapid industrial and economic development of the State of Bihar.	Facts
The nationalisation has been resolved to be made in phases.	Facts
It has been already noticed that under Section 3(1) of the Act, the Institution mentioned in the Schedule will be transferred to the State Government and will be actually vested in it free from all encumbrances.	Facts
The Schedule mentions only one Institute and in view of Section 3(1) it has vested in the State Government.	Facts
It is said that the first phase relates to the taking over of the Institute and that has been done.	Facts
Section 3(2) also provides for amendment of the Schedule by including any institution.	Facts
In other words, the other institutions which answer the description of private educational institutions as defined in clause (a) of Section 1 of the Act will also be nationalised, not at a time, but in phases, the first phase having started with the take over of the Institute.	Facts
This, in short, is the scheme of the Act.	None
The first attack to the validity of the Act and the said two Ordinances is founded on the plea of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted by Mr. Sorabjee, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner  Society, that while it is true that Article 14 forbids class legislation, it does not, however, forbid reasonable classification.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are reminded of the principle of law as laid down in State of Rajasthan v. Mukan Chand (1964 6 SCR 903 AIR 1964 SC 1633)	Arguments of Petitioner
Maganlal Chagganlal (P) Ltd. v. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (1975 1 SCR 1 (1974) 2 SCC 402 AIR 1974 SC 2009) and in re the Special Courts Bill, 1978 (1979 2 SCR 476 (1979) 1 SCC 380 AIR 1979 SC 478).	Arguments of Petitioner
In all these cases, it has been laid down that in order to satisfy the test of permissible classification under Article 14, two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (1) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and (2) that the differentia must have a rational relationship to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by the learned counsel that the impugned Act on the face of it does not disclose any basis or principle of singling out the Institute and for treating it as a class by itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that neither in the Preamble nor in the provisions of the Act is there the slightest indication for treating the Institute as a class by itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
Much reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the petitioner on the decision of this Court in Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S. R. Tendolkar (1959 SCR 279 AIR 1958 SC 538).	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, the Central Government in exercise of its power under Section 3 of the Commissions of Enquiry Act, 1952, issued a notification dated December 11, 1956 appointing a Commission of Enquiry to enquire into and report in respect of certain companies mentioned in the Schedule attached to the notification and in respect of the nature and extent of the control and interest which certain persons named in the notification exercised over these companies.	None
Das, C.J. speaking for the court observed that it was not established that the petitioners and their companies had been arbitrarily singled out for the purpose of hostile and discriminatory treatment and subjected to a harassing and oppressive enquiry.	None
It was further observed that nowhere in the petitions was there even an averment that there were other persons or companies similarly situated as the petitioners and their companies.	None
Certain principles of law have been laid down in that decision.	None
These principles still hold the field and are helpful in considering the constitutionality of a statute.	None
One of these principles is that a law may be constitutional even though it relates to a single individual if, on account of some special circumstances or reasons applicable to him and not applicable to others, that single individual may be treated as a class by himself.	None
The other decision that has been relied upon by the petitioner is D. S. Reddy v. Chancellor, Osmania University (1967 2	None
SCR 214 AIR 1967 SC 1305).	None
What happened in that case was that Section 5 of the Osmania University (Second Amendment) Act, 1966 introduced into the Osmania University Act, 1959 a new Section 13A whereby it was provided that the person then holding the office of the ViceChancellor of the University could only hold that office until a new ViceChancellor was appointed, and that such new amendment (sic appointment) must be made within 90 days of the commencement of the said amendment Act whereupon the old ViceChancellor would cease to hold office.	None
It was held by this Court that there was no justification for the impugned legislation, that is, the provision of Section 13A, resulting in a classification of the ViceChancellors into two categories, namely, the appellant as the existing ViceChancellor and the future ViceChancellors to be appointed under the Osmania University Act.	None
It was held that both these categories constituted one single group or class, and that even assuming that the classification of these two types of persons as coming under two different groups could be made, nevertheless, it was essential that such a classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which would distinguish the appellant from the ViceChancellors appointed under the Osmania University Act.	None
The court held that there was no intelligible differentia on the basis of which the classification could be justified.	None
On the basis of the above principles of law as laid down by this Court, it is submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner that while it is true that a single individual may be treated as a class by himself on account of some special circumstances or reasons applicable to him as laid down by this Court in Dalmia case (1959 SCR 279 AIR 1958 SC 538), such classification must be bounded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes the person classified from others falling outside the classification.	None
It is urged that even though nationalisation of institutes is permissible in a phased manner, and a single institution like the Institute with which we are concerned may be singled out as a class by itself, it must be founded on an intelligible differentia that distinguishes it from other institutions and such differentia for classification must have a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	Reasoning
It is case of the petitioner  Society that there are eleven other similar institutes, which have been specifically named in the petition and there is nothing in the Act to indicate why the Institute has been singled out.	None
Moreover, there is also nothing to indicate either in the Preamble or in the provisions of the Act that the singling out of the Institute from the other institutions and treating it as a class by itself, has a reasonable relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, accordingly, submitted that the Act and the Ordinances are discriminatory in nature and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and should be struck down on that ground.	None
The contention made on behalf of the petitionerSociety is wholly misconceived.	Reasoning
The Ordinances were not promulgated and Act was not passed for the purpose of nationalisation of the Institute only.	Reasoning
It is apparent from the provisions of the Ordinances and the Act that the private educational institutions as defined therein are to be taken over for the purpose as mentioned in the Preambles to the Ordinances and the Act in a phased manner.	Reasoning
All the institutions which answer the description as given in Section 2(a) of the Act are to be nationalised.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, not correct to say that the Institute has been singled out for the purpose of nationalisation.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that when nationalisation has to be done in a phased manner, all the institutions cannot be taken over at a time.	Reasoning
The nationalisation in a phased manner contemplates that by and by the object of nationalisation will be taken over.	Reasoning
Therefore, in implementing the nationalisation of private institutions in a phased manner, the legislature has started with the Institute.	Reasoning
Therefore, the question of singling out the Institute or treating it as a class by itself does not arise, for as the provision of the Act and the Ordinances go, all the private educational institutions as defined in Section 2(a) of the Act, will be nationalised in a phased manner.	Reasoning
It is the legislative decision that the Institute should be taken over in the first phase of the nationalisation.	None
The legislature has not left it to the discretion of the executive government for the propose of selecting the private educational institution for the first phase.	None
It is very difficult to assail a legislative decision.	None
Of course, there can be no doubt that a legislative decision can be assailed if it is violative of any provision of Part III of the Constitution.	None
So far as Article 14 is concerned, we do not think that it has any manner of application inasmuch as the question of discrimination does not arise as soon as it is conceded that it is a case of nationalisation in a phased manner and for the first phase the Institute has been chosen by the legislature itself.	None
The decisions of this Court in the cases of Dalmia (1959 SCR 279 AIR 1958 SC 538), and Osmania University (1967 2 SCR 214 AIR 1967 SC 1305), have no manner of application because in those two cases the question of discrimination did really arise.	None
But, in the instant case, there cannot be any discrimination when nationalisation has to be made in a phased manner.	None
It is, however, submitted that there was no justification to pick and choose the Institute even for the first phase.	None
As has been stated already, the Institute has been chosen by legislative process.	None
It is true that the Ordinances were promulgated under Article 213 of the Constitution of India, but it cannot be characterised as an executive act.	None
In any event, ultimately the legislature itself has passed the Act with the inclusion of the Institute in the Schedule thereto as the only Institution to be nationalised in the first phase.	None
Even assuming that the question of discrimination may arise also for the purpose of selection for the first phase, we are of the view that there are justifiable reasons, which will be stated presently, for selecting the Institute for the first phase of nationalisation.	None
Mr. Kacker, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Chief Minister of Bihar, has placed before us two resolutions of the Education Department of the Government of Bihar dated June 10, 1975 and November 21, 1975.	Arguments of Respondent
By the first mentioned resolution, it was decided to rename the Bihar Institute of Economic Development as Lalit Narayan Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change to commemorate the memory of late Shri Lalit Narain Mishra, who was the Railway Minister, and to enlarge the working scope of the Institute and to develop it into a significant and useful memorial.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also resolved that the entire expenditure of the Institute would be borne by the State Government (Education Department) and for this purpose annual grants would be sanctioned.	None
A steering committee under the chairmanship of the Education Minister was constituted.	None
It is not disputed that since June 1975 every expenditure for maintaining and running the Institute has been incurred by the State of Bihar.	None
It is submitted by Mr. Kacker that the facts disclosed in the writ petition have brought out prominently the interest the State had taken in not only financing, but also controlling the entire development and running of the Institute.	None
The total amount of money spent by the State Government in nurturing the Institute works out to about Rs. 1.60 crores.	None
Facts also disclose that not only the State had changed the name of the Institute, but also provided the site for the Institute, got the building constructed through its own agencies and funds and even supervised the prescription of syllabi.	None
There is much force in the contention of Mr. Kacker that in a sense the State Government was running the entire Institute without nationalisation and when it decided to nationalise such institution for the purpose mentioned in the Preambles of the Act and Ordinances, this Institute was chosen to be the very first with all sense of justification and propriety.	None
In considering the propriety of legislative wisdom in selecting the Institute in the first phase of nationalisation, we cannot exclude the fact that since 1975 it is the State of Bihar which has been nurturing the Institute spending a considerable sum of money and exercising necessary control over it, as contended on behalf of the petitionerSociety.	None
The facts stated above, in our opinion, fully justify the propriety of legislative wisdom in selecting the Institute as the subject matter of nationalisation in the first phase.	None
It is, however, complained on behalf of the Institute that since April 19, 1986 when the first Ordinance was promulgated, no other institution has been added to the Schedule, though nearly two years have passed in the meantime.	None
It is submitted that this fact demonstrates that the professed object of nationalisation in phases is a mere pretence and a colourable device to single out the Institute for discriminatory treatment.	None
The taking over of the Institute is an act of legislation and not an act of the government.	None
The question to be considered is whether at the time when the Ordinances were promulgated or the Act was passed, the same suffered the vice of discrimination or not.	None
There can be no doubt that on the date the Ordinances were promulgated and the Act was passed, the same could not be challenged on the ground of nonimplementation of the legislative intent in nationalising similar institutes by amending the Schedule.	None
If a legislative enactment cannot be challenged as discriminatory on the date it is passed, it is difficult to challenged as discriminatory on the date it is passed, it is difficult to challenge the same as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution on the ground of inaction of the executive in implementing the purposes of the Act, regard being had to the fact that it was the legislature which had made the selection for the first phase of nationalisation.	None
If no such selection had been made by the legislature and the entire thing had been left to the discretion of the government, it might have been possible to contend of discriminatory treatment.	None
The respondents have, however, given an explanation for not including the other similar institutions in the programme of nationalisation, to be precise, in the Schedule to the Act.	None
In paragraph 24 of the counter  affidavit of respondents 1, 3 and 4 affirmed by Shri Ram Shankar Prasad, Deputy Secretary, Department of Education, Government of Bihar, it has been stated, inter alia, as followsSince the validity of the Act is under cloud, being the subject matter of challenge before this Honble Court, the State Government has not yet taken over other Institutes.	None
However, it is submitted that the proposal to take over two other institutes in the second phase is at the final stage and is awaiting the final decision with regard to the validity of the Act.	None
When the cloud is cleared, further step for taking over other institutes imparting education in similar branch will be taken.	None
It is common knowledge that when any litigation ensues and remains pending, the government generally does not take any step till the final disposal of the litigation.	None
It is also the case of the respondents that because of the pendency of the litigation challenging the validity of the Ordinances and the Act, the government did not take any steps for nationalisation of similar institutes for the second phase.	None
A grievance has been made on behalf of the petitionerSociety that even after the promulgation of the Ordinances, three other Institutes, the details of which have been set out in the additional affidavit, have been recognised.	None
An explanation for the recognition of the three Institutes has been given in paragraph 25 of the counter  affidavit of respondents 1, 3 and 4.	None
The explanation is that the affiliation is granted under the Bihar State University Act by the University with the approval of the State Government.	None
Three Institutes mentioned in paragraph 4 of the additional affidavit of the petitioner  Society were recommended by the concerned University for affiliation.	None
The State Government has concurred in the grant of temporary affiliation subject to certain conditions and only for two sessions.	None
In other words, the explanation is that permanent affiliation has not been granted by the State Government.	None
It is also the case of the said respondents that these institutions are not imparting training in the various courses which are being taught in the Institute.	None
The Institute has sponsored and taken out various research programmes and training in computer which are not available in the three institutions and that too on certain conditions.	None
If the State Government had no intention of taking over other institutions in accordance with the provisions of the Act, in that case, the government would have sanctioned permanent affiliation to the three institutions.	None
It is made clear in the affidavit of respondents 1, 3 and 4 that the State Government after the disposal of the litigations, that is to say, after the disposal of these writ petition and the civil appeals, would go on with the nationalisation of other institutions by the amendment of the Schedule to the Act.	None
Therefore, although there has been delay in implementing the provisions of the Act, such delay is unintentional and because of the pendency of litigations.	None
In the circumstances, we are unable to accept the contention made on behalf of the petitioner  Society that the professed object of nationalisation in phases is a mere pretence and a colourable device to single out the Institute or that the facts of exclusion of the three other Institutes impart vice of discrimination to the impugned Act.	None
As has been stated already, the question of discrimination or discriminatory treatment of the Institute does not arise and the contention of the petitioner  Society in this regard is rejected.	None
The next attack of the petitioner  Society to the impugned Act is founded on violation of the provision of Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.	None
It is urged on behalf of the petitioner  Society that in taking over the Institute, there has been an infraction of the fundamental right of the Society to form association.	None
It is contended that by the impugned Act the management of the Society has been totally displaced and its composition changed.	None
All assets and properties are vested in the State Government and the Commissioner is deemed to have taken charge of the Institute.	None
It is submitted that all incidents of ownership and management have been taken over by the State and what is being left to the company (sic Society) is paper ownership and management and, as such, in substance and effect the right of association of the Society is clearly affected.	None
It is submitted that the Act is not saved under Article 19(4) of the Constitution because the fundamental right of the Society to form association has been interfered with not in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order or morality.	None
At this stage, it may be pertinent to refer to the fact that by the impugned Ordinances and the Act, what has been taken over is the Institute.	None
Although the name of the Society and of the Institute is the same, these are two different entities.	None
It is not disputed that by the impugned legislations the Institute and not the Society has been taken over.	None
No restriction whatsoever has been imposed on the functioning of the Society.	None
Indeed, the provisions of the Ordinances and the Act do not refer to the Society but to the Institute.	None
The entire argument of the petitioner  Society if founded on the infraction of the fundamental right of the Society to form association.	None
The question, therefore, is whether the fundamental right of the petitioner  Society, as conferred by Article 19(1)(c), has been infringed or not.	Issue
It has been stated already that the Society has not been taken over by the impugned Act or Ordinances.	None
The Institute has been established by the Society in implementation of one of its objects.	None
In other words, the Institute constitutes one of the activities of the Society.	None
The question naturally arises whether the fundamental right to form association, as contained in Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution, also includes within it the concomitants or the activities or the objects or purposes of an association.	None
Our attention has been drawn to the principles laid down in two decisions of this Court relating to the interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution, namely, Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India (1962 3 SCR 842 AIR 1962 SC 305) and Dwarkadas Shrinivas of Bombay v. Solapur Spinning Weaving Co. Ltd. (1954 SCR 674 AIR 1954 SC 119).	None
In these two decisions, it has been laid down that while considering the nature and content of the fundamental rights, the court must not be too astute to interpret the language of the Constitution in so literal a sense as to whittle them down, but must interpret the same in a manner which would enable the citizens to enjoy the rights guaranteed by it in the fullest measure subject, of course, to permissible restriction.	None
Further, in construing the Constitution it is the substance and the practical result of the act of the State that should be considered rather than its purely legal aspects, and that the correct approach in such cases should be to enquire as to what in substance is the loss or injury caused to the citizens and not merely what manner and method has been adopted by the State in placing the restriction.	None
The above principles, as laid down in those two decisions, are well settled and no exception can be taken to them.	None
It is true that the provisions of the Constitution, particularly the provisions relating to the fundamental rights, should not be construed in a pedantic manner, but should be construed in a manner that would enable the citizens to enjoy the rights in the fullest measure.	None
But, that does not surely mean and it was not the intention of this Court to lay down that in construing the provisions relating to fundamental rights, it should be stretched to the extent of covering even certain extraneous matters which would be far from the ambit and scope of the fundamental rights, Article 19(1)(c) confers a right on the citizens to form association.	None
In exercise of such a right the petitioner  Society has constituted itself into an association.	None
That right of the Society remains unimpaired and uninterfered with by the impugned Act and Ordinances.	None
It is, however, complained that the only activity of the Society was its right of management of the Institute which was founded in implementation of its objects.	None
Having been taken over, the Society only exists in paper.	None
Such interference with the activity of the Society is really interference with the right of the Society to form association.	None
It is submitted that Article 19(1)(c) not only guarantees the fundamental right to form association, but also its continuation.	None
It is further submitted that in law interfering with or divesting the management of the Society of the Institute is clear interference with its right to continue the association.	None
In support of the above contentions, reliance has been placed on behalf of the petitioner  Society on Sholapur Spinning Weaving Company case (1954 SCR 674 AIR 1954 SC 119).	None
In that case, the question that came up for consideration was whether by the impugned Ordinance there was deprivation of the rights of the Company in violation of Article 31(2) of the Constitution.	None
It was the contention of the government that it had taken over the superintendence of the affairs of the Company and that the impugned legislation was merely regulative in character.	None
In rejecting the said contention, this Court observed that by promulgating the Ordinance the government had not merely taken over the superintendence of the Undertaking itself and, in the circumstances, practically all incidents of ownership had been taken over by the State and nothing was left with the Company but the mere husk of title.	None
In the premises, the impugned statute had overstepped the limits of legitimate Social Control Legislation and infringed the fundamental right of the Company guaranteed to it under article 31(2) of the Constitution and is, therefore, unconstitutional.	None
This Court found as a fact that the undertaking itself was taken over in the guise of regulatory legislation in violation of Article 31(2) of the Constitution.	None
The facts of that case are completely different from those of the present case.	None
There can be no doubt the Institute has been taken over by the provisions of the Ordinances and the Act.	None
It is true that with the taking over of the Institute, the Society lost its right of management and control of the Institute, but that is the consequence of all acquisitions.	None
When a property is acquired, the owner loses all control, interest and ownership of the property.	None
Similarly the Society, which was the owner of the Institute, has lost all control and ownership of the Institute.	None
It may be equally true that the Institute was the only activity of the Society, but we are concerned with right of the Society to form association.	None
So long as there is no interference with the Society, its constitution or composition, it is difficult to say that because of the taking over or acquisition of the Institute, which was the only property or activity of the Society, the fundamental right of the Society to form association has been infringed.	None
Mr. Sorabjee, learned counsel for the petitionerSociety, has placed strong reliance upon the decision of this Court in Damyanti Naranga v. Union of India (1971 3 SCR 840 (1971) 1 SCC 678 AIR 1971 SC 966).	None
In that case, by a legislative enactment, namely, the Hindi Sahitya Sammelan Act, 1962, the institution known as the Hindi Sahitya Sammelan was declared an institution of national importance.	None
By the said Act a statutory Sammelan was constituted as a body corporate by the name of the hindi Sahitya Sammelan.	None
Under Section 4(1) of the Act, the Sammelan was to consist of the first members of the Hindi Sahitya Sammelan, which was a registered Society founded for the development and propagation of Hindi and all persons who might become members thereafter in accordance with the rules made in that behalf by the first governing body to be constituted by the Central Government by notification.	None
The Act provided for vesting in the Sammelan of all property, movable or immovable, of or belonging to the Society.	None
The constitutionality of the Act was challenged accordingly on the ground that it interfered with the right of the petitioners to form association under Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution.	None
It has been held that the Act does not merely regulate the administration of the affairs of the Society what it does is to alter the composition of the Society itself.	None
The result of this change in composition is that the members, who voluntarily formed the Society, are now compelled to act in that association with other members who have been imposed as members by the Act and in whose admission to membership they have no say.	None
Further, it has been observed that the right to form association necessarily implies that the persons forming the Society have also the right to continue to be associated with only those whom they voluntarily admit in the association.	None
Any law by which members are introduced in the voluntary association without any option being given to the members to keep them out or nay law which takes away the membership of those who have voluntarily joined, will be a law violating the right to form association.	None
It has also been held that the right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(c) is not confined to the initial state of forming an association, but it also includes within it the right to continue the association.	None
The decision in Damyanti case (1962 3 SCR 269 AIR 1962 SC 171 (1961) 2 LLJ 385) has no manner of application to the facts of the present case.	None
In that case, the composition of the Society was interfered with by introducing new members, which was construed by this Court as interference with the fundamental right of the Society to form association and to continue the same.	None
In the instant case, the composition of the Society has not been touched at all.	None
All that has been done is to nationalise the Institute of the Society by the acquisition of the assets and properties relating to the Institute.	None
The Society may constitute its governing body in accordance with its rules without any interference by the government.	None
In this connection, we may refer to a decision of this Court in All India Bank Employees Association v. National Industrial Tribunal (1962 3 SCR 269 AIR 1962 SC 171 (1961) 2 LLJ 385).	None
Ayyangar, J. speaking for the court, observes that the right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution does not carry with it a concomitant right that unions formed for protecting the interests of labour shall achieve their object such that any interference to such achievement by any law would be unconstitutional unless it could be justified under Article 19(4) as being in the interest of public order or morality.	None
The right under Article 19(1)(c) extends only to the formation of an association or union and insofar as the activities of the association of union are concerned or as regards the steps which the union might take to achieve its object, they are subject to such laws as may be framed and such laws cannot be tested under Article 19(4).	None
This observation supports the view we have taken that the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c) does not extend to or embrace within it the objects or purposes or the activities of an association.	None
In other words, it does not carry with it a further guarantee that the objects or purposes or activities of an association so formed shall not be interfered with by law except on grounds as mentioned in Article 19(4), namely, sovereignty and integrity of India or public order or morality.	None
In the circumstances, the contention made on behalf of the petitioner  Society that because of the acquisition of the Institute, the Society lost its right of management over the Institute and the Institute being the main or the only activity of the Society, the impugned legislations interfere with the right of the Society to form and continue the association and are, as such, unconstitutional and void under Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution, is unsound and rejected.	Reasoning
Another ground on which the validity of the Act and Ordinances has been assailed is absence of legislative competence of the State legislature.	None
It is submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner  Society that the professed aims and objects of the Act are to ensure the high level of educational and training facilities and to nationalise this branch of education and, accordingly, having regard to the pith and substance of the Act, it falls within entry 66 of List I. Entry 66 is as follows Coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions.	None
We may also refer to entry 25 of List III which runs as follows Education, including technical education, medical education and universities, subject to the provisions of Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I vocational and technical training of labour.	None
Counsel submits that entry 25 of List III and entry 66 of List I must be harmoniously construed, but to the extent of overlapping the power conferred by entry 66 must prevail over the power of the State under entry 25.	None
On the other hand, it is submitted by Mr. Kacker that the impugned legislation does not even purport to deal with coordination and determination of standards in taking over institution of higher education.	None
Counsel submits taking over of such institutions would affirmatively be covered under entry 25 itself and, negatively, what is carved out is only coordination and determination of standards.	None
It is submitted that entry 25 of List III is enough to sustain the Act.	None
By the impugned Act, the legislature has not laid down any law relating to the subjects mentioned in entry 66, List I, or in entry 25, List III.	None
The Act only provides for the taking over of private educational institutions in phases and has taken over the Institute to start with for the first phase.	None
It may be that the purpose of such taking over or nationalisation of private educational institutions is to ensure a high level of educational and training facilities and the coordination of the training with important industrial and business units.	None
An entry in any of the Lists of Seventh Schedule will apply when a law is enacted by the legislature on any of the subjects mentioned in the entry In the instant case, as has been noticed already, the impugned Act does not lay down any law touching the subject referred to in entry 66, List I, or entry 25, List III.	None
In our opinion, therefore, neither of these two entries applies.	None
Even assuming that one of these two entries applies, then it is entry 25, List III, and not entry 66, List I, as contended on behalf of the respondents.	None
The impugned legislation if held to be one on education or technical education, is surely not relating to any matters referred to in entry 66, List I. We are, however, of the view that entry 25 also has no application.	None
The entry that applies to the impugned legislation is entry 42 of List III pertaining to acquisition and requisition of property.	None
The taking over of the private educational institutions and of the Institute in the first phase is nothing but acquisition of property.	None
The Institute was the property of the petitioner Society and by the impugned Act the property stands transferred to and vested absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances.	None
Thus, the Institute has been acquired by the impugned legislation and, therefore, the only entry which is relevant is entry 42 of List III.	None
As soon as entry 66 of List I is excluded, it is quite irrelevant which of the entries  25 or 42 of List III  is applicable.	None
Therefore, whether it is entry 25 or entry 42, in either case, the State legislature is competent to make enactment.	None
There is, therefore, no substance in the contention made on behalf of the petitioner  Society that the Act is invalid because the State legislature lacked competence in passing the Act.	None
Now the question is whether after the repeal of Article 31(2) by the Constitution (Fortyfourth Amendment) Act, 1978, any compensation is compulsorily payable for acquisition of property.	Issue
The question may arise, as it is held that the impugned Act is really a legislation relating to acquisition of property within the meaning of entry 42 of List III.	None
Indeed, while urging that the Act falls within the ambit of entry 66 of List I and, as such, beyond the competence of the State legislature, Mr. Sorabjee submits that it does not come within the purview of entry 42 of List III, as no compensation for the acquisition of the Institute has been provided for.	None
He has drawn our attention to the observation of Chandrasekhara Aiyar, J. in the State of Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga (1952 SCR 889, 1008 AIR 1952 SC 252) that payment of compensation is an essential element of the valid exercise of the power to take.	None
Besides drawing our attention to the said observation, the learned counsel has not pursued the point on the contrary, it is submitted by him that as on the date of the decision in Kameshwar Singh case (1952 SCR 889, 1008 AIR 1952 SC 252), that is, before its amendment by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, entry 42 related to principles on which compensation for property acquired or acquisition for any other public purpose is to be determined and the form and the manner in which such compensation is to be given, so the said observation was made.	None
This means that the learned counsel is of the view that after the repeal of Article 31(2) of the Constitution, no compensation is compulsorily payable for the acquisition of property.	None
In other words, the point is not ultimately pressed.	None
In the circumstances, we are not called upon to decide the point or express any opinion on the same.	None
Now we may deal with the case of Dr. Jagadanand Jha, Registrar of the Institute.	None
The first Ordinance, namely, Ordinance No. 15 of 1986, was promulgated by the Governor on April 19, 1986 and the services of Dr. Jha were terminated by an order dated April 21, 1986 which is extracted below The Governor of Bihar in exercise of power under section 6 and subsection (2), (3) and (4) of Bihar Private Educational Institutions (Take Over) Ordinance, 1986 and Bihar Ordinance No. 15 of 1986 and Education Department Notification No. 99/C has considered the report of the Committee and has come to the conclusion that appointment and promotion of officers and workers was not done as per rules of the University, nor in accordance with government directions and notifications and their stay in the Institute was not in the interest of the said Institute.	None
Therefore, the services of following persons are dispensed with immediate effect Dr. Jagannath Mishra  ChairmancumDirector General Sri Jagadanand Jha  Registrar Paragraph 6 of the Ordinance, which is verbatim the same as Section 6 of the Act, reads as follows Determination of terms of services of the teaching staff and other employees of the institution.  	None
(1) As from the date of the notified order, all the staff employed in the institution shall cease to be the employees of the institution Provided that they shall continue to serve the institution on an ad hoc basis till a decision under subsections (3) and (4) is taken by the State Government.	None
The State Government will set up one or more committees of experts and knowledgeable persons which will examine the biodata of each member of the teaching staff and ascertain whether appointment, promotion or confirmation was made in accordance with the University Regulation or government direction circular and take into consideration all other relevant materials, such as qualification, experience, research degree, etc. and submit its report to the State Government(3)	None
The State Government on receipt of the report of the Committee or Committees, as the case may be, will decide in respect of each member of teaching staff on the merits of each case, whether to absorb him in government service or whether to terminate his service or to allow him to continue on an ad hoc basis for a fixed term or on contract and shall, where necessary, redetermine the rank, pay, allowance and other conditions of service.	None
The State Government shall similarly determine the term of appointment and other conditions of service of other categories of staff of the Institution on the basis of facts to be ascertained either by a committee or by an officer entrusted with the task and the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to such case.	None
Under paragraph 6(1), all the staff employed in the institution shall cease to be the employees of the Institute from the date of the notified order.	None
Under the proviso, however, such employees will continue on an ad hoc basis till a decision under subparagraphs (3) and (4) is taken by the government.	None
Under subparagraph (2) of paragraph 6, the State Government is to set up one or more committees of experts and knowledgeable persons for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not appointment, promotion or confirmation of each member of the teaching staff was made in accordance with the University Regulation or government direction circular and to submit its report to the State Government.	None
Subparagraph (3) of paragraph 6 enjoins the State Government to decide in respect of each member of teaching staff on the merits of each case whether to absorb him in government service or to terminate his service or to allow him to continue on an ad hoc basis for a fixed term or on contract etc.	None
Subparagraphs (2) and (3) relate to the members of teaching staff of the concerned institution.	None
Subparagraph (4) of paragraph 6 of the Ordinance deals with the cases of other categories of staff of the institution.	None
It provides that the State Government shall similarly determine the term of appointment and other conditions of service of other categories of staff of the institution.	None
It is clear that there is some distinction between subparagraph (3) and subparagraph (4).	None
While under subparagraph (3), the State Government is to decide, among other things, whether the service of a member of teaching staff will be terminated or not, under subparagraph (4), the State Government has not been enjoined to decide whether the service of any member of a nonteaching staff will be terminated or not.	None
All that has been directed to be decided by the State Government under subparagraph (4) relates to the term of appointment and other conditions of service.	None
Admittedly, the petitioner Dr. Jagadanand Jha was not a member of the teaching staff, but, as noticed already, he was the Registrar of the Institute, which comes within the expression other categories of staff under subparagraph (4).	None
It is true that under subparagraph (4) it has been provided that subparagraphs (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis but, such application will be limited to the term of appointment and other conditions of service of a member of nonteaching staff of the institution.	None
In other words, the State Government may appoint a committee for the purpose of considering the term of appointment and other conditions of service of the members of the nonteaching staff and the State Government has to decide accordingly.	None
It is thus apparent that the State Government proceeded on the basis that under subparagraph (4) of paragraph 6 of the Ordinance, the State Government was to consider the question of termination of the services of members of nonteaching staff as in the cases of members of teaching staff, as provided in subparagraph (3) of paragraph 6 of the Ordinance.	None
Even then, we are not impressed with the manner and haste in which the order of termination has been passed.	None
The Ordinance was promulgated on April 19, 1986 and the order of termination was made on April 21, 1986.	None
Although it is alleged that a committee was formed and the State Government terminated the services of the petitioner on the report of the committee, we fail to understand the necessity for such haste and, in the circumstances, it will not be unreasonable to infer that the committee or the State Government had not properly applied its mind before the order of termination of the services of Dr. Jha was made.	None
There can be no dispute that when there is a legislative direction for termination of the services of employees, the compliance with the principles of natural justice may not be read into such direction and, if such terminations are effected without giving the employees concerned an opportunity of being heard, no exception can be taken to the same.	Reasoning
But, in the instant case, subparagraph (4) of paragraph 6 of the Ordinance does not contain any direction for the termination of services of the members of nonteaching staff.	Reasoning
Even in spite of that, if the State Government wants to terminate the services of the petitioner Dr. Jha, it cannot be done without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, for such act on the part of the State Government would be an administrative act.	Reasoning
In this connection, we may refer to our decision in K. I. Shephard v. Union of India (1987 4 SCC 431 1987 SCC (L S) 438) wherein it has been held that the scheme  making process under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 being administrative in nature, the rules of natural justice are attracted, as the scheme provided for the termination of services of the employees.	Reasoning
It is clear from the provision of subparagraph (4) of paragraph 6 that the services of the members of nonteaching staff have been intended to be continued.	Reasoning
The petitioner Dr. Jha has been working in the post of Registrar to the Institute for a pretty long time.	Reasoning
We are, therefore of the view that his services cannot be terminated without giving him an opportunity of being heard.	Reasoning
The learned counsel, appearing on behalf of the respondents, also do not seriously oppose the view that in such circumstances, the petitioner Dr. Jha should have been given an opportunity of being heard.	Reasoning
It is alleged in the impugned order of termination that the appointment and promotion of the petitioner were not done as per the rules of the University nor in accordance with the government directions and notifications and his stay in the Institute was not in the interest of the Institute.	Reasoning
If the petitioner was given an opportunity to make a representation, he could substantiate that the above findings were erroneous.	Reasoning
In any event, as the petitioner was not given an opportunity of being heard, the impugned order of termination of the services of the petitioner cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
Before parting with the cases, we may record that both the Society and Dr. Jha have not been able to substantiate the allegation of mala fides against the then Chief Minister of Bihar.	Reasoning
Even assuming, although holding to the contrary, that the Chief Minister had acted mala fide, the same cannot vitiate the legislative process in the exercise of which the impugned Act and Ordinances were respectively passed and promulgated.	Reasoning
The respondent also have failed to prove the alleged mismanagement of the Institute by the Society or by Dr. Jha.	Reasoning
Indeed, they have not pressed the allegation of mismanagement.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforesaid, the impugned order of termination dated April 21, 1986 of the petitioner Dr. Jagadanand Jha is quashed Writ Petitions (Civil) Nos. 87 of 1987 and 439 of 1987 and Civil Appeal No. 4141 of 1986 insofar as they relate to the said order of termination of services of petitioner Dr. Jagadanand Jha are allowed.	Decision
The State Government will be at liberty to consider the question of termination of service of the petitioner after giving him a reasonable opportunity to make representation.	Decision
The Writ Petitions (Civil) Nos. 55 of 1987 and 431 of 1987 and Civil Appeal No. 4142 of 1986 are dismissed49.	Decision
There will be no order for costs in any of these matters.	Decision
