 Gajendragadkar, CJ.1.	None
These writ petitions have been placed for hearing before us in a group, because they raise a common question of law in regard to the validity of the demand for sales tax which has been made against the respective petitioners by the Salestax Officers for different areas.	None
The facts in respect of each one of the writ petitions are not the same and the years for which the demand is made are also different but the pattern of contentions is uniform and the arguments urged in each one of them are exactly the same.	None
Broadly stated, the case for the petitioners is that the appropriate authorities purporting to act under the different Sales Tax Acts are attempting to recover from the petitioners salestax in respect of transactions to which the petitioners were parties, though the said transactions are not taxable under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 of the Constitution.	None
Article 286(1)(a) provides that no law of a State shall impose, or authorise the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of goods where such sale or purchase takes place outside the State and the argument is that the sales in question are all sales which took place outside the State and as such, are entitled to the protection of Art. 286(1)(a).	None
The authorities under the respective Sales Tax Acts have rejected the petitioners contention that the transactions in question are interState sales and have held that Art. 286(1)(a) is not applicable to them.	None
A similar finding has been recorded against the petitioners under Art. 86(2).	None
The petitioners grievance is that by coming to this erroneous conclusion, a tax is being levied against them in respect of transactions protected by Art. 286(1)(a) and that constitutes a breach of their fundamental rights under Art.	None
31(1).	Arguments of Respondent
It is this alleged infringement of their fundamental rights that they seek to bring before this Court under Art. 32(1).	None
It has been urged on their behalf that his right to move this Court under Art. 32(1) is itself a fundamental right, and so, under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32(2) an appropriate order should be passed letting aside the directions issued by the Sales Tax Authorities calling upon the petitioners either to pay the salestax, or to comply with other directions issued by them in that behalf.2.	None
For dealing with the points raised by these writ petitions, it is not necessary to set out the facts in respect of each one of them.	None
For convenience we will refer to the facts set out by the Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd., the petitioner in W. Ps.	None
Nos. 112 and 113 of 1961.	None
The petitioner is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and carries on the business of manufacturing, inter alia, Diesel Truck and Bus chassis and the spare parts and accessories thereof at Jamshedpur in the State of Bihar.	Facts
The Company sells these products to dealers, State Transport Organisations and others doing business in various States of India.	Facts
The registered office of the petitioner is in Bombay.	Facts
In order to promote its trade throughout the country, the petitioner has entered into Dealership Agreements with different persons.	Facts
The modus adopted by the petitioner in carrying on its business in different parts of India is to sell its products to the dealers by virtue of the relevant provisions of the Dealership Agreements.	Facts
Accordingly, the petitioner distributes and sells its vehicles to dealers, State Transport Organisations and consumers in the manner set out in the petition.	Facts
The petitioner contends that the sales in respect of which the present petitions have been filed were effected in the course of interState trade and as such, were not liable to be taxed under the relevant provisions of the Sales Tax Act.	Facts
The Sales Tax Officer, on the other hand, has held that the sales had taken place within the State of Bihar and were intraState sales and such, were liable to assessment under the Bihar Sales Tax Act.	Facts
In accordance with this conclusion, further steps are threatened against the petitioner in the matter of recovery of the sales tax calculated by the appropriate authorities.	Facts
The petitioner is a company and a majority of its shareholders are Indian citizens, two of whom have joined the present petitions.3.	Facts
The petitioners in W. Ps.	Facts
Nos. 79	Facts
and, 80/1962 are the Automobile Products of India Ltd. and Anr.	Facts
The majority of the shareholders of this company are also citizens of India and one of them has joined the petitions.4.	Facts
Writ petitions Nos. 202204/1961 have been filed by the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd.	Facts
The shareholders of this Corporation are the President of India, and two Additional Secretaries Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India one of these Secretaries, has joined the petitions.	Facts
It may incidentally be stated at this stage that these writ petitions were heard by a Special Bench of this Court on the 26th July, 1963 in order to determine the constitutional question as to whether the State Trading Corporation Ltd. can claim to be a citizen within the meaning of Art.	None
19 of the Constitution.	Decision
The majority decision rendered in these writ petitions on the preliminary issue referred to the Special Bench was that the petitioner as a State Trading Corporation is not a citizen under Art. 19, and so, could not claim the protection of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the said Article (vide State Trading Corporation of	None
India Ltd.	None
Commercial Tax Officer, AIR 1963 SC 1811 ).	None
That is why this petitioner along with other petitioners have made the petitions in the names of the companies as well as one or two of their shareholders respectively.	None
It is argued on behalf of the petitioners that though the company or the Corporation may not be an Indian citizen under Art. 19, that should not prejudice the petitioners case, because, in substance, the Corporation is no more than an instrument or agent appointed by its Indian shareholders and as such, it should be open to the petitioners either acting themselves as companies or acting through their shareholders to claim the relief for which the present petitions have been filed under Art.	None
32.5.	None
These petitions are resisted by the respective States on the ground that the petitions are not competent under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents contend that the main attack of the petitioners is against the findings of the Sales Tax Officers in regard to the character of the impugned sale transactions and they urged that even if the said findings are wrong, that cannot attract the provisions of Art.	None
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
The validity of the respective Sales Tax Acts is not challenged and if purporting to exercise their powers under the relevant provisions of the said Acts, the appropriate authorities have, during the course of the assessment proceedings, came to the conclusion that the impugned transactions are intraState sales and do not fall under Art. 286(1)(a), that is a decision which is a quasijudicial in character and even an erroneous decision rendered in such assessment proceedings cannot be said to contravene the fundamental rights of a citizen which would justify recourse to Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the alleged breach of the petitioners fundamental rights being referable to a quasijudicial order made by a Tribunal appointed under a valid Sales Tax Act, does not bring the case within Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is the first preliminary ground on which the competence of the writ petitions is challenged.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this plea, reliance is placed by the respondents on a recent decision of a Special Bench of this Court in Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
U jjam Bai v. State of Uttar Pradesh, 19631 SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ).6.	Arguments of Respondent
There is another preliminary objection raised by the respondents against the competence of the writ petitions, and that is based upon the decision of this Court in the case of the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
AIR 1963 SC 1811 .	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged that the decision of this Court that the State Trading Corporation is not a citizen, necessarily means that the fundamental rights guaranteed by Art. 19 which can be claimed only by citizens cannot be claimed by such a Corporation, and so, them can be no scope for looking at the substance of the matter and giving to the shareholders indirectly the right which the Corporation as a separate legal entity is not directly entitled to claim.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents have urged that in dealing with the plea of the petitioners that the veil worn by the Corporation as a separate legal entity should be lifted and the substantial character of the Corporation should be determined without reference to the technical position that the Corporation is a separate entity, we ought to bear in mind the decision of this Court in the case of the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., AIR 1963 SC 1811 .	Arguments of Respondent
Basing themselves on this contention, the respondents have also argued that if the fundamental rights guaranteed by Art. 19 are not available to the petitioners, then their plea that the sales tax is being collected from them contrary to Art. 31 (1) must fail and in support of this contention reliance is placed upon a recent decision of this Court in the case of IndoChine Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v. Additional Collector of Customs, Civil Appeal No. 770 of 1962 and	Arguments of Respondent
W. P. No, 138 of 1961 D  321964 (AIR 1964 SC 1140 ).7.	Arguments of Respondent
Logically, the second preliminary objection would come first, because if the petitioners cannot claim the status of citizens and are not, therefore, entitled to base their petitions on the allegation that their fundamental rights under Art. 19 have been contravened, that would be the end of the petitions.	None
It has been conceded before us by all the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners that it is only if both the preliminary objections raised by the respondents are overruled that the hearing of the writ petitions would reach the stage of considering the merits of their pleas that the sales which are sought to be taxed fall under Art 286(1)(a) of the Constitution.	None
If the respondents succeed in either of the two preliminary objections raised by them, the writ petitioner would fail and there would be no occasion to consider the merits of the pleas raised by them.	None
Since we have come to the conclusion that the second preliminary objection raised by the respondents must be upheld, we do not propose to pronounce any decision on the first preliminary objection.	None
However, as the point covered by the said objection has been elaborately argued before us, we would prefer to indicate briefly the broad arguments urged by both the parties in that behalf.8.	None
The controversy between the parties as to the scope and effect of the provisions contained in Art.	None
32 on which the validity of the first preliminary objection rests, substantially centers round the question as to what is the effect of the decision of this Court in Smt.	None
Ujjam Bais case, 19631 SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ).	None
The petitioners argue that though the majority view in that case was that the writ petition filed by Ujjam Bai was incompetent, it would appear that the reasons given in most of the judgments support the petitioners case that where the fundamental rights of a citizen are contravened, may be by a quasijudicial order, in pursuance of which a tax is attempted to be recovered from a citizen, the erroneous conclusion in regard to the nature of the transaction must be held to contravene the fundamental rights of the citizens and as such, would justify the petitioners in moving this Court under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.9.	None
On the other hand, the respondents urge that the effect of the decision in Ujjam Bais case, 19631 SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ) plainly tends to show that if a quasijudicial decision has determined a matter in regard to the taxability of a given transaction there can be no question about the breach of fundamental rights which would justify an application under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is that the intervention of quasijudicial order changes the complexion of the dispute between the parties, and in cases of that character, the only remedy available to an aggrieved citizen is to take recourse to the appeals and other proceedings prescribed by the taxing statute in question.	Arguments of Respondent
Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 is not intended to confer appellate jurisdiction on this Court so as to review or examine the propriety of quasijudicial orders passed by appropriate authorities purporting to exercise their powers and jurisdictions under the several taxing statutes.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be that after exhausting the remedies by way of appeals and revisions prescribed by the statute, the party may come to this Court under Art. 136, but Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 is inapplicable in such cases.10.	Arguments of Respondent
In Ujjam Bais case, 19631 SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 )	None
the first issue which was referred to the Special Bench was whether an order of assessment made by an authority under a taxing statute which is intra vires is open to challenge as repugnant to Art. 19(1)(g), on the sole ground that it was based on a misconstruction of provisions of the Act or of a notification issued thereunder and the second question was, can the validity of such an order be questioned in a petition under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution?	None
The majority view expressed in this case was against the petitioner.	None
S. K. Das J., who delivered the main judgment on behalf of the majority view observed that where a quasijudicial authority makes an order in the undoubted exercise of its jurisdiction in pursuance of a provision of law which is intra vires, an error of law or fact committed by that authority cannot be impeached otherwise than on appeal, unless the erroneous determination relates to a matter on which the jurisdiction of that body depends, and so, he held that if the impugned order of assessment is made by an authority under a valid taxing statute in the undoubted exercise of its jurisdiction, it cannot be challenged under Art.	None
32 on the sole ground that it is passed on a misconstruction of a provision of the Act or of a notification issued thereunder.11.	None
Subba Rao J., on the other hand, took the view that Art.	None
32 confers wide jurisdiction on this Court to enforce the fundamental rights, and he held that is the duty of this Court to entertain a writ petition wherever a fundamental right of a citizen is alleged to have been contravened, irrespective of whether the question raised involves a question of jurisdiction, law, or fact this is the minority view pronounced in Ujjam Bais case, 19631 SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ).12.	None
Hidayatullah J., who agreed broadly with the majority view, expressed the opinion that if a quasijudicial tribunal embarks upon an action wholly outside the pale of the law he is enforcing a question of jurisdiction would be involved and that would justify an application under Art. 32.13.	None
Ayyangar J., held that it appeared that the impugned order of assessment was based upon a plain and patent misconstruction of the provisions of the taxing statute, that itself would give rise to a plea that the authority was acting beyond its jurisdiction and in such a case, a petition under Art.	None
32 may be justified.	None
Proceeding on this view, the learned Judge held that the construction placed by the taxing authority was not shown to be patently erroneous, and so, he was not prepared to grant any relief to Ujjamm Bai.	None
That is how the learned Judge agreed with the majority decision.14.	None
Mudholkar, J., who also agreed with the majority decision, was disposed to make an exception in cases where an erroneous construction of the law would lead to the recovery of a tax which is beyond the competence of the legislature, or is violative of the provisions of Part III or of any other provisions of the Constitution.15.	None
It would, thus, be seen that though the majority decision was that Ujjam Bais petition should be dismissed, the reasons given in the judgments pronounced by the learned Judges who agreed with the majority decision are not all uniform and do not disclose an identity of approach or of reasons, and that naturally has given rise to the arguments in the present writ petitions, both parties suggesting that the majority decision in the case of Ujjam Bai, 1963l SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ) supports the rival views for which they contend.16.	None
Mr. Setalvad has strongly urged that if a misconstruction of the notification on which Ujjam Bai rested her case, was not held to justify a petition under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32	Arguments of Respondent
, that would necessarily mean that the misconstruction of the nature of the transaction would be no better, even though in this latter case the wrong decision on the question as to the character of the sale transaction may involve taxing a transaction which is protected by Art. 286(1)(a).	Arguments of Respondent
One can understand the argument said Mr. Setalvad, that a breach of the fundamental rights, however it is caused would justify recourse to Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 that would be consistent and logical	Arguments of Respondent
but once it is held that a breach of the fundamental rights alleged to have been caused by a misconstruction of a notification or a statute placed by an appropriate authority acting under the provisions of a valid taxing law does not attract Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32, it is not logically possible to urge that another kind of breach alleged to have been caused by a misappreciation of the nature of the transaction and an erroneous conclusion as to its taxable character would make any difference.	Arguments of Respondent
In the first case, the erroneous construction of the notification violates the provisions of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
265 of the Constitution and thereby brings in the breach of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31(1) in the other case, the misconstruction as to the taxable character of the transaction violates Art. 286(1)(a) and thereby brings in Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31(1).	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is urged that the necessary consequence of the decision in Ujjam Bais case, 19631 SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ) is that even if the Sales Tax Officer has held wrongly that the impugned transactions are not interState transactions, the remedy of petition under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 is not open to the aggrieved citizen.17.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, Mr. Palkhivala has strenuously urged that the decision in Ujjam Bais case, 19631	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC l62l) rested on the basis that the misinterpretation of the notification did not involve the violation of any constitutional limitations or prohibitions and he has referred us to some passages in the judgments of Das, Kapur and Mudholkar JJ.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his argument that where an erroneous decision of a sales tax officer results in the violation of a constitutional prohibition or limitation, different considerations, would arise and an aggrieved citizen would be entitled to move this Court under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Palkhivala has emphasised the fact that whereas Das J., expressly held that the view taken in Kailash Nath v. State of U. P., (S) AIR 1957 SC 790 was not right, he approved of the other decisions which were cited at the Bar and exhaustively discussed on the ground that those decisions fall under the category in which an executive authority acts without authority of law, or a quasijudicial authority acts in transgression of a constitutional prohibition and without jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
(p. 842).	None
These decisions are Thakur Amar Singhji v. State of Rajasthan, 19552	None
SCR 303 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 504 ) Mohanlal	None
Hargovind Das v. State of Madhya Pradesh, 19552 SCR 509 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 786 ) Y. Mahaboob Sheriff v. Mysore State Transport Authority Bangalore, 19602	None
SCR 146 (AIR 1960 SC 321 )	None
J. V. Gokal and Co.	None
(Private) Ltd. v. Assistant Collector of Sales Tax, (Inspection), 19602 SCR 852 (AIR 1960 SC 595 ) and Universal Imports Agency v. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 19611 SCR.	None
305 (AIR 1961 SC 41 ).	None
To the same effect is the observation made by Kapur J., when the learned Judge stated that in the case of M s. Mohanlal Hargovind Das, 19552 SCR 509 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 786 ) the dispute did not turn upon a misconstruction of any statute by any quasijudicial authority, but that was a case in which the very transaction was outside the taxing powers of the State and any action taken by the taxing authorities was one without authority of law.18.	None
In support of the same argument, both Mr. Pathak and Mr. Palkhivala strongly relied upon the two subsequent decisions of this Court where writ petitions filed under Art.	None
32 were entertained on grounds somewhat similar to those on which the present writ petitions are founded, State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. State of Mysore, 196314 STC 188 (AIR 1963 SC 548 ) and the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. State of Mysore, 196314 STC 416 (SC).19.	None
Basing himself on these decisions, Mr. Pathak has argued that the question as to whether a particular transaction of sale attracts the protection of Art. 286(1)(a) is a collateral fact the decision of which confers jurisdiction on the Sales Tax Officer and he contends that the decision of the Sales Tax Officer, who is a Tribunal of limited jurisdiction, on a collateral jurisdictional point can always be challenged under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32 of the Constitution if the said decision impinges upon the citizens right protected by Art. 286(1)(a).20.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Palkhivala urged the argument of jurisdiction in a slightly different way.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the concept of jurisdiction on which he relied was not based on the view that jurisdiction means authority to decide.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him the concept of jurisdiction was of a different category and was of a vital character when constitutional limitations or prohibitions were involved in the decision of any case brought before a Sales Tax Officer.21.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Setalvad has urged that the Sales Tax Officer is not a Tribunal of limited jurisdiction and the charging sections the respective Sales Tax Acts leave it to the Sales Tax Officer and the hierarchy of officers contemplated by them to decide the question about the taxability of any given transaction and impose a tax on it in accordance with the provisions of the Acts.	Arguments of Respondent
Where a tribunal is entitled to deal with transactions which fall under the charging sections of the statute, it would be erroneous to contend that the decision of the Tribunal on the said question about the taxability of the transaction is the decision on a collateral jurisdictional fact.	Arguments of Respondent
If the said argument is accepted, logically, it may mean that all questions the decision of which inevitably precedes the imposition of the tax, would be collateral jurisdictional fact and that clearly cannot be the effect of the charging sections of the different Acts.22.	None
In regard to the point of constitutional limitations and prohibitions raised by Mr. Palkhivala, Mr. Setalvad contends that if the provisions of Art. 286(1)(a) makes the decision of the Sales Tax Officer on the character of the sale transaction one of jurisdiction, then it is difficult to see why his decision on other points should also not partake of the same character.	Arguments of Respondent
In that connection, he emphasised the fact that the provisions of Art. 286(1)(a) cannot be distinguished from the provisions of Art. 265.	Arguments of Respondent
As we have already indicated, having regard to the fact that we have come to the conclusion that the other preliminary objection urged by the respondents must be upheld, we do not propose to express any opinion on this part of the controversy between the parties.23.	None
That takes us to the question as to whether the petitioners, some of whom are companies registered under the Indian Companies Act and one of whom is the State Trading Corporation, can claim to file the present writ petitions under Art.	Issue
32 having regard to the decision of this Court in the case of the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., AIR 1963 SC 1811 .	None
The petitioners argue that the said decision merely held that the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., was not a citizen.	None
The question as to whether the veil of the Corporation can be lifted and the rights of the shareholders of the said Corporation could be recognised under Art. 19 or not was not decided, and it is on this aspect of the question that arguments have been urged before us in the present writ petitions.24.	Arguments of Petitioner
The true legal position in regard to the character of a corporation or a company which owes its incorporation to a statutory authority, is not in doubt or dispute.	None
The Corporation in law is equal to a natural person and has a legal entity of its own.	None
The entity of the Corporation is entirely separate from that of its shareholders it bears its own name and has a seal of its own its assets are separate and distinct from those of its members it can sue and be sued exclusively for its own purpose its creditors cannot obtain satisfaction from the assets of its members the (liability of the members or shareholders is limited to the capital invested by them, similarly the creditors of the members have no right to the assets of the Corporation.	None
This position has been wellestablished eversince the decision in the case of Saloman v. Salomon and Co., 1897 AC 22 was pronounced in 1897 and indeed, it has always been the well recognised principle of common law.	None
However, in the course of time the doctrine that the Corporation or a Company has a legal and separate entity of its own has been subjected to certain exceptions by the application of the fiction that the veil of the Corporation can be lifted and its face examined in substance.	None
The doctrine of the lifting of the veil thus marks a change in the attitude that law had originally adopted towards the concept of the separate entity or personality of the Corporation.	None
As a result of the impact of the complexity of economic factors, judicial decisions have sometimes recognised exceptions to the rule about the juristic personality of the corporation.	None
It may be that in course of time these exceptions may grow in number and to meet the requirements of different economic problems the theory about the personality of the corporation may be confined more and more.25.	None
But the question which we have to consider is whether in the circumstances of the present petitions, we would be justified in acceding to the argument that the veil of the petitioning corporations should be lifted and it should be held that their shareholders who are Indian citizens should be permitted to invoke the protection of Art.19, and on that basis, move this Court under Art.	None
32 to challenge the validity of the orders passed by the Sales Tax Officers in respect of transactions which, it is alleged, are not taxable.	None
Mr. Palkhivala has very strongly urged before us that having regard to the fact that the controversy between the parties relates to the fundamental rights of citizens, we should not hesitate to look at the substance of the matter and disregard the doctrinaire approach which recognises the existence of companies as separate juristic or legal persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
If all the shareholders of the petitioning companies are Indian citizens, why should not the Court look at the substance of the matter and give the shareholders the right to challenge that the contravention of their fundamental rights should be prevented.	Arguments of Petitioner
He does not dispute that the shareholders cannot claim that the property of the companies is their own and cannot plead that the business of the companies is their business in the strict legal sense.	Arguments of Petitioner
The doctrine of lifting of the veil postulates the existence of dualism between the corporation or company on the one hand and its members or shareholders on the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
So, it is no good emphasising that technical aspect of the matter in dealing with the question as to whether the veil should be lifted or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his plea, he has invited our attention to the decision of the Privy Council in the English and Scottish Joint Cooperative Wholesale Society Ltd. v. Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax Assam, 1948l6 ITR 270 (AIR 1948 PC 142 ), as well as the decision of the House of Lords in Daimler Co. Ltd. v. Continental Tyre and Rubber Co.	Arguments of Petitioner
(Great Britain), Ltd. 19162 AC 307.26.	None
It is unnecessary to refer to the facts in these two cases and the principles enunciated by them, because it is not disputed by the respondents that stamps exceptions have been recognised to the rule that a corporation of a company has a juristic or legal separate entity.	None
The doctrine of the lifting of the veil has been applied in the words of Palmer in five categories of cases where companies are in the relationship of holding and subsidiary (or subsubsidiary) companies where a shareholder has lost the privilege of limited liability and has become directly liable to certain creditors of the company on the ground that, with his knowlege, the company continued to carry on business six months after the number of its members was reduced below the legal minimum in certain matters pertaining to the law of taxes, death duties and stamps, particularly where the question of the controlling interest is in issue in the law relating to exchange control and in the law relating to trading with the enemy where the test of control is adoptedIn some of these cases, judicial decisions have no doubt lifted the veil and considered the substance of the matter.	None
Palmers Company Law 20th Ed.	None
P. 13627.	None
Gower has similarly summarised this position with the observation that in a number of important respects, the legislature has rent the veil woven by the Salomon case, 1897 AC 22.	None
Particularly is this so, says Gower, in the sphere of taxation and in the steps which have been taken towards the recognition of enterprise entity rather than corporateentity.	None
It is significant, however, that according to Gower, the courts have only construed statutes as cracking open the corporate shell when compelled to do so by the clear words of the statute indeed they have gone out of their way to avoid this construction whenever possible.	None
Thus, at present, the judicial approach in cracking open the corporate shell is somewhat cautious and circumspect.	None
It is only where the legislative provision justifies the adoption of such a course that the veil has been lifted.	None
In exceptional cases where Courts have felt themselves able to ignore the corporate entity and to treat the individual shareholder as liable for its actsthe same course has been adopted.	None
Summarising his conclusions, Gower has classified seven categories of cases where the veil of a corporate body has been lifted.	None
But it would not be possible to evolve a rational, consistent and inflexible principle which can be invoked in determining the question as to whether the veil of the corporation should be lifted or not.	None
Broadly stated, where fraud is intended to be prevented, or trading with an enemy is sought to be defeated, the veil of a corporation is lifted by judicial decisions and the shareholders are held to be the persons who actually work for the corporation.	None
Gowers Modern Company Law 2nd Ed.	None
Pp. 193 and 195.28.	None
That being the position with regard to the doctrine of the veil of a corporation and the principle that the said veil can be lifted in some cases, the question which arises for our decision is can we lift the veil of the petitioner and say that it is the shareholder who are really moving the Court under Art. 32, and so, the existence of the legal and juristic separate entity of the petitioners as a corporation or as a company should not make the petitions filed by them under Art.	Issue
32 incompetent.	Issue
We do not think we can answer this question in the affirmative.	Reasoning
No doubt, the complaint made by the petitioners is that their fundamental rights are infringed and it is a truism to say that this Court as the guardian of the fundamental rights of the citizens will always attempt to safeguard the said fundamental rights but having regard to the decision of this Court in the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., AIR 1963 SC 1811 we do not see how we can legitimately entertain the petitioners plea in the present petitions, because if their plea was upheld, it would really mean that what the corporations or the companies cannot achieve directly, can be achieved by them indirectly by relying upon the doctrine of lifting the veil.	Reasoning
If he corporations and companies are not citizens, it means that the Constitution intended that they should not get the benefit of Art.	Reasoning
19.	Reasoning
It is no doubt suggested by the petitioners that though Art. 19 is confined to citizens, the Constitutionmakers may have thought that in dealing with the claims of corporations to invoke the provisions of Art, 19, Courts would act upon the doctrine of lifting the veil and would not treat the attempts of the corporations in that behalf as falling outside Art, 19.	Reasoning
We do not think this argument is wellfounded.	Reasoning
The effect of confining Art. 19 to citizens as distinguished from persons to whom other Articles like 14 apply, clearly must be that it is only citizens to whom the rights under Art. 19 are guaranteed.	Reasoning
If the legislature intends that the benefit of Art. 19 should be made available to the corporations, it would not be difficult for it to adopt a proper measure in that behalf by enlarging the definition of citizen prescribed by the Citizenship Act passed by the Parliament by virtue of the powers conferred on it by Articles 10 and 11.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the fact that the Parliament has not chosen to make any such provision indicates that it was not the intention of the Parliament to treat corporations as citizens.	Reasoning
Therefore, it seems to us that in view of the decision of this Court in the case of the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., AIR 1963 SC 1811 the petitioners cannot be heard to say that their shareholders should be allowed to file the present petitions on the ground that, in substance, the corporations and companies are nothing more than associations of shareholders and members thereof.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, the argument that in the present petition we would be justified in lifting the veil cannot be sustained.29.	Reasoning
Mr. Pakhivala sought to draw a distinction between the right of a citizen to carry on trade or business which is contemplated by Art. 19 (1) (g) from his right to form associations or unions contemplated by Art. 19 (1) (c).	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that Art, 19 (1) (c) enables the citizens to choose their instruments or agents for carrying on the business which it is their fundamental right to carry on.	Arguments of Petitioner
If citizens decide to set up a corporation or a company as their agent for the purpose of carrying on trade or business, that is a right which is guaranteed to them under Art, 19 (1) (c).	Arguments of Petitioner
Basing himself on this distinction between the two rights guaranteed by Art, 19(1) (c).	Arguments of Petitioner
Basing himself on this distinction between the two rights guaranteed by Art. 19 (1) (g) and (c) respectively, Mr. Palkhivala somewhat ingeniously contended that we should not hesitate to lift the veil, because by looking at the substance of the matter, we would really be giving effect to the two fundamental rights guaranteed by Art, 19 (1).	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not impressed by this argument either.	None
The fundamental right to form an association cannot in this manner be coupled with the fundamental right to carry on any trade or business.	Reasoning
As has been held by this Court in All India Bank Employees Association v. National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Bombay, 19623 SCR 269 (AIR 1962 SC 171 ) the argument which is thus attractively presented before us overlooks the fact that Art. 19, as contrasted with certain other articles like Arts.	Reasoning
26, 29 and 30 guarantees rights to the citizens as such, and associations cannot lay claim to the fundamental rights guaranteed by that Article solely on the basis of their being an congregation of citizens, that is to say, the right of the citizens composing the body.	Reasoning
The respective rights guaranteed by Art, 19 (1) cannot be combined as suggested by Mr. Palkhivala, but must be asserted each in its own way and within its own limits the sweep of the several rights is no doubt wide, but the combination of any of those two rights would not justify a claim such as is made by Mr. Palkhivala in the present petitions.	Reasoning
As soon as citizens form a company, the right guaranteed to them by Art. 19 (1) (c) has been exercised and no restraint has been placed on that right and no infringement of trial right is made.	Reasoning
Once a company or a corporation is formed, the business which is carried on by the said company or corporation is the business of the company or corporation and is not the business of the citizens who get the company or corporation formed or incorporated, and the rights of the incorporated body must be judged on that footing and cannot be judged on the assumption that they are the rights attributable to the business of individual citizens.	Reasoning
Therefore we are satisfied that the argument based on the distinction between the two rights guaranteed by Art.	Reasoning
19(1) (c) and (g) and the effect of their combination cannot take the petitioners case very far when they seek to invoke the doctrine that the veil of the corporation should be lifted.	Reasoning
That is why we have come to the conclusion that the petitions filed by the petitioners are incompetent under Art.	Reasoning
32, even though in each of these petitions one or two of the shareholders of the petitioning companies or corporation have joined.30.	Reasoning
The result is, second preliminary objection raised by the respondents is upheld and the writ petitions are dismissed as being incompetent under Art.	Decision
32 of the Constitution.	Decision
There would be no order as to costs.31.	None
Petitions dismissed.	None
