 Shelat, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against the Judgment and order of the High Court of Maharashtra dismissing the appellants petition under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Issue
The question arising in the appeal is whether the Assistant Charity Commissioner appointed under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 as extended to the area of Vidarbha has jurisdiction to hold an inquiry under Section 19 of that Act in spite of a previous finding by the Registrar under the Madhya Pradesh Public Trusts Act, XXX of 1951 that the trust in question was not a public trust within the meaning of the latter Act.	Issue
The facts leading to the writ petition may briefly be set out.2.	Issue
In October 1953, one Jaferbhai claiming to be a beneficiary applied under S. .5 of the M. P. Act to the Registrar that the trust known as Mehdibaug founded in Nagpur in 1891 and its properties which were and are admittedly in possession of and managed by the appellant was a public trust.	Facts
As required by Section 5 (2) of that tact the Registrar directed that a proclamation in respect of the said application should be published in the next issue of Madhya Pradesh Gazette.	Facts
The inquiry held by the Registrar ended in an order dated November 11, 1955 whereby he held that the trust was not a public trust.	Facts
Though the Registrar gave his aforesaid finding he did not cause an entry thereof to be made in the register maintained by him under the Act.	Facts
On November 1, 1956 as a result of the reorganisation of States Vidarbha was merged in the then Bombay State.	Facts
The Bombay legislature thereafter passed the Bombay Public Trusts (Unification Amendment) Act, 1959 and by a notification dated February 1, 1961 passed thereunder the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 was extended to the Vidarbha area.	Facts
On March 2, 1962, respondents 2 to 5 filed an application under Section 19 of the Bombay Act, 1950 before the Assistant Charity Commissioner for an inquiry as to whether the said trust was a public trust.	Facts
The appellant contended that since the trust was already declared not to be a public trust under the M. P. Act the Assistant Charity Commissioner was precluded from holding the inquiry under the Bombay Act.	Facts
On September 6, 1962, the Assistant Charity Commissioner rejected that contention.	Facts
Thereupon the appellant filed the aforesaid petition in the High Court.	Facts
The High Court as stated above dismissed the petition holding that the Assistant Charity Commissioner had jurisdiction to hold the inquiry.	Facts
It is this order which is impugned for this appeal.3.	Facts
In view of the controversy between the parties as to the effect of certain provisions of the Bombay Act 1950 and the M. P. Act of 1951 it becomes necessary to briefly notice some of the relevant provisions of the two Acts.	None
Section 2 (4) of the M. P. Act defines public trust as meaning an express or constructive trust for a public, religious or charitable purpose and includes a temple etc. or any other religious or charitable endowment and a society formed for a religious or charitable purpose.	None
Subsection (5) of that section defines register as meaning a register maintained under subsection (2) of Section 3 of the Act.	None
Section 3 (2) provides that the Registrar should maintain a register of public trusts and such other books and registers and in such form as may he prescribed.	None
Section 4 provides for the registration of public trusts and lays down that the working trustee of every public trust should apply to the Registrar for its registration by an application have to be set out.	None
Section 5 provides that on receipt of such an application or upon an application made by any person having interest in a public trust or on his own motion, the Registrar shall make an inquiry in the prescribed manner for ascertaining amongst other things whether the trust in question is a public trust.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of Section 5 as aforesaid provides for giving a public notice of the inquiry proposed to be made inviting all persons interested in the public trust under inquiry to prefer objections, if any, in respect of such trust.	None
Under Section 6 the Registrar on completion of the inquiry has to record his findings with reasons therefor as to the matters set out in Section 5 (i) and under Section 7 (1) he has to cause entries to be made in the register in accordance with his findings and has to publish on the notice hoard of his office the entries so made.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 7 reads as underThe entries so made shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and subject to any change recorded under any provision of this Act or a rule made thereunder, be final and conclusive.	None
Section 8 provides that any working trustee or person having interest in a public trust or any property found to be trust property, aggrieved by any finding of the Registrar under Section 6 may, within six months from the date of the publication of the notice under subsection (1) of Section 7, institute a suit in a civil court to have such finding set aside or modified.	None
Subsection (3) provides that on the final decision of the suit, the Registrar shall, if necessary, correct the entries made in the register in accordance with such decision.4.	None
It is clear from the provisions of Section 8 that though the entries made by the Registrar are final and conclusive that finality is subject to the decision of the court in a suit challenging the findings of the Registrar.	Reasoning
The cause of action for such a suit is thus the finding of the Registrar and not the entry.	Reasoning
It is manifest that Section 7 requires the making of the entry and its notification in order that the findings given by the Registrar are recorded and are given publicity so that an aggrieved party whether he is a working trustee or a person interested in the trust may file a suit within the prescribed time.	Reasoning
Under Section 35 of the Act the State Government framed rules prescribing inter alia for the maintenance of certain registers.	Reasoning
Under the Act and the said Rules the Registrar had to maintain four registers.	Reasoning
viz (1) a register of public trusts, (2) a register of the properties of public trusts, (3) a register relating to immovable properties belonging to the trusts and (4) a register of decisions of courts relating to public trusts.	Reasoning
These being the only registers prescribed either under the Act or the said rules there was no obligation on the Registrar to maintain any other register or book.5.	Reasoning
The Bombay Act, 1950 defines a public trust to mean an express or constructive trust for either a public, religious or charitable purpose or both and includes a temple.	None
a math.	None
a waqf, a dharmada or any other religious or charitable endowment and a society formed either for a religious or charitable purpose or for both and registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.	None
Section 18 provides for registration of public trusts and is substantially in the same terms as Section 4 of the M. P. Act.	None
Section 19 similarly provides for an inquiry for ascertaining the matters set out therein which are again in the same terms as in Section 5 of the M. P. Act.	None
Though the definition of the public trust in the Bombay Act is not exactly in the same terms as that in the M. P. Act the contents of both are substantially the same.	None
In any event it is not the case of the respondents that that which is not a public trust or a property belonging to a public trust under the M. P. Act has been made a public trust or a property belonging to such trust under the Bombay Act.	None
The inquiry under both the Acts and its scope are therefore the same.	None
Section 86 of the Bombay Act inducted in the Act by Bombay Act VI of 1960 contains both repeal and saving clauses.	None
Under subsections (1) and (2) read with Bombay Act of 1960 the M. P. Act of l951 stands repealed.	None
Subsection (3) which is a saving provision provides that the repeal or cessation of the Acts under subsections (1) and (2) shall not in any way affect.(a) anything duty done or suffered under the laws hereby repealed or ceasing to apply before the said date(b) any right, title, interest, obligation or liability already acquired, accrued or incurred before the said date under the laws hereby repealed or ceasing to apply(c) any legal proceedings or remedy in respect of such right, title, interest, obligation or liability.6.	None
Two contentions were raised by the appellant in the High Court in support of his petition.	None
First, that the Registrar under the M. P. Act having found that the trust was not a public trust and six months having expired from the date of his finding that finding became final, that a right within the meaning of Cl.	None
(b) of Section 86 (3) of the Bombay Act vested in the appellant and that therefore the Assistant Charity Commissioner was not competent to reopen that finding and start an inquiry abrogating his said right	None
and (2) that it was obligatory on the Registrar to make an entry in the register of public trusts maintained by him and that since he had not made such an entry the inquiry held by him was not completed that that being so the inquiry was a pending proceeding saved by Section 86 (3) and therefore the only remedy which respondents 2 to 5 had was to proceed in that proceeding by calling upon the Registrar to make and notify such entry and if necessary to file a suit under Section 8 of the M. P. Act challenging that finding.	None
The High Court rejected both these contentions.	None
The High Court held that the M. P. Act did not confer any finality to the Registrars finding and that under that Act finality attached to an entry made by the Registrar the register of public trusts.	None
It also held that when the Registrars finding was a negative one it was not incumbent on him to make any entry as the only register he was enjoined upon to maintain was the one prescribed by the Act.	None
The rules made under the Act not having prescribed any other register or book and the only register prescribed by the Act being the register of Public trusts it was not obligatory upon him to enter a finding that the trust in question was not a public trust.	None
No such entry having been made no right under Section 86 (3) of the Bombay Act vested in the appellant which would bar a fresh inquiry under the Bombay Act.	None
The High Court further held that there being no obligation on the Registrar to make such a negative entry it could not be said that the proceedings before him was a pending proceeding saved under Section 83 (3).	None
No finality therefore was given to the finding of the Registrar that the trust was not a public trust.	None
As regards the suit under Section 8 of the M.P. Act, the High Court held that on a true interpretation of Sections 5, 6 7 and 8 of that Act the suit contemplated was a suit for the purpose of correcting an entry made by the Registrar and that no such entry having been made no such Suit lay and consequently respondents 2 to 5 could not have filed a suit under that section.7.	None
As aforesaid the preamble of the M. P. Act shows that the Act was enacted to regulate and to make better provision for the administration of public, religious and charitable trusts in the then State of Madhya Pradesh.	Reasoning
With that end in view Section 5 of that Act provides for an inquiry to he held by the Registrar for ascertaining among other things Whether a trust under inquiry is a public trust or not.	Reasoning
A public notice of such an inquiry was provided for under Section5 (2) in order to enable persons interested in such trust to participate therein.	Reasoning
Sections 6 and 7 enjoin upon the Registrar to record his finding.	Reasoning
Such a finding may either be that the trust is a public trust or it is not.	Reasoning
Section 7 (1) enjoins upon him to cause entries to be made in the register in accordance with the findings recorded by him under Section 6and	Reasoning
he is to publish the entries when made in the register.	Reasoning
The register prescribed no doubt is a register of public trusts.	Reasoning
It the finding of the Registrar is that a particular trust is not a public trust, does he not have to make an entry of his finding in the register or has he to make an entry in that register only when his finding is a positive one that the trust is a pubic trust?It will be noticed that there is nothing in Section 7 (1) to show that he is required to make an entry only if the finding, is in the affirmative.	Reasoning
On the other hand subs (1) of Section 7 expressly provides that he shall cause entries to be made in accordance with the findings recorded by him under Section 6.	Reasoning
Section 6 shows that he has to record his findings and the reasons therefor whatever the findings are, whether in the affirmative or in the negative.	Reasoning
Since entries under Section 7 (1) are to be made in accordance with such findings, either positive or negative, it follows that entries have to be made irrespective of whether the trust is found to be a public trust or not.	Reasoning
To say that he is required to make an entry of a finding only if the finding is that the trust is a public trust would be contrary to the express language of Sections 6 and 7 and would unnecessarily curtail the language and the scope of the two sections.	Reasoning
This construction is also supported by Section 8.	Reasoning
Under that section, though it is the entry made under S. 7 which has been given finality a right of suit is conferred on both the working trustee and all persons having interest in the trust or any property belonging to it and who is aggrieved by any finding.	Reasoning
The section no doubt provides that such a suit has to be filed within six months from the date of the publication of the entry.	Reasoning
But that provision is clearly one fixing limitation.	Reasoning
That does not mean that the suit is to set aside the entry.	Reasoning
The section in so many terms states that such a suit would be to set aside the finding given by the Registrar and where such a finding is set aside the Registrar has to correct the entry made in the register in accordance with his findings.	Reasoning
The cause of action for such a suit thus is the finding and not the entry which is merely consequential.	Reasoning
It is therefore not right to say that a suit cannot be filed unless the Registrar has made the entry.	Reasoning
The legislature, besides, could not have left the right to file a suit on the mercy of the Registrar who may or may not make the entry.	Reasoning
It is equally not correct to say that the Registrar has not to make an entry if his finding is in the negative.	Reasoning
Suppose the Registrar in a given case gives his finding that the trust in question is not a public trust and does not make an entry on the ground that the register maintained by him is the register of public trusts and not of trusts which are not public trusts.	Reasoning
What is a person interested in the trust or its properties to do if he is aggrieved by that finding?	Reasoning
Does it mean that he has no remedy by way of a suit?	Reasoning
That surely cannot be the meaning to be given to Sections 7 and 8.	Reasoning
If the making of the entry is the condition precedent for such a suit such a person would have no remedy of a suit under Section 8.	Reasoning
It is precisely to avoid such a result that the section provides in explicit language that any person, aggrieved by the finding and not the entry, has a right to file a suit and to have such a finding set aside, whether the finding is positive or negative.	Reasoning
There is nothing in S. 8 which restricts the right of a suit in cases where the finding is in the affirmative.	Reasoning
If that was so giving a right to sue to a person interested in the trust would be superfluous as he would never be aggrieved by a finding that the trust is a public trust.	Reasoning
The High Court was, therefore, in error when it held that the Registrar was not obliged to make the entry as his finding was in the negative.	Reasoning
In our view, reading Ss. 5,6,7 and 8 of the M. P. Act it is clear that the Registrar is enjoined upon to make an entry in the register of public trusts irrespective of whether his finding is in the affirmative or in the negative.	Reasoning
For the entry he has to make is the entry in accordance with his finding whatever that finding is.8.	Reasoning
As regards the second contention urged before it, the High Court observed that if it was obligatory on the Registrar to cause an entry to be made in the register even if the finding was negative, the fact that he had not made such an entry would not deprive the appellant of his right and in, that event it would have held that the proceeding before the Registrar was still pending and respondents 2 to 5 would in that case have to have recourse to the M.P. Act.	Reasoning
Rut the High Court on the ground that there was no obligation on the Registrar to make the entry rejected this contention.	Reasoning
Let us see whether there was justification in the contention that the inquiry is still pending and that respondents 2 to 5 have to proceed under that Act and not under S. 19 of the Bombay Act.9.	Reasoning
Mr. Desai for the appellant relied on subs (3) of S. 86 and urged that all the three subcls.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a), (b) and (c) apply to the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that the inquiry before the Registrar was a thing duly done under the M. P. Act and was, therefore, saved, that the Registrars finding had become final on the expiry of six months from the date of that finding and its finality vested a right in the appellant which is saved by the subsection and lastly that the legal proceeding, that is the enquiry, was still pending and in spite of the cessation of the M. P. Act was saved.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that a fresh inquiry, therefore, could not be held as the proceeding before the Registrar was still pending and the competent authority to proceed with it was the Registrar and not the Assistant Charity Commissioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Assistant Charity Commissioner was, therefore, precluded from holding the impugned inquiry.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Chatterjee, on the other hand, argued that no right can be said to have accrued to the appellant as no finality attached to the Registrars finding an entry of that finding not having been made by the Registrar.	Arguments of Respondent
There was also no question of any legal proceeding being saved as the proceeding saved is the one in respect of a right, title or interest vested in a party.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, subcls.	Arguments of Respondent
(b) and (c) according to him would not in any case apply.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards subcl.	Arguments of Respondent
(a) he argued that the inquiry before the Registrar was over so soon as he gave his finding and, therefore, that inquiry also cannot be to have been saved.10.	Arguments of Respondent
The words anything duly done in subcl.	None
(a) are very often used by the legislature in saving clauses such as we have in S. 86 (3).	None
Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 also provides that unless a different intention appears the repeal of an Act would not affect anything duly done or suffered thereunder.	Reasoning
The object of such a saving clause is to save what has been previously done under the statute repealed.	Reasoning
The result of such a saving clause is that the preexisting law continues to govern the thing done before a particular date from which the repeal of such a preexisting law takes effect.	Reasoning
In universal Imports Agency v. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports l9611 SCR 305(AIR 1961 SC 41 ), construing the words things done used in Para.	Reasoning
6 of the French Establishments (Application of Laws) Order, 1954 this Court held that on a proper interpretation the expression things done was comprehensive enough to take in not only the things done but also the effect of the legal consequences flowing therefrom.	Reasoning
The inquiry heldby the Registrar under the M. P. Act was indisputably a thing duly done under that Act.	Reasoning
The inquiry and its result having been saved by S. 86 (3) (a) they continue to be governed by the M. P. Act in spite of its ceasing to apply in Vidarbha.	Reasoning
As we have already it was obligatory on the Registrar to have made an entry of his finding in the register of public trusts maintained by him under that Act though the finding was that the trust was not public truest.	Reasoning
If any one was aggrieved by that finding he could have made the Registrar to cause an entry, to be made and thereafter file a suit to set aside the finding and have the entry corrected.	Reasoning
Respondents 2 to 5 would be such persons as they claim to be interested in the trust and are, therefore, persons aggrieved by that finding and interested in challenging it.	Reasoning
The contention that that inquiry was completed is not correct because the Registrar had yet to make the entry of his finding which he was bound to make under S. 7 of that Act.	Reasoning
That being the position, the inquiry is saved by subcl.	Reasoning
(a) of S. 86 (3) and it is still pending and is governed by the M. P. Act.	Reasoning
In the result a fresh inquiry under the Bombay Act while the proceeding under the M. P. Act is still pending was not competent and the Assistant Charity Commissioner was precluded from entertaining it.	Reasoning
In this view it is not necessary ho consider Mr. Desais contention that Cls. (b) and (c) also apply to the present case.	Reasoning
Mr. Chatterjee however, drew our attention to a decision of the High Court of Bombay in Ramalal v. Charity Commissioner, (1960) 63	Arguments of Respondent
Bom LR 418.	Arguments of Respondent
That decision cannot assist the respondents as the effect of a saving clause such as we have in S.86 (3) or in the Bombay General Clauses Act was not considered there and the question of the proceeding being a pending one was neither raised nor considered.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforesaid it is not possible to sustain the order passed by the High Court dismissing the petition.11.	Reasoning
We therefore set aside the order, allow the appeal and make the petition absolute.	Decision
The respondents will pay the costs of the appellant both here and in the High Court12.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
