 P. Sinha, J. 1.	None
These petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution impugn the constitutionality of the Punjab Security of Land Tenure Act (Punj X of 1953) (which will be referred to hereinafter as the Act), as amended by Act XI of 1955.	Issue
The petitioners are landowners of the lands affected by the provisions of the impugned Act.	Issue
The State of Punjab and its officers, besides persons claiming benefits under the Act, are the respondents in these several petitions.	Facts
2. The impugned Act has a history which may shortly be set out.	Facts
With a view to providing for the security of tenure to tenants, the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Ordinance IV of 1950, was promulgated with effect from 13th May 1950.	Facts
That Ordinance was replaced by the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Act XII of 1950, which came into force on 6th November 1950, on the date on which it was first published in the Punjab Government gazette.	Facts
The Act prescribed a limit of one hundred standard acres of land (equivalent to two hundred ordinary acres) which could be held by a landowner for his selfcultivation and it was termed permissible limit  (S. 2 (3)).	Facts
Any landower having land in excess of the permissible limit, was authorized by S. 3 to select for selfcultivation, land out of the entire area held by him in the State of Punjab, as landowner, and reserve it for his own use to the extent of the permissible limit.	Facts
This right of reservation had to be exercised, first, in respect of land in his self cultivation and if the extent of such land fell short of the permissible limit, he could, under S. 4, make up the deficiency by ejecting tenants under him in respect of such lands as fell within his reserved area.	Facts
Section 5 fixed the minimum period of tenancy as four years, subject to certain exceptions set out in S. 6.	Facts
These were some of the salient features of the Act of 1950, which itself was amended by the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Act (Punj.	Facts
V of 1951), which came into force on 24121951.	Facts
By the amending Act, the permissible limit was reduced to 50 standard acres equivalent to 100 ordinary acres, and the minimum period of tenancy was raised to five years.	Facts
It also made provisions for preferential right of preemption(S.12A), and conferred a right of purchase on the tenant in respect of land in his possession  (S. 12B), subject to certain exceptions(S. 12C).	Facts
Another legislation in this series was the Prevention of Ejectment (Temporary Powers)	Facts
Ordinance No. 1 of 1952, which came into force on 1161952.	Facts
Then, came the Punjab Security of Land Tenure Act (Punj.	Facts
X of 1953), now impugned, which repealed the aforesaid Acts XII of 1950 and V of 1951.	Facts
It came into force on 1541953.	Facts
This Act itself was amended by Act LVII of 1953 and Act XI of 1955.	Facts
Though this Act has undergone subsequent amendments in 1957 and 1958,.	Facts
we are not concerned with those amendments, because they came into existence after this Court was moved under Art.	Facts
32 of the Constitution.	Facts
We are concerned with the state of the law as it stood after the amendment of 1955, aforesaid.	Facts
3.	None
Before dealing with the grounds of attack urged against the impugned Act, it is convenient to set out, in a nutshell, the salient provisions of the Act, which have given rise to the present controversy, and which give an idea of the scope and nature of the legislation now under examination.	None
The Act has a short Preamble, namely, to provide for the security of land tenure and other incidental matters.	None
The Act further reduces the permissible area (S. 2 (3) ) in relation to a landlord or a tenant, to 30 standard acres equivalent to 60 ordinary acres, thus, releasing a larger area for resettlement of tenants ejected or to be ejected under the provisions of the Act.	None
So to say, it creates a pool of surplus area (S. 2 (5a)), meaning thereby the area other than the reserved area in excess of the permissible area, as aforesaid.	None
Reserved area means the area lawfully reserved by the landlord under the provisions of the two Acts aforesaid, which were repealed by the Act(S. 2 (4) ).	None
The definition of a tenant under the Act, includes a subtenant and a self cultivating lessee  (S. 2 (6)).	None
As already indicated, a tenant also may be liable to be ejected from any area which he holds in any capacity whatever in excess of the permissible area.	None
Section 10  A authorizes the State Government or any officer empowered by it in this behalf, to utilize any surplus area for resettlement of tenants ejected or to be ejected under the provisions of S. 9 (i).	None
But a tenant inducted on to such surplus area, holds the land under the landowner, who, thus, becomes entitled to receipt of rent from the tenant.	None
Section 12 lays down the maximum rent payable by a tenant.	None
Section 17 recognizes the rights of certain tenants to preempt sales or foreclosure of land.	None
Section 18, which formed the subjectmatter of the most vehement attack on behalf of the petitioners, confers upon the tenants of the description given in the several clauses of the Act, the right to purchase from the landowner the land held by them, subject to certain exceptions, and subject to the payment in a lump sum or in six monthly instalments not exceeding ten, of the purchase price to be determined in accordance with cls.	None
(2) and (3) of S.18.	None
Section 23 invalidates any decree or order of any court or authority, or a notice of ejectment, which is not consistent with the provisions of the Act.	None
Thus, the Act seeks to limit the area which may be held by a landowner for the purpose of selfcultivation, thereby releasing surplus area which may be utilized for the purpose of resettling ejected tenants, and affording an opportunity to the tenant to become the landowner himself on payment of the purchase price which, if anything, would be less than the market value.	None
It, thus, aims at creating what it calls a class of small landowners, meaning thereby, holders of land not exceeding the permissible area(S. 2 (2) ).	None
The utmost emphasis has been laid on selfcultivation which means cultivation by a landowner either personally or through his wife or children, or through such of his relations as may be prescribed, or under his supervision(S. 2 (9) ).	None
4.	None
The arguments at the Bar, on behalf of the petitioners may be put under three main heads, namely, (1) that the Legislature had no legislative competence to enact the Act, (2) that the provisions of the Act contravene the petitioners fundamental rights enshrined in Arts.	Arguments of Petitioner
14, 19 (1) (f) and 31 of the Constitution, and (3) that certain specified provisions of the Act amount to unreasonable restrictions on the petitioners rights to hold and dispose of property.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the outset, it is necessary to deal with the question of legislative competence, which was raised on behalf of some of the petitioners, though not on behalf of all of them.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument of want of legislative competence goes to the root of the impugned Act, and if it is wellfounded, no other question need be gone into.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been argued that Entry 18 in List II of Sch. 7 to the Constitution, should not be read as authorizing the State Legislature to enact a law limiting the extent of the land to be held by a proprietor or a landowner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Entry 18 is in these words 13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Land, that is to say, rights in or over land, land tenures including the relation of landlord and tenant, and the collection of rents transfer and alienation at agricultural land land improvement and agricultural loans colonization.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will be noticed that the Entry read along with Art.	None
246(3) of the Constitution, has vested exclusive power in the State to make laws with respect to rights in or over land, land tenures including the relation of landlord and tenant. . . .	None
The provisions of the Act set out above, deal with the landlords rights in land in relation to his tenant, so as to modify the landlords rights in land, and correspondingly, to expand the tenants rights therein.	None
Each of the expressions rights in or over land and land tenures, is comprehensive enough to take in measures of reforms of land tenures, limiting the extent of land in cultivating possession of the landowner, and thus, releasing larger areas of land to be made available for cultivation by tenants.	None
6. Counsel for some of the petitioners who challenged the legislative competence of the State Legislature, were hard put to it to enunciate any easily appreciable grounds of attack against Entry 18 in List II of Sch.	Arguments of Petitioner
VII.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was baldly argued that Entry 18 aforesaid, was not intended to authorize legislation which had the effect of limiting the area of land which could be directly held by a proprietor or a landowner.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is difficult to see why the amplitude of the words rights in or over land should be cut down in the way suggested in this argument.	Arguments of Petitioner
A similar argument was advanced in the case of United Provinces v. Mt. Atiqa Begum, 1940 F C R 110 (AIR 1941 F C 16).	None
In that case, the United Provinces Regularization of Remissions Act, 1938 (U. P. XIV of 1938), was challenged.	None
One of the main provisions of that Act had validated remission of rent.	None
It had been argued that the United Provinces Legislature was not competent to legislate about the remission of rent, when the relevant words in Entry 21, relating to land in the Provincial List of Sch. 7 to the Constitution Act of 1935, were collection of rents.	None
Entry 21 relating to land had added certain words by way of explanation and illustration of the intention of the Constitution makers, so as to indicate that the word land was meant to be used in its widest connotation.	None
A member of the Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court, in his judgment which was the subjectmatter of the appeal to the Federal Court, had come to the conclusion that Item 21 aforesaid, including the words collection of rents, had not authorized the Provincial Legislature to validate remission of rent.	None
That conclusion was not upheld by the Federal Court which held that remission of rent was a matter covered by Item 21, and it was, therefore, within the competence of the Provincial Legislature to enact the impugned Act and Gwyer, C. J., in the course of his judgment observed that the Items in the several lists of the Seventh Schedule, should not be read in a narrow or restricted sense, and that each general word should be held to extend to all ancillary and subsidiary matters which could fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in it.	None
7.	None
The same Item 21 in List II (Provincial List) of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution Act of 1935, came up for consideration before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council on appeal from the Federal Court of India in Megh Raj v. Allah Rakhia, 74 Ind App 12 ( AIR 1947 P C 72), affirming the judgment of the Lahore High Court.	None
In that case, the Punjab.	None
Restitution of Mortgaged Lands Act (Punj.	None
IV of 1938) had been challenged as ultra vires.	None
By that Act, the Legislature had provided for redemption of mortgages on terms much less onerous than the terms of the mortgagedeeds.	None
Their Lordships of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council repelled the contention raised on behalf of the appellants that the words of Item No. 21, were not wide enough to comprehend the relationship of mortgagor and mortgagee in respect of agricultural land.	None
Their Lordships observed that Item 21 aforesaid, forming a part as it did, of the Constitution, should, on ordinary principles, receive the widest construction, unless, for some reasons, it is cut down either by the terms of that item itself, or by other parts of the Constitution, which have, naturally, to be read as a whole and then proceeded to make the following very significant observations As to Item 21, land, the governing word, is followed by the rest of the item, which goes on to say, that is to say.	None
These words introduce the most general conceptrights in or over land.	None
Rights in land must include general rights like full ownership or leasehold or all such rights.	None
Rights over land would include easements or other collateral rights, whatever form they might take.	None
Then follow words which are not words of limitation but of explanation or illustration, giving instances which may furnish a clue for particular matters thus there are the words relation of landlord and tenant, and collection of rents.	None
Thus, their Lordships concluded that the Item 21 relating to land, would include mortgages as an incidental and ancillary subject.	None
8.Another branch of the same argument was that Entry 18 could not cover the determination of the relation of landlord and tenant, which is envisaged by some of the provisions of the Act, particularly S. 18, which has the effect of converting the tenant into a landowner himself, by virtue of the purchase.	None
This argument is also disposed of by the judgment of the Federal Court in l940 F C R 110 (AIR 1941 F C 16) (supra).	None
9.	None
It was next contended that Entry 18 has got to be read with Art. 19 (5), in order to determine the legislative competence in enacting the impugned statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, it was contended that cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
19 of the Constitution, is in the nature of a proviso to the Entry and that the Entry so read along with Art. 19(5), lays down the test of the legislative competence.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument is easily disposed of with reference to the provisions of Art.	None
31A of the Constitution.	Reasoning
If it is held that the provisions of the impugned statute lay down the law for the modification of rights in estates, as defined in subArt.	None
(2) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A, none of the grounds of attack founded on any of the provisions of Arts.	None
14, 19 or 31, can avail the Petitioners.	None
As will presently appear, the Act lays down provisions which are in the nature of modifications of rights in estates within the meaning of Art.	None
31A(1).	None
That being so, Art. 19 (5) is wholly out of the way in this case.	None
In view of all these considerations, it must be held that there is no legal foundation for the contention that the impugned Act is beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature.	None
10.	None
Having dealt with the question of legislative competence, we have to deal with the several contentions raised on behalf of the petitioners, with reference to the provisions of Arts 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
On this part of the case, it has rightly been conceded on behalf of the petitioners that if the impugned Act comes within the purview of any of the clauses of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A, the law will be immune from attack on any of the grounds based on the provisions of Arts.	Arguments of Petitioner
14, 19 and 31.	Arguments of Petitioner
But it has been argued that the provisions of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A (1) (a), which are admittedly the only portions of the Article, which are relevant to the present inquiry, are not attracted to the impugned Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been conceded on behalf of the respondents that the Act does not provide for the acquisition by the State of any estate or of any rights in any estate.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, the crucial words which must govern this part of the controversy, are the words the extinguishment or modification of any such rights that is to say, we have to determine whether or not the impugned Act provides for the extinguishment or modification of any rights in estates.	None
Art.	None
31A (2) defines what the expression estate used in Art.	None
31A means.	None
According to that definition,the expression estate shall, in relation to any local area, have the same meaning as that expression or its local equivalent has in the existing law relating to land tenures in force in that area, and shall also include any jagir, inam or Muafi or other similar grant and in the States of Madras and Kerala, any janmam right.	None
It is common ground that we have to turn to the definition of an estate, as contained in the Punjab Land Revenue Act, XVII of 1887.	None
Section 3 (1) of that Act has the following definition (1) estate means any area (a) for which a separate recordofrights has been made or (b) which has been separately assessed to land revenue or would have been so assessed if the land revenue had not been released, compounded for or redeemed or (c) which the (State) Government may, by general rule or special order, declare to be an estate.	None
Clause (c) of the definition is out of the way, because it has not been claimed that the State Government has made any declaration within the meaning of that clause.	None
Estate, therefore, for the purposes of the present controversy, means any area for which a separate recordofrights has been made, or which has been separately assessed to land revenue (omitting the unnecessary words).	None
In this connection, it is also necessary to refer to the definition of a holding in S. 3 (3) in the following terms (3) holding means a share or portion of an estate held by one landowner or jointly by two or more landowners.	None
It was not controverted at the Bar that in Punjab, there are very few estates as defined in S. 3 (1) quoted above, in the sense that one single landowner is seized and possessed of an entire estate which is equated with a whole village.	None
In other words, in Punjab, an estate and a village are interchangeable terms, and almost all villages are owned in parcels, as holdings by cosharers, most likely, descendants of the holder of a whole village which came to be divided amongst the cosharers, as a result of devolution of interest.	None
The parties were also agreed that the impugned Act deals with holdings, as defined in the Land Revenue Act, or shares or portions thereof.	None
The argument on behalf of the petitioners to get over the provisions of Art.	None
31A, is that the Act does not deal with any estate or any rights therein, but only with holdings or shares or portions thereof.	None
This argument proceeds on the assumption that holdings are not any rights in an estate.	None
If the petitioners are right in their contention that the immunity granted by Art.	None
31A of the Constitution, is available only in respect of entire estates and not portions of estates, then the argument on behalf of the respondents that the Act is saved by the provisions of that Article fails in limine.	None
If, on the other hand, it is held that Art.	None
31A applies not only to entire estates or any rights therein, but also to shares or portions of an estate or rights therein, then all the arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioners, founded on the provisions of Arts.	None
14, 19 and 31, are thrown overboard.	None
Therefore, it becomes necessary to consider the amplitude of the expression any estate or of any rights therein in Art.	None
31A (1) (a).	None
Rights in an estate may be either quantitative or qualitative.	None
That is to say, rights in an estate may be held by persons having different qualities of rights in lands constituting an estate, as a result of subinfeudation.	None
Generally speaking and omitting all references to different kinds of land tenures prevailing in different parts of India, it may be said that at the apex of the pyramid, stands the State.	None
Under the State, a large number of persons variously called proprietors, zamindars, malguzars, inamdars and jagirdars, etc., hold parcels of land, subject to the payment of land revenue designated as peshkash, quitrent or malguzari, etc., representing the Government demands by way of landtax out of the usufruct of the land constituting an estate, except where Government demands had been excused in whole or in part by way of reward for service rendered to the State in the past, or to be rendered in the future.	None
An estate, thus, is an area of land which is a unit of revenue assessment, and which is separately entered in the Land Revenue Collectors register of revenuepaying or revenuefree estates.	None
A single estate, unless governed by the Rule of Primogeniture, would, in course of time, be held by a number of persons in the same rights as cosharers in the estate.	None
Those several cosharers are all jointly and severally liable for the payment of the Government demands, if any, though, by an arrangement with the Revenue Department, they may have had a distribution made of the total Government demands as payable in respect of aliquot portions of the estate.	None
Generally speaking, in the first instance, each sharer in an estate is liable to pay his portion of the landrevenue, but it, for any reasons, the Government demands cannot be realized from any defaulting share primarily liable for them, the entire estate, including the shares of those who may not be the defaulting proprietors, is liable to be sold or otherwise dealt with for the realization of those demands.	None
Thus, the unity of assessment of land revenue in respect of the entire estate remains intact.	None
In actual practice, the holder of each specified portion or share of an estate, holds his portion for his own exclusive use and occupation.	None
Such a sharer in an estate in Punjab is known as the landowner of a holding.	None
But such a holding still continues to be a portion or a share of the estate out of which it has been carved.	None
Such a division of an estate is quantitative or a vertical division of an estate.	None
But there may also be a horizontal or qualitative division of the lands in an estate, effected by the process of subinfeudation.	None
Continuing the illustration of the pyramid, generally speaking, the lands in an estate may in their entirety or in portions, be let out to what, in Eastern India, are known as tenureholders, for example, patnidars, in areas covered by the Permanent Settlement.	None
Tenureholders were persons who took lands of an estate not necessarily for the purpose of selfcultivation but also for settling tenants on the land, and realizing rents from them.	None
These patnidars may have darpatnidars under them, and darpatnidars, sepatnidars, and in this way, the subinfeudation went on.	None
All these classes are included within the terms tenureholders, subproprietors or underproprietors.	None
The persons who are inducted on to the land for bringing it under their direct cultivation, are generally known in Eastern India as raiyats with rights of occupancy in the land held by them.	None
But raiyats, in their turn, may have inducted tenants under them in respect of the whole or a portion of their holding.	None
The tenant holding under a raiyat is known as an underraiyat, and an underraiyat may induct a tenant under himself, and he will be an underraiyat of the second degree.	None
Thus, in each grade of holders of land, in the process of subinfeudation described above, the holder is a tenant under his superior holder, the landlord, and also the landlord of the holder directly holding under him.	None
Thus, in Eastern India, the interest of intermediaries between the proprietor of an estate at the top and the actual tiller of the soil at the bottom, is known as that of a tenureholder, and the interest of tenants other than tenureholders, is riven the generic name of a holding.	None
A holding in Eastern India, thus, indicates the interest of the actual tiller of the soilraiyat or underraiyatunlike the holding in Punjab where, as indicated above, it signifies the interest of the holder of a share in an estate.	None
Thus, holdings in Punjab are vertical divisions of an estate whereas in Eastern India, they represent a horizontal division, connoting a lesser quality of an estate in land than the interest of a tenureholder in his tenure, or of a landowner in his estate or portion of an estate.	None
It is not necessarily true that there should be intermediaries in every estate or a portion of an estate.	None
Very often, the holder of an estate may be holding his entire estate directly in his possession by way of khudkasht, zeerat, kamath or neezjote, or it may be that the proprietor has only raiyats under him without the intermediation of tenureholders, and the raiyats may not have any underraiyats under them.	None
The process of subinfeudation described above, naturally, varies with the size of the estate.	None
It appears to be common ground in this case that in Punjab, an estate means the whole village, whereas in Eastern India, an estate may comprise a whole district or only a cluster of villages, or a single village, or even a part of a village.	None
The larger the size of an estate, the greater the process of subinfeudation and vice versa.	None
In Punjab, as there was no permanent settlement of Revenue as in Bengal, Bihar, Orissa and other parts of Eastern India, the unit of revenue assessment has been the village.	None
Thus, a holding in Punjab means a portion of a village either big or small.	None
That portion may be in the direct possession of the landowner himself, or he may have inducted tenants on a portion or the whole of his holding.	None
The interest of the tenant in Punjab, appears to have been a precarious tenure, even more precarious than that of an underraiyat in Eastern India.	None
The Punjab Legislature, realising that the interest of a tenant was much too precarious for him to invest his available labour and capital to the fullest extent so as to raise the maximum quality and quantity of money crops or other crops, naturally, in the interest of the community as a whole, and in implementation of the Directive Principles of State Policy, thought of granting longer tenures, and as we have seen above, the period has been progressively increased until we arrive at the stage of the legislation now impugned, which proposes to create a large body of small landowners who have a comparatively larger stake in the land, and consequently, have greater impetus to invest their labour and capital with a view to raising the maximum usufruct out of the land in their possession.	None
11.	None
Keeping in view the background of the summary of land tenures in Punjab and elsewhere, we have to construe, the amplitude of the crucial words any estate or of any rights therein in Art.	None
31A (1)(a).	None
Soon after the coming into effect of the Constitution, the different States in India embarked upon a scheme of legislation for reforming the system of landholding, so as (1) to eliminate the intermediaries, that is to say, those who hold interest in land in between the State at the apex and the actual tillers of the soilin other words, to abolish the class of rentreceivers, and (2) to create a large body of small landholders who have a permanent stake in the land, and who are, therefore, interested in making the best use of it.	None
As the connotation of the term estate was different in different parts of the country, the expression estate described in cl.	None
(2) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A, has been so broadly defined as to cover all estates in the country, and to cover all possible kinds of rights in estates, as shown by subcl.	None
(b) of cl.	None
(2) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A, which is in these terms (b) the expression rights, in relation to estate, shall include any rights vesting in a proprietor, subproprietor, underproprietor, tenureholder (raiyat, underraiyat) or other intermediary and any rights or privileges in respect of land revenue.	None
The expression rights in relation to an estate has been given an all inclusive meaning, comprising both what we have called, for the sake of brevity, the horizontal and vertical divisions of an estate.	None
A proprietor in an estate may be the proprietor holding the entire interest in a single estate, or only a co sharer proprietor.	None
The provisions aforesaid of Art.	None
31A, bearing on the construction of the expression estate or rights in an estate, have been deliberately made as wide as they could be, in order to take in all kinds of rightsquantitative and qualitativein an area coextensive with an estate or only a portion thereof.	None
But it has been suggested that the several interests indicated in subcl.	Reasoning
(b), quoted above, have been used with reference to the area of an entire estate, but knowing as we do, that a raiyats or an underraiyats holding generally is not coextensive with the area of an entire estate but only small portions thereof, it would, in our opinion, be unreasonable to hold that the makers of the Constitution were using the expression estate or rights in an estate, in such a restricted sense.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the fact that Art.	Reasoning
31A was enacted by two successive amendmentsone in 1951 (First Amendment), and the second in 1955 (Fourth Amendment)with retrospective effect, in order to save legislation effecting agrarian reforms, we have every reason to hold that those expressions have been used in their widest amplitude, consistent with the purpose behind those amendments.	Reasoning
A piece of validating enactment purposely introduced into the Constitution with a view to saving that kind of legislation from attacks on the ground of constitutional invalidity, based on Arts. 14, 19 and 31, should not be construed in a narrow sense.	Reasoning
On the other hand, such a constitutional enactment should be given its fullest and widest effect, consistently with the purpose behind the enactment, provided, however, that such a construction does not involve any violence to the language actually used.	Reasoning
12.	None
Another branch of the same argument was that if the makers of the Constitution intended to include within the purview of Art.	None
31A, not only entire estates but also portions thereof, nothing would have been easier than to say so in terms, and that in the absence of any specific mention of portions of an estate, we should not read that article as covering portions of an estate also.	None
In our opinion, there is no substance in this contention, because they must be attributed full knowledge of the legal maxim that the greater contains the less  Omne majus continet in se minus .	None
In this connection, our attention was invited to the decision of a Full Bench of the Punjab High Court in the case of State of Punjab v. Keshar Singh, 60 Pun L R 461 (AIR 1959 Punj 8), to the effect that a holding being a part of an estate, was not within the purview of Art.	Reasoning
31A of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In this connection, it is necessary to state the conflict of views in that High Court itself.	Reasoning
In the case of Bhagirath Ram Chand v. State of Punjab, A I R 1954 Punj 167 (FB), the validity of the very Act impugned before us, was challenged on grounds based upon Articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The learned Judges constituting the Full Bench, unanimously held that the impugned Act did not infringe those provisions of the Constitution, and the restrictions on the right of landholding, imposed by the Act, were reasonable, and that the classification did not exceed the permissible limit.	Reasoning
But they also held that the Act was saved by Art.	Reasoning
31A of the Constitution, which applied equally to an entire estate or to a portion thereof.	Reasoning
Besides giving other reasons, which may not bear close scrutiny, they made specific reference to the doctrine that the whole includes the part.	Reasoning
Thus the Full Bench specifically held that Art.	Reasoning
31A of the Constitution applied equally to portions of estates also.	Reasoning
This decision of the Full Bench was followed by a Division Bench of the same High Court, consisting of Bhandari C. J. and Dulat J., in the case of Hukam Singh v. State of Punjab, 57 Pun L R 359 ((S) A I R 1955 Punj 220).	Reasoning
That Bench was concerned with the provisions of another Act Punjab Village Common Lands (Regula tion) Act, 1954.	Reasoning
In that case, the Division Bench, naturally, followed the decision of the Full Bench in so far as it had ruled that the whole includes the part, and that where an Act provides for rights in an estate, it provides for rights in a part of an estate also.	Reasoning
The later Full Bench case referred to above, was decided by three Judges, including Bhandari C. J., who agreed with the judgment of the Court delivered by Grover J. Perhaps, the better course would have been to constitute a larger Bench, when it was found that a Full Bench of three Judges was inclined to take a view contrary to that of another Full Bench of equal strength.	Reasoning
Such a course becomes necessary in view of the fact that otherwise the subordinate courts are placed under the embarrassment of preferring one view to another, both equally binding upon their.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the view taken by the earlier Full Bench is the correct one.	Reasoning
The learned Chief Justice who was a party to both the conflicting views on the same question has not indicated his own reasons for changing his view.	Reasoning
The Full Bench has accepted the force of the legal maxim that the greater contains the less, referred to above but has not, it must be said with all respect, given any good reasons for departing from that wellestablished maxim.	Reasoning
The judgment of the Full Bench on this part of the case is based entirely upon the definition of an estate, as contained in the Punjab Land Revenue Act, set out above.	Reasoning
It has not stopped to consider the further question why a holding, which is a share or a portion of an estate, as defined in the Punjab Act, should not partake of the characteristics of an estate.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the background of the legislative history and the objective of the legislation, is there any rational reason for holding that the makers of the Constitution thought of abolishing only intermediaries in respect of an area constituting one entire estate but not of a portion thereof ?	Reasoning
On the other hand, as indicated above, they have used the expression estate in an allinclusive sense.	Reasoning
They have not stopped at that they have also added the words or any rights therein.	Reasoning
The expression rights in relation to an estate again has been used in a very comprehensive sense of including not only the interests of proprietors or subproprietors but also of lower grade tenants, like raiyats or underraiyats, and then they added, by way of further emphasizing their intention the expression other intermediary, thus, clearly showing that the enumeration of intermediaries was only illustrative and not exhaustive.	Reasoning
If the makers of the Constitution have, thus, shown their intention of saving all laws of agrarian reform, dealing with the rights of intermediaries, whatever their denomination may be, in our opinion, no good reasons have been adduced in support of the view that portions or shares in an estate are not within the sweep of the expression or any rights therein.	Reasoning
A recent decision of this Court in the case of Ram Narain Medhi v. State of Bombay, Petns.	Reasoning
Nos. 13 and 38 to 41 of 1957 and 55 of 1958, D  18111958 (A I R 1959 SC 459) , dealt with the constitutionality of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Amendment) Act, 1956, which contains similar provisions with a view to doing away with intermediaries and establishing direct relationship between the State and tillers of the soil.	Reasoning
In that case also, the contention had been raised that the expression estate had reference to only alienated lands and not to unalienated lands, and this Court was invited to limit the meaning of the expression in the narrower sense.	Reasoning
This Court repelled that contention in these words If the definition of the expression estate in the context of the Code is thus clear and unambiguous as comprising both the types of lands, there is no reason why a narrower construction as suggested by the petitioners should be put upon the expression estateEven it there was any ambiguity in the expression, the wider significance should be adopted in the context of the objectives of the Act as stated above.	None
These observations apply with full force to the contention raised on behalf of the petitioners in the present cases also.	None
13.	None
Another branch of the same argument as to why the provisions of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A do not apply to the Act, is that the Act did not have the effect of either extinguishing or modifying any rights in any estate, assuming that the expression estate includes reference also to parts of an estate.	None
In this connection, it is contended that the provisions of the Act impugned in these cases, did not amount to the extinguishment of the interests of the landowners in estates or portions thereof, and that what the Act did was to transfer some of the rights of the landowners to their tenants.	None
In this connection, reliance was placed on the observations of this Court in the case of Raghubir Singh v. Court of Wards, Ajmer, 1953 S C R 1049 at pp. 1055, 1056 (A I R 1953 S C 373 at p. 375), where Mahajan J. (as he then was), speaking for the Court, observed that the expressions extinguishment and modification used in Art.	None
31A of the Constitution, meant extinguishment or modification respectively of a proprietary right in an estate, and should not include, within their ambit, a mere suspension of the right of management of an estate for a time definite or indefinite.	None
Those observations must be strictly limited to the facts of that case, and cannot possibly be extended to the provisions of Acts wholly dissimilar to those of the Ajmer Tenancy and Land Records Act, XLII of 1950, which was the subjectmatter of the challenge in the case then before this Court.	None
This Court held, on a construction of the provisions of that Act, that they only suspended the right of management but did not amount to any extinguishment or modification of any proprietary rights in an estate.	None
The provisions of the Act then under consideration of this Court, have absolutely no resemblance to those of the Act now before us, and it is impossible to put a similar interpretation on those provisions.	None
In the recent decision of this Court (not yet reported), (since reported in A I R 1959 S C 459), (supra), this Court had been invited to apply the observations of this Court referred to above, to the provisions of the Bombay Act.	None
It was pointed out in that case that those observations of Mahajan, J. (as he then was), must be read as limited to an Act which only brings, about a suspension of the right of management of an estate, and could not be extended to the provisions of an Act which either extinguishes or modifies certain rights of a proprietor in an estate or a portion thereof.	None
14.	None
In this connection, it was further argued that extinguishment of a right, does not mean substitution of another person in that right, but total annihilation of that right.	Reasoning
In our opinion, it is not necessary to discuss this rather metaphysical argument, because, in our opinion, it is enough for the purpose of this case to hold that the provisions of the Act, amount to modification of the landowners rights in the lands comprised in his estate or holding.	Reasoning
The Act modifies the landowners substantive rights, particularly, in three respects, as indicated above, namely, (1) it modifies his right of settling his lands on any terms and to any one he chooses (2) it modifies, if it does not altogether extinguish, his right to cultivate the surplus area as understood under the Act and (3) it modifies his right of transfer in so far as it obliges him to sell lands not at his own price but at a price fixed under the statute, and not to any one but to specified persons in accordance with the provisions of the Act, set out above.	Reasoning
Thus, there cannot be the least doubt that the provisions of the Act, very substantially modify the landowners rights to hold and dispose of his property in any estate or a portion thereof.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that the provisions of Art.	Reasoning
31A save the impugned Act from any attack based on the provisions of Arts.	Reasoning
14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
That being so, it is not necessary to consider the specific provisions of the Act, which, it was contended, were unreasonable restrictions on the landowners rights to enjoy his property, or whether he had been unduly discriminated against, or whether the compensation, if any, provided for under the Act, was illusory or, at any rate, inadequate.	Reasoning
Those grounds of attack are not available to the petitioners.	Reasoning
In the result, all these petitions are dismissed with costs, the State of Punjab and its officers being entitled to only one set of hearing fees in all the petitions.	Reasoning
15.	None
Petitions dismissed.	None
