 Amitava Roy, J.1.	None
The instant adjudication witnesses a relentless pursuit of the petitioner to secure the letter of permission (for short, hereafter referred to as LOP) for the establishment of its new medical college in the name style of Ponnaiyah Ramajayam Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology at ManamaiNallur, Tamil Nadu with an annual intake of 150 MBBS students for the academic year 201617 and further renewal of such LOP for the next academic year 201718.2.	Issue
As the facts would unfold hereinafter, conditional permission was granted for such establishment for the academic year 201617, but eventually on the detection of lingering deficiencies in its infrastructure and clinical materials, it was, by order dated 9.6.2017 of the Government of India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, debarred from admitting students for the next two academic years 201718 and 201819 and the Medical Council of India, (for short hereinafter referred to as MCI) was authorised to encash the bank guarantee ofRs.	Facts
2 crores submitted by it in terms of the stipulations, subject to which such conditional permission had been granted.	Facts
This order was successfully challenged by the petitioner in the instant writ petition, whereupon by this Courts verdict dated 1.8.2017 rendered in a batch of writ petitions including the one in hand, the lead petition being Writ Petition (C) No. 411 of 2017 (Glocal Medical College and Super Speciality Hospital and Research Centre v. Union of India and Another), this order of debarment and encashment of bank guarantee was interfered with and the issue of confirmation or otherwise of the LOP was remanded to the Central Government for fresh consideration of the materials on record and a decision thereon after affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner college to the extent necessary.	Facts
In undertaking this exercise, the Central Government was, amongst others directed to reevaluate the recommendations views of the MCI, Hearing Committee, Director General of Health Services (for short, hereafter to be referred to as DGHS) and the Oversight Committee, as available on records.3.	Facts
Thereafter, the Hearing Committee of the Central Government considered the matter afresh and after the appraisal of the oral and written submissions of the petitioner college, submitted its report, whereupon the Central Government by order dated 10.8.2017 has reiterated its earlier decision dated 9.6.2017 to debar the petitioner college from admitting students in next two academic years i.e. 201718 and 201819 and also to authorise the MCI to encash the bank guarantee ofRs.	Facts
2 crores.	Facts
Noticeably, after setting at naught the earlier order dated 9.6.2017 of the Central Government, the writ petition was kept pending before this Court.	Facts
The petitioner has thus returned with the impeachment of the order dated 10.8.2017.4.	Facts
We have heard Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel for the petitioner, Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General for the Union of India and Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel for the Medical Council of India.5.	Facts
The foundational facts in bare essentials present the backdrop.	Facts
As required under Section 10A of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (for short, hereinafter to be referred to as the Act) and the Establishment of Medical College Regulations, 1999 (abbreviated hereinafter as the Regulations) framed thereunder, the petitioner had submitted its scheme for grant of LOP to establish its new medical college with the annual intake of 150 MBBS seats for the academic year 201617 as referred to hereinabove.	Facts
The MCI conducted assessment of the college on 29/30.12.2015 and on a consideration of the assessment report, its Executive Committee, in its meeting held on 30.1.2016 noticed the following deficiencies shortcomings in its infrastructure and clinical facilitiesI. Deficiency of faculty is 46.15 as detailed in the report.	None
II Shortage of Residents is 45.65 on day of assessment.	Facts
III.	Facts
OPD attendance is 467 on day of assessment against 600 required.	Facts
IV.	None
Bed occupancy was 30 on day of assessment.	None
V Space between 2 beds is 1.5m in some wards.	None
VI There was NIL Major operation on day of assessment.	Facts
VII.	Facts
There was NIL Normal Delivery Nil Caesarean Section on day of assessment.	Facts
VIII.	Facts
Histopathology workload is shown as 92 which is not feasible as NIL Major operation was performed on day of assessment.	None
IX Data of patients in ICCU ICUs on day of assessment are not provided.	None
X. Blood Bank license is not available.	Facts
XI.	Facts
Students Hostels Study room is not airconditioned.	None
XII.	None
Anatomy department NIL cadavers are available.6.	None
Based on the above findings, the MCI by its letter dated 31.1.2016 recommended to the Central Government not to issue LOP to the petitioner college, as prayed for, whereafter the Central Government afforded the petitioner college an opportunity of hearing under Section 10A(4) of the Act.	Facts
Subsequent thereto, a compliance verification assessment was carried out by the MCI on 10.3.2016 and the resultant report along with the earlier report were analysed by its Executive Committee, which again noted the following deficiencies in its meeting held on 13.5.2016.I. Deficiency of faculty is 38.46 as detailed in the report.	Facts
II Shortage of Residents is 26.09, as detailed in the report.	Facts
III.	Facts
OPD attendance on day of assessment is 371 against requirement of 600.IV.	Facts
Bed occupancy on day of assessment is 12.66 .V	Facts
There was NIL major operation on day of assessment.	Facts
VI.	Facts
There was NIL Normal Delivery Nil Caesarean Section on day of assessment.	Facts
VII.	Facts
Histopathology Cytopathology workload on day of assessment is only 1 each which is grossly inadequate.	Facts
VIII.	Facts
There was NIL patient in ICCU all ICUs on day of assessment.	Facts
IX.	Facts
Blood Bank license is not available.	Facts
X. Casualty attendance was only 08 on day of assessment.	Facts
XI.	Facts
Radiological investigation workload is inadequate.7.	Facts
As a consequence, the MCI by its letter dated 14.5.2016, recommended its disapproval of the scheme submitted by the petitioner under Section 10A for the academic year 201617, which was accepted by the Central Government.8.	Facts
Meanwhile, this Court by its decision on 2.5.2016, rendered in Modern Dental College and Research Centre and others v. State of Madhya Pradesh and others, (2016) 7 SCC 353 had constituted the Oversight Committee, authorising it amongst others to oversee all statutory functions under the Act and also leaving it at liberty to issue appropriate remedial directions.	Facts
The Oversight Committee intervened, whereupon the Central Government obtained compliance input dated 20.6.2017 from the petitioner college afresh and forwarded it to the MCI.	Facts
Eventually, the Oversight Committee by its letter dated 11.8.2016 approved the scheme of establishment of the new college of the petitioner with the annual intake of 150 students in MBBS course for the academic year 201617, subject to the conditions, as enumerated in its letter.	Facts
As a consequence, the Central Government on 20.8.2016 granted the LOP to the petitioner for establishment of its new medical college as above for the academic year 201617 with an annual intake of 150 MBBS seats for the academic year 201617 subject to the following two conditions(i) An affidavit from the Dean Principal and Chairman of the Trust Society University Company etc. concerned, affirming fulfilment of all deficiencies and statements made in the respective compliance report submitted to MHFW by 22 June 2016.(ii)	Facts
A bank guarantee in the amount ofRs.	Facts
2 crore in favour of MCI, which will be valid for 1 year or until the first renewal assessment, whichever is later.	Facts
Such bank guarantee will be in addition to the prescribed fee submitted along with the application.	None
It was, amongst others made clear by the said letter that the Oversight Committee could direct inspection to verify the compliance submitted by the petitioner college any time after 30.9.2016 and that in default of the aforementioned conditions and if the compliances were found to be incomplete in the inspection to be so conducted, the college would be debarred from making fresh intake of students for two years commencing 201718.	None
It was mentioned as well that the next batch of students in MBBS course for the academic year 201718 would be admitted in the college only after obtaining the permission of the Central Government and fulfilling the conditions.9.	None
Thereafter, the petitioner college, as required, submitted the affidavit of compliance affirming that it had rectified all the deficiencies pointed out in the inspections earlier conducted and also furnished the bank guarantee.10.	Facts
The MCI conducted an inspection for assessment and the verification of compliance submitted by the petitioner college on 28/29.12.2016.	Facts
The assessment report, which was considered by the Executive Committee of the MCI in its meeting dated 13.1.2017, discussed the following deficiencieschart11.	None
Noting the above, the MCI vide its letter 15.1.2017 recommended to the Central Government that in view of the failure of the petitioner college to abide by the undertaking given by it visavis the deficiencies earlier noted, it ought to be debarred from admitting students in the MBBS course for the two academic years i.e. 201718 and 201819 and that the bank guarantee submitted by it, be allowed to be encashed.12.	Facts
The Central Government, through its Hearing Committee offered personal hearing to the petitioner college on 8.2.2017 and in its report, the Hearing Committee recorded as hereunderchart13.	None
The Oversight Committee on receipt of the report of the Hearing Committee, conveyed its views thereon by its letter dated 14.5.2017 as hereunder(i) Faculty	None
The College has explained the grounds which is acceptable.	None
Accepting these 11 faculty, the deficiency is 9.09.(ii) Residents	Facts
Once 3 residents are accepted, the deficiency is 21.74 which exceeds the norms.(iii)	Facts
Bed Occupancy	None
The College has explained the grounds of deficiency and explanation is acceptable.(iv)	Facts
Most of admitted patients did not merit to be admitted This deficiency is subjective.	None
No MSR.(v) Deliveries This deficiency is subjective.	None
No MSR.(vi) ICUs This deficiency is subjective.	Facts
No MSR.(vii) Operations This deficiency is subjective.	Facts
No MSR.(viii) Radiological workload This deficiency is subjective.	Facts
No MSR.(ix) OPD This observation of inflated data is subjective as the assessors have no reasons to say so.	Facts
The College has explained the grounds otherwise.	Facts
The College has not submitted any clarification on deficiencies pointed out by EC to OC.MHFW may give another opportunity of Hearing.14.	Facts
In deference to the views expressed by the Oversight Committee, the Central Government through its Hearing Committee offered another opportunity of hearing to the petitioner college on 29.5.2017 whereupon it communicated its decision to debar the petitioner college from admitting students for two academic years i.e. 201718 and 201819 and to authorise the MCI to encash the bank guarantee, by its letter dated 9.6.2017, which, as aforementioned was interfered with by this Court by order dated 1.8.2017 with the following operative directions25.In the above persuasive premise, the Central Government is hereby ordered to consider afresh the materials on record pertaining to the issue of confirmation or otherwise of the letter of permission granted to the petitioner colleges institutions.	Facts
We make it clear that in undertaking this exercise, the Central Government would reevaluate the recommendations views of the MCI, Hearing Committee, DGHS and the Oversight Committee, as available on records.	Facts
It would also afford an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner colleges institutions to the extent necessary.	Facts
The process of hearing and final reasoned decision thereon, as ordered, would be completed peremptorily within a period of 10 days from today.	Facts
The parties would unfailingly cooperate in compliance of this direction to meet the time frame fixed.15.	None
The order dated 10.8.2017 of the Central Government, presently impugned, is the yield of a fresh round of hearing offered to the petitioner college on 4.8.2017 in compliance of the order of this Court.	Facts
As the order dated 10.8.2017 would reveal, the Hearing Committee, on a consideration of the materials on record after hearing the petitioner college, recorded its findings as hereunder11 faculty residents were physically present but not considered due to being late.	None
The college accepted that seven faculty and 11 residents were deficient on the day of inspection.	None
The present deficiency of faculty and residents is claimed by the college at 5 and 2 respectively.	Facts
The college also furnished bank statement of salary payment for 106 faculty residents.	Facts
The college informed that bio metric instruments have arrived but not installed.	Facts
Apparently there is some shortfall of clinical material but the college seems to be making earnest efforts to increase patient load.	Facts
The contention of college that delivery patients are hard to get in private hospitals in the State of Tamil Nadu due to attractive maternity welfare scheme is acceptable to the Committee.	Facts
The college also informed that the normal functioning of hospital was disrupted in the aftermath of Cyclone Vardah.	Facts
However, it is noted that the cyclone came on 12.12.2016 whereas the MCI assessment took place on 28.12.2016.	Facts
The disruption factor would also get offset to some extent by the increase in number of patients due to various disease factors post cyclone.	Facts
Still in view of the deficiencies raised by MCI and part acceptance by the college, the Committee agrees with the decision of the Ministry conveyed by letter dated 09.06.2017 to debar the college for 2 years and also permit MCI to encash bank guarantee.	Facts
The instant challenge is directed against this order.16.	None
It has been assiduously urged by Mr. Rohtagi, learned senior counsel for the petitioner college that the purported deficiencies recorded by the Hearing Committee, are infact non est and that the petitioner college has been illegally and unfairly debarred from admitting students for the next two academic years, as mentioned therein, while permitting the MCI to encash its bank guarantee.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned senior counsel, a plain perusal of the inspection reports and the observations in particular of the Oversight Committee would bely the imputation that the petitioner college suffers from any deficiency for disqualifying it from securing confirmation of its LOP for the academic year 201617 and from admitting students for the academic year 201718.	Arguments of Petitioner
Without prejudice to these, Mr. Rohtagi has urged that even if the deficiencies, as noticed by the Hearing Committee, are accepted on their face value, the same do not merit in law the debarment of the petitioner college from making admission of students for the two academic years 201718 and 201819 and encashment of its bank guarantee by the MCI.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General for the Union of India and Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel for the MCI have asserted with reference to the pleadings on record and the other materials available, that not only the petitioner college has failed to abide by its undertaking to remedy its deficiencies in infrastructure and clinical materials, as submitted in terms of the stipulations, subject to which it had been granted conditional LOP for the academic year 201617, the inspections for verification of compliance have revealed persistent shortcomings in major areas of infrastructure and clinical facilities and thus the impugned decision cannot be faulted with in any manner.18.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival pleadings and contentions have been duly evaluated.	None
Section 10A of the Act deals with the permission for establishment of a new medical college, new course of study etc Subsection (7) thereof reads as under(7)	None
The Council, while making its recommendations under clause (b) of subsection (3) and the Central Government, while passing an order, either approving or disapproving the scheme under subsection (4), shall have due regard to the following factors, namely(a) whether the proposed medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training, would be in a position to offer the minimum standards of medical education as prescribed by the Council under Section 19A or, as the case may be, under Section 20 in the case of postgraduate medical education.(b) whether the person seeking to establish a medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training or to increase its admission capacity has adequate financial resources(c) whether necessary facilities in respect of staff, equipment, accommodation, training and other facilities to ensure proper functioning of the medical college or conducting the new course or study or training or accommodating the increased admission capacity, have been provided or would be provided within the timelimit specified in the scheme(d) whether adequate hospital facilities, having regard to the number of students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training or as a result of the increased admission capacity, have been provided or would be provided within the timelimit specified in the scheme(e) whether any arrangement has been made or programme drawn to impart proper training to students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training by persons having the recognised medical qualifications(f) the requirement of manpower in the field of practice of medicine and(g) any other factors as may be prescribed.19.	None
This Court in Writ Petition (C) No. 747 of 2017, titled as Royal Medical Trust and Another v. Union of India and Another, decided on September 12, 2017, while dwelling upon the purport and purpose of Section 10A of the Act and the Regulations framed thereunder, referred to its following observations in Royal Medical Trust (Registered) and Another v. Union of India and Another, (2015) 10 SCC 19 in the following terms MCI and the Central Government have been vested with monitoring powers under Section 10A and the Regulations.	None
It is expected of these authorities to discharge their functions well within the statutory confines as well as in conformity with the Schedule to the Regulations.	None
If there is inaction on their part or nonobservance of the time schedule, it is bound to have adverse effect on all concerned.	None
The affidavit filed on behalf of the Union of India shows that though the number of seats had risen, obviously because of permissions granted for establishment of new colleges, because of disapproval of renewal cases the resultant effect was net loss in terms of number of seats available for the academic year.	None
It thus not only caused loss of opportunity to the students community but at the same time caused loss to the society in terms of less number of doctors being available.	None
MCI and the Central Government must therefore show due diligence right from the day when the applications are received.	None
The Schedule giving various stages and timelimits must accommodate every possible eventuality and at the same time must comply with the requirements of observance of natural justice at various levels.	None
In our view the Schedule must ideally take care of(A)	None
Initial assessment of the application at the first level should comprise of checking necessary requirements such as essentiality certificate, consent for affiliation and physical features like land and hospital requirement.	None
If an applicant fails to fulfill these requirements, the application on the face of it, would be incomplete and be rejected.	None
Those who fulfill the basic requirements would be considered at the next stage.(B)	None
Inspection should then be conducted by the Inspectors of MCI.	None
By very nature such inspection must have an element of surprise.	None
Therefore sufficient time of about three to four months ought to be given to MCI to cause inspection at any time and such inspection should normally be undertaken latest by January.	None
Surprise inspection would ensure that the required facilities and infrastructure are always in place and not borrowed or put in temporarily.(C) Intimation of the result or outcome of the inspection would then be communicated.	None
If the infrastructure and facilities are in order, the medical college concerned should be given requisite permission renewal.	None
However, if there are any deficiencies or shortcomings, MCI must, after pointing out the deficiencies, grant to the college concerned sufficient time to report compliance.(D) If compliance is reported and the applicant states that the deficiencies stand removed, MCI must cause compliance verification.	None
It is possible that such compliance could be accepted even without actual physical verification but that assessment be left entirely to the discretion of MCI and the Central Government.	None
In cases where actual physical verification is required, MCI and the Central Government must cause such verification before the deadline.(E)	None
The result of such verification if positive in favour of the medical college concerned, the applicant ought to be given requisite permission renewal.	None
But if the deficiencies still persist or had not been removed, the applicant will stand disentitled so far as that academic year is concerned.20.	None
As the findings in the inspections conducted by the MCI on 29/30.12.2015, 10.3.2016 and 28/29.12.2016 would reveal several deficiencies including those in faculty, residents, OPD attendance, bed occupancy etc. had been detected.	Reasoning
Whereas as per the said reports, the deficiency in faculty had fluctuated from 22.72 to 46.15, in residents, it ranged from 26.09 to 45.65.	Reasoning
The deficiencies in other areas, as finds mention in the reports, are also not negligible.	Reasoning
Even the Oversight Committee in its letter dated 14.5.2017 has recorded deficiency in faculty to the tune of 9.09 and in residents at 21.74, which exceeds the norms.21.	Reasoning
As alluded hereinabove and as recommended by the Central Government, a fresh hearing was afforded to the petitioner college.	Reasoning
An analysis of the findings of the Hearing Committee, on the basis of which the impugned order dated 10.8.2017 has been issued, reveals the following featuresa)	None
The college had accepted that seven faculty and eleven residents were deficient on the date of inspection, which however, it claimed was 5 and 2 respectively.b)	None
The college had furnished bank statement of salary payment of 106 faculty residents.c)	Reasoning
The college had informed that bio metric instruments had arrived but not installed.d)	Reasoning
There was some shortfall of clinical material, but the college seemed to be making earnest efforts to increase patient load.e)	Reasoning
The contention of the college that delivery patients were hard to get in private hospitals due to attractive maternity welfare scheme was acceptable.f)	Reasoning
The college had informed that normal functioning of the hospital was disrupted in the aftermath of cyclone Vardah, though it was on 12.12.2016 and the inspection was done on 28.12.2016.g)	Reasoning
The disruption factor would also get offset to some extent by the increase in number of patients due to various disease factors, post cyclone.22.	None
In the face of the deficiencies pointed out by the MCI and the part acceptance thereof by the petitioner college, the decision to debar it from admitting students in the MBBS course for the next two academic years 201718 and 201819 and to permit encashment of bank guarantee by the MCI was endorsed.23	Reasoning
True it is that as explicated on umpteen occasions and very recently in Royal Medical Trust (supra) the exercise of power of judicial review and the extent to which it has to be done would vary from case to case and would depend, amongst others on the factual projections.	Reasoning
The following observations to this effect in the above decision succinctly adumbrates this postulation50.Thus analysed, it is evincible that the exercise of power of judicial review and the extent to which it has to be done will vary from case to case.	None
It is necessary to state with emphasis that it has its own complexity and would depend upon the factual projection.	None
The broad principles have been laid down in Tata Cellular (supra) and other decisions make it absolutely clear that judicial review, by no stretch of imagination, can be equated with the power of appeal, for while exercising the power under Article 226 or 32 of the Constitution, the constitutional courts do not exercise such power.	None
The process of adjudication on merit by reappreciation of the materials brought on record which is the duty of the appellate court is not permissible.24.	None
Thus, in exercise of power of judicial review, reappreciation of the materials on record, as otherwise warranted by an appellate forum is both inexpedient and uncalled for.	None
In the backdrop of the deficiencies recorded in the successive inspections conducted by the MCI as noted by the Hearing Committee as well as the rival assertions visavis the same, it is not possible to readily discard the eventual findings recorded by the Hearing Committee and in the impugned order dated 10.8.2017, as bereft of any reason.	Reasoning
This is more so, in the face of the statutory obligation cast on the MCI under the Act and the Regulations framed thereunder to sustain and enhance the excellence in medical eduction which eventually would cater to the exigencies of public health.25.	Reasoning
In Royal Medical Trust (supra) again, this Court while responding to the assailment of the order impugned therein to be bereft of reasons, enunciated that the order passed has to be appreciated in its entirety and neither the Central Government nor the Hearing Committee is expected to pass a judgment as a Judge is expected to do.	None
It was observed that the order must reflect application of mind and should indicate reasons.	None
The plea based on want of reasons was negated.26.	None
In any view of the matter, the respondents are the best judge to assess the findings in the inspection reports cumulatively on the touchstone of the statutory imperatives to ensure the required standard of medical education and achieve the paramount and salutary objective of the desired quality of health facilities in the public sector.	Reasoning
In a way, a court is ill equipped for want of judicially manageable parameters to substitute the findings of experts on such issue by its views, which otherwise is inexpedient as well.27.	Reasoning
In the overall factual setting and on a consideration of the materials on record in entirety, we do not feel persuaded in the facts and circumstances of the case to interfere with the impugned decision for want of reasons.28.	Reasoning
In the face of the above determination, we thus hold that the petitioner college is not entitled to LOP for the academic year 201718 and the application scheme, if submitted by it for the academic year 201718 would be treated as one for 201819.	Decision
The petitioner college however, would keep the bank guarantee deposited with the MCI alive and the MCI would not encash the same.	None
Further the MCI would make a fresh inspection as per the Act Regulations within a period of three months and apprise the petitioner college with regard to the result thereof and if there are deficiencies, afford it an opportunity to remedy the same and thereafter proceed, as required under the Act and the Regulations.	Decision
This inspection, we clarify, would be carried out for the purpose of LOP for the academic year 201819.	None
Needless to say, after the MCI sends its recommendations to the Central Government, the latter would take a final decision in accordance with law, after affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner college with the assistance of the Hearing Committee, as constituted.	None
As the students admitted on the basis of LOP for the academic year 201617 are continuing with the studies in the petitioner college, they would be, in the attendant facts and circumstances, allowed to continue their studies in the petitioner college and would be permitted to continue till completion of the course.29.	Decision
The Writ Petition and I.A. No. 74486 of 2017 are disposed of.	Decision
