 Uday U. Lalit, J.1.	None
These appeals by special leave arise out of common judgment and order dated 20.12.2013 passed by the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi in FAO (OS) 588 of 2013 and in FAO (OS) 590 of 2013.	Issue
The questions raised in these appeals being identical, the appeals are dealt with by this common judgment and for the sake of convenience, the facts leading to the filing of FAO (OS) 588 of 2013 are dealt with in detail.	Issue
Contract No.TNHP/2, Construction Package IIC for a contract price of Rs.295.53 crores for executing the work of 4laning and strengthening of the existing 2 lanes sections between km 38 to km 115 on National Highway2 in Uttar Pradesh was awarded to the Respondent on 12.03.2001.	Facts
Clause 14.3 of ?	None
Instruction to Bidder?	None
was as under ?	None
All duties, taxes and other levies payable by the Contractor under the contract, or for any other cause, as of the date 28 days prior to the deadline for submission of bids, shall be included in the rates and prices and the total Bid Price submitted by the bidder.?	None
The parties adopted FIDIC form of conditions of contract with some changes which are called Conditions of Particular Application (?COPA?, for short).	None
Clauses in COPA in the present case are identical to those dealt with by this Court in National Highways Authority of India Versus ITD Cementation India Ltd. (2015(6)	None
SCR 107).	None
Clause 70.8 dealing with effect of ?	None
Subsequent Legislation?	None
was as under ?	None
Clause 70.8 Subsequent Legislation If, after the date 28 days prior to the closing date for submission of bids for the Contract there are changes to any National or State Statute, Ordinance, Decree or other Law or any regulation or bylaw of any local or other duly constituted authority or the introduction of any such State Statute, Ordinance, Decree, Law, regulation or bylaw in India or States of India which causes additional or reduced cost to the Contractor, other than under the preceding SubClauses of this clauses in the execution of the contract, such additional or reduced cost shall, after due consultation with the Employer and the Contractor, be determined by the Engineer and shall be added to or deducted from the Contract Price and the Engineer shall notify the Contractor accordingly with a copy to the Employer.	None
Notwithstanding the foregoing, such additional or reduced cost shall not be separately paid or credited if the same shall already have been taken into account in the indexing of any inputs to the Price Adjustment Formulae in accordance with the provisions of SubClauses 70.1 to 70.7 of this Clause.?	None
Disputes having arisen between the parties, the matter was referred to the Arbitral Tribunal.	None
Two claims were raised by the respondent namely?(i)	Facts
Dispute No. 1Compensation for additional cost on account of increase in Service Tax on the Insurance Premium under the Insurance Policy for the Project.(ii) Dispute No. 2Compensation for additional cost on account of Service Tax on the Bank Guarantee charges.?5.	Facts
It was submitted by the respondentclaimant that in terms of Clause 21.1 of General Conditions of contract, for the works awarded under the contract, an insurance policy was required to be taken w.e.f. 1.4.2001 initially for a period to 13.09.2006 which was later extended to 30.09.2009.	Facts
It was submitted that General Insurance Policies including insurance for works were subject to levy of service tax which would be collected by the Insurance Company along with premium chargeable.	Facts
There being revisions in the rate of service tax from 5 to 10.30, over a period of time, according to the claimant service tax paid in excess of 5 was reimbursible by the appellant under Clause 70.8 of COPA.	Facts
Similarly, in terms of the Clause 10.1 of COPA, the respondentclaimant was required to furnish Bank Guarantee for due execution of the contract by way of performance security.	Facts
Service tax in relation to the Bank Guarantee as collected by the Bank had risen from 5 to 10.30 during the course of the contract and as such according to the respondentclaimant it was entitled to be reimbursed by virtue of Clause 70.8 of COPA.	Facts
The Arbitral Tribunal by its unanimous award dated 28.2.2013 accepted the aforesaid claims and directed that the respondentclaimant shall be paid following sums in relation to dispute No.1 ?	Facts
6.1	None
The Claimant shall be paid by the Respondent an amount of Rs.	None
11,34,877/ on account of Service Tax paid by him at rates in excess of 5 of the premium paid.6.2	None
The Claimant shall also be paid by the Respondent a sum of Rs. 11,22,811 towards interest on the above amount for period upto the date of this award i.e. 28.02.2013.6.3 Post award interest shall be payable in addition, on the principal sum awarded of Rs.	Facts
11,34,877/ at the rate of 12 per annum from 01.03.2013 to the actual date of payment of amounts under pars 6.1 6.2 above.	None
No post award interest shall however be payable in case the above sums are payable within 90 days of the date of award.?Similarly the Arbitral Tribunal awarded to the respondentclaimant following sums under dispute No. 2 ?10.1	Facts
The Claimant shall be paid by the Respondent an amount of Rs.	None
63,58,368/ on account of additional cost incurred on the Bank Guarantees furnished to the Respondent in terms of the Contract.10.2	None
The Claimant shall also be paid by the Respondent a sum of Rs.	None
43,84,987/ towards interest on the above amount for period upto the date of this award i.e. 28.02.2013.10.3 Post award interest shall be payable in addition on the awarded sum of Rs.	Facts
63,58,368/ at the rate of 12 per annum (simple) from the date of award to the actual date of payment of the said sum.	None
No post award interest may, however, be paid in case the sums awarded under 10.1 and 10.2 above are paid within 90 days of the date of the award.?6.	Facts
The award passed by the Arbitral Tribunal proceeds on the ground that the additional costs as a result of revision in service tax which the respondentclaimant was required to bear, were covered under Clause 70.8 of COPA.	Facts
It was observed that service tax was not an input to the indices used in Prices Adjustment Formulae in Clause 70.3.	Facts
It concluded as under ?	None
The claim in question is for reimbursement of additional costs resulting from change in Central Law which came into effect after the base date as defined in SubClause 70.8.	Facts
In terms of the Subclause, such costs are not payable separately if the same have already been taken into account in indexing of the inputs in Price Adjustment Formulae under Subclause 70.3.	Facts
The Claimant has placed on record a letter dated 24.01.2008 from the Economic Advisor, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, confirming that Service Tax was not an input into indexing of Whole Sale Price Indices, used in India.?7.	Facts
The award passed by the Arbitral Tribunal was challenged by the appellant by filing OMP No.623 of 2013 under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1966 before the High Court of Delhi.	Facts
By order dated 21.10.2013 Single Judge of the High Court dismissed said petition.	Facts
In an appeal arising therefrom i.e. in FAO(OS)588 of 2013, the Division Bench of the High Court by its judgment and order dated 20.12.2013, which is presently under challenge, affirmed the view taken by Single Judge and dismissed the appeal.	Facts
The facts leading to the present appeal arising out of FAO(AS)590 of 2013 are more or less identical.	None
In that matter identical claims were raised on two counts but arising out of a different contract by the very same claimant.	None
The Arbitral Tribunal granted Rs.8,84,969/ in respect of dispute no. 1 with interest 12 per annum under identical two heads as found in the earlier case.	None
Similarly, in respect of dispute no.2, the Arbitral Tribunal awarded Rs.42,35,385/ with interest 12 per annum.	None
In NHAI v. ITD Cementation India Ltd.(Supra) impact of Clauses 70.1 to 70.7 on one hand and 70.8 of COPA was considered and the view taken by the Arbitral Tribunal as affirmed by the High Court was accepted.	None
In that case impact as a result of increase in the rates of royalty and issue whether the Arbitral Tribunal was right in observing that the case was covered under Clause 70.8 of COPA were considered by this court.	None
The view taken by the Arbitral Tribunal was found to be consistent with the terms of the contract and challenge at the instance of National Highways Authorities of India was negated.	None
The fact that there had been revision in the rates of service tax from time to time was not disputed by the appellant.	None
Ms. Indu Malhotra, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants in both the matters, however, submitted that only those claims which were constructional inputs alone would be eligible to be covered under Clause 70 of COPA.	Arguments of Respondent
In her submission, the service tax on bank guarantee could have been avoided by the claimant, if the bank guarantee was replaced by tendering cash and that the facility of bank guarantee was optional and at the discretion of the claimant.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, money advances were given for the benefit of the claimant and any cost associated with such benefit would not come within the scope of Clause 70.8.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Biswajit Das, learned Advocate appearing for the respondentclaimant in both the appeals however, submitted that the bank guarantees were required to be given under the contract itself and such requirement was stipulated by the appellant primarily to reduce its financial risk and to bind the claimant for its performance or protecting the money advanced to the respondents.	None
In his submission, furnishing a performance bank guarantee 10 of the contract price was a mandatory condition of the contract under Clauses 10.1 and 10.2 of COPA.	Facts
Though at some stage the option of performance bond was mentioned in COPA, such option was withdrawn making performance security to be compulsorily in the form of an unconditional bank guarantee.	None
Such requirement being directly referable to essential conditions and arising out of the terms of the Contract, according to him the matter was definitely within the ambit of Clause 70.8 of COPA.11.	None
Having considered rival submissions, we are of the view that the assessment made by the Arbitral Tribunal in the instant case as affirmed by the High Court was definitely within its jurisdiction.	Reasoning
It has consistently been laid down by this Court that construction of the terms of a Contract is primarily for an Arbitrator or Arbitral Tribunal to decide and unless the Arbitrator or Arbitral Tribunal construes the contract in such a way that no fair minded or reasonable person could do, no interference by Court is called for.	Reasoning
Viewed thus, we do not see any reason or justification to interfere in the matter.	Reasoning
The view that the increase in rates of service tax in respect of bank guarantee and insurance premium is directly relatable to terms of the contract and performance under the Contract is certainly a possible view.12.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, we do not find any merit in the present appeals.	Decision
Both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.	Decision
