 Mudholkar, J. (on behalf of S. K. Das A.C. J., Raghubar Dayal, N. Rajagopala Ayyangar JJ. and himself)1.	None
The petitioner, who is a graduate is an Assistant in grade IV of the Central Secretariat Service, having been recruited therein in the year 1956.	Facts
He became permanent on January 1, 1958.	Facts
The next post which the petitioner can expect to get is that of Section Officer (Assistant Superintendent) in the same service.	Facts
Recruitment to the post of Section Officers is made in the following manner (i) 40 per cent by direct recruitment from those who obtained lower ranks in the I. A. S. etc., Examination(ii) 30 per cent by promotion from Grade IV to Grade III on the basis of a departmental examination held at intervals by the U.P.S. C.(iii) 30 per cent by promotion from Grade IV on the basis of senioritycumfitness.2.	Facts
On February 6, 1960, the Union Public Service Commission issued a notification to the effect that a limited competitive examination for promotion to the regular temporary establishment of Assistant Superintendents of the Central Secretariat Service would be held in June. 1960.	Facts
The notification further stated that a reservation 12 1/2 per cent of the vacancies would be made for members of the Scheduled Castes and 5 per cent for members of Scheduled Tribes.	Facts
The result of this examination was announced by the Union Public Service Commission in April, 1961.	Facts
The Union Public Service Commission recommended 16 candidates for being appointed in unreserved vacancies and 23 candidates in reserved vacancies.	Facts
Subsequently the U. P. S. C. recommended 2 more candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes Tribes for the posts.	Facts
It may be mentioned that the number of vacancies which were expected to be filled was stated to be 48 out of which 16 were unreserved and the remaining 32 reserved though in fact the U.P.S. C. recommended the names of only 30 candidates for the latter class of vacancies.	Facts
The Government, however, made only 45 appointments out of which 29 were from among the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Tribes.3.	Facts
The petitioner points out that the percentage of marks secured by him at the examination was 61 whereas the percentage of marks secured by some of the 29 candidates from the Scheduled Castes and Tribes was as low as 35 and one of his grievances is that it was not competent to the U.P.S. C. to prescribe one qualifying standard for members of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes and another for the rest of the candidates.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the petitioners case that had the Union of India and the U.P.S. C. adhered to the quota o 17 1/2 per cent reservations in favour of Scheduled Castes and Tribes he would have had a fair chance of being selected to the post of Assistant Superintendent.	Arguments of Petitioner
His grievance is that the reservation actually made in this case comes to 65 per cent and was far in excess of that set out in the notification of the U.P.S.C., pursuant to which the competitive examination was held.	Arguments of Petitioner
Had the reservation been limited to 17 1/2 per cent only 8 vacancies could have gone to the members of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes and the rest to other candidates according to their merit.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner points out that the respondents that is the Union of India and the Union Public Service Commission seek to justify their action by relying upon what is known as the carry forward rule.	None
In order to understand what the aforesaid rule is, it is necessary to refer to certain resolutions of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs.	None
On September 13, 1950 the Government of India published a resolution indicating their policy in regard to communal representation in the services.	None
There they have stated that the following reservations would provisionally be made in recruitment to the posts and services under them (a) Scheduled Castes Reservation of 121/2 of vacancies by direct recruitment through the Union Public Service Commission or by means of open competitive tests held by any other authority.	None
Where recruitment is made otherwise than by open competition the reservation will be 16 2/3 .(b)	None
Scheduled Tribes Both in recruitment by open competition and the recruitment made otherwise than by open competition the reservation shall be to the extent of 5 of the vacancies filled by direct recruitment.	None
Then they refer to the resolution in favour of AngloIndians with which we are not concerned.	None
Incidentally it may be mentioned that this resolution provides that in all cases a minimum standard of qualifications will be prescribed and that the reservations will be subject to the overall condition that candidates of the requisite communities possessing the prescribed qualifications and suitable in all respects for the appointments in question are forth coming in sufficient numbers for the vacancies reserved for them.	None
These orders were made applicable to all services under the control of the Government of India.	None
Supplementary instructions with regard to this subject were issued by the Government of India on January 28, 1952, of which the relevant portions may be quoted 2(a) RECRUITMENT BY OPEN COMPETITION If the candidates of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the AngloIndian community obtain by competition less vacancies than are reserved for them, the difference will be made up by the nomination of duly qualified candidates of these castes, tribes and comities, i. e., candidates of these communities etc., who have qualified in the test selection etc., held for the purpose, but have secured ranks lower than the candidates of other communities for whom no reservations have been made.	None
5(3)	None
If a sufficient number of candidates of the communities for whom the reservations are made, who are eligible for appointment to the posts in question and are considered by the recruiting authorities as suitable in all respects for appointment to the reserved quota of vacancies, are not available, the vacancies that remain unfilled will be treated as unreserved and filled by the best available candidates but a corresponding number of vacancies will be reserved in the following year for the communities whose vacancies are thus filled up in addition to such number as would ordinarily be reserved for them under the orders contained in the Resolution.	None
(For further clarification please see Rule III in Appendix A).4.	None
If suitably qualified candidates of the communities for whom the reservations have been made are again not available to fill the vacancies carried forward from the previous year under clause (3) above, the vacancies not filled by them will be treated as unreserved and the reservations made in those vacancies will lapse.	None
APPENDIX AIII.	None
No gap should be left in the roster in filling vacancies and if a reserved vacancy (at, say, the 25th point of the roster) has, for want of a suitable Scheduled Caste candidate to be treated as unreserved, the candidate appointed should be shown against that point	None
but if a Scheduled Castes Candidate cannot be recruited against an unreserved vacancy later in the year, the reservation should be carried forward to the following year and after the Scheduled Castes quota for the latter year has been filled, the first unreserved vacancy in that year (say, the 32nd point) should be treated as reserved for Scheduled Castes.	None
These supplementary instruction were given apparently because sufficient number of qualified candidates from among the Scheduled Castes and Tribes were not available.	None
However, even carrying forward the vacancies for one year proved to be inadequate for giving effect to the policy of the Government of India to give adequate representation in the services to members of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes.	None
The Government considered and rejected the holding of separate examinations for Scheduled Castes and Tribes for recruitment to public services.	None
Then by Office Memorandum No. 2/11/55 RPS dated May 7, 1955 the Government of India modified subparas (3) and (4) of paragraph 5 of the Supplementary Instruction dated January 28, 1952, by substituting the following 3(a)	None
If a sufficient number of candidates considered suitable by the recruiting authorities, are not available from the communities for whom reservations are made in a particular year, the unfilled vacancies should be treated as unreserved will be added as an additional quota to the number that would be reserved in the following year in the normal course and to the extent to which approved candidates are not available in that year against this additional quota, a corresponding addition should be made to the number of reserved vacancies in the second following year.	None
Thus the number of reserved vacancies of 1954 which were treated as unreserved for want of suitable candidates in that year will be added to the normal number of reserved vacancies in 1955.	None
Any recruitment against these vacancies in 1955 will first be counted against the additional quota carried forward from 1954.	None
If, however, suitable candidates are not available in1955 also and a certain number of vacancies are treated accordingly as unreserved in that year, the total number of vacancies to be reserved in 1956 will be the unutilised balance of the quota carried forward from 1954 and 1955 plus the normal percentage of vacancies to be reserved in 1956.	None
The unutilised quota will not, however, be carried forward in this manner for more than two years.	None
An annual report of reserved vacancies which were treated as unreserved for want of suitable candidates from Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes as the case may be, should be forwarded to the Ministry of Home Affairs in the form enclosed as Annexure along with the annual communal returns already prescribed.	None
In addition Ministries themselves will take adequate steps to ensure that any lapse on the part of subordinate authorities in observing the reservation rules cannot go unnoticed by a reviewing authority within the Ministry itself at a sufficiently early date.	None
(b).	None
In the event of a suitable Scheduled Castes candidate not being available, a Scheduled Tribe candidate can be appointed to the reserved vacancy and vice versa subject to adjustment in the subsequent points of the roster.	None
(For further clarification please see Rule III in Appendix A).6.	None
It is these instruction of the Government of India which are being challenged by the petitioner in this petition which he has presented to this Court under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution.	None
His contention is that Art. 16 (1) of the Constitution provides that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gopalakrishnan, who appears for the petitioner, concedes that under cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
16, it is open to the State to make provision for reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizen which in the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
But his contention is that this reservation cannot be so extensive as to nullify or destroy the right conferred by cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that according to the previous decisions of this Court, cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) is merely an exception to cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of Art. 16, which, being subservient to the main provision cannot be so interpreted as to render the main provision meaningless.	Arguments of Petitioner
His next contention is that cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
16 is to be read with Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
335 of the Constitution which, while providing for the consideration of the claims of members of Scheduled Castes and Tribes, reiterates that the efficiency of administration should be maintained and not allowed to suffer.	Arguments of Petitioner
His next contention is that as no reservation of posts in favour of members of Scheduled Castes and Tribes is made in the offices of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and the Supreme Court or in Armed Forces, Art. 14 of the Constitution is infringed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Then, according to him, the standard for all candidates must be the same and the Union Public Service Commission has no power to recommend for appointment candidates from Scheduled Castes and Tribes for appointment to the reserved posts even though they have secured far less marks than the candidates belonging to the more advanced communities.	Arguments of Petitioner
These are the main points which Mr. Gopalkrishnan has urged.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents it is claimed that the carry forward rule is perfectly valid, that it was a rule in force before the commencement of the Constitution and that it was decided to continue it even matter of public policy and for giving effect to the provisions of the Constitution and that that is why supplementary instructions were issued by the Government in 1952.	Arguments of Respondent
They further say that the carry forward rule was extended upto two years because of inadequacy of representation of Scheduled Castes and Tribes in services regarding which there was persistent criticism in Parliament and by the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Tribes and by others.	Arguments of Respondent
It is for this reason that the revised supplementary instructions of 1955 were issued as a matter of policy.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents relied upon the provisions of Art. 16 (4) and Art.	Arguments of Respondent
335 in support of these instructions.8.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended on behalf of the respondent that having regard to the prayers in the petition the petition was unsustainable in law because the persons who would be adversely affected have not been joined as respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also contended that the petition does not disclose any justiciable issue.	Arguments of Respondent
The right to promotion cannot, according to the respondents, be the subject of a complaint in a Court of law.	Arguments of Respondent
Nor again, questions of policy could be 0agitated before a Court of law.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents denied that the petitioner has any right, much less a fundamental right.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents also deny that the carry forward rule was a negation of equality before law and equal opportunity in the matter of appointment of posts under the State.	Arguments of Respondent
The infringement of the alleged fundamental right could not thus furnish a cause of action to sustain a petition under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.9.	None
While replying in detail paragraph by paragraph to the petition, the respondents admitted that at the competitive examination held in pursuance of the notification of March, 1961, 28 vacancies which had been filled in the two previous years from amongst candidates who belong to communities other than the Schedule Castes and Tribes because suitable candidates from the latter classes were not available and stated that by operation of the carry forward rule those vacancies were, therefore, earmarked for being filled at the competitive examination held in the year 1961 in addition to 171/2 to the total vacancies to be filled that year (Sic).10.	None
The main question for consideration thus is whether the carry forward rule as modified in 1955 is unconstitutional either because its operation will practically destroy the fundamental right guaranteed by Art.	Issue
16 (1) of the Constitution or because it is violative of the guarantee contained in Art.	Issue
14 of the Constitution.	Issue
If on either of these grounds the carry forward rule is found to be bad no other question need be considered by us.11.	None
It seems to us that the argument based upon Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution in fact turns on the same considerations as the argument that Art. 16 (1) is infringed by the aforesaid rule.	Reasoning
What Art.14 provides is that the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.	Reasoning
What is meant by equality in this Article is, equality amongst equals.	Reasoning
It does not provide that what is aimed at is an absolute equality of treatment to all persons in utter disregard in very conceivable circumstance of the differences such as age, sex, education and so on and so forth as may be found amongst people in general.	Reasoning
Indeed, while the aim of this Article is to ensure that invidious distinction or arbitrary discrimination shall not be made by the State between a citizen and a citizen who answer the same description and the differences which may obtain between them are of no relevance for the purpose of applying a particular law reasonable classification is permissible.	Reasoning
It does not mean anything more.12.	None
It is an accepted fact that members of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes are by and large backward in comparison with other communities in the country.	None
This is the result of historical causes with which it is not necessary for us to deal here.	None
The fact, however, remains that they are backward and the purpose of Art.	None
16 (4) is to ensure that such people, because of their backwardness should not be unduly handicapped in the matter of securing employment in the various services of the State.	None
This provision, therefore, contemplates reservation of appointments or posts in favour of backward classes who are not adequately represented in the services under the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
Where, therefore, the State makes a rule providing fo the reservation of appointments and posts for such backward classes it cannot be said to have violated Art.	Reasoning
14, merely because members of the more advanced classes will not be considered for appointment to these posts even though they may be equally or even more meritorious than the members of the backward classes, or merely because such reservation is not made in every kind of service under the State.	Reasoning
Where the object of a rule is to make reasonable allowance for the backwardness of members of a class by reserving certain proportion of appointments for them in the public services of the State what the State would in fact be doing would be to provide the members of backward classes with an opportunity equal to that of the members of the more advanced classes in the matter of appointments to public services.	Reasoning
If the reservation is so excessive that it practically denies a reasonable opportunity for employment to members of other communities the position may well be different and it would be open then for a member of a more advanced class to complain that he has been denied equality by the State.13.	Reasoning
That is precisely the point which we must consider in dealing with the argument of learned counsel that the rule violates the guarantee contained in Art. 16 (1) of the Constitution because the excessive reservation permitted by it almost destroys the guarantee contained in the provision.	None
In order to appreciate the argument it is necessary to consider the operation of the rule.	None
Now, the rule provides that 171/2 of the total vacancies in a year will be reserved or being filled from amongst candidates belonging to scheduled castes and tribes.	None
It further provides that if in any year suitable candidates are not available from amongst such classes the reserved posts will be dereserved, filled by candidates from other classes and a corresponding number of posts be carried forward to the next year.	None
If in the subsequent year the same thing happens, the posts unfilled by candidates from Scheduled Castes and Tribes can be carried forward to the third year.	None
In the third year the number of posts, to be filled from amongst candidates of Scheduled Castes and Tribes would thus be 171/2 of the total vacancies to be filed in that year, plus the total unfilled vacancies which have been carried forward from the two previous years.	None
The rule thus permits a perpetual carry forward of unfilled reserved vacancies in the two years preceding the year of recruitment and provides addition to them of 17 1/2 of the total vacancies to be filled in the recruitment year.	None
In order to appreciate better the import of this rule on recruitment let us take an illustration.	None
Supposing in two successive years no candidate from amongst the Scheduled Castes and Tribes is found to be qualified for filling any of he reserved posts.	None
Supposing also that in each of those two years the number of vacancies to be filled in a particular service was 100.	None
The reserved vacancies for each of those years would, according to the Government resolution, be 18 for each year.	None
Now, since these vacancies were not filled in those years a total of 36 vacancies will be carried forward to the third year.	None
Supposing in the third year also the number of vacancies to be filled is 100.	None
Then 18 vacancies out of these will also have to be reserved for members of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes.	None
By operation of the carry forward rule the vacancies to be filled by persons from amongst the Scheduled Castes and Tribes would be 54 as amongst 46 by persons from amongst the more advanced classes.	None
The reservation would thus be more than 50.	None
It has been held by this Court in M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore, AIR 1963 S C 649, that the reservation of more than half of the seats in an educational institution for being filled from members of the backward classes is unconstitutional.	None
Speaking for the Court Gajendragadkar J., has observed therein Speaking generally and in a broad way a special provision should be less than 50 per cent how much less than 50 per cent.	None
would depend upon the relevant prevailing circumstances in each case In our opinion when the State makes a special provision for the advancement of the weaker sections of society specified in Article 15 (4) it has to approach its task objectively and in a rational manner.	None
Undoubtedly, it has to take reasonable and even generous steps to help the advancement of weaker elements the extent of the problem must be weighed, the requirements of the community at large must be borne in mind and a formula must be envolved which would strike a reasonable balance between the several relevant considerations.	None
In that case the reservation was to the extent of 68 and it was struck down by this Court.	None
No doubt, what was challenged was the reservation of seats in an educational institution in favour of members of backward communities under Art. 15 (4) which permits the State to make a special provision for the State to make a special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes or for the Scheduled Castes Tribes while Art. 16 (4) in specific terms provides for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of such classes.	None
But the difference in the language used in these provisions is not, however, of any significance because this Court has accepted the position that reservation can be made under Art. 15 (4).	None
Indeed, at p. 664 this Court has pointed out . . . . . . .	None
what is true in regard to Article 15 (4) is equally true in regard to Art.	None
16 (4).	None
There can be no doubt that the Constitutionmakers assumed, as they were entitled to, that while making adequate reservation under Art.	None
16 (4) care would be taken not to provide for unreasonable, excessive or extravagant reservation, for that would, by eliminating general competition in a large field and by creating wide spread dissatisfaction amongst the employees, materially affect efficiency.	None
Therefore, like the special provision improperly made under Art 15 (4), reservation made under Art. 16 (4) beyond the permissible and legitimate limits would be liable to be challenged as a fraud on the Constitution.	None
What this Court has laid down they would also apply to the present case.	None
The ratio of this decision appears to be that reservation of more than half the vacancies is per se destructive of the provisions of Art. 15 (1) which is to the effect that the State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.	None
Adverting to the effect of such reservation this Court has observed at p. 662	None
But if a provision which is in the nature of exception completely excludes the rest of the society, that clearly is outside the scope of Art. 15 (4).	None
It would be extremely unreasonable to assume that in enacting Art. 15 (4) the Constitution intended to provide that where the advancement of the Backward Classes or the Scheduled Castes and Tribes was concerned, the fundamental rights of the citizens constituting the rest of the society were to be completely and absolutely ignored.14.	None
The startling effect of the carry forward rule as modified in 1955 would be apparent if in the illustration which we have taken there were in the third year 50 total vacancies instead of 100.	None
Out of these 50 vacancies 9 would be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Tribes.	None
Adding to that, the 36 carried forward from the two previous years, we would have a total of 45 reserved vacancies out of 50, that is, a percentage of 90.	None
In the case before us 45 vacancies have actually been filled out of which 29 have gone to members of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes on the basis of reservation permitted by the carry forward rule.	None
This comes to about 64.4 of reservation.	None
Such being the result of the operation of the carry forward rule we must on the basis of the decision in Balajis case (AIR 1966 SC 649) hold that the rule is bad.	None
Indeed, even in General Manager Southern Railway v. Rangachari, 19622 SCR 586 (AIR 1962 SC 36 ) which is a case in which reservation of vacancies to be filled by promotion was upheld by this Court, Gajendragadkar J. who delivered the majority judgment observed It is also true that the reservation which can be made under Art. 16 (4) is intended merely to give adequate representation to backward communities.	None
It cannot be used for creating monopolies or for unduly or illegitimately disturbing the legitimate interests of other employees.	None
In exercising the powers under Art. 16(4) the problem of adequate representation of the backward class of citizens must be fairly and objectively considered and an attempt must always be made to strike a reasonable balance between the claims of backward classes and the claims of other employees as well as the important consideration of the efficiency of administration . . . .	None
.It is clear from both these decisions that the problem of givng adequate representation to members of backward classes enjoined by Art.	None
16(4) of the Constitution is not to be tackled by framing a general rule without bearing in mind its repercussions from year to year.	None
What precise method should be adopted for this purpose is a matter for the Government to consider.	None
It is enough for us to say that while any method can be evolved by the Government it must strike a reasonable balance between the claims of the backward classes and claims of other employees as pointed out in Balajis case, AIR 1963 SC 649 .15.	None
We would like to emphasise that the guarantee contained in Art. 16 (1) is for ensuring equality of opportunity for all citizens relating to employment, and to appointments to any office under the State.	None
This means that on every occasion for recruitment the State should see that all citizens are treated equally.	None
The guarantee is to each individual citizen and, therefore, every citizen who is seeking employment or appointment to an office under the State is entitled to be afforded an opportunity for seeking such employment or appointment whenever it is intended to be filled.	None
In order to effectuate the guarantee each year of recruitment will have to be considered by itself and the reservation for backward communities should not be so excessive as to create a monopoly or to disturb unduly the legitimate claims of other communities.16.	None
Further, this Court has already held that cl.	None
(4) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
16 is by way of proviso or an exception to cl.	None
(1).	None
A proviso or an exception cannot be so interpreted as to nullify or destroy the main provision.	None
To hold that unlimited reservation of appointments could be made under cl.	None
(4) would in effect efface the guarantee contained in cl.	None
(1) or at best make it illusory.	None
No provision of the Constitution or of any enactment can be so construed as to destroy another provision contemporaneously enacted therein.	None
It is true, as pointed out by Mr. Ganapathy Iyer on behalf of the respondent that effect must be given to the express words of Art.	None
16 (4) Nothing in this Article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation of appointments . . . . .	None
etc., but that does not mean that the provision made by the State should have the effect of virtually obliterating the rest of the Article, particularly cls.	None
(1) and (2) thereof.	None
The overriding effect of cl.	None
(4) on cls.	None
(1) and (2) could only extend to the making of a reasonable number of reservation of appointments and posts in certain circumstances.	None
That is all.17.	None
Going back on his earlier concession, it was contended by Mr. Gopalakrishnan on behalf of the petitioner that there can possibly be no reservation whatsoever in favour of members of Scheduled Castes or Tribes or any of the backward classes and that the proper way of discharging the duty laid upon the State by Art. 16(4) of the Constitution would be to adopt a method of the kind which has appealed to the Government of Maharashtra in exercising its powers under Art. 15(4).	None
In this connection he has referred us to the following passage from the judgment of this Court in Balajis case, AIR 1966 SC 649.It appears that the Maharashtra Government has decided to afford financial assistance, and make monetary grants to students seeking higher education where it is shown that the annual income of their families is below a prescribed minimum.	None
The said scheme is not before us and we are not called upon to express any opinion on it.	None
However, we may observe that if any State adopts such a measure, it may afford relief to and assist the advancement of the backward Classes in the State, because backwardness, social and educational, is ultimately and primarily due to poverty.	None
An attempt can also be made to start newer and more educational institutions, polytechnics, vocational institutions and even rural Universities and thereby create more opportunities for higher education.	None
This dual attack on the problem posed by the weakness of backward communities can claim to proceed on a rational, broad and scientific approach which is consistent with, and true to, the noble ideal of a secular welfare democratic State set up by the Constitution of this country.	None
Such an approach can be supplemented, if necessary by providing special provision by way of reservation to aid the Backward classes and Scheduled Castes and Tribes.	None
It may well be that there may be other ways and mean of achieving the same result.	None
In our country where social and economic conditions differ from State to State, it would be idle to expect absolute uniformity of approach but in taking executive action to implement the policy of Art. 15(4)	None
it is necessary for the States to remember that the policy which is intended to be implemented is the policy which has been declared by Art.	None
46 and the preamble of the Constitution.	None
It is for the attainment of social and economic justice that Art. 15(4) authorises the making of special provisions for the advancement of the communities there contemplated even if such provisions may be inconsistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed under Art. 15 or 29 (2).	None
The context, therefore, requires that the executive action taken by the State must be based on an objective approach free from all extraneous pressures.	None
The said action is intended to do social and economic justice and must be taken in a manner that justice is and should be done.	None
(p. 664)It may well be that what the Government of Maharashtra has done is one of the ways of discharging the duty which Art. 15(4) casts upon the State but in a case like the one before us we must have regard to the express language of Art.	None
16(4).	None
Under this provision it is clear that reservation of a reasonable percentage of posts for members of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes is within the competence of the State.	None
What the percentage ought to be must necessarily depend upon the circumstances obtaining from time to time.18.	None
In supporting the impugned rule reliance was placed on behalf of the respondents upon the passage from the judgment of Wanchoo J., in Rangacharis case, 19622 SCR 586 AIR 1962 SC 36 Article 16 (4) tells us that it may be made either by reserving appointments to the services or reserving posts in the services.	None
Appointments in my opinion clearly mean the initial appointments to a service, for a person is appointed only once in a service and thereafter there is no further appointment.	None
Therefore, when the article speaks of reservation of appointments it means reservation of a percentage of initial appointments to the service.	None
Posts refer to the total number of posts in the service and when reservation is by reference to posts it means reservation of a certain percentage of posts out of the total number of posts in the service.	None
The reason why these two methods are mentioned in this Article is also to my mind plain.	None
The method of reservation of appointments would mean that the goal of adequate representation may be reached in a long time.	None
Therefore, in order that the goal may be reached in a comparatively shorter period of time, the Article also provides for the method of reservation of posts.	None
The view of Wanchoo J., stands by itself and does not seem to have been accepted by the majority of the Court.	None
The validity of the carry forward rule was not challenged in that case and, therefore, this Court had no occasion to say anything concerning it.	None
Apart from that we may point out that the Government resolution does not contemplate reservation of any posts in the service cadre but merely provides for reservation of vacancies.	None
Even if the Government had provided for the reservation of posts for Schedule Castes and Tribes a cent, per cent, reservation of vacancies to be filled in a particular year or reservation of vacancies in excess of 50 would, according to the decision in Balajis case AIR 1963 SC 649 , not be constitutional.19.	None
Considerable argument was advanced before us by Mr. Gopalakrishnan on the basis of Art.	None
335 of the Constitution which reads thus The claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State.	None
The need for the maintenance of efficiency of administration, even when giving effect to the provisions of Art. 16(4) has been emphasised in Rangacharis case, 19622 SCR 586 (AIR 1962 SC 36 ).	None
It is, therefore, not necessary for us to say anything more on the point.20.	Reasoning
Having held that the carry forward rule as modified in 1955 is unconstitutional, the question which arises is as to the relief which we should grant to the petitioner.	Reasoning
Mr. Gopalakrishnan made it clear that all that he wants is a declaration about the invalidity of the rule and that he hopes that the department concerned will implement the decision of this Court in an appropriate way.	Reasoning
Indeed, no further relief can be given to him because the persons who have been appointed and who may be affected by this decision have not been jointed as respondents in this petition.21.	Reasoning
In the result the petition succeeds partially and the carry forward rule as modified in 1955 is declared invalid.	None
Costs of the petition will be paid by the State.	None
SUBBA RAO, J.21a.	None
I regret my inability to agree.	None
The short but difficult question is whether the impugned provision of reservation of posts made by the Government of India in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes offends Art.	None
16 (4) of the Constitution.22.	None
The facts are fully stated in the judgment of my learned brother and I need not restate them.	None
The relevant provisions may now be read Article 16.	None
(1) There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment to any office under the State.	None
(4) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which, in the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services under the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 46.	None
The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation.	None
Article 335.	None
The claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union of a State.	None
These three Articles along with others with which we are not now concerned, are designed to uplift the said castes and tribes.	None
There is no conflict between these three provisions.	None
Article 46 is a directive principle of state policy and, though not justiciable, it is fundamental in the governance of the country.	None
Article 335 is a mandatory direction given to the State to take the claims of the Scheduled Tribes into consideration in the making of appointments to the said services and posts.	None
Article 16 (4) empowers the State to make a provision for the reservation of posts and appointments for the backward classes, which certainly include the said Castes and Tribes.	None
While Art. 35 is mandatory in character, Art. 16(4) is directory and permissive.	None
The State may or may not make such reservations for such Castes and Tribes, if it thinks that the implementation of Art.	None
335 meets a given situation.	None
In my view, Art. 335 has no bearing in the matter of construing Art. 16(4) of the Constitution.	None
We have, therefore, to fall back upon Art. 16(4) alone to ascertain the validity of the provisions made by the Government.23.	None
Article 14 lays down the general rule of equality.	None
Article 16 is an instance of the application of the general rule with special reference to opportunity of appointments under the State.	None
It says that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.	None
If it stood alone, all the backward communities would go to the wall in a society of uneven basic social structure the said rule of equality would remain only a utopian conception unless a practical content was given to it.	None
Its strict enforcement brings about the very situation it seeks to avoid.	None
To make my point clear, take the illustration of a horse race.	None
Two horses are set down to run a race  one is a first class race horse and the other an ordinary one.	None
Both are made to run from the same starting point.	None
Though theoretically they are given equal opportunity to run the race, in practice the ordinary horse is not given an equal opportunity to compete with the race horse.	None
Indeed, that is denied to it.	None
So a handicap may be given either in the nature of extra weight or a start from a longer distance.	None
By doing so, what would otherwise have been a farce of a competition would be made a real one.	None
The same difficulty had confronted the makers of the Constitution at the time it was made.	None
Centuries of calculated oppression and habitual submission reduced a considerable section of our community to a life of serfdom.	None
It would be well nigh impossible to raise their standards if the doctrine of equal opportunity was strictly enforced in their case.	None
They would not have any chance if they were made to enter the open field of competition without adventitious aids till such time when they could stand on their own legs.	None
That is why the makers of the Constitution introduced cl.	None
(4) in Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expression nothing in this article is a legislative device to express its intention in a most emphatic way that the power conferred thereunder is not limited in any way by the main provision but falls outside it.	None
It has not really carved out an exception, but has preserved a power untrammeled by the other provisions of the Article.24.	None
Now let us give a close look to its provisions to ascertain its ambit.	None
Three expressions stand out in bold relief, namely, (1) any provision for the reservation of appointment, (2) in favour of any backward class of citizens, and (3) in the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services under the State.	None
The word any in the expression any provision is of the widest amplitude and leaves the nature of the provision to be made by the State in its discretion.	None
But the limitation on the provision is found in the words for the reservation of appointments or posts.	None
It follows that if a provision is for the reservation of appointments or posts, the clause does not further circumscribe the power of the State to make any provision to achieve that object.	None
That reservation must be in favour of any backward class of citizens.	None
Backward class is not defined, whether a particular class is backward or not is a question of fact in each case and it must satisfy certain objective tests.	None
But it is admitted in this case that the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes are backward classes.	None
The third condition is that, in the opinion of the State they are not adequately represented in the services under it.	None
Once a class is a backward class, the question whether it is adequately represented or not is left to the subjective satisfaction of the State.	None
The result of the analysis of the Article is that to invoke cl.	None
(4), (i) there shall be a backward class of citizens, and (ii) the said class, in the opinion of the State is not adequately represented in the services of the State.	None
If these two conditions are complied with, the State is at liberty to make any provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of the said class of citizens.	None
In the present case it is not disputed that the two conditions have been satisfied and, therefore, the only question is whether the provision made is for the reservation of appointments or posts for the said backward classes of citizens.25.	None
Learned counsel for the Petitioner contends that Art. 16 (1) confers an individual right on a citizen and cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) of the said Article, which embodies the principle of social justice is an exception to the said right and, therefore, the question has to be decided in the context of every selection whether the provision made is one of reservation or in effect one of destruction of the fundamental right.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further elaborates that, as every citizen has an individual right to apply for appointments whenever applications are called for, he cannot be deprived of his right on the ground that in a previous selection the community to which that individual belongs had more than its share.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended that the concept of reservation for a community implies the carving of a part of the entire field, and that if the provision covers the entire field or a major part of it, it ceases to be a reservation and, therefore, not protected by cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4).	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that the principle of carry forward if logically extended, will result, after some time, in the destruction of the right itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally, he argues that Art. 16 and Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
335 must be read together and that, it so read, they indicate that reservation could not be made at the expense of efficiency.26.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are only concerned with the interpretation of the constitutional provisions, but not with the policy underlying it.	None
The makers of the Constitution laid down that provision shall be made for the reservation of appointments and posts in favour of such Castes and Tribes.	None
The only question, therefore, is whether in the instant case the State did not provide for the reservation of appointments or posts, I find it difficult to say that the provision for carry forward is not for the reservation of appointments for the said Castes and Tribes.	None
The reservation of appointments can be made in different ways.	None
It is not for this Court to prescribe the mode of reservation.	None
In the context of a permissible provision that can be made by a State under Art. 16 (4) of the Constitution, some observations of Wanchoo J. in his judgment in 19622 S C R 586 AIR 1962 S C 36 may be extracted usefully.	None
The learned Judge observe at p. 610 (of S C R) (at pp. 4647 of AIR) thus Suppose there are 1,000 posts in a particular service and the backward classes have no representation at all in that service.	None
The State considers it necessary that they should have adequate representation in that service.	None
Suppose also that the annual appointments to be made to the service in order to keep it at full strength is thirty.	None
Now the State if it chooses the method of reservation of appointments will reserve a percentage of appointments each year for backward classes.	None
Now suppose that that percentage is fixed at ten per centum of the total number of posts in the service by the method of reservation of appointments, the period taken would be roughly 34 years.	None
This period may be considered too long and therefore the State may decide to adopt the other way, i.e. the reservation of posts and suppose it is decided to reserve ten per centum of the posts, i.e., 100 in all.	None
It will then be open to the State having reserved 100 posts in this particular service for backward classes to say that till these 100 posts are filled up by backward classes all appointments will go to them provided the minimum qualifications that may be prescribed are fulfilled.	None
Suppose further that it is possible to get annually the requisite number of qualified members of backward classes equal to the annual appointments, the representation of the backward classes will be made adequate in about four years.	None
Once the representation is adequate there will be no power left for making further reservation.	None
Thus by the method of reservation of appointments the representation is made adequate in a long period of time while by the method of reserving posts the representation is made adequate in a much shorter period.	None
That seems to be the reason why the Article speaks of reservation of appointments as well as of posts.	None
No doubt these observations were made in a different context, but they show that reservation can be made in the posts, i.e., in the cadre strength, or in the annual appointments to be made in the service in order to keep it at fullstrength.	None
They also show that the provision for reservation can be implemented in diverse methods, such as, by providing for the recruitment only from the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes till the percentage reserved for them is reached or by providing a percentage for recruitment from the said Castes and Tribes every year till the reserved percentage is reached in the cadre.	None
The following may be some of the methods of implementing the provision for reservation (1) The cadre strength of a particular service is 1,000 the State may reserve 100 posts out of them for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and make appointments solely from the said Castes and Tribes till the percentage reserved is reached.	None
(2) In the same situation the State may direct that a specified percentage of the 100 vacancies for which applications were called for shall be filled up by candidates from the said Castes and Tribes by this process, 100 will be reached in some years.	None
(3) If the applicants from the said Castes and Tribes do not come up to the percentage reserved for them in a particular year, the State may provide that the vacancies not filled up shall be carried over to the next selection.	None
(4) In the same contingency, instead of providing for the carrying over of the said vacancies to the next selection, the said vacancies may be filled up by candidates belonging to castes other than the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes but the seats reserved to the Scheduled Castes and Tribes but not filled up by them may be added to those reserved for them may be added to those reserved for them in the next selection.	None
(5) The State, instead of applying the principle of carry forward, may provide that if the applicants belonging to the said Castes and Tribes are not sufficient in the first selection to come up to the percentage reserved, a larger percentage of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be selected in the next year or the year after.	None
(6) Instead of specifically making any reservation in the cadre strength, the State may adopt one or other of the aforesaid provisions for reservation till such time the State is satisfied that the said Castes and Tribes have secured a proper representation in a particular service.	None
The above provisions for reservation are only illustrative there may be more effective and equitable methods other than the said provisions.	None
Any one of the said provisions, however reasonably framed, would inevitably cause hardship to some candidates from the non Scheduled Castes and nonscheduled Tribes in the sense that some of them would have been selected but for the reservation, but nonetheless it cannot be said that the provisions are not provisions for reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.27.	None
In the instant case, the State made a provision adopting the principle of carry forward.	None
Instead of fixing a higher percentage in the second and third selections based upon the earlier results, it directed that the vacancies reserved in one selection for the said Castes and Tribes but not filled up by them but filled up by other candidates, should be added to the quota fixed for the said Castes and Tribes in the next selection and likewise in the succeeding selection.	None
As the posts reserved in the first year for the said Castes and Tribes were filled up by nonScheduled Caste and nonScheduled Tribe applicants, the result was that in the next selection the posts available to the latter was proportionately reduced.	None
This provision certainly caused hardship to the individuals who applied for the second or the third selection, as the case may be, though the nonScheduled Castes and nonScheduled Tribes, taken as one unit, were benefited in the earlier selection or selections.	None
This injustice to individuals, which is inherent in any scheme of reservation, cannot, in my view, make the provision for reservation anytheless a provision for reservation.28.	None
There are no merit in the contention that, the principle of carry forward has resulted in the third year in the selection of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes to a tune of 80 per centum of the total applicants for that year and, therefore, the selection amounted to destruction of the fundamental right.	None
If reservation was within the competence of the State.	None
I do not see how the said fortuitous circumstance would affect the reservation so made.	None
Suppose for two selections there were no candidates from the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and the vacancies reserved for them were filled up by candidates belonging to castes other than the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.	None
In the third year the State reserved all the posts or most of the posts for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, having regard to the actual position of the said Castes and Tribes in the cadre.	None
This is certainly a provision for reservation.	None
The effect of the operation of the principle of carry forward is practically the same.	None
Reservation made in one selection or spread over many selections is only a convenient method of implementing the provision of reservation.	None
Unless it is established that an unreasonably disproportionate part of the cadre strength is filled up with the said Castes and Tribes, it is not possible to contend that the provision is not one of reservation but amounts to an extinction of the fundamental right.	None
There is neither an allegation nor evidence in this case to that effect.29.	None
If the provision deals with reservation which I hold it does I do not see how it will be bad because there will be some deterioration in the standard of service.	None
It is inevitable in the nature of reservation that there will be lowering of standards to some extent but on that account the provision cannot be said to be bad.	None
Indeed, the State laid down the minimum qualifications and all the appointments were made from those who had the said qualifications.	None
How far the efficiency of the administration suffers by this provision is not for me to say, but it is for the State, which is certainly interested in the maintenance of standards of its administration.30.	None
Strong reliance is placed by the Petitioner on the decision in AIR 1963 S C 649, in support of the contention that, whenever a State makes a reservation for backward classes of over 50 per centum of the posts in a single selection, such a provision is not one of reservation but of destruction of the fundamental right.	None
If that decision decided to that effect, I would be bound by it.	None
A careful perusal of that judgment discloses that this Court did not lay down any such proposition.	None
In that case 68 per centum of seates in colleges were reserved for backward communities.	None
It was contended before this Court on behalf of the petitioners therein that the impugned order, which had been passed under Art. 15 (4) of the Constitution, was not valid, because the basis adopted by the order in specifying and enumerating the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens in the State was unintelligible and irrational and that the classification made was inconsistent with, and outside, the provisions of Art. 15 (4).	None
It was also urged by them that the extent of reservation prescribed by the said order was so unreasonable and extravagant that the order was a fraud on the constitutional power conferred on the State.	None
Gajendragadkar J., speaking for the Court, gave the following reasons for holding that the provisions so made were contrary to Art. 15(4) of the Constitution (1) The concept of backwardness is not intended to be relative in the sense that any classes who are backward in relation to the most advanced classes of the society should be included in it the test of backwardness must be social and educational.	None
(2) The criteria adopted by the State in ascertaining the social backwardness of a community and its educational backwardness were neither correct nor sound.	None
(3) The subclassification made by the order between backward classes and more backward classes does not appear to be justified under Art. 15 (4).	None
The learned Judge traced the history of the order, considered all the relevant circumstance and held that reservation of 68 per centum in the circumstances of the case was a fraud on the constitutional power conferred on the State by Art. 15 (4) of the Constitution.	None
It would, therefore, be seen that the judgment of this Court was based mainly upon two grounds, namely, the State had adopted a wrong criteria for ascertaining who were backward classes and also on the ground that the State committed a fraud on its constitutional power.	None
In the present case it is not disputed that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are backward classes and there is no material on which I can hold that the Government committed a fraud on the constitutional power conferred on it.	None
The only observations on which learned counsel for the respondent can rely are the following found at p. 663	None
The adjustment of these competing claims is undoubtedly a difficult matter, but if under the guise of making a special provision a State reserves practically all the seats available in all the colleges that clearly would be subverting the object of Art. 15(4).	None
In this matter again, we are reluctant to say definitely what would be a proper provision to make.	None
Speaking generally and in a broad way, a special provision should be less than 50 per cent.	None
how much less than 50 percent, would depend upon the relevant prevailing circumstances in each case.	None
These general observations made in the context of admissions to colleges cannot, in my view, be applied in the case of a reservation of appointments in the matter of recruitment to a cadre of particular service.	None
The doctrine of destruction of the fundamental right depends upon the entire cadre strength and the percentage reserved out of that strength.	None
Further, the expression used in the observations, viz., generally and broadly, show that the observations were intended only to be a workable guide but not an inflexible rule of law even in the case of admissions to colleges.31.	None
I cannot, therefore, hold that in the present case the provision made by the State was not for reservation but for a purpose not sanctioned by the Constitution.	None
In the result, the writ petition is dismissed with costs.	None
ORDER32.	None
In accordance with the majority opinion the writ petition is allowed with costs.33.	None
Petition allowed.	None
