 Wanchoo, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by Special leave against the judgment of the Gujarat High Court.	None
Brief facts necessary for present purposes are these.	Facts
A suit was brought by respondents Nos. 1 and 2 (hereinafter referred to as the respondents) against the appellant and three others in the Court of Judge Small Causes at Ahmedabad under S. 28 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, No. LVII of 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The case of the respondents was that the other three persons who were defendants Nos.	Facts
I to 3 were the tenants in chief of the premises while the present appellant who was defendant No. 4 was their subtenant.	Facts
The respondents had given notice to the tenantsinchief terminating the tenancy and asked them to vacate the premises from after November 30, 1956, which was the end of the month of tenancy.	Facts
The suit was filed on March 1, 1957 and was based on two grounds, namely, (i) that the rent had not been paid for sixmonths, and (ii) that there had been unlawful subletting by the tenantsinchief to the appellant.	Facts
The suit was resisted by the three tenantsinchief.	Facts
One of them took the defence that the premises had been taken by a firm at a time when it consisted of the three defendants.	Facts
But later defendant No 1 no longer remained a partner of the firm and had nothing to do with the premises and the suit against him was not maintainable.	Facts
Defendants Nos. 2 and 3 on the other hand contended the rent claimed (i.e. Rs. 26/) was excessive and prayed that standard rent should be fixed for the premises.	Facts
These defendants further said that defendant No. 1 was no longer a partner of the firm and that in his place defendant No. 4 (i.e. the present appellant) had become partner.	Facts
Thus defendants Nos. 2 and 3 denied that there was any subletting, unlawful or otherwise, to the appellant.	Facts
It was further stated that the rent due had been deposited on the first date of hearing and in consequence there were no arrears due to the respondents.	Facts
The appellant also filed a writtenstatement.	Facts
He denied that he was a subtenant but his case was that the entire interest of defendants Nos. 1 to 3 in the business along with the interest in the premises had been transferred to him and he was thus the tenant of the respondents and not a subtenant.	Facts
He further said that the arrears of rent had been paid into court and thus there were no arrears due to the respondents.	Facts
2.	None
On these pleadings, the trial Court framed four issues.	Facts
The first issue was whether defendants Nos. 1 to 3 were in arrears and it was held that they were not in arrears.	Facts
The second issue was about the standard rent of the premises and the trial Court held that it was the same as the contractul rent .namely, Rs. 26/ per mensem.	Facts
The third issue was whether defendants Nos. 1 to 3 had sublet the premises and the fourth issue was whether there was an assignment in favour of the present appellant by defendants Nos. 1 to 3 of their interest.	Facts
The trial Court held that defendants Nos. 1 to 3 had sublet the premises to the present appellant and did not accept the contention of defendants Nos. 2 and 3 about partnership or of the appellant about assignment.	Facts
Finaly the trial Court held on the basis of the amendment of the Act in 1959 that there could be no eviction.	Facts
It therefore dismissed the suit against all the four defendants, namely, the three tenantsinchief and the appellant so far as eviction was concerned.	Facts
It further ordered the tenantsinchief to pay rent from September 1, 1956 upto date at the rate of Rs. 26/ per mensem.	Facts
It further said that the amount of rent had been deposited by the tenants in Court and should be taken away by the respondents with the rider that in case the amount fell short the respondents would be at liberty to recover the deficiency if any from the person and property of the tenantsinchief.	Facts
Finally the suit was dismissed in toto against the present appellant.	Facts
3.	None
The respondents then went in appeal against the dismissal of the suit so far as eviction was concerned.	Facts
To this appeal the three tenantsinchief and the appellant were made parties, and the main contention of the respondents in the appellate court was that the suit for eviction should have been decreed both on the ground of arrears of rent and on the ground of subletting.	Facts
Two main question were formulated by the appellate court for decision namely  (i) whether the tenantsinchief were tenants in arrears and (ii) whether the respondents were entitled to possession from the present appellant on the ground that he was not a subtenant and also on the ground that he was not protected under S. 15 (2) of the Act as amended in 1959.	Facts
On the question of arrears, the appellate court held that there were no arrears.	Facts
But on the other question the appellate court seems to have taken a curious view.	Facts
It did not examine the correctness of the view taken by the trial Court that the present appellant was a subtenant.	Facts
It took the view that as the present appellant had in his writtenstatement denied that he was a subtenant, he could not be a subtenant.	Facts
It then went on to hold that as the present appellant was in possession and as he was not a subtenant on his own showing he must be held to be a trespasser because he had failed to prove assignment.	Facts
So holding that the present appellant was a trespasser, it ordered his ejectment on the ground that benefit of S. 15 (2) as amended in 1959 could only be available to a subtenant, which the present appellant was not on his own showing.	Facts
The appellate court therefore allowed the appeal, set aside the decree of the trial Court and ordered that the present appellant should hand over possession of the suit premises to the respondents within six months of the order of the appellate court.	Facts
We have said that the view taken by the appellate court was curious because the appellate court does not seem to have ordered the ejectment of the tenantsinchief.	Facts
At least there is nothing in the judgment of the appellate court to show this, though it is certainly said therein that the trial Courts decree was set aside.	Facts
4. Then followed a revision under S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the High Court by the present appellant.	Facts
It seems that the tenantsinchief took no action after the judgment of the appellate court, may be because there was nothing in that judgment which went against them.	Facts
The High Court held that the appellate court was not right in setting aside the finding that the present appellant was a subtenant of the three tenantsinchief without going into it.	Facts
The High Court also seems to have held that in the circumstances the finding of subletting stood unchallenged and in view of that finding the present appellant was entitled to contend that he was protected under S. 15 (2) of the Act.	Facts
The High Court then went on to consider the question whether arrears of rent were due from the tenantsinchief and held in spite of the concurrent finding on this question of the two courts that the tenantsinchief were in arrears and were liable to ejectment under the Act and if so, the appellant who was a subtenant would have to go with them.	Facts
The High Court further rejected the contention of the present appellant that S. 14 of the Act protected him.	Facts
Finally therefore the High Court upheld the order of the appellate court, though on different grounds.	Issue
The High Court having refused leave to appeal to this Court, the appellant obtained special leave from this Court, and that is how the matter has come before us.	Issue
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main contentions on behalf of the appellant before us is that the High Court had no jurisdiction under S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure to set aside the concurrent finding of the courts below that nothing was due as arrears of rent, and in this connection reliance is placed on the judgment of this Court in Vora Abbas Bhai Alimahomed v. Haji Gulamnabi, (1964)	Arguments of Petitioner
5	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 157 (AIR 1964 SC 1341 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents contends, relying on the same judgment of this Court, that no question of jurisdiction being involved in the revision before the High Court, the High Court could not interfere with the decision of the appellate court however wrong it might be.	None
6.	None
We do not think it necessary to decide the question of jurisdiction of the High Court under S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the circumstances of this case, for we have come to the conclusion that though the question of jurisdiction had not been urged before the High Court it stares one in the face on the judgment of the appellate court.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that the appellate court had no jurisdiction to pass a decree for ejectment against the present appellant in the manner in which it did so.	Reasoning
We have already indicated that the appellate court took the curious view that the present appellant was a trespasser.	Reasoning
Now this was no ones case in the present litigation.	Reasoning
The respondents alleged that the present appellant was a subtenant.	Reasoning
The present appellant contended that he was an assignee while two of the tenantsinchief contended that he was their partner.	Reasoning
In the circumstances it is curious that the appellate court came to the conclusion that he was a trespasser.	Reasoning
But assuming that that finding, if correct, cannot be assailed in revision under S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a question of jurisdiction of the appellate court to pass a decree for ejectment immediately arises on the finding that the present appellant was a trespasser.	Reasoning
The suit was brought in the court of the Judge Small Causes under S. 28 of the Act.	Reasoning
The section gives power to the Small Cause Court to proceed to evict a tenant (along with whom a subtenant would also go) provided the provisions contained either in S. 12 or S. 13 of the Act are satisfied.	Reasoning
But when the appellate court held that the present appellant was a trespasser, there was no jurisdiction under the Act to pass a decree for ejectment against a trespasser.	Reasoning
Such a decree against a trespasser could only be passed by a regular civil court in a suit brought under the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
It could not be passed by a Judge Small Cause Court before whom a suit for eviction as a special forum is maintainable under S. 28 of the Act.	Reasoning
Therefore when the appellate court after holding that the appellant was a trespasser went on to order his eviction on that ground it had no jurisdiction to do so in a suit brought under S. 28 of the Act.	Reasoning
It is true that the appellate court was the court of an Extra Assistant Judge, but its jurisdiction could not be wider than that of the trial Court and it would be equally circumscribed within the four comers of S. 28 of the Act.	Reasoning
Though this point was not raised in the High Court, it is so obvious that we have permitted the appellant to raise it before us.	Reasoning
We are of opinion that on the finding that the appellant was a trespasser, the appellate court had no jurisdiction to order his ejectment in a suit brought under S. 28 of the Act.	Reasoning
7.	None
There is another aspect of the matter which equally affects the jurisdiction of the appellate court and which also does not seem to have been urged in the High Court.	Reasoning
We have already indicated that there is nothing to show in the appellate court judgment that it ordered the ejectment of the tenantsinchief.	Reasoning
If it did not do so, it could not in a suit brought by the landlord order the ejectment of the subtenant, which the present appellant had been held to be by the trial Court.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that a landlord cannot sue a subtenant alone for eviction, he has to sue the tenant, and if he, succeeds against the tenant, the subtenant would be ejected along with the tenantinchief unless he can take advantage of any provision of the Act.	Reasoning
But if the tenantinchief is not ordered to he ejected and there is no such order by the appellate court, it follows that the appellate court had no jurisdiction to order the ejectment merely of the subtenant assuming that the appellant was a subtenant.	Reasoning
But it has been urged on behalf of the respondents that on the determination of the tenancy by notice on November 30, 1956, the appellant became a tenantinchief under S. 14 of the Act, and reliance in this connection is placed on the decision of this Court in Anand Nivas (P) Ltd. v. Anandji Kalyanji Pedhi, (1964) 4	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 892 (AIR 1965 SC 414 ).	Arguments of Respondent
Section 14 is in these termsWhere the interest of a tenant of any premises is determined for any reason, any subtenant to whom the premises or any part thereof have been lawfully sublet before the commencement of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959, shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, he deemed to become the tenant of the landlord on the same terms and conditions as he would have held from the tenant if the tenancy had continued.	None
The argument is that S. 14 relates to contractual tenancy and the interest of a tenant is determined as soon as a notice determining the tenancy is given, and therefore immediately the period fixed in the notice expires, the contractual tenancy comes to an end, and if there is a subtenant he becomes the tenant of the landlord on the same terms and conditions as he would have held from the tenant if the tenancy had continued.	Arguments of Respondent
It is therefore submitted that on the determination of the interest of the tenantsinchief by notice on November 30, 1956 the appellant became a tenant by virtue of S. 14 and therefore it was unnecessary to order ejectment of the tenantsinchief.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this connection is placed on the decision of this Court in Anand Nivas (P) Ltd., (1964) 4	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 892 (AIR 1965 SC 414 ) where this Court held that S. 14 contemplated subtenancies created by a contractual tenant while the contractual tenancy was in existence, it did not take in the case of a subtenancy created by what may be called a statutory tenant who had only the right to remain in possession under S. 12 (1) of the Act after the determination of the contractual tenancy until ejected by suit on any of the grounds mentioned in S. 12 or S. 13.	None
No further proposition is laid down in that case and it does not support the contention on behalf of the respondents that as soon as a notice is given determining a contractual tenancy, the subtenant of the contractual tenant who was there from before has to be deemed a tenant under S. 14 from the date the notice expires.	Arguments of Respondent
If anything the following observation in the said case at p. 917 goes against the contention of the respondents, namely The object of S. 14 is to protect subtenants.	None
By that section forfeiture of the rights of the tenant in any of the contingencies set out in S. 13 does not in all cases destroy the protection to the subtenants.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents however contends that the words is determined used in S. 14 are analogous to the determination of tenancy by notice under S. 111 (h) of the Transfer of Property Act (No. 4 of 1882) and all that S. 14 requires is that there should be determination of the tenancy under S. 111 (h)of the Transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of opinion that in the context of the Act this is not the meaning to be given to the words is determined for any reason.	None
These words in the context of the Act mean that where the interest of a tenant comes to an end completely, the preexisting subtenant may, if the conditions of S. 14 are satisfied be deemed to be a tenant of the landlord.	Reasoning
The interest of a tenant who for purposes of S. 14 is a contractual tenant comes to an end completely only when he is not only no longer a contractual tenant but also when he has lost the right to remain in possession which S. 12 has given to him and is no longer even a statutory tenant.	Reasoning
In other words S. 14 would come into play in favour of the subtenant only after the tenancy of the contractual tenants has been determined by notice and the contractual tenant has been ordered to be ejected under S. 28 on any of the grounds in S. 12 or S. 13.	Reasoning
Till that event happens or till he gives up the tenancy himself the interest of a tenant who may be a contractual tenant for purposes of S. 14 cannot be said to have determined i.e. come to an end completely in order to give rise to a tenancy between the preexisting subtenant and the landlord.	Reasoning
In the present case we have already indicated that the interest of the tenantsinchief does not seem to have come to an end by their eviction for the appellate court does not seem to have ordered their eviction, nor have they given up the tenancy themselves.	Reasoning
In that view the subtenant, namely, the present appellant, cannot be deemed to be tenantinchief of the landlord.	Reasoning
Therefore, as the tenantsinchief have not been ejected, the appellate court had no jurisdiction to eject merely the subtenant.	Reasoning
Thus the judgment of the appellate court is without jurisdiction on this ground in the alternative and is liable to be set aside.	Reasoning
8.	None
As to the ground on which the High Court upheld the judgment of the appellate court, though it did not agree with the reasons given by that court it is enough to say that there was a concurrent finding of the trial Court as well as the appellate court that no arrears were due.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we do not see why the High Court should have interfered with a concurrent finding of fact.	Reasoning
It is also remarkable that there is no decree even by the High Court against the tenantsinchief, for all that the High Court did was to dismiss the revision petition.	Reasoning
9.	None
We, therefore, allow the appeal, set aside the judgment of the High Court as well as of the appellate court and restore the judgment of the trial Court.	Decision
In the circumstances we order parties to bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
10.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
