 K. Das, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave from a decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, Calcutta, dated 2591953.	Issue
The relevant facts lie within a narrow compass.	Facts
On 451953 the appellant, the Rohtas Industries Limited, Dalmianagar, made an application to the said Labour Appellate tribunal under S.22, Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 (48 of 1950), hereinafter referred to as the Act, for permission to discharge ninetysix temporary employees in the following circumstances.	Issue
The appellant company have a number of factories at Dalmianagar including a cement factory, power house, pulp mill, paper factory, chemical factory, factory for manufacture of certain acids and an asbestos cement factory.	None
The company had a number of temporary employees who were engaged temporarily in connection with certain works for the extension and enlargement of those factories.	Facts
The terms of employment of these employees were embodied in a temporary appointment form, which was signed by the employees as well as the management.	Facts
The said terms stated, inter alia, thatthe company could discharge the employee at any time without notice, compensation and giving any reason therefor, whether on completion of the work on which the employee was engaged or earlier The terms also made it clear that whether the employee was on the same job or some other job, in the same department or some other, either on temporary work or permanent work, he would remain a temporary employee until the Work Manager issued a written letter expressly making him a permanent employee.	Facts
As and when the various erection works were completed, the temporary employees were first put on a list of spare men and then discharged.	Facts
Some time prior to 371952, sixtynine of the temporary employees were spared for being discharged.	None
The names of these sixtynine employees were given in two lists, Appendix A and	None
Appendix B.	Facts
It was alleged that on 371952, a number of these employees headed by one Brij Nandan Pandey entered the office of Shri L.C.Jain, Manager of the Cement Factory, and Brij Nandan Pandey assaulted the Manager.	Facts
A serious situation resulted from that incident and the company stopped the sixtynine temporary employees from coming to their factories or to their Labour Office and issued a notice to them stating that the company were applying to the Industrial Tribunal for permission to terminate their services.	Facts
At that time an industrial dispute relating to, among other things, the payment of bonus to the employees was pending adjudication in the Court of the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar.	Facts
On 571952, the appellant company made an application to the said Tribunal for permission to discharge the sixtynine employees.	None
The application was made under S.33, Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
On 1271952, forty nine out of the said sixtynine employees made an application, under S.33A, Industrial Disputes Act, to the Chairman, Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, on the allegation that the appellant company had discharged sixtynine employees on 571952 and had there by contravened S.33, Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
On 2081952 thirty six more temporary employees were put on the spare list and an application was made to the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, for including these thirtysix persons also in the application which had been made for permission to discharge the temporary men thus, all told, the application related to one hundred and five temporary men.	None
The case of the appellant company was that of the completion of the erection works for which these temporary men were originally employed was a gradual process and so far as the Cement Factory erection work was concerned, it was completed by the end of March 1952 except for certain minor additions and alterations.	None
Therefore, the appellant company no longer required the services of the temporary employees and they were put on the spare list as and when their services were no longer required.	Facts
2.	None
The two applications which had been made to the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, the one under S.33, Industrial Disputes Act and the other under S.33A of the said Act, remained pending with the Industrial Tribunal till 17121952 on which date the application under S.33A filed by forty nine of the sixty nine temporary employees, was dismissed.	Facts
On 311953, the Chairman of the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, intimated to the appellant company that the Tribunal was no longer competent to pass any orders on the application under S.33, Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as the adjudication proceedings on the main reference had already concluded.	Facts
Two appeals were taken to the Labour Appellate Tribunal, one from the award made on the main adjudication and the other from the order made on the application under S.33A, Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
On 2051953, the appeal from the order under S.33A was dismissed.	Facts
As we are not concerned with that appeal in any way, nothing further need be said about it in this judgment.	Facts
3.	None
The appeal from the main award was pending on 451953 on which date the appellant company made their application under S.22 of the Act to the Labour Appellate Tribunal for permission to discharge ninetysix of the temporary employees.	None
Though there were one hundred and five temporary employees originally, with regard to whom an application had been made to the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, nine out of them voluntarily left the service of the company therefore, the number of temporary employees regarding whom the application under S.22 of the Act was made was ninety six only.	None
4.	None
The application was contested by forty two of the temporary employees, and in their affidavit they denied that any of the sixty nine workmen were originally recruited as temporary workmen and they further denied that they were involved in the incident relating to the assault on Shri L.C. Jain on 371952.	Facts
They said that in effect they were permanent employees and enjoyed all the benefits of permanent employees.	Facts
They further stated The erection work of the cement plants of the petitioners was completed towards the end of 1950 and it is therefore patently false to suggest that we became redundant as a result of the completion of the erection of the cement plants.	Facts
It is significant to note that a large number of workmen who had worked on the job of erecting the cement plants were discharged shortly after the completion of the said work on the ground that they were surplus.	Facts
The cement plants started to work in full swing from about the first quarter of 1951 and we were working in the said cement plant producing cement from the very beginning right up to 57 1952, when we were informed that we were surplus.	Facts
In fact the real reason for the proposed retrenchment is the petitioners desire to increase the rate of exploitation of its workmen by increasing the workload.	Facts
With regard to the terms embodied in the appointment form, it was alleged that on or about 3121948 the employees of the appellant company were forced to go on strike on account of an industrial dispute towards the end of the strike the workmen became exhausted and drifted back to work.	Facts
The strike was ultimately called off and the appellant company taking full advantage of their victory compelled a section of the workmen, who did not return to work until the strike was called off, to sign the appointment form with the purpose of humiliating and terrorising them.	Facts
5.	None
The Labour Appellate Tribunal gave its decision on 2591953 which is the decision under appeal.	Facts
It dismissed the application of then appellant company on a finding which the Tribunal expressed in the following wordsIt is thus clear that these 96 workmen had been working in the production departments from as far back as the beginning of the year 1951 and so the completion of the erection work cannot be put forward as the ground for their retrenchment.	Facts
Referring to the Directors Report dated 1071951, the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the workmens version that the erection works had been completed by the end of 1950 was supported by the said report.	Facts
In other words, the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal was primarily based on the finding that the erection works were completed by the end of 1950 and there was no ground for discharging the ninety six temporary men.	Facts
6. Learned counsel for the appellant has contended before us that (1) the Appellate Tribunal did not correctly appreciate the true scope and effect of S.22 of the Act (2) the Appellate Tribunal gave attention to only one point, namely, the completion of erection works, and did not consider the other circumstances put forward on behalf of the appellant in support of their application (3) instead of considering the real point which arose for determination on an application under S.22 of the Act, the Appellate Tribunal confined its attention to a point which was not decisive of the question before it and (4) by reason of its failure to consider the real point for determination, the order of the Appellate Tribunal has resulted in manifest injustice.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, these contentions are correct and should be upheld.	None
7.	None
It was pointed out in Automobile Products of India Ltd. v. Rukmaji Bala, 19551 S C 41 ((S) AIR 1955 S C 258) (A)  that S.22 of the Act confers on the Appellate Tribunal a special jurisdiction which is in the nature of original jurisdiction and the Tribunal being an authority of limited jurisdiction must be confined to the exercise of such functions and powers as are actually conferred on it.	None
With regard to the scope of S. 22 of the Act, it was observedThe object of S.22 of the 1950 Act like that of S.33 of the 1947 Act as amended is to protect the workmen concerned in disputes which form the subjectmatter of pending proceedings against victimisation by the employer on account of their having raised industrial disputes or their continuing the pending proceedings.	None
It is further the object of the two sections to ensure that proceedings in connection with industrial disputes already pending should be brought to a termination in a peaceful atmosphere and that no employers should during the pendency of those proceedings take any action of the kind mentioned in the sections which may give rise to fresh disputes likely to further exacerbate the already strained relation between the employer and the workmen.	None
To achieve this object a ban has been imposed upon the ordinary right which the employer has under ordinary law governing a contract of employment.	None
Section 22 of the 1950 Act and S.33 of the 1947 Act which imposes the ban also provide for the removal of that ban by the granting of express permission in writing in appropriate cases by the authority mentioned therein.	None
The purpose of these two sections being to determine whether the ban should be removed or not, all that is required of the authority exercising jurisdiction under these sections is to accord or with hold permission.	None
The earlier decision of this Court inAtherton West and Co. Ltd. (Kanpur, U.P.) v. Suti Mill Mazdoor Union,1953 S C R 780 (AIR 1953 S C 241) (B) dealt with cl.	None
23 of the U.P. Government Notification dated 1031948 madein exercise of the powers conferred by Ss.3 and 8, U.P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and it was there observed that the scope of the enquiry was to come to a conclusion whether there was a prima facie case made of the workmen and the employer, his agent or manager was not actuated by any improper motives or did not resort to any unfair practice or victimisation in the matter of the proposed discharge or dismissal of the workmen.	None
That being the scope of the enquiry on an application under S.22 of the Act, what the Labour Appellate Tribunal had to decide in the present case was whether the appellant company had made out a prima facie case for the proposed discharge, and whether they were resorting to any unfair practice or victimisation in the matter of the proposed discharge.	None
Instead of doing that, the Labour Appellate Tribunal dismissed company on the only ground that the version of the workmen that the erection works had been completed by the end of 1950 was supported by the Report of the Directors dated 1071951.	None
Learned counsel for the Appellant has rightly pointed out that even in respect of the completion or erection works the conclusion of the Appellate Tribunal is a complete non sequitur.	Reasoning
First of all, the Directors Report was dated 1071951 though the balance sheet of the company within which the report was dealing related to the period ending on 31101950.	Reasoning
The report naturally referred to such works as were completed on or before 1071951.	Reasoning
It should be obvious that the completion of erection works must be a gradual process, and while some of the erection works might have been completed by the end of 1950 or July 1951, some were still in the process of completion.	None
Under their terms of employment temporary employees could be moved from one work to the other and the mere circumstance that they were employed in a production department for some time, even if true, did not make them permanent employees nor did the circumstance that they enjoyed some of the benefits of permanent employees make them permanent.	None
These are circumstances which have been completely ignored by the Labour Appellate Tribunal.	None
8.	None
It is worthy of note that in their application dated 1271952, the fortynine workmen admittedthough most of us were originally required for erection work in the Cement Factory, many of us were later on transferred as permanent workers to sugar and paper factories and some of us were absorbed as permanent workers in the maintenance section of the Cement Factory.	None
(Vide para.	None
3 of the application).	None
In the joint affidavit filed on 1281953, in reply to the appellants application under S.22 of the Act, the said workmen denied however that they were at any time engaged temporarily for temporary work vide paras.	None
3 and 6 of the affidavit.	None
Obviously they were shifting from the position which they had originally taken up.	None
No evidence was given that the men who were employed temporarily were afterwards made permanent.	None
They filed a schedule, marked A to their affidavit wherein they showed their period of service and the name of the factory or plant from where their duties stopped.	None
On an examination of the schedule (Annexure A) it appears that a number of them were put on spare list when the erection work was completed some time in 1952.	None
Annexure A therefore supports the case of the appellant company that the completion of the erection works was a gradual process, some were completed in 1950, some in 1951 and some in 1952.	None
The first Batch of sixtynine employees with whom we are concerned were put on the spare list between March and July 1952 and the second batch were put on the spare list in August 1952 when the relevant reaction works were completed.	None
The finding of the Labour Appellate Tribunal with regard to the completion of erection works was vitiated by reason of the failure to take into consideration the circumstances stated above.	None
9.	None
With regard to the terms of employment embodied in the temporary appointment form, the respondents case was that the appointment forms were signed as a result of the strike in 1948, it was never signed at all and the comment of learned counsel for the respondents that the appellant company have not very little force (Sic).	None
The respondents gave no evidence in support of the allegation that the appointments forms were taken from them for the purpose of humiliating or terrorising them, nor did the Appellate Tribunal come to any such finding.	None
None of the affidavits filed on behalf of the respondents suggested, ever in a remote way, that the appellant company were restoring to any unfair practice or victimisation in the matter of the proposed discharge.	None
10. Learned counsel for the respondents has contended before us that the finding of the Labour Appellate Tribunal is a finding on a question of fact, namely, whether the respondents were temporary or permanent employees.	Arguments of Respondent
He has agreed that this Court should not interfere even though the finding is based on reasons which may not appear convincing to us.	None
We have, however, pointed out that the Labour Appellate Tribunal gave no finding on the question whether the respondents were temporary employees or not.	None
The only finding which the Tribunal gave related to a different matter, namely, the completion of erection works.	None
Secondly, learned counsel for the respondents has contended that under S.22 of the Act the Appellate Tribunal had discretion either to lift the ban or not to lift it and in a matter of discretion this Court should not interfere.	Arguments of Respondent
It is true that this Court does not sit upon the decisions of Industrials.	None
Tribunals like an ordinary Court of appeal, and there must be special circumstances to justify the exercise of our special power under Art. 136 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In our opinion, such special circumstance exists in the present case where the Labour Appellate Tribunal has not directed its mind to the question to be decided on an application under S.22 of the Act and has passed an order on the basis of a somewhat irrelevant finding which has resulted in manifest injustice.	Reasoning
11.	None
The discretion which an Industries Tribunal has must be exercised in accordance with wellrecognised principles.	None
There is undoubtedly a distinction between commercial and industrial arbitration.	None
As has been pointed out by Ludwig Teller (Labour Disputes and Collective Bargaining Vol.	None
I, page 536)Industrial arbitration may involve the extension of an existing agreement, or the making of a new one, or in general the creation of new obligations or modifications of old ones, while commercial arbitration generally concerns itself with interpretation of existing obligations and disputes relating to existing agreements.	None
A Court of Law proceeds on the footing that no power exists in the Courts to make contracts for people and the parties must make their own contracts.	None
The Courts reach their limit of power when they enforce contracts which the parties have made.	None
An Industrial Tribunal is not so fettered and may create new obligations or modify contracts in the interests of industrial peace, to protect legitimate trade union activities and to prevent unfair practice or victimisation.	None
We cannot, however, accept the extreme position canvassed before us that an Industrial Tribunal can ignore altogether an existing for no rhyme or reason whatsoever.	None
12.	None
It has been necessary for us to go into facts and circumstances of this case in greater detail than is usual with this Court, because the Labour Appellate Tribunal did not do so.	Reasoning
The Act under which the Appellate Tribunal purported to pass its orders has now been repealed by the Industrial Disputes (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions,) Act, 1956.	Reasoning
A question of some nicety as to the correct interpretation of S.33, Industrial Disputes (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1956, might have arisen if we had thought fit to remand this case.	Reasoning
We do not, however, think it necessary to pass an order of remand in this case and therefore abstain from expressing any opinion as to the correct position in law under subs.(2) of S.33 of that Act.	None
No new facts need investigation in this case.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the parties have taken us through all the affidavits filed and the facts necessary for an enquiry under S.22 of the Act clearly emerge from those affidavits.	Reasoning
We are satisfiedprima faciethat the respondents were temporary employees and were put on the spare list as and when the erection works were gradually completed.	Reasoning
The appellant company have made out aprima faciecase for the permission which they have asked for and there is no suggestion even of any unfair practice or victimisation.	Reasoning
13.	None
In these circumstances, we would allow the appeal, set aside the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal dated 2591953 and pass the order which that Tribunal should have passed in this case, namely, that permission be granted to the appellant to discharge ninety six temporary workmen.	Decision
In the circumstances of this case, we think that the parties must bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
14.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
