 Sabyasachi Mukherjee, J.	None
What falls for consideration in all these matters is a common question of law, namely, whether equity shares in the two companies i.e. 10,00,000 shares in Swadeshi Polytex Limited and 17,18,344 shares in Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited, Held by the Swadeshi Cotton Mills, vest in the Central Government under Section 3 of the Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company Limited (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1986 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
The other subsidiary question is whether the immovable properties, namely, the bungalow No. 1 and the Administrative Block, Civil Lines, Kanpur have also vested in the Government.	None
The question as to one more property known as Shrubbery property whether it has been taken over or not is still to be argued and is not covered by this judgment.	Facts
In order to appreciate the question in these matters it has to be borne in mind that there were six original proceedings initiated by various parties which gave rise to these civil appeals, special leave petitions and the transferred cases to this Court.	Facts
These six original proceedings are as follows On 18th of February, 1987 Suit No. 418 of 1987 was filed before the Delhi High Court by one Naresh Kumar Parti against Dr. Raja Ram Jaipuria, Swadeshi Polytex and others, praying for an order of injunction restraining the company from holding the 17th annual general meeting on the ground that 34 shares in Swadeshi Polytex have vested in National Textile Corporation (briefly referred to as NTC) in view of Sections 3 and 4 of the said Act.	Facts
In this suit an application for grant of interim injunction was also filed praying that in the event the annual general meeting of the company is allowed to be held, an independent Chairman should be appointed to conduct the meeting.	Facts
Notice in respect of the said application was served upon the respondents on 20th of February, 1987.	Facts
On 4th March, 1987 the Delhi High Court refused to pass any order in view of the order already passed by the Allahabad High Court mentioned hereinafter.	Facts
Against this order of the Delhi High Court, two special leave petitions were filed in this Court one by Doypack Systems Pvt. Ltd., which was defendant No. 10 in the Delhi suit.	Facts
(Consequent upon grant of. leave, the special leave petition came to be registered as Civil Appeal No. 577 of 1987.)	Facts
The other special leave petition was filed by the plaintiff in the Delhi suit, Naresh Kumar Parti.	Facts
(Consequent upon grant of leave, the special leave petition came to be registered as Civil Appeal No. 578 of 1987).	Facts
On 24th of February, 1987 one Hari Prasad Aggarwal, filed a suit being Case No. 183 of 1987 in the court of third Additional civil Judge, Kanpur praying, inter alia, that Shri Raja Ram Jaipuria should not preside over the 17th annual general meeting of the Company.	Facts
On 27th of February, 1987, the application for interim injunction filed in the said suit was dismissed by the learned trial Judge.	Facts
In appeal which is not yet numbered preferred by the plaintiff before the Allahabad High Court an order was passed by the Court on 2nd March, 1987 appointing Shri M.P.Wadhawan as the Chairman of the said annual general meeting.	Facts
The consenting parties to the said proceedings before the Allahabad High Court were Shri Raja Ram Jaipuria and Swadeshi Polytex Limited.	Facts
Against this order of 2nd March, 1987 passed by the Allahabad High Court M s. Doypack Systems Private Limited preferred a special leave petition in this Court.	Facts
Leave was granted and as mentioned hereinbefore it was registered as Civil Appeal No. 577 of 1987.	Facts
The three special leave petitions were heard together as Civil Appeals Nos. 577, 578 and 579 of 1987 and were disposed of by a common order on 6th March, 1987 by this Court appointing Shri Jaswant Singh as the Chairman of the said annual general meeting.	Facts
On 26th of February, 1987 another suit being Suit No. 506 of 1987, was filed in the Delhi High Court by one Mukesh Bhasin praying, inter alia, for a declaration that Swadeshi Cotton and Swadeshi Mining had no right in respect of 34 of the shareholdings in Swadeshi Polytex and that the said shares were vested in NTC by virtue of the said Act.	Facts
By an order dated 9th of March, 1987 the Delhi High Court disposed of that application.	Facts
The learned Judge in that case was prima facie satisfied that the plaintiff in that case was entitled to an injunction claimed by him in the meeting to be presided over by Shri Jaswant Singh.	Facts
He granted injunction restraining the defendants Nos. 3 and 4 in that suit from exercising any right whatsoever attached to 34 shares of defendant No. 2 held by them and particularly any voting rights in the annual general meeting which was scheduled to be held on 9th of March, 1987 till decision of that suit.	Facts
This order was brought to the notice of this Court by CMP forming part of Civil Appeal Nos. 57779 of 1987.	Facts
On 9th of March, 1987 on that CMP this Court passed an order directing that NTC, Swadeshi Cotton and Swadeshi Mining, all shall be entitled to vote at the annual general meeting and the question as to who were the rightful voters would be decided by the Chairman of the meeting.	Facts
It was further directed that the Chairman would keep these votes separately.	Facts
This is the Transferred Case No. 14 of 1987 herein.	Facts
On 7th of March, 1987 one Mukesh Jasnani a shareholder in Swadeshi Polytex filed a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench).	Facts
The High Court by its order dated 7th of March, 1987 dismissed that writ petition.	Facts
The High Court in the said order observed that Swadeshi Cotton and Swadeshi Mining would be entitled to vote at the 17th annual general meeting in respect of their shares which, according to NTC had vested in them.	Facts
Against this order dated 7th March, 1987, Doypack Systems preferred a special leave petition being SLP (Civil) No. 3112 of 1987.	Facts
On 9th March, 1987 this Court passed orders in this special leave petition directing that the meeting would be held under the Chairmanship of Shri Jaswant Singh notwithstanding any carder made by any court, including the order dated 3rd March, 1987 passed by the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court.	Facts
This Court also vacated the operative portion of the directions contained in the order dated 7th March, 1987 passed by the Allahabad High Court.	Facts
On 6th of April, 1987 M s. Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company filed a civil writ petition No. 2214 of 1987 in the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench) praying,.	Facts
inter alia, for stay of the operation of the letters dated 24/30th March, 1987 addressed by NTC to Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing and Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company Limited, calling for an Extraordinary General Meeting of the shareholders for removal of the Directors of Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court (Lucknow Bench) passed an order on 6th of April, 1987, staying the operation of the said letters addressed by NTC to the companies.	Facts
Against that order, M s. Doypack Systems Pvt. Ltd. filed a special Leave Petition No. 4826 of 1987.	Facts
NTC also filed a special leave petition against the said order, being SLP No. 5240 of 1987 in this Court.	Facts
Both these petitions were heard by this Court on 5th May, 1987.	Facts
By an order passed on 5th May, 1987 this Court directed that Suit No. 506 of 1987 filed in the Delhi High Court and writ petition No. 2214 of 1987 pending in the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench) be transferred to this Court (subsequently, registered as Transferred Cases Nos. 14 and 13 of 1987 respectively).	Facts
Consequent upon leave granted by this Court by the order dated 21st of January, 1987 NTC filed a civil suit in the District Court at Kanpur seeking a declaration of its title in respect of Shrubbery property in Kanpur.	Facts
The learned Trial Judge refused any interlocutory injunction in the said suit against which an appeal was preferred before the High Court of Allahabad which was also declined and, consequently, NTC filed Special Leave Petition No. 7045 of 1987 in this Court.	Facts
This application is still pending and is awaiting disposal.	Facts
In this background these matters will have to be disposed of.	Facts
Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Co. Ltd. and others submitted that these shares did not vest in the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The main thrust of Shri Narimans contention, who appeared on their behalf, was that Section 3 of the Act provided that every textile undertaking and right, title and interest of the company, i.e. Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company Limited vested in the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The textile undertakings mentioned in Section 3 included all assets pertaining to the textile undertaking as per Section 4 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is common ground that whether a particular asset is part of the textile undertaking and vests under Section 3 or not, has to be considered in the context of the Act with reference to the language used in Section 4 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Nariman submitted that there are different modes by which Parliament can resort to nationalisation.	Arguments of Respondent
These modes, according to him, are (a) acquisition of 100 shares of the company (b) all assets under the ownership, possession or control of the company being vested in the Government (c) only those assets in the ownership, possession or control of the company in relation to the undertakings which are taken over or all properties pertaining to the undertaking vest in the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the expressions pertaining to or in relation to are expressions of limitation and restriction, in the absence of which each and every asset of the company would have vested in the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The background and sequence of events leading to the enactment of this Act through which Shri Nariman took us in detail and it is useless to set them up in extenso, he submitted that the shares in question were all along being considered and treated as not comprising part of the textile undertaking.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred to the order dated 13th of April, 1978 issued by the Central Government under Section 18AA of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the IDR Act).	Arguments of Respondent
This order did not purport to take over those shares held in the two companies by the Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company Limited.	Arguments of Respondent
He also drew our attention to Volume III pages 53 and 54 of the present volumes before us, which is the reply of the Minister of Law, Justice and Company Affairs.	Arguments of Respondent
It was clarified to the Parliament that the shares were distinct from the undertakings of the company whose management was taken over.	Arguments of Respondent
On 27th of March, 1979 in answer to a question the Minister stated that apart from the six undertakings taken over and presently run by the National Textile Corporation Limited, the business of the company comprised of Investments in Swadeshi Polytex Limited, Ghaziabad.	Arguments of Respondent
Investments in Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited, a subsidiary company.	None
Land development business.	Arguments of Respondent
He drew our attention to the letter dated 9th of April, 1979 from the Chairman, Cotton Mills Ltd. in answer to a letter by the Director, Department of Company Affairs, stating that the shares in question and the voting rights in respect thereof continued to vest in the company, i.e. Swadeshi Cotton Mills Limited in spite of the taken over of the management.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we proceed further we must deal with the decision of this Court in Balkrishan Gupta and Ors.	None
v. Swadeshi Polytex Ltd. and Ors.	Reasoning
19852SCR854 .	None
There it was observed that the fact that 3,50,000 shares had been pledged in favour of the Government of Uttar Pradesh would not make any difference.	None
The contention that was urged on behalf of the appellant therein, namely, Balkrishan Gupta related to the effect of an order made by the Central Government on 13th of April, 1978 under Section 18AA(1)(a) of the IDR Act taking over the management of Swadeshi Cotton Mills along with five other industrial units belonging to the Company which was the subject matter of dispute in Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India 19812SCR533 and the order of extension passed by the Central government on 26th November, 1983 which was the subject matter of dispute in that case before this Court.	None
It was urged in Balkrishan v. Swadeshi Polytex (supra) on behalf of the appellants therein that on the passing of the above orders under Section 18AA(1)(a), the Cotton Mills Company lost its voting rights in respect of the shares in question.	None
This Court held that was not so.	None
This Court emphasised that what was taken over was the management of the six industrial units referred to therein and not all the rights of the Cotton Mills Company.	None
The shares belonged, it was observed, to the company and the orders referred to above could not have any effect on these.	None
In that context, it was observed that the Department of Company Affairs, Government of India rightly expressed its view in the letter written by the Director in the Department of Company Affairs on 9th of April, 1979 to the Chairman of the Cotton Mills Company that the voting rights in respect of these shares continued to vest with the Cotton Mills Company and the manner in which those voting rights were to be exercised was to be determined by the Board of Directors of the Cotton Mills Company.	None
Hence the passing of the orders under Section 18AA(1)(a) of the IDR Act had no effect on the voting rights of the Cotton Mills Company.	None
It was further observed that the Polytex Company had in that case rightly treated the registered holder i.e. the cotton Mills Company as the owner of the shares in question and to call the meeting in accordance with the notice issued under Section 169 of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
Therefore, a challenge to the validity of the meeting was negatived.	None
As good deal of reliance was placed on behalf of the petitioners on this decision, it must be emphasised that the decision must, however, be understood in the context of the facts and the language used in the order passed under Section 18AA of the IDR Act whereby only the management had been taken over and not the rights of the company therein.	Reasoning
But by the present Act in question on the appointed day every textile undertaking ana the right, title and interest of the company in relation to every textile mill of such textile undertakings were transferred to and vested in the Central Government and such textile undertakings would be deemed to include all assets and so in the context of this provision the reference and the reliance on the decision of the Balkrishan Gupta and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Swadeshi Polytex Ltd. and Ors.	Reasoning
(supra) is not, in our opinion, appropriate.	Reasoning
It is true by the IDR Act only management was taken over, but a further point was sought to be built up on behalf of the petitioners that the Act in question was passed to regularise what was taken over.	Reasoning
So because of this decision shares were not taken over by the Act.	Reasoning
In view of the significant difference between the objects of taking over of the assets and the taking over of the management this submission has to be stated to be rejected.	Reasoning
Reliance was also placed before us on the decision of the Delhi High court in Writ Petition No. 408 of 1978.	None
The Delhi High Court held that the shares did not vest in the Government under the order dated 13th of April, 1978 issued under Section 18AA of the IDR Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This judgment of the Delhi High Court was challenged in appeal before this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court in its judgment in Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India (supra) set aside the order of takeover dated 13th April, 1978 for violation of the principles of natural justice.	Arguments of Respondent
But this Court did not give any finding or order with regard to the finding of the High court that the shares were not included in the take  over order.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further urged before us that this Act was preceded by an ordinance namely, Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company Limited (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Ordinance, 1986 which was promulgated on 19th of April, 1986.	Reasoning
Section 10 of the Ordinance entitled, it was submitted, NTC to exercise control over the business of the undertakings taken over.	Reasoning
The NTC passed and order to this effect on 25th April, 1986, but did not purport to take over the shares, according to Shri Nariman.	Reasoning
We cannot attach much significance to that fact as Shri Nariman sought us to do.	Reasoning
Shri Nariman referred us to the statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill and urged that it was not intended that the shares were included in the undertaking.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Statement of Objects and Reasons showed that the acquisition of the undertaking had to be resorted to since the order of taking over the management of the company issued under Section 18AA of the IDR Act could not be continued any further.	Arguments of Respondent
The preamble to the Act, however, reiterated that the Act provided for the acquisition and transfer of textile undertakings and reiterated only the historical facts that the management of the textile undertakings had been taken over by the Central Government under Section 18AA of the IDR Act and further that large sums of money had been invested with a view to making the textile undertakings viable and it was necessary to make further investments and also to acquire the said undertakings in order to ensure that interests of general public are served by the continuance of the undertakings.	Reasoning
The Act was passed to give effect to the principles specified in Clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution, in our opinion, this was indicative of the fact that shares were intended to be taken over.	Reasoning
Shri Nariman, however, contended that NTC on 17th June, 1986 had issued an order under Section 6 of the Ordinance transferring four of the textile undertakings to its subsidiary, the NTC, U.P. Limited.	Reasoning
According to him, the shares were not purported to be transferred under this Order.	Reasoning
This, however, in our opinion, is non sequitur.	None
It appears from the written statement filed by NTC on 8th of February, 1987 in the suit filed by one G.G. Bakshi in Ghaziabad Court, it was claimed that NTC was entitled to take over companys shares and investments.	Reasoning
On 24/30th March, 1987 NTC issued notice to the petitioners 1 and 2 stating that they were entitled to shares.	Reasoning
It was urged by Shri Nariman that this belated assertion indicated that the shares were not intended to be taken over.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this suggestion or to draw that inference.	Reasoning
It does not logically follow.	Reasoning
On the date of the takeover of the undertakings, according to Shri Nariman, 10,00,000 shares in Swadeshi Polytex Limited were attached for recovery of electricity dues of Swadeshi Cotton Mills and 3,50,000 shares were already pledged with the State Government of U.P. for securing the loans and advances made by the State Government for payment of wages.	None
These dues fall in Part II of the Schedule to the Act and are not payable under Section 25 of the Act by the Government.	None
Shri Nariman submitted that compensation payable under the Act was not enough to pay all the dues falling in Part I.	Reasoning
He drew our attention to the Financial Memorandum of the Bill which showed that the Government would have to pay a further sum of Rs. 15 crores over and above the compensation amount.	Reasoning
It could not have been the intention of the Act to discharge these encumbrances, according to him, if they were to vest in the Central Government under Section 3 of the Act and the result of which would be that the State of U.P. and the Electricity Board would not get anything towards their large dues.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this submission.	Reasoning
This in our opinion, is not the proper approach to the construction of the Act on the question whether the shares were taken over or not.	Reasoning
Shri Nariman submitted that while applying the rules of construction of contemporanea expositio, it must be held that the shares in question did not vest in the Central Government under Section 3 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention was to be supported from the external aids, namely, the background and history of the legislation.	Arguments of Respondent
There were internal aids in the Act itself to support this contention.	Arguments of Respondent
The internal aids, according to Shri Nariman, were  (a) long title of the Act which used the expression certain textile undertakings and ensuring continued manufacture, production and distribution of different varieties of cloth and yarn (b) the Preamble to the Act also emphasises, according to Shri Nariman, that the textile undertakings which were taken over under Section 18AA should be continued for purposes of manufacture, production and distribution of cloth and yarn (c)	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that the Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill also supported that view (d) Section 2(k) of the Act enumerated only six textile undertakings which alone were taken over by the order issued under Section 18AA Sections 7 and 8 also provided an intrinsic aid to the construction of Section 4, according to him.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 7 provided that an amount equal to the value of the assets which will vest in the NTC, would be deemed to be the Central Governments contribution to the equity capital of NTC and NTC shall issue shares to the Government having a face value equal to the amount specified in Section 8.	Arguments of Respondent
The amount equal to the value of the assets was Rs. 24.32 crores, which was the share capital of the Government in NTC.	Arguments of Respondent
This figure of Rs. 24.32 crores does not take into account the value of the shares and hence the shares did not vest under Sections 3 and 4 of the Act, according to him.	Arguments of Respondent
(f) the expression pertaining to appearing in Section 4(1) means forming part of.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, only those assets which formed part of the textile undertakings could vest in the Central Government, it was submitted by Shri Nariman.	Arguments of Respondent
It was for this reason that Section 25 of the Act, while dealing with penalties, used the expression assets forming part of the textile undertakings.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Nariman further submitted that Swadeshi Polytex Limited and Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited were two separate undertakings distinct from the six textile undertakings belonging to Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company limited.	Arguments of Respondent
Acquisition of these shares having controlling interests in the said two companies was never intended and could never be said to be within the scope of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The expression in relation to the six textile undertakings appearing in Sections 3 and 4 of the Act, was an expression of limitation, according to him, indicative of the intention of acquiring of only the textile undertakings and no other.	Arguments of Respondent
There existed no public purpose, according to Shri Nariman, for acquiring these shares.	Arguments of Respondent
The public purposes mentioned in the Act with reference to Article 39(b) and (c) related to the acquisition of only the textile undertakings of Swadeshi Cotton Mills and not acquisition of the synthetic fibre undertakings of Swadeshi Polytex or sugar undertakings of Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Chitale appearing on behalf, of Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited (as respondent in SLP (Civil) No. 5240 of 1987 in which NTC is the petitioner) supported Shri Nariman and advanced certain arguments.	Arguments of Respondent
His main arguments were Swadeshi Polytex Limited and Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited were two distinct undertakings different from the six textile undertakings belonging to Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company Limited.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 3 of the Act, therefore, according to him, could not be so construed as to enable the Government to indirectly acquire altogether different undertakings belonging to a different company.	None
Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited had also coalmines.	None
When Coalmines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 was passed with reference to Sections 3 and 6 thereof, it were the coalmines belonging to the said company along with the right, title and interest of the owners in relation to the coalmines which vested in the Central Government by operation of the Act, we were reminded.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Chitale submitted that the Act with which we are concerned uses the expression pertaining to in Section 4, which according to him is narrower than the expression in relation to used in Section 3 of the Coalmines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973.	None
When the coalmines were nationalised, the sugar undertakings of Swadeshi Mining were not taken over since these constituted separate undertakings distinct from the coalmines.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred to Entries 655, 656 and 657 of the Schedule to the Coalmines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973.	None
Dr. Chitale submitted that the expression investment may belong to a fund which may be created, the interests of which may be used for payment of gratuity or provident fund to the employees.	None
The expression investment cannot be applied in the context of the shareholdings of a separate undertaking, according to him.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri S.B. Mukherjee, appearing on behalf of Swadeshi Cotton Mills had relied on the decision of the Delhi High Court, See Volume III pages 64 to 169, which according to him, clearly held that the shares in question were not part of the textile undertakings and, in fact, the said shares were not taken over along with the six textile undertakings belonging to Swadeshi Cotton Mills Limited, which we have discussed.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Mukherjee further relied on the clarification given by the Company Law Board which showed that the voting rights in respect of the shares continued to vest in Swadeshi Cotton Mills and not in NTC.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred to the decision in Balkrishan Gupta and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Swadeshi Polytex Ltd. and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
(supra), which has also been discussed.	Arguments of Respondent
The expression relating to and pertaining to are words of limitation and they cannot be so construed as to take within their fold shares held by Swadeshi Cotton Mills, an independent company doing its business, according to him.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Solicitor General of India appearing on behalf of the National Textile Corporation in all these cases submitted that the facts stated by way of background and the sequence of events up to the date of enactment of the Act were not relevant to the decision as to the scope, ambit and effect of the vesting provisions contained in Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.	Reasoning
The sequence of events narrated by the petitioners prior to the enactment of the Act all related to the order of takeover of the undertakings of Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company issued on 13th April, 1978 by the Central Government in exercise of its powers under Section 18AA of the 1DR Act.	Reasoning
The object and purpose of the said order of takeover of management of the textile undertakings was completely different from the object and purpose of the Act which related to acquisition and transfer of the undertakings.	Reasoning
We agree.	Reasoning
The scope of the vesting provisions contained in Section 3 of the Act would have to be determined per force of its own language employed by Parliament and not with reference to what transpired either before or after the order of takeover of the management dated 13th April, 1978 passed under Section 18AA of the IDR Act.	Reasoning
Section.	Reasoning
3 of the Act, according to Solicitor General, contained the vesting provisions as was evident from its own language and also from the marginal note appended thereto.	Reasoning
For determining the question involved in these matters, it is necessary to bear in mind the relevant provisions of law.	None
The preamble to the Act in question provided as indicated before that this was an Act for the acquisition and transfer of certain textile undertakings of the Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company Limited with a view to securing the proper management of such undertakings so as to subserve the interests of the general public by ensuring the continued manufacture, production and distribution of different varieties of cloth and yarn.	None
The preamble further reiterated that it was to give effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in Clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It reiterated that large sums of money had been invested with a view to making the said textile undertakings viable.	None
It further reiterated that large sums of money were necessary for the purpose of securing the optimum utilisation of the available facilities.	None
Section 3 of the said Act provides for transfer and vesting of the textile undertakings.	None
The material portions of Sections 3 and 4 are as follows Transfer and vesting of textile undertakings.	None
3(1)	None
On the appointed day, every textile undertaking and the right, title and interest of the Company in relation to every such textile undertaking shall, by virtue of this Act, stand transferred to, and shall vest in the Central Government.	Reasoning
(2) every such textile undertaking which stands vested in the Central Government by virtue of Subsection (1) shall, immediately after it has so vested, stand transferred to, and vested in the National Textile Corporation.	None
4.(1)	None
The textile undertakings referred to in Section 3 shall be deemed to include all assets, rights, leaseholds, powers, authorities and privileges and all property, movable and immovable including lands, buildings, workshops, stores, instruments, machinery and equipment, cash balances, cash on hand, reserve funds, investments and book debts pertaining to the textile undertakings and all other rights and interests in, or arising out of such property as were immediately before the appointed day in the ownership, possession, power or control of the Company in relation to the said undertakings, whether within or outside India, and all books of account, registers and all other documents of whatever nature relating thereto.	Reasoning
All property as aforesaid which have vested in the Central Government under Subsection (1) of Section 3 shall, by force of such vesting, be freed and discharged from any trust, obligation mortgage, charge, lien and all other encumbrances affecting it, and any attachment, injunction or decree or order of any court or other authority restricting the use of such property in any manner shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.	None
(3) (4) (5) (6) Section 7 deals with the shares to be issued by the National Textile Corporation for the value of the assets transferred to it by the Central Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
It reads as follows Shares to be issued by National Textile Corporation for the value of assets transferred to it by the Central Government.	None
An amount equal to the value of the assets of the textile undertakings transferred to and vested in the National Textile Corporation under Subsection (2) of Section 3 shall be deemed to be the contribution made by the Central Government to the equity capital of the National Textile Corporation and for the contribution so made, the National Textile Corporation shall issue (if necessary after amending it memorandum and articles of association) to the Central Government paid up shares, in its equity capital having a face value equal to the amount specified in Section 8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 8 which is material provides as follows Payment of amount.	None
For the transfer to, and vesting in, the Central Government, under Section 3, of the textile undertakings of the Company, and the right, title and interest of the Company in relation to such undertakings, there shall be given by the Central Government to the Company in cash and in the manner specified in Chapter VI, an amount of rupees twentyfour crores and thirtytwo lakhs.	None
Section 10 of the Act deals with the management etc. of the textile undertakings.	None
Section 12 of the Act deals with the provisions relating to the employees of the textile undertakings.	None
Section 24 of the Act provides that the provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law, other than this Act, or in any decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority.	None
Section 25 provides for the assumption of liability.	None
It is the true effect and purport of these sections that requires consideration and adjudication.	None
It appears to us that Section 27 of the Act where the expression forming part of is used, would have no bearing on the vesting provisions and its wide language.	Arguments of Respondent
The expression forming part of according to the learned Solicitor General is merely descriptive of what is actually vested under the vesting provision.	Arguments of Respondent
The properties which, on the appointed day, i.e. with effect from 1.4.1985, became part of the taken over properties which might not be dealt with in any manner contrary to the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri K.K. Venugopal, appearing on behalf of Doypack Systems Private Limited in Transferred Case No. 13 of the 1987 submitted that the present case is directly covered by several decisions of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred to the following decisions National Textile Corporation v. Sita Ram Mills (1986 Suppl.	Arguments of Petitioner
S.C.C. 117), Minerva Mills v. Union of India 19863SCR718 , Govardhan Das Narasingh Das Daga v. Union of India AIR1987SC55 , Vidharba Mills Berar Ltd. v. Union of India AIR1987SC378 and Fine Knitting Co. Ltd. v. Union of India AIR1987SC167 .	Arguments of Petitioner
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was emphasised that Section 3 of the Act provided that in addition to the textile undertaking the right, title and interest of the company in relation to every such textile undertaking is to vest.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it was urged by Shri Venugopal that so applying the five decisions cited earlier, if the shares were held for the benefit of and or utilised for the textile undertakings they would vest in the Government under the provisions of Section 3 of the Act itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
He emphasised like others that pertaining to would mean in relation to in the species of properties mentioned in Section 4(1) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that if the amount of compensation declared to be payable to the erstwhile owners of the undertakings acquired, was a test for deciding whether a particular piece of property also stood acquired or not, then it was submitted that it may be open to the erstwhile owners to contend that even what is expressly stated to have been vested in the Government, would not vest in the absence of compensation paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
That was untenable.	Arguments of Petitioner
29.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event as against the clear words, according to Shri Venugopal, of Section 3 and Section 4 read with Section 2(k), the failure to provide for compensation for three out of the six undertakings would not result in three out of six undertakings being not vested in the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Venugopal submitted that the antecedent computation of value by the executive is wholly irrelevant for determining the intention of Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was made to Kumari Sunita Ramachandra v. State of Maharashtra and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
19861SCR697 , c to e and DoChern ctor (Mrs.) Sushma Sharma v. State of Rajasthan 19853SCR243 .	Arguments of Petitioner
30.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Anil B. Diwan on behalf of Mukesh Bhasin, in Suit No. 506 of 1987 (Transferred Case No. 14 of 1987) submitted that the Objects and Reasons of the mover of the Bill are not admissible as aids to construction since it is impossible to contend that the Objects and Reasons in the minds of some officials of the Government before the matter is discussed by the Cabinet, would at all be relevant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference may be made to State of West Bengal v. Union of India 19641SCR371 , The Central Bank of India v. Their Workmen 19601SCR200 .	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that subsequent documents and or views of the officers of the Government are not admissible as legitimate aids to the construction of a statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance placed by the petitioners on the documents at pages 452456 of Volume II as an aid to the interpretation or construction of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act was totally misconceived.	Arguments of Petitioner
See the observations in Babaji Kondaji Garad v. Nasik Merchants CoOperative Bank Ltd., Nasik and Ors. 19841SCR767 and Dr. (Mrs.) Sushma Sharma and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Rajasthan and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(supra).	Reasoning
It was, therefore, urged that the material not availed by the Parliament could never affect or influence the collective intention of the Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
The authentic voice is only that of the Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference may be made to the observations in Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. and Anr 19831SCR1000 .	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the documents which were prepared for the submission to the Cabinet and which related to the inner working of the Government were not admissible and or legitimate aids to the construction of statute and therefore not relevant in deciding which assets of SCM vested in the Central Government under Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that etymological and plain meaning of the word relation is relation by birth or relation by sacrament like marriage or relation in the form of business connection or dealings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that an asset or investment which is created from the earnings of the undertakings is clearly related to the undertakings by its inception or birth.	Arguments of Petitioner
An asset or investment, according to Shri Anil B. Diwan, which is utilised to preserve and or give vitality to an undertaking is equally related or pertained to the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
31.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri A.K. Ganguly, counsel appearing on behalf of M s, Doypack Systems Pvt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ltd. in SLP (Civil) Nos. 4826 and 7045 of 1987 submitted that even assuming (though not admitting) that the expressions pertaining to and in relation to appearing in subsection (1) of Section 4 of the Act have limited or restricted meaning, by the plain language of Section 3, which is the vesting provision read with Sections 2(k) and 4(1), the shares in question would also vest in the Central Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Section 3 of the Act what vests in the Central Government on the appointed day are (i) every textile undertaking and (ii) the right, title and interest of the company in relation to every such textile undertaking.	Arguments of Petitioner
The meaning, scope and effect of the expression textile undertaking appearing in Section 3(1) of the Act would have to be understood by a combined reading of Sections 2(k) and 4(1) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 2(k) while defining the expression textile undertaking, identifies the textile mills concerned while Section 4(1), by adoption of deeming provisions, spells out the properties which vest along with the concerned textile mills by reason of their direct nexus with the mills.	Arguments of Petitioner
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expression forming part of appearing in Section 27, according to Shri Ganguly, is merely descriptive of the properties already vested in the Central Government under Section 3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 1(2) of the Act provided that the provisions of the Act including Sections 3 and 4 shall be deemed to have come into force retrospectively with effect from 1.4.1985 and Sections 27 and 28 shall come into force at once.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus the properties which stood vested in the Central Government with effect from 1.4.1985 already formed part of the textile undertakings on the date of the Act when Section 27 came into force (i.e. w.e.f. 30.5.1986).	Arguments of Petitioner
The properties which already stood vested and formed part of the textile undertakings could not be dealt with in any manner other than those permissible under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 27 containing the penalty provisions could, therefore, validly and justifiably be given effect to after it came into force on 30.5.1986 when the Act was enacted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The meaning of the expression pertaining to appearing in the first limb of Section 4(1), therefore, cannot be gathered from the language employed in Section 27.	Arguments of Petitioner
33.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Ganguly further submitted that the first part of Section 7 provided that the amount equal to the value of the assets of the textile undertakings which is vested under Section 3 would be the contribution of Central Government made to the equity capital of the National Textile Corporation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second part of Section 7 provided that for the contribution so made by the Central Government, National Textile Corporation shall issue to the Government paidup shares in its equity capital having a face value equal to the amount specified in Section 8.	Arguments of Petitioner
34.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the legislative intention, it was urged by Shri Ganguly, was that the National Textile Corporation shall issue paidup shares (in its equity capital) to the Central Government of the value equal to the value of the assets which was deemed to be the contribution of the Central Government, then the language of the second part of this section would have been the same as used in the opening words of Section 7 itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
35.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri S.N. Kacker elaborated the submissions of the petitioners mentioned hereinbefore and submitted that the shares could not have been intended in view of the facts and circumstances of the case, the language used and the data available to take over by Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.	None
36.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before we deal with the main question we have to consider the application made by Shri Nariman for production of certain documents.	Issue
The production of the documents has been resisted by the learned Attorney General on the ground that those are not relevant and in any event most of these documents are privileged being part of the documents leading to the tendering of the advice by the Cabinet to the President as contemplated by Article 74(2) of the Constitution.	None
The petitioner in Transferred Case No. 13 of 1987, has sought production of certain documents enumerated at page 82, para 85 of Vol.IV, which are as follows Proposal of the Textile Ministry in respect of Nationalisation of the six textile undertakings including the notes and memorandum specially in respect of calculation and determination of assets and liabilities in respect of six textile undertakings of Petitioner No. 2 in the year 198384 and the opinion of the Law Department then obtained.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) Proposal of the Textile Ministry in respect of nationalisation of the six textile undertakings in the year 198586 including all notes and memorandum in respect thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) Opinion of Law Department as rendered to the Textile Ministry, (4) Proposal of the Textile Ministry in respect of the drafting of the Ordinance and the Act by the Legislative Ministry.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) Details of properties taken into consideration for the determination of amount under Section 8 of the Ordinance Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
(6) Proposal of the Textile Ministry in the form of Cabinet Notes for the approval of the Cabinet in the matter of promulgation of Ordinance framing of the Act, and (7).	Arguments of Petitioner
Notes and Memorandum prepared by the Ministry of Textile Ministry of law at or before framing of the Ordinance Act and subsequent thereto relating to the acquisition of the textile undertakings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that production of these was necessary to establish that the shares were never intended to be taken over and these were never considered as part of the textile undertaking.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the shares were not taken into account in computing the figure of compensation amounting to Rs. 24.32 crores referred to in Section 8 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that these documents are definitely relevant as they would throw light on the merits of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
They would advance the case of the petitioners and destroy, according to the petitioners, the case of the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that Sections 7 and 8 of the said Act, were intrinsic aids to construe Section 4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The factual foundation necessary for the argument based on Sections 7 and 8 of the act, was that the shares etc., were excluded in computing the figures of 24.32 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that these documents were required to establish this factual foundation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner alleged that shares have been excluded in the computation of compensation and the petitioner had been so informed by the Honble Minister.	Arguments of Petitioner
In reply the Central Government asserted that compensation has been computed lumpsum and not itemwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the petitioner, the stand of the Government that the compensation was computed lumpsum, was not borne out by the documents.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, necessary to seek production of those documents.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted by Shri Nariman that the submissions of the Solicitor General in so far as these dealt with the balancesheet made it even more important that the Government should be directed to produce these documents.	Arguments of Petitioner
The calculations made by the petitioner had merely been denied by NTC which had in its possession the books of account as also all balancesheets prior, to the balancesheet as on April 1, 1985.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is wrongly suggested that the calculations are hypothetical.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged by the petitioner that the calculations made by the petitioners were not hypothetical.	Arguments of Petitioner
The correctness or otherwise of the said figure, according to the petitioners, would be demonstrated from the said documents.	Arguments of Petitioner
38.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the Union of India, the learned Attorney General submitted that records and documents whose production was sought for, were not relevant for deciding the matters of controversy in the instant case.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion Sections 3 and 4 of the Act interpreted either on their own language or along with Sections 7 and 8, are not ambiguous so documents are not relevant.	Reasoning
It was further urged, that even if to construe the language is not clear and there is need to resort to aids of construction, it is clear that such aids can be either internal or external.	Reasoning
Internal aids of construction are definitions, exceptions, explanations, fictions, deeming provisions, headings, marginal notes, preamble, provisos, punctuations, saving clauses, nonobstante clauses etc.	Reasoning
The notings in the files of various officials do not fall in the category of internal aids for consideration.	Reasoning
Dictionaries, earlier acts, history of legislation, Parliamentary proceedings, state of law as it existed when the Act was passed, the mischief sought to be suppressed and the remedy sought to be advanced by the Act are external aids.	Reasoning
Documents which have been required to be produced do not, in our view fall within the category of external aids as indicated.	Reasoning
Having considered the facts and circumstances of the case, we are unable to accept the prayer of the petitioner to direct disclosure and production of the documents sought for.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the language used in Section 4 of the Act, is clear enough read with Section 3 of the Act.	Reasoning
We have set out the provisions of the said two sections.	None
Section 3 states that on the appointed day every textile undertaking and the right, title and interest of the Company in relation to every textile undertaking shall stand transferred to and shall vest in the Central Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 4 says that section 3 shall be deemed to include all assets, leaseholds, powers, authorities, privileges and all properties, movable and immovable pertaining to the textile undertakings and all other rights and interests in or arising out of such property.	Reasoning
Francis Bennion in Statutory Interpretation 1984 Edition page 526 para 238 states that Hansard reports, and other reports of parliamentary proceedings on the Bill which became the Act in question, are of obvious relevance to its meaning.	None
They are often of doubtful reliability however.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The documents in question which are sought for do not relate to the enacting history or any past enactment or the present enactment.	Reasoning
The notings made in various Departments at various levels by the officers namely, the Under Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Joint Secretary, Secretary etc., whatever their view might be, is not the view of the Cabinet.	Reasoning
The ultimate decision is taken by the Cabinet.	Reasoning
So the notings cannot and are not guides as to what decision the Cabinet took.	Reasoning
See for example the Task Force report referred to in National Textile Corporation Ltd. v. Sitaram Mills Ltd. and Ors.	Reasoning
(supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
This Task Force Report demonstrated the irrelevancy of the documents summoned to be produced.	Reasoning
The Task Force Report manifested that certain mills were viable.	Reasoning
But from the circumstance under which managements of these mills were taken over, it was clear that the Cabinet had taken the decision contrary to what was contained in the Task Force Report.	Reasoning
But it appears that the decision of the Cabinet was different from the views of the Officers at various levels.	Reasoning
As Bennion has stated at para 261 (page 560 of the same book) that in interpreting an enactment a two stage approach is necessary.	Reasoning
Here there is no real doubt on an informed basis as we shall indicate hereafter about the real meaning of the enactment.	Reasoning
There is therefore no question of resolving the doubt.	Reasoning
The second stage does not arise here.	Reasoning
This Court in Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. and Anr.	None
(supra) held that no one may speak for the Parliament and Parliament is never before the Court.	None
After the Parliament has said what it intends to say, only the Court may say what the Parliament meant to say.	None
None else.	None
See also in this connection Dr. (Mrs.) Sushma Sharma and Ors v. State of Rajasthan and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(supra).	Reasoning
The objects and purposes of the person who initiated the Bill are not admissible as aids to construction since it is impossible to contend that such purposes in the minds of some officials of the Government before the matter is discussed by the Cabinet, would at all be relevant.	Arguments of Petitioner
See in this connection State of West Bengal v. Union of India (supra) where this Court reiterated that the Statement of Objects and Reasons, accompanying when introduced in the Parliament cannot be used to determine the true meaning and effect of the substantive provisions of the statute.	None
Such statement cannot be used to show that the legislature did not intend to take over any particular property.	None
See also The Central Bank of India v. Their Workmen (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
It has to be reiterated, however that the objects and reasons of the Act should be taken into consideration in interpreting the provisions of the statute in case of doubt.	Reasoning
This is the effect of the decision of this Court in K.P.Verghese v. The IncomeTax Officer, Ernakulam and Anr. 1981131ITR597(SC) , where this Court reiterated that the speech made by the Mover of the Bill explaining the reason for the introduction of the Bill could certainly be referred to for the purpose of ascertaining the mischief sought to be remedied by the legislation and the object and purpose for which the legislation was enacted.	Reasoning
It has been reiterated that interpretation of the statute being an exercise in the ascertainment of meaning, everything which is logically relevant should be admissible.	Reasoning
See in this connection the observations of this Ccur in Chern Taong Shang and Anr.	Reasoning
Efc.	Reasoning
Etc. v. Commander S.D.Baijal and Ors.	Reasoning
1988CriLJ855 .	Reasoning
The documents now sought for by the petitioner do not fall within this category.	Reasoning
It is neither the object and scheme of the enactment nor the language used therein, that is sought for in the instant case.	Reasoning
It is certainly relevant to know the mischief that was intended to be remedied.	Reasoning
But in the documents in question which the petitioner is seeking no such correlation has been established.	Reasoning
These are, therefore, not relevant.	Reasoning
We reiterate that no officer of the Department can speak for the Parliament even after the Act has been passed.	Reasoning
This Court has to interpret the Act on the basis of informed basis by applying external and internal aids if the language is ambiguous.	Reasoning
In the words of Lord Scarman We are to be governed not Parliaments intentions but by Parliaments enactments.	Reasoning
See Cross Statutory Interpretation 2nd Edition page 22.	Reasoning
Blackstone in his Commentaries on the Laws of England (Facsimile of 1st edn. 1765, University of Chicago Press 1979)	Reasoning
Vol. 1 at 59 suggests The fairest and most rational method to interpret the will of the legislator is by exploring his intention at the time when the law was made, by signs most natural and probable.	Reasoning
And these signs are the words, the context, the subject matter, the effect and consequence, or the Spirit and reason of the law.	Reasoning
The documents whose production is sought are none of these.	Reasoning
So in our opinion these are not relevant.	Reasoning
We must further reiterate that the Members of Parliament had before them only the Bill.	Reasoning
The notings of the various officials in the files were not before the Parliament.	Reasoning
Therefore members could not be attributed with the knowledge of the notings in the files.	Reasoning
Therefore, the notings made by the officials are not relevant.	Reasoning
In this connection reliance may be placed on the principles of interpretation as enunciated by the Federal Court in Auckland Jute Co. Ltd. v. Tulsi Chandra Goswami 1949 F.C.R. 201.	Reasoning
It is trite saying that the interpreter of the statute must take note of the well known historical facts.	Reasoning
In conventional language the interpreter must put himself in the arm chair of those who were passing the Act i.e. the Members of the Parliament.	Reasoning
It is the collective will of the Parliament with which we are concerned.	Reasoning
See in this connection the observations of the Federal Court in RM.	Reasoning
AR.	Reasoning
AR.	Reasoning
RM.	Reasoning
AR.	Reasoning
AR.	Reasoning
Umayal Achi v. Lakshmi Achi and Ors. 1945	Reasoning
F.C.R. 1.	Reasoning
We are therefore, of the opinion that the documents sought for are not relevant for the purpose for which they were sought for.	Reasoning
In this case we are concerned only with the construction of the statute to determine whether the shares vested in the Government or not.	Reasoning
As Lord Reid has said in BlackClawson International Ltd. v Papierwerke Waldhof Achaffenburg A.G. 1975 A.C. 591	Reasoning
We often say that we are looking for the intention of Parliament, but that is not quite accurate.	Reasoning
We are seeking the meaning of the words which Parliament used.	Reasoning
We are seeking not what Parliament meant but the true meaning of what they said.  	Reasoning
See in this connection the discussion in Cross statutory Interpretation  2nd Edition, pages 2030.	Reasoning
The next question for consideration is that by assuming that these documents are relevant, whether the Union of India is liable to disclose these documents.	Issue
Privilege in respect of these documents has been sought for under Article 74(2) of the Constitution on behalf of the Government by learned Attorney General.	Issue
Shri Nariman however, submitted on the authority of the decision of this Court in S.P.Gupta v Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
19822SCR365 that the documents sought for herein were not privileged.	Reasoning
The context and the nature of the documents sought for in S.P. Guptas case (supra) were entirely different.	Reasoning
In this case these documents leading to the formation of the advice tendered to the President of India and as such these are privileged under Article 74(2) of the Constitution which provides that the question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered by Ministers to the President shall not be enquired into in any court.	Reasoning
This Court is precluded from asking for production of these documents.	Reasoning
In S.P. Guptas case (supra) the question was not actually what advice was tendered to the President on the appointment of judges.	Reasoning
The question was whether there was the factum of effective consultation between the relevant constitutional authorities.	Reasoning
In our opinion that is not the problem here.	Reasoning
We are conscious that there is no sacrosanct rule about the immunity from production of documents and the privilege should not be allowed in respect of each and every document.	Reasoning
We reiterate that the claim of immunity and privilege has to be based on public interest.	Reasoning
Learned Attorney General relied on the decision of this Court in the case of State of U.P. v. Raj Narain 19753SCR333 .	Reasoning
The principle or ratio of the same is applicable here.	Reasoning
We may however, reiterate that the real damage with which we are concerned would be caused by the publication of the actual documents of the Cabinet for consideration and the minutes recorded in its discussions and its conclusions.	Reasoning
It is well settled that the privilege cannot be waived.	Reasoning
In this connection, learned Attorney General drew our attention to an unreported decision in The Elphinstone Spinning and Weaving Mills Company Ltd. v. Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
Writ Petition No. 2401 of 1983.	Reasoning
This resulted ultimately in Sitaram Millss case (supra).	Reasoning
The Bombay High Court held that the Task Force Report was withheld deliberately as it would support the petitioners case.	Reasoning
It is well to remember that in Sitaram Millss (supra) this Court reversed the judgment of the Bombay High Court and upheld the take over.	Reasoning
Learned Attorney General submitted that the documents there were not tendered voluntarily.	Reasoning
It is well to remember that it is duty of this Court to prevent disclosure where Article 74(2) is applicable.	Reasoning
We are convinced that the notings of the officials which lead to the Cabinet note leading to the Cabinet decision formed part of the advice tendered to the President as the Act was preceded by an ordinance promulgated by the President.	Reasoning
We respectfully follow the observations in S.P. Gupta and Ors.	None
v. Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
(supra) at pages 607, 608 and 609.	None
We may refer to the following observations at page 608 of the report.	None
It is settled law and it was so clearly recognised in Raj Narains case (supra) that there may be classes of documents which public interest requires should not be disclosed, no matter what the individual documents in those classes may contain or in other words, the law recognises that there may be classes of documents which in the public interest should be immune from disclosure.	None
There is one such class of documents which for years has been recognised by the law as entitled in the public interest to be protected against disclosure and that class consists of documents which it is really necessary for the proper functioning of the public service to withhold from disclosure.	None
The documents falling within this class are granted immunity from disclosure not because of their contents but because of the class to which they belong.	None
This class includes cabinet minutes, minutes of discussions between heads of departments, high level interdepartmental communications and despatches from ambassadors abroad (vide Conway v. Rimmer 1968 AC 910 and Rogers v. Lewes J.K. Ex Parte Home Secretary 1973 A.C. 388 .	None
Papers brought into existence for the purpose of preparing a submission to cabinet vide Lanyon Property Ltd. v. Commonwealth 129 C LR 650 and indeed any documents which relate to the framing of government policy at a high level (vide re.	None
Grosvenor Hotel, London 1964 3 All E.R. 354.	None
Cabinet papers are, therefore, protected from disclosure not by reason of their contents but because of the class to which they belong.	Reasoning
It appears to us that Cabinet papers also include papers brought into existence for the purpose of preparing submission to the Cabinet.	Reasoning
See Geoffrey Wilson  Cases and Materials on Constitutional and Administrative Law, 2nd Edition pages 462 to 464.	Reasoning
At page 463 para 187, it was observed The real damage with which we are concerned would be caused by the publication of the actual documents of the Cabinet for consideration and the minutes recording its discussions and its conclusions.	Reasoning
Criminal sanctions should apply to the unauthorised communication of these papers.	Reasoning
See in this connection State of Bihar v. Kripalu Shankar 1987CriLJ1860 and also the decision of Bachittar Singh v. State of Punjab 1962 su 3 S.C.R. 713.	Reasoning
Reference may also be made to the observations of Lord Denning in AIR Canada and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Secretary of State and Anr.	Reasoning
1983 1	Reasoning
All E.R. 161.	None
We therefore, reject the claim for production of these documents.	Reasoning
In view of the language used in the relevant provisions, it appears to us that Section 3 has two limbs (i) textile undertakings and (ii) right, title and interest of the company in relation to every such textile undertaking.	Reasoning
The expression textile undertaking has been defined in Section 2(k) to mean the six textile undertakings of the company specified therein.	Reasoning
The definition of the said expression in Section 2(k) is, however, subject to the opening words of the section which provide, In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires.	Reasoning
In the context of the expression textile undertakings employed in Section 3(1) of the Act, Section 4(1) provides that the textile undertakings referred to in Section 3 shall be deemed to include all assets, rights, leaseholds, powers, authorities and privileges and all property, movable and immovable, including lands, buildings, workshops, stores investments and book debts pertaining to the textile undertakings and all rights and interests in or arising out of such property as are, immediately before the appointed day, in the ownership, possession, power or control of the company in relation to all six undertakings.	Reasoning
The expressions pertaining to, in relation to and arising out of , used in the deeming provision, are used in the expansive sense, as per decisions of courts, meanings found in a standard dictionaries, and the principles of broad and liberal interpretation in consonance with Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The words arising out of have been used in the sense that it comprises purchase of shares and lands from income arising out of the Kanpur undertaking.	None
We are of the opinion that the words pertaining to and in relation to have the same wide meaning and have been used interchangeably for among other reasons, which may include avoidance of repetition of the same phrase in the same clause of sentence, a method followed in good drafting.	None
The word pertain is synonymous with the word relate, see Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume 17, page 693.	None
The expression in relation to (so also pertaining to), is a very broad expression which presupposes another subject matter.	None
These are words of comprehensiveness which might both have a direct significance as well as an indirect significance depending on the context, see State Wakf Board v. Abdul Aziz AIR1968Mad79 , following and approving Nitai Charan Bagchi v. Suresh Chandra Paul 66 C.W.N. 767, Shyam Lal v.	None
M. Shyamial AIR1933All649 Corpus Juris Secundum 621.	None
Assuming that the investments in shares and in lands do not form part of the undertakings but are different subject matters, even then these would be brought within the purview of the vesting by reason of the above expressions.	None
In this connection reference may be made to 76 Corpus Juris Secundum at pages 620 and 521 where it is stated that the term relate is also defined as meaning to ring into association or connection with.	None
It has been clearly mentioned that relating to has been held to be equivalent to or synonymous with as to concerning with and pertaining to.	None
The expression pertaining to is an expression of expansion and not of contraction.	None
As to what as undertaking means, has been clarified in R.C. Cooper v. Union of India 19703SCR530 , where the Act of 1969 was challenged.	None
It was held that the meaning of the expression undertaking is a going concern as distinct from its assets and liabilities.	None
It was also observed that it covered every corner of property, right, title and interest therein.	None
This Court rejected one of the grounds of challenge as there was no evidence that the named banks held any assets for any distinct nonbanking business, which finding gives an idea as to what could have been excluded from the acquisition of the undertaking.	None
Reading the provisions of Section 3(1), Section 4(1) and Section 2(k) of the act, each throwing light on the other, it follows that  (a) under the first limb of Section 3(1) of the Act every textile undertaking (b) under the second limb of Section 3(2) every right, title and interest of the company in relation to every such undertaking, is transferred and vested (c) The deeming provision of Section 4(1) amplifies and enlarges both the limbs of the vesting section, being Section 3(1)(d)	Reasoning
The definition of section is read into these provisions, to give a wider meaning and scope to the vesting provision and to what is transferred or vested.	Reasoning
Sections 7 and 8 of the act relied upon by the petitioners, being provisions for payment of amounts and for the issue of shares by NTC respectively , will have no bearing on the scope of the vesting provision.	Reasoning
As to What properties have vested cannot proceed on the hypothesis that there is a clear numerical or mathematical link between the quantum of compensation and the items of property vested.	Reasoning
This correlation with regard to such legislation is not available.	Reasoning
In this connection reference may be made to the decision of this Court in Khajamian Wakf Estates Etc. v. State of Madras and Anr.	Reasoning
19712SCR790 .	Reasoning
Section 8 refers to payments of amounts by the Union of India to the company.	None
It has not bearing either on the vesting section or on Section 7 except that the figure of Rs. 24 crores 32 lakhs mentioned therein was introduced into Section 7.	None
The provisions of this section are no different from the provisions of the similar sections in the earlier Act of 1974.	None
For example, under Section 8 of the Sick Textile Undertakings Nationalisation Act, 1974 (page 59 of Vol. X), the amount mentioned is specified in the first schedule as there are a number of companies involved.	None
This provision cannot be the starting point for investigation as to which amount relates to which property or as a guide to construction.	None
It appears to us that in the Delhi High Court decision (supra) and the decision of this Court in Balkrishan Guptas case (supra) as well as the statement of the Minister in December, 1985 that there were legal difficulties, were in respect of taking over, under the 1951 IDR Act.	Reasoning
The IDR Act was  (a) concerned with the management of scheduled industries in, inter alia, running of factories, where there was no deeming provision in such wide terms (b) it was concerned with setting up of machinery for imposing controls on industrial undertakings, see Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia and Ors.	Reasoning
Etc. v. Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
19701SCR479 .	Reasoning
We are further of the opinion that the decision in Harakchand Ratanchand (supra) would not be applicable.	Reasoning
In this case, the Court is concerned with a nationalisation statute.	Reasoning
Even with other independent management statutes, in respect of textile undertakings a series of decisions have upheld the view that the shares vest in the Government.	Reasoning
See National Textile Corporation Ltd. v. Sitaram Mills (supra), Minerva Mills Ltd. and Ors.	Reasoning
Etc. Etc. v. Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
(supra), Govardhandas Narasinghdas Daga and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
(supra), Fine Knitting Mills Ltd. and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
(supra) and Vidharbha Mills Berar Ltd. v. Union of India (supra).	Reasoning
The above provide the informed basis on which we make the construction of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.	Reasoning
The expression and all other rights and interests in or arising out of such property, as were immediately before the appointed day, in the ownership, possession, power or control of the company in relation to the said undertakings, appearing in Subsection (1) of Section 4 of the Act indicates that the shares which have been purchased from out of the funds of the textile undertakings and which have been held for the benefit of the said textile undertakings, would come within the scope of Section 4 of the Act and thus would also vest in the Central Government under Section 3.	Reasoning
The origin of these shares and their connection with the textile undertakings have been fully corroborated.	Reasoning
The textile business is the only business of Swadeshi Cotton Mills.	Reasoning
There is interconnection and interrelation between all the six undertakings.	Reasoning
Investments in Swadeshi Polytex Limited from the funds of Kanpur undertaking have always been made.	Reasoning
Investments in Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Ltd. were always made from the funds of the Kanpur undertaking.	Reasoning
Assets investments held and used for the benefit of the textile business of SCM, were carried on in its textile undertakings.	Reasoning
The words in the statute must, prima facie, be given its ordinary meaning.	None
Where the grammatical construction is clear and manifest and without doubt, that construction ought to prevail unless there are some strong and obvious reasons to the contrary.	None
Nothing has been shown to warrant that literal construction should not be given effect to.	None
See Chandravarkar S.R. Rao v. Asha Lata 19863SCR866 ), approving 44 Halsburys Laws of England, 4th Ed.	None
paragraph 856 at page 552, Nokes v. Doncaster Amalgamated Colliery Limited 1940 A C 1014.	None
It must be emphasised that interpretation must be in consonance with the Directive Principles of State Policy in Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution.	None
It has to be reiterated that the object of interpretation of a statute is to discover the intention of the Parliament as expressed in the Act.	Reasoning
The dominant purpose in construing a statute is to ascertain the intention of the legislature as expressed in the statute, considering it as a whole and in its context.	Reasoning
That intention, and therefore the meaning of the statute, is primarily to be sought in the words used in the statute itself, which must, if they are plain and unambiguous, be applied as they stand.	Reasoning
In the present case, the words used represent the real intention of the Parliament as we have found not only from the clear words used but also from the very purpose of the vesting of the shares.	Reasoning
If we bear in mind the fact that these shares were acquired from out of the investments made by these two companies and furthermore that the assets of the company as such minus the shares were negative and further the Act in question was passed to give effect to the principles enunciated in Clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution, we are left with no doubt that the shares vested in the Central Government by operation of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.	Reasoning
See in this connection the observations of Halsburys Laws of England, 4th Edition, Volume 44, paragraph 856 at page 522 and the cases noted therein.	Reasoning
There is no exact correlation between the figure of capital reserve and the figure of investments.	Reasoning
That, in our opinion cannot be.	Reasoning
These can never be exactly equal.	Reasoning
The submission of the petitioner fails to take into account the fact that the undertakings other than the Kanpur undertaking, also have capital reserve, even though there is no allegation that these were excluded assets in respect of other undertakings and there were no figures of investments therein.	Reasoning
The covering letter for these documents, page 408 of Volume II, itself stated that the provisional balancesheet shows investments which included these shares as part of assets.	Reasoning
With regard to the figure of Rs. 11 lakhs taken in the calculation filed by the petitioner, we find that the calculation filed by the petitioner were not supportable.	Reasoning
Contemporanea expositio, is a wellsettled principle of doctrine which applies only to the construction of ambiguous language in old statutes.	Reasoning
Reliance may be placed in this connection on Maxwell 13th	Reasoning
Ed. page 269.	Reasoning
It is not applicable to modern statutes.	Reasoning
Reference may be made to G.P. Singh, Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 3rd Edn. pages 238 and 239.	Reasoning
As noted in Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes, 12th Edition at page 269 that the leading modern case on contemporanea expositio is the case of Campbell College, Belfast v. Commissioner of Valuation for Northern Ireland 1964 1 W.L.R. 912 in Which House of Lords has made it clear that the doctrine is to be applied only to the construction of ambiguous language in the very old statutes.	Reasoning
It is therefore well to remember what Lord Watson said in Clyde Navigation Trustees v. Laird 1983 8 A.C. 658 that contemporanea expositio could have no application to a modern Act.	Reasoning
We, therefore, reject the attempt on the part of the petitioners to lead us to this forbidden track by referring to various extraneous matters which we have indicated before.	Reasoning
Furthermore those external aids sought before us do not support the petitioners approach to this question at all.	Reasoning
It appears that the shares held in SPL themselves were the subject matter of both pledge and attachment to secure loans from the U.P. State Government of about Rs.	Reasoning
66 lack for payment of wages to workers of the Kanpur undertaking and Rs. 95 lacks being electricity dues of the Kanpur undertaking owing to the U.P. State Electricity Board.	Reasoning
From all these, the acceptance of the petitioners case, would mean that the State would pump in Rs. 15 crores of public money to release the shares from its liabilities and thereafter hand over the shares free from such liability back to the company when the net worth of the company at the time of take over of management was negative and in the teeth of the present financial liabilities built up by the company the shares would inevitably have been sold in discharge of its liabilities and in any event the shares stood charged with the very liabilities which related to the undertakings of the company which were taken over by the Government.	Reasoning
It appears to us that Sections 3 and 4 of the Act evolve a legislative policy and set out the parameters within which it has to be implemented.	Reasoning
We cannot find that there was any special intention to exclude the shares in this case as seen from the existence of at least four other Acquisition Acts which used identical phraseology in Sections 3 and 4 and in the other sections as well.	Reasoning
Reference was made to the Aluminium Corporation of India Limited (Acquisition and Transfer of Aluminium Undertakings) Act, 1984, the Amritsar Oil Works (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1982, the Britannia Engineering Company Limited Mohameh Unit) and the Arthur Butler and Company (Muzaffarpore) Limited (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1978 and the Ganesh Flour Mills Company Limited (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1984.	Reasoning
In the present case we are satisfied that the shares in question were held and utilised for the benefit of the undertakings for the reasons that (a) the shares in Swadeshi Polytex Limited were acquired from the income of the Kanpur Unit.	Reasoning
Reference may be made to page 23 of Compilation DIII), (b) the shares held in Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company were acquired in 1955.	Reasoning
Originally there were four companies and their acquisition has been explained fully in the Compilation DIII with index (c) the shares held in SPL were pledged or attached for running the Kanpur undertaking, for payment of ESI and Provident Fund dues for the workers of the Kanpur undertaking, for wages arid for payment of electricity dues of the Kanpur undertaking (d) the shares held in SMMC were pledged for raising monies and loans of Rs. 150 lakhs from the Punjab National Bank for running the Kanpur undertaking.	Reasoning
These loans fall in category II of Part I of the Schedule which liabilities have been taken over by the Government (e) the shares held in SPL were offered for sale by SCM from time to time and to utilise the sale proceeds thereof by ploughing them back into the textile business for reviving the textile undertakings acquired under the Act.	Reasoning
It appears to us that the expression forming part of appearing in Section 27 cannot be so read with Section 4(1) as would have the effect of restricting or cutting down the scope and ambit of the vesting provisions in Section 3(1).	Reasoning
The expression pertaining to does not mean forming part of.	Reasoning
Even assuming that the expression pertaining to appearing in the first limb of Section 4(1) means forming part of, it could mean that only such assets which have a direct nexus with the textile mills as would fall under the first limb of Section 4(1).	Reasoning
The shares in question would still vest in the Central Government under the second limb of Section 4(1) of the Act since the shares were bought out of the income of the textile mills and were held by the company in relation to such mills.	Reasoning
The shares would also fall in the second limb of Section 3(1) being right and title of the company in relation to the textile mills.	Reasoning
On the construction of Sections 3 and 4 we have come to the conclusion that the shares vest in the Central Government even if we read Sections 3 and 4 in conjunction with Sections 7 and 8 of the Act on the well settled principles which we have reiterated before.	Reasoning
The expression in relation to has been interpreted to be the words of widest amplitude.	Reasoning
See National Textile Corporation Ltd. and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Sitaram Mills Ltd. (supra).	Reasoning
Section 4 appears to us to be an expanding section.	Reasoning
It introduces a deeming provision.	Reasoning
Deeming provision is intended to enlarge the meaning of a particular word or to include matters which otherwise may or may not fall within the main provisions.	Reasoning
It is well settled that the word includes is a inclusive definition and expands the meaning.	Reasoning
See THE Corporation of The City of Nagpur v. Its Employees 1960 2 S.C.R. 942 and	Reasoning
Vasudev Ramchandra Shelat v. Pranlal Jayanand Thakar and Ors 19751SCR534 .	Reasoning
The words all other rights and interests are words of widest amplitude.	Reasoning
Section 4 also uses the words ownership, possession, power or control of the Company in relation to the said undertakings.	Reasoning
The words pertaining to are not restrictive as mentioned hereinbefore.	Reasoning
Section 8 provides for payment of compensation in lumpsum and the transfer and vesting of whatever is comprised in Section 3.	Reasoning
As Section 4 expands the scope of Section 3, the compensation mentioned in Section 8 is for the property mentioned in Section 3 read with Section 4.	Reasoning
The compensation provided in Section 8 is not calculated as a total of the value of various individual assets in the Act.	Reasoning
It is a lumpsum compensation.	Reasoning
See in this connection the principles enunciated by this Court in Khajamian Wakf Estates Etc. v. State of Madras and Anr.	Reasoning
(supra).	Reasoning
There, it was held that even if it was assumed that no compensation was provided for particular item, the acquisition of the inam is valid.	Reasoning
In the instant case Section 8 provides for compensation to be paid to the undertakings as a whole and not separately for each of the interests of the company.	Reasoning
Therefore, it cannot be said that no compensation was provided for the acquisition of the undertaking as a whole.	Reasoning
Section 7 of the Act, in our opinion, neither controls Sections 3 and 4 of the act nor creates any ambiguity.	Reasoning
It was highlighted before us and in our opinion rightly that this sum of Rs. 24.32 crores paid by way of compensation comes out of the public exchequer.	Reasoning
The paidup shares in its equity capital can necessarily have a face value only of the amounts so paid, irrespective of whatever may be contended to be the value of the assets and irrespective of whether any asset or property in relation to the under takings, was taken into account.	Reasoning
After providing for compensation of Rs. 24.32 crores to be paid to the Commissioner for payments to discharge Part I liabilities, Government has to undertake an additional 15 crores at least for discharging those liabilities.	Reasoning
To leave a company, the net wealth of which is negative at the time of takeover of the management, with the shares held by it as investment in other company, in our opinion, is not only to defeat the principles of Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution but it will permit the company to reap the fruits of its mismanagement.	Reasoning
That would be an absurd situation.	Reasoning
It has to be borne in mind that the net wealth of the company at the time of takeover, was negative, hence Sections 3 and 4 can be meaningfully read if all the assets including the shares are considered to be taken over by the acquisition.	Reasoning
That is the only irresistible conclusion that follows from the construction of the documents and the history of this Act.	Reasoning
We have to bear in mind the Preamble of the Act which expressly recites that it was to ensure the principles enunciated in Clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The Act must be so read that it further ensures such meaning and secures the ownership and control of the material resources to the community to subserve the common good to see that the operation of economic system does not result in injustice.	Reasoning
We therefore, reiterate that the shares vested in the Central Government.	Decision
Accordingly the shares in question are vested in NTC and it has right over the said 34 per cent of the shareholdings.	Decision
In the aforesaid view of the matter we hold that the 10,00,000 shares in Swadeshi Polytex Limited and 17,18,344 shares in Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company Limited held by the Swadeshi Cotton Mills vested in the Central Government under Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.	Decision
We are further of the opinion that in view of the amplitude of the language used, the immovable properties, namely, the Bungalow No. 1 and the Administrative Block, Civil Lines, Kanpur have also vested in NTC.	Decision
In that view of the matter in Transferred Case No. 13 of 1987, we dismiss the Writ Petition No. 2214 of 1987.	Decision
All interim orders in the said Writ Petition will stand vacated.	Decision
This will dispose of the various other SLPs and CMPs connected with the Lucknow Writ Petition being SLP (Civil) No. 4826 of 1987 filed by Doypack Systems Pvt. Ltd., against the order dated 6th April, 1987, SLP (Civil) No. 5240 of 1987 filed by NTC against the same order of 6th April, 1987 in the Lucknow Bench and the order dated 6th April, 1987 in CMP No. 4555(W) of 1987 in the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court.	Decision
CMPs.	Decision
Nos. 16918 and 16919 of 1987 being CMPs in SLP NO. 4826 of 1987 will stand disposed of in the above light.	Decision
In Transferred Case No. 14 of 1987 in Suit No. 506 of 1987, we hold that 10 lakhs and 17 lakhs equity shares mentioned hereinbefore and the Swadeshi House at Kanpur and all the rights, title and interest attached therewith relate to the textile undertaking of defendant No. 3 and they vest in NTC with effect from 1st of April, 1985 and defendant Nos. 3 and 4 are restrained by a decree of permanent injunction from dealing with them in any manner whatsoever.	Decision
Defendant No. 2 is restrained by permanent injunction from recognising defendant Nos. 3 and 4 as owners of the aforesaid shares and the Swadeshi House.	Decision
Defendant No. 2 is directed to enter the name of defendant No. 1 namely, NTC in its register of members and to treat the said defendant No. 1 as its shareholder instead of defendant Nos. 3 and 4 in respect of the shares of defendant No. 2 held by them.	Decision
In view of the provisions of law under Section 108 of the Companies Act as there was transmission of shares by operation of law, rectification is not necessary.	Decision
See in this connection Palmers Company Law, 24th Ed.	Decision
(1987) page 608.	Decision
See also in this connection Mahadeo Lal Agarwala and Anr.	Decision
v. The New Darjeeling Union Tea Co. Ltd. and Ors.	Decision
AIR1952Cal58 and Unity Company Pvt. Ltd. v. Diamond Sugar Mills and Ors.	Decision
AIR1971Cal18 .	None
Civil Appeals Nos. 577 to 579 of 1987 stand disposed of in the above terms and we direct that the 17th annual general meeting be held in accordance with law after giving proper notice under the Chairmanship of Shri Jaswant Singh.	Decision
CMP No. 12760 of 1987 in Civil Appeal No. 577 of 1987, shall stand disposed of in terms of the orders in Transferred Case No. 14 of 1987 and it is directed that the Chairman should act in accordance with the aforesaid decision and NTC should be considered to be entitled to vote.	Decision
CMP No. 16887 of 1987 is rejected, on the grounds indicated in the judgment.	Decision
CMP No. 16888 of 1987 is an application by Doypack Systems Ltd. to be impleaded as a partyrespondent in Transferred Case No. 13 of 1987.	Decision
Doypack Systems has already been permitted to argue and has been heard as a party.	Decision
No further order is necessary.	None
CMP No. 16889 of 1987 is allowed and delay condoned.	Decision
CMP No. 17018 of 1987 is allowed.	Decision
CMP No. 18268 of 1987 is disposed of by directing that no further documents need be inspected.	Decision
In view of the orders, the other CMPs are no longer necessary to be disposed of.	Decision
We direct that irrespective of any order passed by any court the 17th annual general meeting should be held in accordance with law to be presided over by Shri Jaswant Singh recognising NTC as the rightful owner of the disputed shares.	Decision
In all these proceedings National Textile Corporation as well as Union of India wherever they are parties herein will be entitled to their costs from their respective opposite parties.	Decision
The other parties will pay and bear their own costs in these matters.	Decision
