 M. Khanwilkar, J. These appeals take exception to the common judgment and order dated 12 th February, 2016 passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru in M.F.A. No.5874 of 2011 (MV) and M.F.A. No.5876 of 2011 (MV).	Issue
Both these appeals were filed by the respondent No.1 (National Insurance Co. Ltd.) questioning the correctness of the judgment and Award passed by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Bangalore dated 3 rd January, 2011 in MVC No.7055 of 2009 and 7056 of 2009, respectively.	Issue
The former claim petition MVC No.7055 of 2009 was filed by the legal representatives of Satish (the deceased) who had succumbed to the injuries suffered, in an accident which occurred on 17 th March, 2009, while he was riding a motorcycle bearing Registration No.	Facts
KA05EJ4029 along with his friend, Anand, who was travelling with him as a pillion rider.	None
Police complaint regarding the accident was lodged by Anand, appellant in Civil Appeal No.9079 of 2017.	Facts
The accident was caused by a lorry bearing Registration No.MH43U3365, which was being driven at a high speed in a rash and negligent manner.	Facts
The said lorry came from behind and hit the motorcycle on which Satish and Anand were going from Bangalore towards Tumkur.	Facts
Both of them fell down and suffered serious injuries.	Facts
Satish, who was riding the motorcycle, succumbed to his injuries.	Facts
The appellant Anand was hospitalized as an indoor patient and had to undergo surgeries for fracture of collies (left) and ACL tear with MCL tear, right knee with hemarthrosis.	Facts
Resultantly, separate claim petitions were filed before the MACT at Bangalore by the legal representatives of the deceased (Satish) and by Anand.	Facts
The claim petitions proceeded ex parte against the owner of the offending lorry.	Facts
After analysing the relevant evidence, the Tribunal found that the accident had occurred due to the rash and negligent driving of the driver of the offending vehicle.	Facts
The Tribunal also noted that the respondents had not challenged the chargesheet materials and other documents to disprove the case of the claimants and as such, there was no material to suggest that it was a case of contributory negligence.	Facts
Having said that, the Tribunal proceeded to determine the compensation amount to be paid to the claimants.	Facts
While doing so, it has noted that the legal representatives of the deceased (Satish) did not produce any document to show his monthly income from mechanic work.	Facts
The Tribunal noted that the age of the deceased (Satish) was around 30 years at the relevant time when the accident occurred, and there were three dependents in his family namely, his wife, daughter and mother (claimants).	Facts
In the absence of evidence regarding income of the deceased (Satish), the Tribunal took notional income at the rate of Rs.3,000/ per month and after providing deduction of 1/3 rd amount towards personal expenses and applying multiplier of 17, determined the loss of dependency at Rs.4,08,000/(Four Lakh Eight Thousand only).	Facts
In addition, the Tribunal granted Rs.5,000/ towards transportation of dead body from hospital to home, Rs.10,000/ under the head of loss of consortium, Rs.10,000/ under the head of loss of love and affection, Rs.10,000/ towards loss of estate and Rs.10,000/ towards funeral and obsequies ceremonies.	Facts
The total compensation amount payable to the legal representatives of the deceased (Satish) was determined at Rs.4,53,000/ (Four Lakh Fifty Three Thousand only) with interest at the rate of 6 per annum from the date of petition till the date of deposit by the respondents.	Facts
The Tribunal issued further directions about the disbursal and appropriation of the amount amongst the three claimants.	Facts
As regards the claim petition filed by Anand (claimant) in M.V.C. No.7056 of 2009, the Tribunal noted that he had suffered fracture of collies (left) and ACL tear with MCL tear, right knee with hemarthrosis and had undergone operation for his left hand with Kwire.	Facts
He was an indoor patient in the hospital for 4 days and had spent huge amounts towards medicine, treatment, food, conveyance and other charges.	Facts
After analysing the evidence of PW2 and PW3, the Tribunal found that the permanent disability suffered by Anand was not exceeding 10 of the whole body due to fracture of collies and right knee injury.	Facts
The Tribunal further held that no evidence had been produced by him to prove his income and therefore, the Tribunal assessed his notional income at Rs.3,000/ per month.	Facts
The Tribunal then proceeded to grant compensation amount payable to Anand towards pain and suffering at Rs.30,000/, medical expenses at Rs.26,500/, loss of earning during laid up period at Rs.15,000/, loss of future earning on account of permanent disability at Rs.61,200/, loss of amenities and future unhappiness at Rs.15,000/, attendant charges, diet and travelling at Rs.10,000/ and future medical expenses at Rs.15,000/.	Facts
The total compensation amount was Rs.1,72,700/ (One Lakh Seventy Two Thousand and Seven Hundred Only) payable by the respondents with interest at the rate of 6 per annum from the date of petition till the date of deposit with the rider that the amount towards future medical expenses would not carry any interest.	Facts
The operative order passed by the Tribunal reads thus O R D E R Both the petitions M.V.C. No.7055/2009 7056/2009 filed by U Sec.	Facts
166 of MV Act by the petitioners are hereby partly allowed against the respondents with costs.	None
The petitioners in M.V.C.No.7055/2009 and 7056/2009 are awarded with total compensation amount of Rs.4,53,000/ (Rupees four lakhs fifty three thousand only) and Rs.1,72,700/ (Rupees one lakh seventy two thousand seven hundred only), respectively in both the cases, with 6 interest p.a.	None
from date of petitions till date of deposit.	Facts
Future medical expenses does not carry any interest in M.V.C. No.7056/2009.	Facts
Both the respondents are jointly and severally liable to pay above said compensation amount with costs and interest to the petitioners.	Facts
However, it is directed to 1 st respondent to deposit above compensation amounts within 30 days from date of this order, after deducting any amount paid as interim compensation being insurer of offending vehicle.	Facts
After depositing of compensation amount awarded in M.V.C. No.7055/2009, a sum of Rs.1,15,000/ and Rs.60,000/, in names of first and third petitioners respectively shall be deposited as FD in any nationalized or scheduled Bank of their choice for a period of 5 years.	Facts
No loan on said FD is permitted without permission of this tribunal.	Facts
Remaining amount with occurred interest shall be released in the names of first and third petitioner through account payee cheques on proper identification respectively and separately.	None
Entire amount ordered in the name of minor second petitioner represented by her natural guardian and mother first petitioner in M.V.C. No.7055/2009 shall be kept as FD in her name in any Nationalized or scheduled Bank of her choice for a period of 5 years or till she attain the age of majority, whichever is later.	None
No loan on FD is permitted without permission of this tribunal.	Facts
First petitioner is entitled to receive periodical interest on said FD amount for maintenance of petitioner No.2.	None
After deposit of compensation amount in M.V.C. No.7056/2009, a sum of Rs.85,000/ shall be kept as FD in the name of petitioner in any Nationalized or scheduled Bank of his choice for a period of 5 years.	Facts
No loan on FD is permitted without permission of this tribunal.	Facts
Remaining amount together with accrued interest shall be released in the name of petitioner in M.V.C. No.7056/2009 through account payee cheque on proper identification.	Facts
Advocates fees is fixed at Rs.500/ in each case.	None
Draw award accordingly.	Facts
Against this common award passed by the Tribunal, the respondent No.1 Insurance Company carried the matter in appeal before the High Court being M.F.A. No.5874 of 2011 (MV) and M.F.A. No.5876 of 2011 (MV), respectively.	Facts
The principal issue raised by the Insurance Company was that the Tribunal could not have fastened the liability on the insurer as the offending vehicle did not possess a valid permit to operate in the State of Karnataka in view of Section 149(2)(a)(i)(a) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.	Facts
For, the permit was limited to the State of Maharashtra.	Facts
The appellants did not file substantive appeals but filed cross objections in the appeals filed by the insurer bearing M.F.A. Crob.	Facts
Nos.187 and 188 of 2013.	Facts
The said cross objections, however, came to be dismissed for non compliance of office objections.	Facts
Nevertheless, in the appeal filed by the Insurance Company against compensation amount awarded to the deceased (Satish), the High Court chose to enhance the compensation amount payable to the legal heirs of the deceased (Satish) by taking into account his notional income as Rs.10,000/ per month.	Facts
This was done by the High Court without overturning the finding recorded by the Tribunal that no evidence was produced by the claimants to substantiate the monthly income of the deceased (Satish) at the relevant time.	Facts
What the High Court instead did was to rely upon the driving licence of the deceased and a training certificate of the deceased issued by Bajaj Auto limited, mentioning that Satish had attended the training.	Facts
As aforementioned, the High Court redetermined the compensation amount payable to the legal representatives of the deceased (Satish) on a higher notional income of the deceased at the rate of Rs.10,000/ per month and arrived at the following calculation on the basis of which the appeal was disposed of in the following words The total compensation payable in M.F.A. No.5874/2011 comes to Rs.16,00,068/, which is rounded off to Rs.16,00,000/ and the break up is as follows (i) Towards loss of dependency Rs.13,60,068/ (ii) Towards loss of consortium to R1 Rs. 1,00,000/ (iii) Towards loss of love and affection Rs. 1,00,000/ to R2 (iv) Conventional heads Rs. 40,000/  Total Rs.16,00,068/  	Facts
Accordingly, M.F.A.No.5874/2011 is allowed and the impugned judgment and award passed by the Tribunal in M.V.C. No.7055/2009 stands modified granting a compensation of Rs.16,00,000/ instead of Rs.4,53,000/ (enhanced compensation comes to Rs.11,47,000/).	Facts
The enhanced compensation shall carry interest at 6 p.a., from the date of petition till its deposit.	None
The Secretary, Legal Services Committee is directed to communicate the order to the owner of the offending vehicle and also intimate him to deposit the amount within a period of three months.	Facts
In case of failure to deposit the amount by the owner of the offending vehicle, the Legal Services Committee to take action as per law.	None
As regards the appeal preferred by the insurer against the Award passed in favour of Anand, appellant in Civil Appeal No.9079 of 2017, the same was disposed of on the following terms In M.F.A. No.5876/2011 the contention is liability cannot be fastened on the insurer as there is violation of permit by admittedly plying the vehicle in Karnataka.	None
Therefore, liability is to be fastened on the owner.	Facts
M.F.A. No.5876/2011 is disposed of.	Facts
The owner is directed to satisfy the award.	Facts
The amount in deposit is directed to be refunded to the insurerappellant.	None
The insurer succeeded before the High Court, as the liability to pay compensation amount has been restricted to that of the owner of the offending vehicle.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the insurer did not file appeal against the enhancement of compensation amount payable to the legal representatives of the deceased (Satish).	Arguments of Petitioner
The present appeal (Civil Appeal No.9078 of 2017), however, has been filed by the widow and daughter of the deceased (Satish).	Arguments of Petitioner
They have challenged not only the correctness of the view taken by the High Court absolving the insurer from the liability to pay compensation but also for further enhancement of compensation amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, Anand, the injured pillion rider, has also filed a separate appeal challenging the decision of the High Court in restricting the liability to pay compensation amount to that of the owner of the offending vehicle but also on the quantum of compensation amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
In both the appeals, it is alternatively urged that the compensation amount payable to the respective claimants should be first paid by the Insurance Company with liberty to recover the same from the owner of the offending vehicle, respondent No.2 herein.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent No.1 Insurance Company, on the other hand, submits that by virtue of statutory provisions, it cannot be made liable to pay the compensation amount as the offending vehicle did not have a valid permit for being operated in the State of Karnataka.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also contended that no direction be issued against the Insurance Company to pay and recover as it may be difficult for the Insurance Company to trace the owner of the offending vehicle.	Arguments of Respondent
For, the owner of the offending lorry has not chosen to appear even before this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard Mr. Anand Sanjay M. Nuli, learned counsel appearing for the appellants and Mr. Parmanand Gaur, learned counsel for the respondents.	None
Taking the appeal filed by the legal representatives of the deceased (Satish) first, as mentioned earlier, they did not file any appeal challenging the award passed by the Tribunal determining the compensation amount payable to them at Rs.4,53,000/ (Four Lakh Fifty Three Thousand only) with interest at the rate of 6 per annum from the date of petition till the date of deposit.	Reasoning
It is respondent No.1 Insurance Company who had challenged the award in favour of the claimants and in those appeals, the claimants (including appellants in Civil Appeal No.9078 of 2017) filed cross objections which, however, came to be dismissed for non removal of office objections.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the High Court enhanced the compensation amount payable to them by invoking power under Order 41 Rule 33 of the Civil Procedure Code (C.P.C.).	Reasoning
The Insurance Company has not challenged the said view taken by the High Court as it has already succeeded in getting a finding from the High Court that the liability to pay compensation amount was restricted to that of the owner of the offending vehicle, namely respondent No.2 herein.	Reasoning
Assuming that the legal representatives of the deceased (Satish) (appellant in Civil Appeal No.9078 of 2017) could ask for enhancement of the compensation amount in the present appeal whilst challenging the finding of the High Court to absolve the Insurance Company of its liability to pay the compensation amount, the question is whether the appellants are justified in claiming further enhanced compensation amount.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has found that no evidence regarding the income of the deceased (Satish) was produced by the claimants.	Reasoning
That finding has not been over turned by the High Court.	Reasoning
The High Court, however, relied upon the driving licence of the deceased and training certificate of the deceased issued by Bajaj Auto Limited and on that basis, determined the notional income of Satish (Deceased) at the time of accident at Rs.10,000/ per month.	Reasoning
Neither the driving licence nor the certificate could per se be made the basis to assume or infer that the deceased (Satish) was gainfully employed at the relevant time and moreso was earning income of Rs.10,000/ per month.	Reasoning
In other words, the reason assigned by the High Court for enhancing the notional income of the deceased (Satish) from Rs. 3000/ to Rs.10,000/ per month is irrational and tenuous.	Reasoning
No tangible logic has been assigned to discard the just finding recorded by the Tribunal in the backdrop of lack of evidence regarding the monthly income of the deceased (Satish).	Reasoning
We are of the view that the High Court has already granted more than just compensation amount to the legal representatives of the deceased (Satish).	Reasoning
In that, even if the claim of the appellants regarding future prospects, additional medical expenses and additional interest amount was to be accepted, on the basis of the notional income of Rs.5000/ (Rupees five thousand) per month, the question of awarding additional or further compensation amount to the appellants in M.F.A. No.5874 of 2011 does not arise.	Reasoning
The appeal, however, would succeed to the limited extent that the amount of compensation determined by the High Court shall be first paid by the respondent No.1 Insurance Company with liberty to recover the same from the owner of the offending vehicle (respondent No.2 herein).	Reasoning
We are inclined to allow the appeal to this limited extent, keeping in mind the exposition in Singh Ram Vs.	Reasoning
Nirmala and Ors.	None
(2018) 3 SCC 800 and Pappu and Ors.	None
Vs. Vinod Kumar Lamba and Anr.	None
(2018)	None
3 SCC 208 Reverting to the appeal preferred by respondent No.1 Insurance Company against Anand (M.F.A. No.5876 of 2011), as noted in paragraph Nos.11 and 12 of the impugned judgment reproduced above, the High Court 1 (2018) 3 SCC 800 2 (2018) 3 SCC 208 disposed of the said appeal by absolving the insurer from the liability to pay compensation amount.	Reasoning
As noticed earlier, the appellant (Anand) did not file any appeal against the award passed by the Tribunal for enhancement of compensation amount and the cross objection filed by him in the appeal filed by the Insurance Company came to be dismissed for non prosecution.	Reasoning
Even in respect of this appeal, the Tribunal had found that he failed to produce any evidence regarding his monthly income and the permanent disability suffered by him had been determined as not exceeding 10 to the whole body and compensation had been awarded to him on that basis.	Reasoning
Resultantly, we intend to dispose of this appeal on the same basis by directing the respondent No.1 Insurance Company to pay the compensation amount awarded to the claimant (Anand) in the first place, with liberty to recover the same from the owner of the offending vehicle (respondent No.2).	Reasoning
In view of the above, the appeals are partly allowed by directing the respondent No.1 Insurance Company to first pay the compensation amount to the respective claimants as determined by the High Court and Tribunal as the case may be, with liberty to recover the same from the owner of the offending vehicle, respondent No.2.	Decision
The impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court stands modified to this limited extent.	Decision
The appeals are allowed in the aforementioned terms with no order as to costs.	Decision
FINAL ORDER Honble Mr.Justice A.M.Khanwilkar pronounced the judgment of the Bench comprising Honble the Chief Justice of India, His Lordship and Honble Dr.Justice D.Y.Chandrachud.	None
The appeals are allowed in terms of the signed judgment with no order as to costs.	None
