 Aftab Alam, J. The appellant, Mohammed Ajmal Mohammad Amir Kasab Abu Mujahid (hereinafter referred to as the appellant or as Kasab), who is a Pakistani national, has earned for himself five death penalties and an equal number of life terms in prison for committing multiple crimes of a horrendous kind in this country.	Issue
Some of the major charges against him were conspiracy to wage war against the Government of India collecting arms with the intention of waging war against the Government of India waging and abetting the waging of war against the Government of India commission of terrorist acts criminal conspiracy to commit murder criminal conspiracy, common intention and abetment to commit murder committing murder of a number of persons attempt to murder with common intention criminal conspiracy and abetment abduction for murder robbery dacoity with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt and causing explosions punishable under the Explosive Substance Act, 1908.	Facts
He was found guilty of all these charges besides many others and was awarded the death sentence on five counts, lifesentence on five other counts, as well as a number of relatively lighter sentences of imprisonment for the other offences.	Facts
Apart from the appellant, two other accused, namely Fahim Ansari and Sabauddin Ahamed, both Indian nationals, were also arraigned before the trial court and indicted on the same charges as the appellant.	Facts
At the end of the trial, however, the appellant was convicted and sentenced to death as noted above (vide judgment and order dated May 3/6, 2010 passed by the Addl.	Facts
Sessions Judge, Greater Mumbai in Sessions Case	Facts
No. 175 of 2009).	Facts
The other two accused were acquitted of all charges.	Facts
The trial court gave them the benefit of the doubt as regards the charges of conspiracy and abetment of other offences by conspiracy, and further held that the prosecution completely failed to establish those other charges that were made directly against them.	Facts
The judgment by the trial court gave rise to a reference to the Bombay High Court under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), registered as Confirmation Case No. 2 of 2010.	Facts
In addition to the reference, two appeals also came to the High Court from the judgment and order passed by the trial court, one by the appellant against his conviction and sentences (Criminal Appeal No. 738 of 2010) and the other by the State of Maharashtra against the acquittal of the other two accused (Criminal Appeal No. 606 of 2010).	Facts
The High Court, by its judgment and order dated February 21, 2011, confirmed the death sentences given to the appellant by the trial court and dismissed both the appeals.	Facts
The High Court upheld the judgment and order passed by the trial court in all material aspects it sustained the appellants conviction and confirmed the punishments given him by the trial court, but at the same time it did not interfere with the acquittal of the other two accused.	Facts
From the judgment of the High Court two appeals have come to this Court one is a jail appeal by Kasab and the other is by the State of Maharashtra.	Facts
The States appeal seeks to challenge the acquittal of the other two accused by the trial court and affirmed by the High Court.	Facts
The other two accused are impleaded in the States appeal as Respondents No. 1 and 2.	Facts
Kasab was unrepresented in the appeal preferred by him from jail and this Court, therefore, appointed Mr. Raju Ramachandran, senior advocate, assisted by Mr. Gaurav Agrawal, to represent him.	Facts
He was thus able to get legal assistance of a standard and quality that is not available to a majority of Indian nationals approaching this Court against their conviction and sentence.	Facts
We may also state here that since it is a case of death sentence, we intend to examine the materials on record first hand, in accordance with the timehonoured practice of this Court, and come to our own conclusions on all issues of facts and law, unbound by the findings of the trial court and the High Court.	Facts
According to the prosecution, a sinister conspiracy was hatched in Pakistan and in furtherance of that conspiracy a savage attack was unleashed on Mumbai by a team of ten terrorists, including Kasab, who landed on the citys shores via the Arabian Sea.	Facts
The attack began on November 26, 2008 at about 9.15 PM and it ended when the last of the attackers, who was holed up in Hotel Taj Mahal Palace, was killed by Indian security forces at about 9.00 AM on November 29.	Facts
The brutal assault left Mumbai scarred and traumatized and the entire country shocked.	Facts
The terrorists killed one hundred and sixtysix (166) people and injured, often grievously, two hundred and thirtyeight (238) people.	Facts
The loss to property resulting from the terrorist attack was assessed at over Rupees one hundred and fifty crores (Rs. 150 Cr.).	Facts
The dead included eighteen (18) policemen and other security personnel and twentysix (26) foreign nationals.	Facts
The injured included thirtyseven (37) policemen and other security personnel and twentyone (21) foreign nationals.	Facts
Of those dead, at least seven (7) were killed by the appellant personally, seventytwo (72) were killed by him in furtherance of the common intention he shared with one Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1) and the rest were victims of the conspiracy to which he was a party along with the nine (9) dead accused and thirtyfive (35) other accused who remain to be apprehended and brought to court.	None
The case of the prosecution is based, of course, on investigations by the police, but a good deal of it also comes from the confessional statement of the appellant recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC.	None
The confession of the appellant may be broadly divided into two parts, one relating to the conspiracy, planning and preparation for the attack, and the other relating to the actual attack on Mumbai, in execution of the conspiracy of which the appellant along with his buddia the accomplice Abu Ismail, was a part.	None
So far as the attack on Mumbai is concerned, every statement made by the appellant is corroborated over and over again by objective findings and evidences gathered by the prosecution.	None
But the conspiracy and the preparation for the attack took place in Pakistan and, therefore, it was impossible for any agency of this country to make investigations in regard to that part of the case.	None
Nevertheless, the investigators have been able to gather extensive material to corroborate even that part of the appellants confession.	None
It would thus be convenient to present the case of the prosecution by beginning with the appellants confessional statement.	None
THE RECORDING OF THE CONFESSIONAL STATEMENT The appellant was brought before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Mumbai, on February 17, 2009, to make his confessional statement.	None
The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate referred him to Mrs. SawantWagule, Addl.	None
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, 3rd Court, Esplanade, Mumbai, before whom he was presented for recording his confessional statement in CR No. 198/08 of Detection of Crime Branch, Mumbai (one of the twelve (12) cases registered in connection with the offences committed by the invading group of terrorists) at 10.45 AM on the same day.	None
Mrs. Sawant Wagule proceeded to take his statement very slowly and with great circumspection.	None
First of all, she had the appellant completely insulated from the police.	None
She explained to him that from that point he was in her custody and not in the custody of the police.	None
She asked him whether he was illtreated or abused by the police in any manner and why he wanted to make the confessional statement.	None
To her first question the appellant replied in the negative, and as for the reasons for him making a confession he said he would explain everything when his statement was recorded in detail.	None
The magistrate further satisfied herself that the appellant was willing to make the confessional statement voluntarily and not under any pressure, coercion or allurement by the police or anyone else.	None
Nonetheless, she did not take his statement on that day but told him that she wanted him to reflect further on the matter, for which purpose she was giving him 24 hours time.	None
She then remanded him to judicial custody where he was not accessible to the police or any other agency.	None
When the appellant was brought back to her on February 18 at 11 AM, she had another long exchange with him.	None
In the preliminary exchanges on the previous day she had found that the appellant had no difficulty in following or speaking in Hindi thus, the interaction between the magistrate and the appellant took place, in question and answer form, in simple, everyday spoken Hindi.	None
The magistrate, having satisfied herself that the police had no contact with the appellant in the past 24 hours, began by telling the appellant that she had no concern with the offences for which he was arrested or any connection with the police that had arrested him.	None
She explained to him that he was under no compulsion to make the confessional statement and further, that whether he made the confessional statement or not, he would not be handed back to the police.	None
She confirmed once again that the appellant wished to make the statement of his own volition and not under any influence.	None
The appellant told her his name and gave his address of a place in Pakistan.	None
She asked him about his education and where, when and how he was arrested by the police.	None
She asked him why was he brought to her and in reply he said that he wanted to make a confessional statement.	None
She asked for which offence he wanted to make confession.	None
He replied that on November 26, 2008, he and his accomplices made a Fidayeen attack on Mumbai city and he wanted to make a confession about the attack and the conspiracy behind it.	None
She asked when he felt like making a confession.	None
He told her that the thought of making the confession came to him when he was arrested by the police.	None
He added that he had absolutely no regret for whatever he had done.	None
He wanted to make the confession to set an example for others to become Fidayeen like him and follow him in his deeds.	None
The magistrate cautioned him by saying that he should make the statement only if he wished to do so.	None
She further cautioned him by saying that any confessional statement made by him would be taken down in writing and it would be used as evidence against him and that might lead to his conviction.	None
The appellant said he was aware of the consequences.	None
The magistrate again asked him whether the police had given any inducement to him to make the confessional statement, such as by offering to make him an approver.	None
He replied in the negative.	None
She then asked if he needed an advocate while making the confession.	None
Once again, he answered in the negative.	None
Even after this lengthy and detailed interaction, the learned magistrate did not take his confession on that day but gave him a period of 48 hours for further reflection, telling him that during that period he would not be in police custody but would be kept in jail in her custody.	None
She advised him to reconsider the matter with a composed mind.	None
She then remanded him to judicial custody with the direction that he be produced before her on February 20, 2009, at 11 AM.	None
The appellant was produced before the magistrate as directed, on February 20 at 10.40 AM.	None
The magistrate repeated the entire gamut of explanations and cautions at the end of which the appellant said that he still wanted to make his confession.	None
It was only then did the learned magistrate proceed to record the statement made by the appellant under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
The statement could not be fully recorded on February 20 and it was resumed on February 21 at 10.40 AM.	None
On that date, the recording of the statement was completed.	None
The learned magistrate has maintained a meticulous record of the proceedings before her on all those dates, duly signed by the appellant.	None
After recording his statement, she also gave such certificates as required under subsection 4 of Section 164 CrPC.	None
Coming now to the main body of the confessional statement, it is in the form of a statement made by the appellant with only minimal interjections by the learned magistrate.	None
She occasionally asked the appellant to clarify the meaning of some uncommon words or code words used in the conspiracy.	None
The appellants statement, made before the magistrate over two days, is long and rambling, at points repetitive and full of seemingly superfluous details that would appear quite unnecessary if one is to take a limited view of the case and judge the culpability of the appellant only on the basis of the events in Mumbai.	None
To that end, it would be quite simple and convenient to give a brief summary of the appellants confessional statement.	None
But such an approach will not do justice to the case and we intend to take a look at the full statement of the appellant with all its repetitions and details.	None
We do so to be fair to both the prosecution and the appellant.	None
The details given by the appellant have a bearing on the prosecution case, according to which conspiracy, conspiracy to wage war against India and waging war against India are some of the main crimes in the case, and the details given by the appellant throw a great deal of light on the commission of those crimes.	None
Further, the details in the appellants statement are relevant to the submission that the confessional statement is not truly voluntary but that the appellant was manipulated into making that statement.	None
It is submitted on behalf of the appellant that no accused making an admission of his guilt would refer to those unnecessary details and that the great detail of the confessional statement only shows that it was not the appellant but the prosecution that was speaking through his mouth.	None
We, therefore, scan the confession as it is, in full, unabridged and unadorned.	None
THE KASAB NARRATIVE Family background The appellant started by giving his name as Mohammed Ajmal Mohammad Amir Kasab.	None
He was born on September 13, 1987.	None
He lived in Pakistan where his address was village Faridkot, tehsilDipalpur, district Okara, Punjab province, Pakistan.	None
He attended the Urdumedium Faridkot Government Primary School up to class 4.	None
He lived in the village with his Abbu Mohammad Amir Shaban Kasab, his Ammi NooreElahi, younger brother Munir and younger sister Surraiya.	None
He gave his fathers mobile phone number.	None
He had an elder sister and an elder brother, both of whom were married.	None
The sister lived with her husband at a village in Pathankot, district Okara, and the brother lived in Lahore with his wife.	None
He gave the names of the spouses of the elder sister and the elder brother and their respective addresses.	None
After the immediate family he gave the names of his three paternal uncles, elder to his father, and their sons, who lived in village Mohammad Yar Chishti, Pathankot, district Okara, Pakistan.	None
He also named a fourth paternal uncle, younger to his father, who lived with the appellants father.	None
He then gave the names of his Mamoon (mothers brother) and his three sons and a daughter and their address and the name of his Khaloo (mothers sisters husband), his address and mobile phone number.	None
He gave the name of another sister of his mother whom he called Mamo and her address.	None
He had two paternal aunts who were married.	None
He gave their names and their addresses.	None
He said that his Mamoon and Mousi (mothers brother and sister) had grownup children.	None
Kasab added that his house at Faridkot had been taken by his father who earned his livelihood by plying carts.	None
Kasab was fond of watching TV and Hindi movies he named a number of popular Indian films that he had seen many times.	None
He was in the habit of chewing tobacco.	None
He was good friends with the village doctor, Mazhar, who had a dispensary near Faridkot bus stop.	None
After dropping out of school in the year 2000, Kasab and his friend Dittu started working as labourers in Faridkot.	None
In 2001, he and his Abbu went to Lahore in search of employment.	None
In Lahore he lived with his father and uncle, Ghulam Rasool, in a house they rented from Haji Qamar.	None
He gave the detailed address of the house.	None
On his fathers instructions, Kasab started working as a labourer at Mazdooron Ka Adda.	None
He worked there for about five years.	None
In the year 2005, his father and uncle returned to their village.	None
Kasab continued to stay in Lahore alone, living in rented accommodation.	None
During this period he used to visit his village home.	None
On one such visit, he quarreled with his Abbu over the money earned by him.	None
After the quarrel he left the home and started living at Ali Hajveri Dargah in Lahore.	None
Kasabs friend Shafique got him a job in Welcome Tent Service.	None
He gave the full address of the establishment, the name of its owner and the mobile phone numbers of the owner and his son.	None
He added that the owner of the establishment used to call him Balka.	None
It was here that Kasab met and befriended Muzaffar Lal Khan, who also worked there.	None
Induction into LashkarEToiba, Indoctrination and Training for Jihad In November 2007, Kasab and Muzaffar Lal Khan went to Rawalpindi in search of better employment and took rented accommodation in Bangash Colony.	None
It was here, around the month of December, that they saw members of LashkareToiba going from door to door under the name of JamaatulDava, collecting hides of goats sacrificed on EiduzZoha.	None
They were asking people to donate the goat hides to help achieve independence for Kashmir.	None
Kasab and his friend developed great respect for those people.	None
They thought that those people were fighting for the liberation of Kashmir and they, too, should do something for their people.	None
When they were working at Sarai Alamgir members of JamatulDava were organising camps at different places where they would go to listen to their speeches.	None
He explained that after LashkareToiba was banned in 2002, it started its activities in the name of JamatulDava.	None
At this time, Kasab and Muzaffar Lal Khan first thought of undergoing training for Jihad.	None
In December 2007, they took the address of the office of LashkareToiba from a moulvi and reached its office at Raja Bazar, Rawalpindi.	None
He added that the office was near Bangash Colony.	None
There were two persons in the office who asked them the purpose of their visit.	None
They replied that they wanted to undertake Jihad.	None
The office people took their address in full and asked them to come the following day, with their clothes and other belongings.	None
They returned the following day.	None
On that day, a person in the office gave them a slip of paper with DauraESuffa, MarkazeToiba, Muridke written on it.	None
He gave them directions for Muridke and told them to go there.	None
They left for Muridke and, after traveling by bus for six hours, they reached Muridke bus stand.	None
From there, they walked for about a kilometer and a half to reach the camp site.	None
To the person there, they showed the letter and said that they had come for DauraeSuffa.	None
After subjecting them to a search, he took them inside the office.	None
There they showed the letter to a person called Fahadullah (wanted accused No. 8).	None
He wrote down their names and addresses and admitted them for the training.	None
DauraeSuffa training lasted twenty one (21) days.	None
There were thirty (30) other boys, apart from Kasab and his friend, doing the training.	None
During this, they were first converted from Sunni (sect of Islam) to AhleHadis and were given lessons in the Hadis (a study of the things said by the Prophet Muhammad and descriptions of his daily life).	None
An Ustad conducted physical exercises.	None
Besides, they were given lectures and lessons on Jihad.	None
In those sessions Fahadullah and Mufti Sayeed (wanted accused No. 13) were the Ustad.	None
The training took place between December 2007 and January 2008.	None
In the course of the training, Ustad Abu Kafa (wanted accused No. 5) introduced them to Hafiz Sayeed, the Ameer of LashkareToiba (wanted accused No. 1), Operational Commander ZakiurRehman Lakhvi (wanted accused No. 2), Area Commander Abu AlKama (wanted accused No. 4), Muzzamil alias Yusuf (wanted accused No. 6), Trainingincharge Abu Umar Sayeed (wanted accused No. 18) and Abu Hamza (wanted accused No. 3).	None
Kasab added that ZakiurRehman Lakhvi was known as Chacha and Lakhvi.	None
At that time Kafa told them that Abu Umar Sayeed arranged the training camps of LashkareToiba.	None
At this point the learned magistrate interrupted him to ask the meaning of the word Ameer.	None
He said it meant leader.	None
Kasab said that Ameer Hafiz Sayeed exhorted them by saying that all Mujahedeens must fight for the independence of Kashmir ZakiurRehman announced that the time had come for Jihad, adding that their orgainsation had been fighting in Kashmir for the last fifteen (15) years but the Hindustani Government was not allowing Kashmir to be independent.	None
It had, therefore, become necessary to fight a war against Hindustan to capture Kashmir.	None
ZakiurRehman Lakhvi asked them if they were ready to wage the war.	None
They all said they were ready for the war.	None
At that time, Abu AlKama told them that they had to attack the major cities of Hindustan that they would wage war against Hindustan from within, so that it is weakened from the inside.	None
He added that anyone who would die in this war would go to paradise.	None
In response, Kasab and all his associates said that they were ready to launch an attack on Hindustan.	None
In February 2008, they were selected for DauraeAmma training.	None
Ustad Fahadullah gave them a letter saying Bhai Vasool DauraeAmma, and sent them to Mansera Markaz Aksa.	None
They traveled for twelve (12) hours by bus to reach Mansera busstand from where they had to walk into the hilly region.	None
There, at the entrance to the camp they were subjected to a search.	None
They showed Fahadullahs note to the person at the gate and were allowed into the office.	None
The person in the office wrote down detailed information concerning them in a register.	None
After staying there for the day, they were taken to Buttel village in a van.	None
From there the driver of the van led them to the top of the hill on foot a walk of about thirty (30) minutes.	None
In this second training of twentyone (21) days they did physical exercises and practiced running and climbing over mountains.	None
They were also given training in dismantling and assembling Kalashan, rifles and pistols and taught how to fire these weapons.	None
Here the magistrate asked him the meaning of Kalashan.	None
He said Kalashan meant AK 47 rifle.	None
The Saving of Muzaffar During this training, Muzzafars elder brother came and took him from there.	None
Further Training Kasab told the magistrate that after the DauraeAmma training a Mujahid could go home if he so wished alternatively, he could remain for three months of Khidmat.	None
The magistrate asked him what Khidmat meant, to which he replied that it meant keeping watch on the new Mujahids who came for training, preparing food for them in the kitchen and generally looking after them.	None
He said that he remained to do Khidmat of the Mujahedeens.	None
The Ustad for the trainees who came there during Kasabs Khidmat were Abu Abdul Rehman (wanted accused No. 9), Yusuf (wanted accused No. 15), Abu Anas (wanted accused No. 10) and Abu Bashir (wanted accused No. 11).	None
Kasab did Khidmat during March, April and May, 2008.	None
Kasabs Ustad, Abu Abdul Rehman, then asked him to go along with the other Mujahedeens to the office of LashkareToiba at Model Town, District Okara for DauraeKhassa.	None
As instructed, they went to Mansera busstand in the LashkareToiba van.	None
After traveling from there by bus for twelve (12) hours they reached Lahore Lorry Adda (busstand).	None
From there they went to Okara busstand by bus and, after walking for about one kilometer, they reached the office of LashkareToiba near a Masjid at the corner of a lane in Model Town.	None
They told the people there that they had come to obtain the note for DauraeKhassa.	None
After making inquiries of them and after making verifications on the telephone, the person present there wrote a letter saying Bhai Vasool.	None
He stamped this with the flag of the LashkareToiba and gave it to them.	None
He also gave them the address of the LashkareToiba training camp at Muzzafarabad.	None
All of them travelled 16/17 hours in a bus to Muzzafarabad.	None
Kasab added that Muzzaffarabad is in POK.	None
From there they walked for about an hour and, passing through a LashkareToiba hospital called Neelam Dariya, they reached Sevai Nala.	None
At that place there were 10/12 houses and a masjid of LashkareToiba and the settlement was called Baitul Mujahedeen.	None
They gave the Rukka (chit) to a person called Sayeed and entered the training camp, which was also called Maskar Aksa.	None
The camp was situated on Chehalbandi Hills of Muzzaffarabad.	None
There was high security in this training camp and restrictions on moving in or out of the camp without the permission of the Ustad.	None
Abu Muavia (wanted accused No. 28) was the Ustad of this training, which was conducted in the months of May, June and July, 2008.	None
Kasab told the magistrate that this training was of two and a half months in course of which they were turned into solid Jihadis.	None
They were given lessons in Hadis, Namaz and Quran.	None
In addition, they were taught to dismantle and assemble Kalashans and many kinds of rifles and pistols, and to fire from those weapons, to operate rocket launchers and the use of hand grenades.	None
They were also given training in the use of satellite phones, GPS systems and mapreading.	None
The physical exercise comprised staying without food for 60 hours while climbing mountains with heavy loads on the back.	None
He added that the training was very arduous, so much so that ten (10) Mujahedeens fled the training camp.	None
Abu Muavia and Abu Hanzala (wanted accused No. 31) were the Ustad for this Daura.	None
During that training, a person unknown to Kasab visited the camp.	None
At that time, Ameer Hafiz Sayeed, ZakiUrRehman Lakhvi and Kafa were present there.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed and ZakiUrRehman Lakhvi embraced the visitor, and Ustad Abu Muavia and Abu Hanzala saluted him in soldier style.	None
Kafa introduced him to the trainees as Major General Saab (wanted accused No. 20) adding that the persons who were giving them training were his men.	None
Major General Saab asked them their names and inquired about their training.	None
He asked whether they had any complaints.	None
They all answered that they had none.	None
Major General Saab left after talking to them for about an hour.	None
At this point, the magistrate asked Kasab for the name of Major General Saab.	None
He said they were not told his name Kasab said that after completion of the training his Ustad Muavia gave him Rupees one thousand and three hundred (Rs.1,300/) and asked him to go home and then to Ameer Hafiz Sayeeds office at Baitul Mujahedeen.	None
Preparation for attack on India Kasab stayed at his village for one week and then, towards the end of July, 2008, he reached the office of Hafiz Mohammad Sayeed at Baitul Mujahedeen.	None
From there Ustad Muavia took him to Selection Point at Sevai Nala, where 20/22 Mujahedeens like him were already present.	None
Also present were Ameer Hafiz Mohammad Sayeed, Muzammil, Abu Hamza, Ustad Muavia, Kafa and Abu AlKama.	None
The Mujahedeens were shown a CD on the laptop demonstrating how Salauddin had made a Fidayeen attack in Kashmir.	None
Thereafter, Abu AlKama explained to them in detail how Fidayeen attacks were made in Kashmir.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed selected them and gave them new names.	None
He named Kasab Abu Mujahid and Imran Babar from Multan of Punjab region Abu Aqsa Nasir of Faisalabad was named Abu Umar and Nazir Ahmed Abu Omair Hafiz Arshad of Multan Road, Punjab, was called Abdul Rehman Bada alias Hayaji Abdul Rehman (Chhota) of Multan Road, Arabwala, was called Saqib Soheb from Narowala, Shakkar Garh, Punjab, was given the name Abu Soheb.	None
Some other colleagues of Kasab, who came from different places in Pakistan and whose names he did not recall but whom he identified with reference to the places from which they came, were similarly given pseudonyms by Hafiz Sayeed.	None
On the same day in the evening they were taken to the office of Baitul Mujahedeen.	None
The fifteen (15) selected persons then left for MarkazeToiba, Muridke, for the DauraeRibat training.	None
In this session, which lasted one month, they were given intelligence training, such as gathering knowledge about the target, keeping watch on him, following him and dodging if someone were to follow them.	None
Kasab described one of these tricks to the magistrate, telling her that if they suspected that they were being followed, they would switch on the indicator light on the right and then suddenly take a left turn.	None
That is how they would find out if they were being followed.	None
They learnt how to use fake identities while on a mission.	None
Training incharge Abu Sayeed gave special attention to this training.	None
He would frequently come to them and make queries about the training.	None
During the training two of Kasabs colleagues, Nasad and Abu Muavia, left the camp and went away.	None
Abu Kafa and Imran (wanted accused No. 12) were the Ustad of this Dauara.	None
During this training, Major General Saab came there twice.	None
He watched them train and encouraged them.	None
The Daura was completed in the end of August, 2008.	None
At that time Muzammil alias Yusuf and Abu AlKama had also come there.	None
Major Saab asked them if they could swim, to which they answered in the affirmative.	None
Then Major Saab asked Kafa to give them marine training.	None
Kafa said he would do so.	None
A few days later, in September, 2008, Kafa took them to Karachi by train.	None
There they were lodged in a house in Azizabad mohalla.	None
It was there in the month of September, 2008, that Ramzan started.	None
Kafa took all the thirteen (13) Mujahedeens to the creek from where they all sailed to the sea at Karachi on two small boats.	None
Here, they were put on a boat with an engine attached to it.	None
On that boat a person called Hakim Saab (wanted accused No. 14) gave them three days marine training.	None
During the marine training they were taught to read and use maps, to fathom the depths of the sea, to use GPS for marineways, to cast fishing nets and to sail.	None
At this point the magistrate asked Kasab why they were taught to cast fishing nets.	None
He replied that in order to deceive the naval officers of the enemy they would say they were fishermen.	None
After the marine training, Kafa took them back to Baitul Mujahedeen.	None
There, Ameer Hafiz Sayeed and ZakiurRehman Lakhvi asked them about the marine training.	None
Three days later, Ameer Hafiz Sayeed and ZakiurRehman Lakhvi sent six (6) Mujahedeens from among them (whose names Kasab told the magistrate) for a Fidayeen attack in Kashmir.	None
On the following day, Abu Hamza introduced three men to their group Ismail Khan from Dera Ismail Khan, Punjab, Fahadulla, and Javed from Okara, Punjab.	None
Hafiz Sayeed named them Abu Ismail, Abu Fahadullah and Abu Ali.	None
Abu Hamza told the group that these three were Fidayeens like them they had also taken training like them and they were also going with them to carry out the attack on Hindustan.	None
On the thirteenth (13th) Roza Hafiz Sayeed, ZakiurRehman Lakhvi, Muzammil alias Yusuf, Al Kama, Abu Hasan, Abu Kafa and Abu Umar Sayeed called them into the office of Baitul Mujahid.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed addressed them there.	None
He said that the time for Jihad had come and they were now required to consider how best to launch the attack on Hindustan.	None
After him ZakiurRehman Lakhvi spoke and said that the economic strength of Hindustan lay in Bombay and it was therefore necessary to direct the attack on Bombay.	None
He added that they had taken good marine training and hence they would attack Bombay from the sea route.	None
Major General Saab also came to this meeting.	None
He embraced Ameer Hafiz and ZakiurRehman Lakhvi and they talked to each other at some distance from the rest of the group.	None
After a while they came to the group and ZakiurRehman Lakhvi said that Major General Saab wanted to see their preparedness.	None
Immediately, each of them was given a Kalashan and a loaded magazine.	None
Major General Saab asked Ameer Hafiz to have the targets fixed at which Ameer Hafiz directed Kafa to fix ten (10) targets.	None
Major General Saab said that when he shouted fire they should fire a single shot and when he shouted fire twice they were to make rapid firing.	None
All of them took position.	None
Major General Saab watched them taking position and then he shouted fire.	None
Each of them fired a single shot.	None
Except Imran Babar, everyone shot the target.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed rebuked Imran Babar severely.	None
Major General Saab, too, told Imran Babar to practice shooting properly.	None
Major General Saab then asked everybody to take position.	None
They all resumed position and Major General Saab shouted fire twice.	None
All of them emptied their magazines.	None
Major General Saab then walked upto the targets and inspected them closely.	None
He asked who had fired at (target) No.4.	None
Kasab said it was he.	None
Major General Saab complemented him saying that he had destroyed the target entirely.	None
He told the others that they had to destroy the target fully using minimum bullets and then, pointing at Kasab, he told the others that this is the way firing should be done.	None
He then left and went away.	None
Then Kafa introduced them to a person called Zarar Shah (wanted accused No. 7).	None
Kasab and Ismail asked him about Zarar Shah, at which he told them that Zarar Shah and Ibrahim were the Ameer of the media wing of their organization.	None
Zarar Shah was a computer expert.	None
He could use computer technology to make a call from Pakistan appear, deceptively, as if it was being made from some other country.	None
Zarar Shah and Ibrahim had set up a high technology media room.	None
In this room they had collected maps, CDs and other information concerning the major cities of every country in the world on the basis of which they selected the targets and advised ZakiurRehman Lakhvi.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed and ZakiurRehman Lakhvi then divided the ten (10) Mujahedeens into five (5) buddiyas.	None
The magistrate asked what a Buddiya was.	None
Kasab said Buddiya meant a pair.	None
The Buddiyas were 1.	None
Kasab Ismail Khan 2.	None
Imran Babar Nasir 3.	None
Soheb Nazir Ahmed 4.	None
Hafiz Arshad alias Hayaji Javed and 5.	None
Abdul Rehman (Chhota) Fahadullah.	None
Then, ZakiurRehman Lakhvi told them that on the twentyseventh (27th)	None
Roza they were to go and make the Fidayeen attack on Bombay.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed said to them that for going from Karachi to Bombay, a Hindustani boat would have to be hijacked and they would go to Bombay by that Hindustani boat.	None
He added that the maali halat of Hindustan was based on videshi sailaniyon.	None
Therefore, in order to weaken the maali halat of Hindustan it was necessary to attack, among other places, those places frequented by videshi sailaniyon.	None
At this point the magistrate interrupted to ask the meanings of maali halat and videshi sailani.	None
Kasab translated the two expressions as money power and foreign tourists.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed told them that they would fire from Kalashan while also throwing hand grenades at VTS, Malabar Hill, Taj Hotel at Colaba, Leopold Hotel, Oberoi Hotel and Nariman House Building where Israelis stayed in Bombay.	None
He added that while firing they should specially target the Americans, the British and the Israelis because those people had greatly oppressed the Muslims.	None
At VTS there would be a very large crowd and while firing there they should not think of whether their targets were Muslims or Hindus.	None
They should just open brush fire without any thought as to who they targeted.	None
However, while firing at the hotels they should take care that no Muslim was killed in their attack.	None
Then, ZakiurRehman Lakhvi asked the two buddies who were assigned the attack on the Taj Hotel and the Oberoi Hotel to set the two hotels on fire and to cause damage to them on a large scale.	None
ZakiurRehman Lakhvi said that before launching the attack they must fix the RDX bombs around their targets.	None
The bomb blasts would cause traffic jams and slow down the movement of the police coming to the rescue, and would thus make it easier for them to kill the policemen, besides many other people.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed fixed the time for the attacks at 7.30 PM.	None
When Kasab asked why the attack should take place at that particular time, Hafiz Sayeed explained that this was the time when the targeted places would be most crowded, and insisted that the attack must take place at 7.30 PM.	None
Kafa told them that the ten (10) Mujahedeens, would be given ID cards with fake Hindu names and that they would go to Hindustan with those fake ID cards.	None
On the way, they would also tie sacred threads around their wrists like Hindus do.	None
When Ismail asked about the need for ID cards and threads, Kafa replied that with those ID cards nobody could stop them and they would be easily successful in their mission.	None
And the threads on their wrists would deceive the police.	None
Continuing his story, Kasab told the magistrate that at that meeting they decided that he and Ismail would begin firing at VTS to make piles of dead bodies.	None
From VTS they would go to Malabar Hill and start firing there.	None
Hafiz Arshad and Javed would do the firing at Hotel Taj Fahadullaah and Abdul Rehman (Chhota) at Hotel Oberoi Imran Babar and Nasir at Nariman House while Soheb and Nazir would begin firing at Hotel Leopold and then join Hafiz Arshad and Javed at the Taj Hotel.	None
Further, while going to VTS he would plant an RDX bomb under the drivers seat in the taxi Nazir Ahmed and Javed would similarly place the bombs in the taxis they would hire to Leopold Hotel and Taj Hotel respectively.	None
The taxis used by them would thus explode at some other place and no one would have any clue regarding how they came and where they came from.	None
The Buddiyas at Nariman House, Oberoi Hotel and Taj Mahal Hotel would talk to the media and falsely tell them that they had taken some people hostage and (on that strength) would ask the Hindustan Government to allow Kashmir to be free.	None
They would deceive the media into believing that they were Hindustani Muslims in large numbers and would thus generate fear.	None
Ameer Hafiz said Abu Hamza would teach them how to plant RDX bombs and how to cause blasts.	None
Ameer Hafiz Sayeed, ZakiurRehman Lakhvi, Muzammil alias Yusuf, Abu AlKama, Abu Umar Sayeed, Kafa, Abu Hamza and Zarar Shah then took the ten (10) Mujahedeens to a big hall.	None
In that hall there were two or three TVs.	None
Zarar Shah told them that this was the control room of the media wing.	None
Zarar Shah showed them the different roads of Bombay and their different targets on a big TV screen.	None
He showed VTS and Malabar Hill to Kasab and Ismail Khan on a CD.	None
He also gave them detailed information about the roads leading to VTS and Malabar Hill.	None
Kafa used Google Earth on a laptop to show them how to go from Badhwar Park in Mumbai to VTS and from VTS to Malabar Hill.	None
Kafa also showed them some maps that were drawn by hand and told them that Fahim Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed in Hindustan (Accused 2 3) had prepared those maps and sent them from there.	None
He said that with the help of those maps they would easily reach the places targeted by them.	None
Having told them how the maps were obtained, Kafa explained the maps to them.	None
Kasab asked where Sabauddin and Fahim were.	None
Kafa said both of them were arrested in Hindustan.	None
Kasab asked why they were arrested, to which Kafa replied that they were arrested in connection with an attack made on a police camp at Rampur in India.	None
Then, on the basis of one of the maps, he explained how long it would take them to go from Badhwar Park to VTS and from there to Malabar Hill.	None
Kafa told them that Cooperage Ground and Azad Maidan fall on the way to VTS and told them to mention those places to the taxi driver.	None
Kafa gave similar information to the other Buddiyas on the basis of the CD, Google Earth and the maps sent by Sabauddin and Fahim.	None
On the day of the fifteenth (15th) Roza, Abu Hamza and Kafa took the ten (10) Mujahedeens to the hills of Muzaffarabad.	None
There they practiced how to take position and fire with Kalashans.	None
They were also taught how to make the tiffin bomb from RDX, how to fix a blast timer into it and how to set off the bomb.	None
At that time, on the instructions of Ameer Hafiz Sayeed, Abu Hamza and Kafa gave more firing practice to Imran Babar.	None
The same night they returned to Baitul Mujahedeen.	None
On the day of the sixteenth (16th) Roza, Kafa asked them to shave and cut their hair.	None
They were given new clothes, shoes and socks.	None
On Kafas instruction they cut off the labels of the new clothes.	None
Kafa also gave them watches set to Indian time.	None
On the same day, Kafa had their photographs taken.	None
On the day of the seventeenth (17th) Roza, Kafa took them to Karachi city by train and there they went to a house in Azizabad mohalla.	None
Lying in the house was an Urdu magazine called Taibat that featured the names of the six (6) Mujahedeens who had gone on the Kashmir Mission and been martyred there.	None
Kasab asked Kafa about them.	None
Kafa said that their colleagues had become martyrs in the encounter with the Hindustani army and that Allah would rest their souls in heaven.	None
On the day of the eighteenth (18th) Roza, Kafa brought ten (10) timers and explained to them how to fix a battery in the timer and how to set the time.	None
On Kafas instructions they affixed their names on one timer each, after which Kafa took the timers back from them.	None
At that time, according to the plan, Kafa also gave all of them ID cards with their Hindu names.	None
Kasabs ID card showed him as Sameer Choudhary son of Dinesh Choudhary of Arunodaya Degree College, Bangalore.	None
Ismails ID card described him as Naresh Verma son of Vilas Verma of Arunodaya Degree College, Hyderabad.	None
All the ID cards were of Arunodaya College.	None
Kasab listed the different fake Hindu names given to the rest of his colleagues.	None
Kafa took them back to the Karachi harbour and they stayed on the sea for one day.	None
On that expedition, Hakim Saab taught them how to dismantle, assemble and run a small inflatable boat.	None
He showed them how to take out the sea valve and sink a boat.	None
He explained to them about tul and chourai.	None
Here the magistrate asked him to explain tul and chourai.	None
He explained that tuls were the vertical and chourais were the horizontal lines on a map On the twentieth (20th) day of Roza, Lakhvi came there and said that the work had been stopped for some time.	None
At this Kasab said to Lakhvi that there was no need for them to wait.	None
He could make their mission successful, according to the plan, and there was no need for him to worry.	None
Kasab further said that he had longed for it for so many years and asked Lakhvi not to create any obstructions.	None
At this, ZakiurRehman Lakhvi started laughing and said that he knew from the beginning that he was a firm Jihadi, but he asked him to wait for some time.	None
The next day ZakiurRehman Lakhvi left, though the Mujahedeens continued to stay in the Azizabad house.	None
During those days Imran Babar would make them repeat the names on their ID cards.	None
Of them, Imran Babar alone was properly educated and he could, therefore, read and write English.	None
They celebrated Ramzan Eid in the Azizabad house.	None
During this period Abu Hamza taught them how to plant a bomb under the seat in a moving car and gave training to Kasab, Javed and Nazir Ahmed on how to plant a bomb under the (drivers) seat while sitting in the back seat of the car.	None
They were in the Azizabad house for almost a month and a half.	None
On November 18, Kafa left, taking Nasir and Nazir Ahmed with him.	None
Arming for the Invasion On November 21 they were driven from Azizabad in a car to a house near a creek.	None
ZakiurRehman Lakhvi, Zarar Shah, Abu Hamza, Kafa, Nasir and Nazir Ahmed were already present there.	None
ZakiurRehman Lakhvi had made Ismail Khan the Ameer of the mission.	None
In the house near the creek there were a number of boxes containing the goods.	None
Those boxes were opened in their presence and all the goods were handed over to Ismail.	None
The goods were Aslaha, barood (explosives) and eatables.	None
The magistrate asked what Aslaha is.	None
Kasab replied weapons.	None
Abu Hamza had explained to Ismail how the Aslaha and Barood were to be distributed.	None
Ismail noted down all the instructions in his diary and took all the articles in his possession.	None
Thereafter Abu Hamza gave Kasab and Ismail Rupees ten thousand and eight hundred (Rs.1080000) in Indian currency.	None
They divided it between themselves.	None
All the other buddies were also given Indian money.	None
Then Zarar Shah gave each of them a mobile phone.	None
Ismail asked which place the numbers belonged to.	None
Zarar Shah replied that those numbers were of Hindustan.	None
He added that they had obtained the SIM cards from Hindustan by tricking some people there.	None
He added that the SIM cards would get activated on reaching Bombay.	None
He asked them to use the phones on reaching Bombay.	None
Kasab asked about the numbers on which they could talk to them.	None
ZakiurRehman Lakhvi said that Zarar had fed their numbers in the mobiles and that on punching the green button twice the phone would be connected to them and they would be able to report to them about the work.	None
He then gave some (telephone) numbers to Ismail and asked him to note down those numbers in his diary.	None
Ismail noted down the numbers in the diary which he always kept with him.	None
ZakiurRehman Lakhvi also gave the names of some areas of Bombay, like Colaba, WTC etc., which names, too, Ismail noted down in his diary.	None
During the training, Abu Hamza had given them some codes so that no one would suspect while they communicated on the phone.	None
Ismail had those codes and the details of tul and chourai also noted in his diary.	None
Thereafter, ZakiurRehman gave a satellite phone to Ismail and left.	None
Ismail then distributed the weapons and the explosives.	None
He gave a large sack to all the Mujahedeens.	None
He also gave each of them one (1) Kalashan, eight (8) magazines, two hundred and forty (240) rounds, eight (8) hand grenades, one bayonet (Kasab called it Sangeen), one (1) pistol with three (3) magazines, twentyone (21) rounds, one (1) water bottle, one (1) Kg raisins, one (1) headphone and three (3) nine (9) volt batteries along with a charger.	None
He also gave each of them an RDX bomb of eight (8) Kg that was kept in a tiffin box in a small sack.	None
He also gave each buddy a GPS system and a small pouch to everyone to tie around the waist.	None
All of them took their goods and cleaned and serviced the Kalashan and the pistol put thirty (30) rounds in each magazine of their Kalashan and seven (7) in those of the pistol.	None
As trained, they joined two (2) magazines together with tape so as to easily replace the magazine being emptied while firing from Kalashan.	None
They then packed all the aslaha, the other goods and their new clothes in the large sack.	None
Everyones sack, containing the bombs and the goods, was kept for the night in the LashkareToibas car.	None
Ismail asked all of them to keep their ID cards with Hindustani names in their pockets, and they did as instructed.	None
At night, Abu Hamza and Kafa told Ismail to note down the tul and chourai while on their way to Bombay so that they could reach Bombay with the help of GPS without difficulty.	None
Ismail made the notes in his diary, as instructed by them, in Kasabs presence.	None
The Journey to Mumbai by Sea On November 22, they woke at six (6) in the morning and offered Namaz.	None
Then they left for Karachi, along with Kafa and Abu Hamza, to make the Fidayeen attack on Bombay.	None
After walking for about thirty (30) minutes they reached a creek.	None
ZakiurRehman Lakhvi was present there.	None
He told them that the Aaqa (master) Hafiz Sayeed and all of them had worked very hard for that mission.	None
Their efforts must bear fruit.	None
They had been trained fully in every skill.	None
They must not be let down.	None
That was their responsibility.	None
ZakiurRehman further told them to switch on the mobile phones on reaching Bombay.	None
He said that the buddiyas targeting Nariman House, Taj Hotel and Oberoi Hotel would communicate with the media.	None
They (ZakiurRehman and the other conspirators) would tell them afterwards what to say to them.	None
They (ZakiurRehman and the other conspirators) would also send email to the media and challenge the Hindustani government.	None
ZakiurRehman then handed over to each buddy the maps sent by Sabauddin and Fahim.	None
Ismail kept the map that showed the way to reach VTS and Malabar Hill.	None
ZakiurRehman instructed them to tear up the maps after reaching their destinations.	None
Thereafter, ZakiurRehman prayed for them saying that he put them under the protection of Allah and Allah would protect them.	None
He further prayed that Allah might let them complete the desired work fully.	None
He then gave instruction to Ismail to take out the sea valve before leaving the Hindustani boat so that it would sink into the sea.	None
ZakiurRehman then took Ismail aside and talked to him privately.	None
At around seven (700 AM) in the morning a small wooden boat arrived to take them.	None
After sailing in that boat for an hour and a half, they were transferred to a bigger boat and the small boat went back.	None
Hakim Saab and his three colleagues were also there in the big boat.	None
At about 900 PM they boarded an even bigger vessel, AlHussaini, while Hakim Saab and his three colleagues returned in the second boat.	None
There were seven (7) persons on the AlHussaini from before, of whom three were called Murshad (wanted accused No. 16), Aaquib (wanted accused No. 17) and Usman (wanted accused No. 19).	None
They were all members of LashkareToiba.	None
Murshad gave them the sacks containing the bombs, and the Kalashan that were packed in the Karachi house.	None
Murshad also gave Ismail a rubber speed boat, a pump to fill air in the rubber boat, life jackets, blankets, rice, flour, oil, pickle, milk powder, match boxes, detergent powder, tissue papers, bottles of Mountain Dew cold drink, dental cream, spray paint, towels, shaving kits, tooth brushes, etc.	None
They spent that night on AlHussaini.	None
At this point the court time was over but Kasabs statement was incomplete.	None
The magistrate, therefore, sent him back to judicial custody.	None
He was again produced before her on the following day, February 21, 2009, at 10.40 AM.	None
The magistrate once again satisfied herself that he had been insulated from any external influence and would make the statement completely voluntarily.	None
She then resumed taking down his statement.	None
Continuing the narrative where he stopped on the previous day, Kasab said that on November 23, at about 12.00 PM they had traveled by AlHussaini for about half an hour (sic) when they saw a boat coming towards them.	None
Usman waved a broken engine belt, indicating to the people on that boat that they were in need of help and, on the pretext of seeking their help in changing the broken belt, they approached that boat and captured it.	None
The name of the Hindustani boat was Kuber.	None
Four persons on that boat were taken hostage by Hakim Saab and Usman and were brought aboard the AlHussaini.	None
They also brought from the Kuber TV set and VCR and some other articles lying on it to the AlHussaini.	None
Then all ten (10) Fidayeens along with all their belongings boarded the Kuber.	None
The Nakhva (navigator) of Kuber was also put in their custody.	None
Then, on Hakim Saabs instructions, Ismail checked the amount of diesel on Kuber.	None
The Nakhva told him that there were seven hundred (700) liters of diesel in its tank and another four (4) drums filled with diesel on board.	None
Ismail asked him whether that would be sufficient to take them to Bombay to which he replied that that may not be sufficient to carry them to Bombay.	None
Hakim Saab told Ismail that there might arise the need for more diesel, and asked his three colleagues to transfer the iron drums and plastic cans filled with diesel from AlHussaini to Kuber.	None
Thereafter, according to plan, they sailed for Bombay, with the help of GPS and the tul and chourai that were given to them, and with the assistance of Amarchand Solanki, the Nakhva of Kuber.	None
On Kuber, Imran Babar was assigned the work of cooking and the other nine (9) men were divided by Ismail in groups of three each for guard duty.	None
Kasab was in the group with Ismail Khan and Nasir.	None
Each group was given guard duty for two hours on rotation basis.	None
Ismail also noted down in his diary the hours assigned to each group, mentioning the members of each group by the names given to them by Hafiz Sayeed.	None
After sailing for some distance, they tied the Nakhvas hands, blindfolded him and made him sit near the engine.	None
The three groups guarded the Kuber against any unfriendly intrusion round the clock and they also kept a watch on Amarchand, the Nakhva.	None
Ismail and Javed were sailing the boat with the help of the Nakhva.	None
During the voyage they were talking to Abu Hamza on the satellite phone.	None
And Ismail was verifying with the aid of GPS that they were sailing in the right direction.	None
They were also feeding the Nakhva.	None
They filled diesel in the engine of the Kuber thrice on the journey to Bombay, with help from the Nakhva.	None
On November 26, at 11.00 AM, according to plan, they tied redyellow coloured threads around their wrists.	None
Around 4.00 PM on that day they neared Bombay and its tall buildings came within into sight.	None
Kasab shames the Butcher According to plan, Kasab called Abu Hamza on the satellite phone.	None
He told him that they had reached Bombay and asked what was to be done with the Nakhva.	None
Abu Hamza laughed and said he should do whatever he wanted.	None
Kasab then told Ismail that it would be better to kill the Nakhva.	None
Ismail agreed with him.	None
Kasab then asked Soheb and Nasir to hold the Nakhva by the legs in the engine room.	None
He himself yanked him by the hair and pulling his head down cut his neck.	None
He then hid his body in the engine room.	None
Meanwhile, Ismail, Fahadullah, Javed and Nazir Ahmed began inflating the rubber speedboat with the pump.	None
After half an hour, when the boat was filled with air, it was lowered into the sea.	None
They wore the new clothes purchased from the market in Karachi.	None
Kasab put on a red Tshirt and, over it, a blue Tshirt with a cap attached to it and green cargo pants.	None
Like him, the others also put on the new clothes purchased from the market in Karachi.	None
They all put on red life jackets and yellow waterproof trousers.	None
They left behind the clothes they had travelled in on the Kuber.	None
Kasab left a white shalwar and a white shirt that he had been wearing earlier.	None
All of them offered namaz and then, according to plan, they all took out their mobile phones from the bags and switched them on.	None
But there was no network on the sea.	None
They unloaded all the articles for the attack on to the speedboat.	None
While they were engaged in moving from the Kuber to the speedboat, they saw a boat approaching.	None
They thought it was a navy boat.	None
Alarmed, they quickly got into the speedboat and set sail.	None
In his haste, Ismail forgot to take out the sea valve of the Kuber.	None
He also forgot his satellite phone on the Kuber.	None
They left the Kuber at a distance of about four (4) nautical miles from Bombay and sailed for Bombay on the speedboat.	None
Ismail was sailing the speedboat.	None
The speedboat had the engine of Yamaha Company.	None
Nazir Ahmed, with the aid of GPS, was showing the way to Bombay.	None
On the way, Ismail said that first he and Kasab would leave for VTS by taxi, then Soheb and Nazir Ahmad would go to Leopold Hotel by taxi, and then Javed and Hafiz Arshad would go to the Taj Hotel by taxi.	None
Imran Babar and Nasir would walk to Nariman House.	None
Last of all, Fahadullah and Abdul Rehman (Chhota) would go to Oberoi Hotel in the speedboat.	None
Ismail asked Kasab, Soheb and Javed to place RDX bombs, according to plan, under their taxi drivers seats.	None
He told the others to place their bombs near the targets.	None
After sailing for about an hour and a half or two hours they reached the Bombay shore.	None
According to plan, Abu Ali jumped out and anchored the boat to the shore.	None
First, Ismail and Kasab alighted from the speedboat.	None
They took their bags.	None
Both Ismail and Kasab removed their life jackets and waterproof trousers and threw them into the sea.	None
After getting off the boat, Kasab put on his shoes.	None
Following Kasab and Ismail, the others also got off the speed boat.	None
At that time it was about 9.00 PM and according to the plan they were late by about an hour and a half.	None
On getting down from the boat they came across two persons.	None
They asked them who they were and from where had they come.	None
Kasab told them that they were students.	None
Ismail had an altercation with them.	None
The Attack Ismail and Kasab took their bags and walked up to the road.	None
They took a taxi.	None
Ismail sat in the front and Kasab sat in the back seat.	None
Ismail asked the driver to take them to VTS.	None
He started talking to the driver.	None
Meanwhile Kasab fixed two nine (9) volt batteries to the wire of the timer in the bomb in the bag.	None
He placed this bag, containing the bomb, under the drivers seat.	None
He had set the time of explosion for after an hour and fifteen minutes.	None
They reached VTS within fifteen to twenty minutes and were annoyed to find the crowd at the station far less than what they had seen on the CD.	None
Ismail tried to communicate with Abu Hamza on his mobile but the mobile did not show any network.	None
Ismail then tried to make the call from Kasabs mobile but his mobile, too, did not work.	None
Ismail kept Kasabs mobile with him and both of them entered and came inside the passage.	None
They saw the stairs going upwards.	None
The people there had come with large bags and from that they gathered that this platform was for longdistance trains.	None
There was a toilet nearby.	None
Kasab gave his bag to Ismail and went to the toilet.	None
When he came back, Ismail went to the toilet carrying the small bag containing the bomb with him.	None
Inside, according to plan, he fixed the batteries in the bomb and came out with the bag containing the bomb.	None
Ismail put the bag containing the bomb among the passengers luggage.	None
They then signaled to each other and decided to open fire.	None
Kasab took out the Kalashan from his bag and Ismail took out a hand grenade from his bag.	None
He removed its clip and threw it at the people.	None
At the same time both Kasab and Ismail started firing on the people present there.	None
After a while, Ismail threw another grenade at the people.	None
They continued firing from their Kalashans.	None
As a result of the firing, many people were killed on the station.	None
The people at the station were frightened and started running in all directions.	None
Within a short time, the entire station was empty.	None
Meanwhile the police had started firing on them.	None
Both of them fired back at the police, giving cover to each other.	None
The police continued to fire at them and tried to stop them.	None
Ismail and Kasab shot the policemen dead and came out of VT station through the stairs.	None
(He refers to the footoverbridge on the side of platform No.1 of the local lines).	None
Kasab said that he fired almost six magazines at the station.	None
After coming down from the overbridge they looked for a taxi in the lane (Badruddin Tayabji Marg).	None
But they found none.	None
They tried to open the cars parked in the lane but were unable to open any car.	None
They moved ahead in the lane.	None
They both fired in that lane.	None
At that time heavy police firing started and they decided to enter the opposite building (which happened to be Cama Hospital), climb to its terrace and kill the policemen by firing and throwing grenades at them from this higher position.	None
They jumped over a closed gate, entered the building and climbed up its floors.	None
The police followed them into the building.	None
They fired at the police and the people and also threw hand grenades at them.	None
At that time the police was also firing at them.	None
They shot the policemen dead.	None
Then, as the firing stopped, they came down.	None
They were in that building for almost an hour.	None
Then they came to know that the building was a hospital.	None
They could hear the screams of women and cries of children coming from the rooms of the building.	None
They decided to enter every room of the building and to kill the women and children there.	None
They tried to open the doors of the rooms but all the doors were closed from inside and the irongrill doors outside were also closed.	None
They were unable to open any of the doors.	None
They decided to get out from that building and go to their last target.	None
They came down from the building and moved ahead, taking cover of a wall.	None
After moving ahead, they jumped over the wall and came out on the road.	None
They moved ahead on the road, keeping on the right side, taking cover of the wall.	None
They saw a policeman coming.	None
Kasab pointed his Kalashan at him and fired, killing the policeman on the spot.	None
At that time they were fired at from the opposite direction.	None
They fired in retaliation and entered a lane.	None
They saw a white car with a red beacon light in the lane moving backwards.	None
Kasab fired at the car.	None
The car moved for a little distance and stopped.	None
Ismail threw a hand grenade at the car and Kasab again fired at it with a view to make the car move away from there.	None
But when they reached near the car and tried to open its door they found all the window glasses raised and the doors locked and the driver lying dead inside the car.	None
They tried to open the door of the car but were unable to open it.	None
Then they saw a car with a yellow light coming towards them from the opposite direction.	None
Seeing that car, both of them hid in the bushes, taking the cover of the wall behind them.	None
As soon as that car came near them, they fired at it at the same time shots were fired from the car, hitting Kasab on both his hands.	None
When the firing from the car stopped they looked at the car and found that the persons inside the car were policemen and all of them were dead.	None
They tried to open the cars rear door	None
but it did not open.	None
Kasab was injured and he stood leaning on the vehicle, shaking his hands, while Ismail fired a round of brush fire on the road behind the car.	None
Ismail then went near the car and pulled out the dead bodies of the driver and the policeman sitting behind the driver.	None
Kasab pulled out the dead body of the policeman sitting next to the driver and threw it on the ground.	None
There were no rounds left in Ismails Kalashan and, therefore, he picked up the policemans Kalashan from the car.	None
He started the car and drove at full speed.	None
He told Kasab that bullets had hit him on the legs and in the armpits.	None
After some time they reached the chowk and found a large crowd comprising both policemen and the public.	None
Ismail fired at the policemen and the public while continuing to drive the car.	None
After some time it appeared that the back right tyre of their car was punctured.	None
Ismail was, nevertheless, driving the car at a very high speed.	None
Then, on seeing a white car approaching from the opposite direction, Ismail stopped their car.	None
Kasab fired from his Kalashan in the air and both of them got out of the car.	None
He went towards the white car and, pointing the Kalashan at the driver, asked him to stop the car.	None
The driver immediately stopped the car.	None
Ismail pulled him out.	None
At the same time the person sitting next to the driver and the woman sitting on the back seat also got out.	None
All this while, Kasab was giving cover to Ismail.	None
Having thus snatched the car, Ismail sat on the drivers seat and Kasab quickly sat next to him and they left.	None
At this point Kasab asked Ismail where they had to go.	None
Ismail said they had to go to Malabar Hill.	None
Kasab further asked where exactly in Malabar Hill.	None
Ismail said he would tell him on reaching Malabar Hill.	None
After going for some distance, Kasab saw that they were traveling on a road going along the sea and then he realized that this road was shown in the map by Sabauddin and Fahim as going towards Malabar Hill.	None
While they were driving at full speed, going in the direction of Malabar Hill, they saw the barricade on the road and policemen standing around the barricade.	None
The policemen had seen their car moving at great speed from a long distance and were asking them to stop by raising their hands and blowing their whistles.	None
Realizing that it was impossible to cross the barricade by smashing against it, Kasab asked Ismail to stop the car at some distance from the barricade and to keep the headlights on so that the policemen would not be able to see either them or the number of their car.	None
Ismail stopped the car at some distance from the barricade and kept the headlights on.	None
The policemen were shouting at them and were asking them to switch off the headlights.	None
Looking around, Kasab saw that the road divider on his right was very low and thought they could cross it by driving the car at very high speed.	None
He advised Ismail accordingly.	None
Ismail immediately switched on the water spray on the wind screen and started the wiper.	None
He took the car a little ahead and turned it to the right in the direction of the road divider.	None
He drove at full speed but the car did not go over the divider and stopped there.	None
At the same time the policemen charged at them from both sides.	None
Realizing the gravity of the situation they both raised their hands.	None
But the policemen kept coming at them.	None
Seeing this Ismail tried to pick up the Kalashan	None
but it was kept below and he couldnt take it out.	None
He then picked up his pistol, which was kept on the seat, and fired at the policemen.	None
At the same time, Kasab saw a policeman coming towards him he opened the door of the car and got hold of his Kalashan.	None
The police had started firing.	None
A policeman tried to snatch the Kalashan from him.	None
In the struggle, Kasab fell down	None
but he had his finger on the trigger and he pressed it.	None
The bullets hit a policeman holding a rifle and he collapsed on the ground.	None
The other policemen beat him with lathis and snatched the Kalashan from his hands.	None
Ismail was injured in the police firing and he too was overpowered.	None
Kasab said that he and Ismail were then brought to the hospital in an ambulance.	None
In the hospital he learnt that Ismail died by police bullets.	None
He gave his and Ismails names to the police and the doctors and also told them that they were Pakistanis.	None
He concluded his statement before the magistrate by saying that the doctors in the hospital cleaned and bandaged his wounds and got him admitted in the hospital.	None
There the doctors took away his bloodsmeared clothes and gave him hospital clothes to wear.	None
When the police asked him about his colleagues and how they reached Bombay he told them everything.	None
This is the appellants account, as told by him to the magistrate.	None
We now propose to take a brief look at the violent crimes committed by the appellant and his group of terrorists in Mumbai through Indian eyes.	None
And for that we shall follow the bloody trails of the appellant and those of the other members of the terrorist group.	None
THE LANDING The inflatable rubber dinghy on which the terrorists came to Mumbai landed at a place called Badhwar Park.	None
The dinghys arrival at that particular place could not possibly be by accident or by chance.	None
Badhwar Park was evidently selected as the landing site for the terrorists with great care and with consideration of its immense strategic potential for the attack on their chosen targets.	None
It is also clear that the selection of Badhwar Park as their landing place was not made by the attackers themselves but by someone else among the conspirators.	None
The selection of the landing place for the dinghy was clearly based on a good deal of reconnaissance and survey work and whoever selected the spot for landing had undoubtedly made himself fully familiar not only with the Mumbai shore line but also the city.	None
Badhwar Park is a settlement of fishermen and at that place the sea comes more deeply into the land mass, forming a kind of a vesicle.	None
Hence, the water is calm and, this being a fishermens colony, a group of young people arriving from the sea is not likely to arouse any suspicion or even attract much attention.	None
Further, the place abutts a main road.	None
A sandy slope from the water, not more than ten (10) metres in length, takes one to the road where taxis are readily available.	None
The CST railway station is at distance of 3.5 kms from Badhwar Park and by a taxi it takes fifteen to twenty (1520) minutes to reach there.	None
The Taj Hotel is at distance of 1 km and Leopold Caf nine hundred (900) metres.	None
Nariman House, to which the two (2) terrorist went walking, is at a distance of 0.5 km.	None
Nariman Point, where the last pair took the dinghy by sea after the other eight had alighted at Badhwar Park, is 0.55 nautical miles (1 km) from there and from the point where the last pair got off the dinghy, Oberoi Hotel and Trident Hotel are at a distance of three hundred (300) metres.	None
The last pair walked to these hotels.	None
Kasab had said to the magistrate that on getting down from the boat they had come across two persons.	None
They had enquired about them and even while Abu Ismail tried to rebuff them Kasab told them that they were students.	None
One of these two men that Kasab met was Bharat Dattatray Tamore (PW28).	None
He lived in the Fisherman Colony, Cuffe Parade.	None
He was a permanent employee of Hotel Taj Mahal, Colaba, where he worked as Mukhadam.	None
He lived in Chawl no.2 which was situated very close to the sea shore at about fifteen (15) minutes walking distance from the Taj Hotel.	None
He deposed before the court that since his Chawl was very close to the shore, for going anywhere he had to go along the shore quite close to the water.	None
On November 26, 2008, he left his house at about 9.15 PM for the hotel, where his duties commenced at 10.00 PM and ended the following morning at 7.00 AM.	None
On the way to the hotel he saw an inflatable boat on the shore.	None
In the boat there were ten (10) people who were in the age group of twenty to twenty five (2025) years.	None
He saw eight out of them alighting from the boat.	None
Each of them was carrying a sack and a handbag.	None
Two of them proceeded towards the main road ahead of the others.	None
They appeared strangers to the place and he asked them where they came from.	None
One of them said they were students while the other responded by roughly asking in reply as to how he was concerned about them.	None
He added that the two persons who had not alighted took the boat towards Nariman Point.	None
He returned to his home next morning at about seven (700 AM).	None
On way he came across four (4) policemen near the Badhwar Park Railway Officers Colony who were talking about the inflatable boat.	None
He then told them what he had witnessed the previous evening.	None
He later identified the appellant in the test identification parade held on December 28, 2008.	None
He also identified the dead body of the other person at the mortuary of J.J. Hospital.	None
He also identified the appellant while deposing in court, as one of the persons who had alighted from the boat.	None
There is another person called Prashant Hemnath Dhanu (PW29) who lived in the fishermens colony.	None
He was twentyfour (24) years old and a fisherman by profession.	None
He stated before the court that he had a fishing boat and on November 26, 2008, at about 9.15 PM he, along with a few relatives, had gone out to sea on his boat to fish.	None
On nearing Nariman Point around 9.45 PM they saw a seemingly abandoned rubber boat.	None
There were some life jackets in the boat and it was fitted with a Yamaha engine.	None
Buffeted by the sea waves, it was bouncing against the tetrapod.	None
Lest the owner of the boat might suffer its loss they towed it to their fishing trawler and brought it to the jetty near the fishermens colony at Badhwar Park (that is, to the point where it had first landed).	None
He informed the coast guard about the abandoned boat found by him.	None
He further said that the police had arrived there and they took charge of the boat under a Panchnama.	None
We shall deal with the seizure of the boat by the police and the articles found in it in due course.	None
Suffice here to note that the rubber boat (Article 156) was shown to the witness in court and he duly identified it as the one that he had found abandoned at Nariman Point and had towed back to the Fishermens Colony, Badhwar Park.	None
He also indicated the yellow strip of paint on the black body of the boat, on the basis of which he was able to identify it.	None
From Badhwar Park the appellant, Kasab, and his accomplice, Abu Ismail, took a taxi and proceeded to CST.	None
Kasab told the magistrate that he occupied the back seat of the taxi and, on the way to CST, had put the RDX bomb under the drivers seat, setting the time of blast for after an hour and fifteen minutes.	None
We shall see the fate of the taxi, its driver and the passenger, who occupied it after Kasab and Abu Ismail, presently under the marginal heading The Vile Parle Blast.	None
But, for the present, the appellant and his buddy are on a spree of mass killings at CST.	None
Slaughter at CST Fifty two (52) dead and One hundred and nine (109) injured In regard to the CST episode, like all other parts of the case, the prosecution has gathered a very large amount of evidence ocular, forensic and of other kinds, e.g., CCTV recordings.	None
They have documented practically every action and movement of the two killers from the point when Abu Ismail threw the first hand grenade at the passengers on the platform till they went out of CST through the footoverbridge on the side of platform no.1 of the local lines (and thereafter.).	None
On the basis of the ocular evidence alone (not taking into account for the moment the other evidences)	None
the prosecution has presented before the court a vivid and photographic (figuratively and actually) account of the CST events.	None
Here we propose to examine in slightly greater detail four witnesses whose evidence, in one way or another, has some special features, and then to take an overview of some more witnesses to construct a broad picture of the massacre at CST.	None
Before proceeding to examine the witnesses it may be appropriate to say a word about the way most of the witnesses identified the appellant.	None
The appellant, Kasab, and his accomplice, Abu Ismail, seemed to make an odd pair in that Abu Ismail was quite tall, about six (6) feet in height, and Kasab is barely over five (5) feet.	None
The difference in their height appears to have struck almost anyone who saw them together.	None
Although different witnesses described them by their complexion (both Abu Ismail and Kasab are described as fair), age (Abu Ismail is said to be between 22 and 25 years and Kasab between 22 and 24 years), built of body (Abu Ismail as medium built, Kasab as strongly built), their apparel and the bags they were carrying, almost everyone referred to their heights, calling Abu Ismail as the taller and Kasab as the shorter one.	None
Many witnesses called them lamboo (tall) and butka or tingu (short).	None
Now the witnesses Bharat Ramchandra Bhosale (PW49) is the Informant in connection with the offences committed at CST.	None
At the time of the assault on CST he was an Assistant Inspector of Police attached to the CST Railway Police Station.	None
The police station is situated within the premises of CST in the passage between the main hall of local lines and the main hall of main lines.	None
On the night of November 26 and 27, he was on duty at the police station and he reported for duty at 20.30 hours.	None
At about 21.50 hours, while he was coming out of the PS, he heard the sound of firing from the main hall of the main line railway station.	None
The main hall is at a distance of about fifty to sixty (50 60) feet from the PS.	None
He proceeded to the main hall from the side of the taxi stand (north).	None
Police Inspector Shashank Shinde (one of the policemen killed in the attack), who was also on duty at that time, proceeded to the hall from the side of the SBI ATM (south).	None
On coming to the main hall he saw the two terrorists indiscriminately firing from AK47 rifles at the passengers sitting in the main hall.	None
Many people were lying injured in pools of blood many of them were crying.	None
Those who were still on their legs were trying to flee the main hall.	None
Bhosale said that he first saw the two terrorists when they were firing from a spot near the public toilet.	None
He described the location of the public toilet and went on to say that when he first saw the two terrorists they were in the main hall at a distance of about forty (40) feet.	None
There was sufficient light in the main hall for him to see them.	None
Bhosale then proceeded to give a description of the two terrorists.	None
He said that one of them was short, aged about twentytwo to twentyfour (2224) years with long hair that came down to his neck he had a fair complexion and was strongly built.	None
He was wearing a blue Tshirt and was carrying a rexine bag.	None
He was holding an AK47 rifle.	None
The other terrorist was taller than the first one.	None
He was also fair and of medium built.	None
He was aged about twentytwo to twentyfive (2225) years.	None
He was wearing a black Tshirt and he too was carrying a rexine bag.	None
He was also carrying an AK47 rifle.	None
At this point, the witness paused in his narration to identify the appellant as one of the two terrorists who was described by him as short, strong built and who was wearing a blue Tshirt.	None
The witness was then shown the identity card recovered from Abu Ismail (Article 61).	None
He identified the photograph as that of the other terrorist, the accomplice of the appellant.	None
The witness proceeded with his narration and said that he rushed back to the police station to ask for additional force.	None
As he came near the entrance door of the police station he was fired at by the terrorists.	None
One of the bullets pierced through his right upper arm and struck the wall near the table of the police stations House Officer.	None
He intimated the railway police helpline about the assault by the terrorists and asked for additional force.	None
He also intimated the Commissioner of Police, Railways, on his walkietalkie.	None
He then came back to the main hall accompanied by Police Constable Nalawade who had a carbine with him.	None
He saw Police Inspector Shinde lying injured near the SBI, ATM.	None
Also lying injured in the main hall were about one hundred to one hundred and twentyfive (100125) passengers.	None
By the time he came back to the main hall of the main lines, the two terrorists had moved in the direction of the main hall of the local railway station.	None
Constable Nalawade fired three rounds towards them from his carbine.	None
Constable Nardele (PW58) also fired eight rounds at them from the main hall of the main lines while the terrorists were in the main hall of the local lines.	None
The appellant and his associate were, however, not hit and they continued to proceed towards platform No. 1 of the local lines.	None
By then, the additional police force had come and the public had also come to their help.	None
The injured persons were being taken to hospitals.	None
The witness himself was admitted to St. Georges Hospital for treatment of the firearm injury in his right upper arm.	None
He later came to learn that Police Inspector Shinde and MN Chaudhary of the RPF were also among those who were killed as a result of the firing by the two terrorists.	None
He also learnt that the appellant and his associate had also used handgrenades at the railway station.	None
His statement was recorded at the hospital and on that basis a formal FIR was drawn up in regard to the CST episode.	None
He identified his statement (Ext. no. 219) and the formal FIR (Ext. no. 220).	None
He further told the court that he had earlier identified the appellant in the test identification parade held at Arthur Road Prison on December 28, 2008.	None
In reply to a court question, Bhosale said that though he was carrying a 9mm pistol, loaded with nine rounds, he did not fire at the terrorists because there was a strong risk of the passengers getting killed or injured by his firing.	None
Vishnu Dattaram Zende (PW65) is the railway announcer.	None
His job is to make announcements of the arrival and departure of trains on a public address system.	None
For that purpose he sits with his colleagues in a cabin on the mezzanine floor, almost at the centre of the main hall of the local lines, facing the full expanse of the main hall and beyond it up to platforms 1 to 7 of the local lines.	None
Perched in his office Zende had a completely unobstructed view through the glass screen of his cabin and he was able to see all that happening down below in the main hall and the local lines platforms on the fateful evening of November 26, 2008.	None
Here it must also be noted that showing great devotion to duty and remarkable presence of mind Zende saved countless people from death or injury by constantly announcing on the public address system that the railway station was under terrorist assault and by advising passengers alighting from local trains that continued to arrive at the station while the attack was underway to not go towards the main hall but to exit through the rear side of the local lines platforms.	None
Deposing before the court, he began with a succinct description of CST from inside.	None
He then proceeded to tell the court that on November 26, 2008, he was on duty from 3.00 PM to 11.00 PM.	None
At about 9.55 PM he heard a big explosion.	None
He guessed that it was a bomb and looked outside the window of his cabin.	None
He saw passengers from the main line hall running towards the local lines.	None
Among them some were bleeding.	None
Some were trying to rescue others who were unable to flee or move on account of injuries.	None
He further stated before the court that he saw two terrorists coming from the direction of platform no.7.	None
He could see one of them from a distance of 15 to 20 feet as he came near the entry gate of platform no. 4.	None
The other was following him.	None
Both were firing.	None
At that point he suspended his announcements because the terrorists, from where they were at that time, could see him and fire at him.	None
He then saw the shorter of the two terrorists sit down on the floor of the main hall, load his gun with a magazine, throw his bag in the hall and resume firing.	None
Zende added that, to avoid being shot at by the terrorists, he and his colleagues sat down on the floor of their cabin.	None
Nonetheless, shots were fired in the direction of their cabin and one of the bullets smashed the glass pane and went right through, piercing the plywood partition at the back of the cabin.	None
They continued sitting on the floor for about an hour and a half.	None
All the while they were in contact with their officers on the telephone.	None
He then gave a description of the two terrorists and identified Kasab as the person who loaded his rifle sitting down on the floor of the main hall and who threw away his bag.	None
He was then shown the identity card, Article 61.	None
He identified the photograph as that of the taller terrorist who was accompanying the appellant.	None
He was shown a black haversack, Article 219.	None
He identified it as the bag that the appellant had thrown away in the main hall of the local lines.	None
While dealing with the CST episode we must take note of two other witnesses.	None
Their evidence is extraordinary in that they did not only witness the incidents but also made a visual record of the events by taking pictures of the two killers in action and also of their victims.	None
The pictures taken by these two witnesses, without anything else, are sufficient to conclude the issue of identification of Kasab and Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1) as the killers of CST.	None
Both the witnesses are professional photographers working with the Times of India group.	None
Both of them, caring little for their own safety and displaying exemplary professionalism, followed the killers practically at their heels.	None
Their ocular testimony together with the photographs taken by them provides a graphic picture of the carnage at CST.	None
Sabastian Barnal DSouza (PW61) is one of the two photographer witnesses.	None
He stated before the court that on the evening of November 26, 2008, he was in his office on the fourth floor of the Times of India Building, which stands opposite the CST railway station.	None
The main gate of the Times of India Building faces platform no.1 of the local railway station and one gate of CST railway station opens in front of the Times of India Building.	None
At about 9.50 PM he came to know from one of his colleagues that a gunman had entered Taj Hotel and was firing there randomly.	None
On this information, two photographers immediately proceeded to the Taj Hotel.	None
DSouza and his colleague also came out of the office.	None
As they came out of the main gate of the building, they heard the sound of firing at CST railway station.	None
DSouza jumped over the road divider and entered platform no.1 of the local railway station, carrying a Nikon digital camera.	None
The railway station was deserted and there were no passengers on the platforms.	None
A local train was standing on platform no.1.	None
He crossed through the train and reached platform no.2.	None
There were no trains on platforms no. 2 and 3.	None
He proceeded to the main hall of the local railway station and walked up to the exit of platform no.6 in the main hall.	None
There he found one policeman in uniform and another person accompanying him in plain clothes.	None
They were looking towards the passage between the main line and the local line.	None
It was at this point that he saw, at a distance of about one hundred (100) feet, in the passage between the main lines and the local lines, two persons who were firing from guns held by them.	None
They were near the booking window of local railway line in front of CST police station while he himself was at the exit of platform no.6 of the local line.	None
At this juncture, one of the policemen fired at the two gunmen.	None
At a nearby bookstall, the owner started to pull down the shutter and, as he was doing so, he was hit by a bullet and fell down.	None
DSouza took a picture of the fallen bookstall owner.	None
DSouza then described the two gunmen and the way they were dressed.	None
He identified the appellant in the dock as the shorter of the two gunmen.	None
He added that both were carrying guns.	None
He further said to the court that he wanted to take photographs of the gunmen and, therefore, he entered one of the compartments of the train standing on platform no.6.	None
The policeman in uniform and the other person accompanying him in plain clothes were still there.	None
He thought the man in plain clothes was also a policeman.	None
He saw the plainclothesman taking the gun from the policeman in uniform and taking position to fire at the appellant and his companion.	None
He took pictures of the policeman in uniform and the plainclothesman.	None
He asked the two policemen to enter the train compartment because he thought they had taken a position that was quite dangerous.	None
He further said that since the gunmen were coming towards the local lines, he went to platform no.4.	None
He told the court that during the course of the incident he took over one hundred (100) photographs but most of them were blurred.	None
He was not using the flashgun and the light was not good for taking photographs.	None
In course of the deposition he was shown the photographs taken by him and he identified those photographs.	None
The photograph showing the bookstall owner felled by a bullet was marked Ext.	None
no.	None
238.	None
A set of three photographs showing the policeman in uniform and the plainclothesman taking aim with the rifle was marked collectively as Ext. no.	None
239.	None
A set of three photographs of the appellant taken by DSouza from behind a pillar was collectively marked Ext.	None
no.	None
240	None
A set of four photographs in which Kasab is shown with the other gunman Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1) was marked collectively as Ext. no. 241.	None
A photograph showing two persons lying dead or injured was marked Ext.	None
no.	None
242	None
A set of 10 photographs taken by him after the gunmen had gone over to platform no.1 of the local lines, showing dead or wounded passengers lying in the main hall of the main lines, was collectively marked as Ext. no. 243.	None
He told the court that pictures taken by him were saved in the memory card of his camera.	None
He had prepared a CD of the photographs from the memory card, to produce in court.	None
The printouts were taken from the CD.	None
He produced the memory card before the court (which the court, after it was marked as Article 216, directed to be returned to the witness for safe custody until further orders).	None
He said that the CD was produced by him before the police on January 7, 2009, in presence of panch witnesses and then it was sealed.	None
The CD was taken out of a sealed packet (bearing no. 204) and was marked by the court as Article 217.	None
Significantly, he also said before the court that while at the station he heard the announcement on the public address system warning passengers of incoming local trains not to alight from the train and, in case they had to go out, not to come to the main hall but to exit through the rear gate.	None
Sriram Ramakant Vernekar (PW102), the other photographer witness, works as a press photographer with the Times of India.	None
He stated before the court that on November 26, 2008, he was in the office at the Times of India Building, opposite CST railway station.	None
At about 10.00 PM, on hearing the sound of firing, he picked up his camera and rushed towards CST station.	None
He approached the station from the subway gate.	None
He saw two persons firing in the directions of the railway office and booking office.	None
He took pictures of the two gunmen from near the entrance to the main hall from the subway porch.	None
As they were moving in his direction, he got out of the station and, crossing the road divider, came on the side of the Times of India Building.	None
He told the court that he had seen the two gunmen in front of platform no.6 when he took their first photograph.	None
He produced before the court four enlarged printouts of the photographs taken by him which were collectively marked, for the purpose of identification only, as Ext. no. 410.	None
He also produced the original memory card of his Nikon D200 camera containing more than ten (10) pictures taken by him with that camera.	None
The memory card was marked, for the purpose of identification, as Ext. no. 411.	None
The witness explained that the three photographs bearing Ext. no.	None
410A, Ext. no. 410B and Ext.	None
no.	None
410C were the first photographs of the two gunmen taken by him.	None
He further stated before the court that one of them lobbed a hand grenade while they were proceeding from the main hall to platform no.1.	None
The hand grenade was thrown on DN Road in front of MCGM building.	None
He went on to say that he saw the two gunmen going from platform no.1 to the footoverbridge.	None
Both of them were carrying bags on their shoulders.	None
He was in front of the Times of India Building at that time.	None
Both of them were firing towards the Times of India Building from the footoverbridge.	None
They were lobbing hand grenades also.	None
He wanted to take their photographs and, therefore, he went to the second floor of the Times of India Building from where the footover bridge is clearly visible.	None
He took about three to four (34) photographs from there.	None
Since the quality of photographs was not satisfactory, he took another photograph by using flash.	None
As a result, the shorter man, who was moving in front, got alerted and he fired three to four (34) rounds at the Times of India Building.	None
The witness identified the fourth photograph (Ext. no.	None
410D as the photograph taken by him by using flash.	None
He further said that the photograph was taken when the shorter fellow was getting down from the overbridge towards Badruddin Tayabji Road.	None
Vernekar then identified the appellant as the shorter fellow.	None
He also identified the appellants partner from the photograph in the Identity Card Article 61.	None
Among the rest of the CST witnesses we shall take a brief look first at some of the policemen and then at some of the passenger witnesses.	None
Jilu Baddu Yadav (PW54), Mammath Motiral Nardele (PW58), Harshad Punju Patil (PW59), Geetanjali Krishnarao Gurav (PW60), Sudama Aba Pandarkar (PW62), Pandurang Subrao Patil (PW63) and Sandeep Tanaji Khiratkar (PW66) are policemen or members of the Railway Protection Force.	None
At the time of occurrence, they were on duty at different places in the vast premises of CST.	None
On hearing the explosion and the gun shots and on seeing the passengers fleeing for their lives, they realized that a terrorist attack was underway at the railway station and proceeded from their respective stations towards the spot where the assault was launched.	None
On the way, some of them came across each other.	None
A few were lucky to escape unharmed and some survived even after receiving grave injuries to tell the story before the court some others laid down their lives while trying to tackle the assailants either completely unarmed or carrying antiquated weapons that failed them at the most crucial moment.	None
Harshad Punju Patil (PW59) was a police constable and on that date he was on patrolling duty in the ladies compartment in the local trains.	None
He was carrying a .303 rifle and ten (10) rounds.	None
When the terrorists attack took place, he was waiting for the train on which he was on duty near the Police Help Center in the main hall of the local lines, in front of platform no.3.	None
Soon after the firing started, Police Inspector Shashank Shinde of the CST Railway Police Station came there and told them that two terrorists were firing in the main hall of the main station.	None
Police constables Nardele and Gavit were also there.	None
Both of them were carrying carbines.	None
Shashank Shinde proceeded towards the main line station accompanied by Nardele and Gavit.	None
Patil started loading the ten (10) rounds in his rifle.	None
He then saw the two terrorists coming towards the local railway station from the main lines side.	None
Taking cover of the Police Help Centre he fired one round at them.	None
But the shot misfired because the cartridge was defective the bolt was jammed and he was unable to open it.	None
By that time, the terrorists had come in front of platform no.3 of the local lines.	None
At that point, Jillu Baddu Yadav (PW54), a head constable of the RPF, also arrived there, proceeding from his place of duty at the General Manager Gate of the CST Railway Station.	None
He himself was unarmed but he saw Patil carrying a rifle with him.	None
He saw one of the assailants sitting down on the floor of the main hall of the local station and loading his rifle with a magazine.	None
Yadav asked Patil to fire at the terrorist.	None
He did not know that Patils rifle bolt had jammed and it would not open.	None
Thinking that Patil was trying to avoid firing at the terrorist, Yadav took the rifle from him and tried to fire at the terrorist who was sitting down on the station floor, loading the magazine into the rifle, but the rifle did not fire as it had locked.	None
Meanwhile, the other terrorist also arrived at the spot and they fired in the direction of Yadav and Patil.	None
He and Patil then took cover behind a pillar from where he threw one plastic chair towards the two terrorists.	None
In retaliation they again fired back towards them while proceeding in the direction of platform no.1 of the local railway station.	None
Patil identified the appellant as the one whom he had described as the shorter of the two terrorists.	None
He identified Abu Ismail (deceased accused no. 1) from his photograph on the fake identity card, Article 61.	None
He said before the court that he had earlier identified the appellant in the test identification parade held on January 14, 2009, at Arthur Road Prison.	None
Yadav identified the appellant as the person who was firing at him from his AK47 rifle and at whom he had thrown the plastic chair.	None
Yadav also identified Abu Ismail from Article 61.	None
Mammath Motiral Nardele (PW58) was a police constable and on that date he was on antisabotage duty on the footoverbridge at platform no.1, opposite the Times of India building.	None
He was carrying a carbine with ten (10) rounds.	None
At about 9.45 PM, leaving his two other colleagues on duty, he came to take his meal at the Police Help Centre situated in front of platform no.3 of the local railway station.	None
No sooner had he reached there that he heard the noise of a bomb explosion and gun shots from the direction of the main hall of the main lines and saw passengers running away from there.	None
Shashank Shinde came there and alerted him saying that terrorists were firing in the main hall of the main line.	None
Shinde asked Nardele to accompany him.	None
Nardele started loading the ten (10) rounds in his carbine but Shinde proceeded towards the main line without waiting for him.	None
Nardele saw Shinde proceeding in the direction of the main hall of the main line accompanied by ASI Pandarkar PW62, Injured shown in photograph Ext. no.	None
245, a police constable Ambadas Pawar, killed shown lying down with Shashank Shinde in photograph Ext.	None
no. 242 and a photographer PW61, Dsouza.	None
He went after them and heard the sound of firing on platform no.7.	None
He entered a compartment of a local train on platform no.6 and from there he saw two terrorists, each carrying an AK47 rifle and a handbag on their shoulders, proceeding towards the local railway station.	None
He fired eight (8) rounds from his carbine (but the shots did not hit them).	None
They retaliated but he was safe inside the rail compartment.	None
He again tried to fire, but in the meanwhile his carbine was locked.	None
He could not fire from it any longer.	None
He then went to the armory, got his carbine unlocked and loaded it with more rounds.	None
But by the time he came back to the main hall of the local lines, the terrorists had already left the local railway station.	None
Nardele identified the appellant in court as the shorter of the two terrorists.	None
He also identified the clothes worn by the two assailants.	None
He also identified Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1) from Article 61.	None
He further told the court that he had earlier identified the appellant in the test identification parade held on December 28, 2008, at Arthur Road Prison, Mumbai.	None
He had also identified the dead body of the deceased accused no.1 at the mortuary of JJ Hospital on January 6, 2009.	None
Sudama Aba Pandarkar (PW62) was an Assistant SubInspector of police and on November 26, 2008, he was on patrolling duty on the local trains.	None
He was carrying a .303 rifle and ten (10) rounds.	None
The train on which he was on duty arrived at CST on platforms no. 4 or 5 at 9.45 PM.	None
He went to the Police Help Center and made the entry concerning his patrolling duty.	None
Within a few minutes the explosion took place followed by firing, and he saw many passengers running wildly.	None
In the meantime, Shashank Shinde came to the Police Help Center.	None
He told them that the railway station was under attack by terrorists.	None
Shinde asked Pandarkar to load his 303 rifle.	None
Pandarkar accompanied Shinde towards the main line.	None
He saw a terrorist who was about 6 feet in height coming from the side of the taxi stand and firing towards the railway police station.	None
At that time he was standing in front of the railway police station.	None
He fired two rounds at him from his .303 rifle but the shots did not hit him.	None
At this point, Police Constable Ambadas Pawar, who was also accompanying Shinde, took the rifle from Pandarkar and fired one round at the terrorist.	None
At the same time Pandarkar saw the other terrorist (the appellant) coming towards them from the side of platform no.8 (main line).	None
He was shorter in height than the other terrorist.	None
He was firing from his AK47 rifle.	None
Pandarkar, Constable Ambadas Pawar and PI Shinde went towards platform no.7 through platform no.6 and came near the ATM of Indian Bank.	None
Both the terrorists started firing at them from AK47 rifles.	None
One of the bullets pierced through Pandarkars left chest and exited from the back.	None
He fell down as a result of the bullet injury.	None
Shashank Shinde and Ambadas Pawar too were hit by the terrorists shots	None
and unfortunately they were not as lucky as Pandarkar.	None
They succumbed to their injuries.	None
In the course of his deposition Pandarkar was shown the three (3) photographs collectively marked Ext. no.	None
239.	None
He identified himself and the slain Constable Ambadas Pawar in those photographs.	None
In the photograph Ext. no. 242, he identified Shashank Shinde and Ambadas Pawar lying prone after being shot by the terrorists.	None
In one of the photographs from Ext. no. 243 (collectively) he identified himself and Lau Kharat (PW57), who worked at the railway station, who is holding him by the arm after he was shot and helping him to be taken to St. Georges Hospital.	None
This particular photograph from Ext.	None
no.	None
243 (collectively) was separately marked Ext.	None
no.	None
245.	None
Pandarkar identified the appellant as the shorter of the two terrorists.	None
He identified Abu Ismail from his photograph on Article 61.	None
He had earlier identified the appellant in the test identification parade held on January 14, 2009.	None
Sandeep Tanaji Khiratkar (PW66) was an Inspector in the Railway Protection Force.	None
At the time of the occurrence he was at his residence and was informed about the attack by Jadhav (PW54) by telephone.	None
He rushed to the police station on his motorcycle and arrived there in five to seven (57) minutes.	None
He went to the RPF armory on the ground floor of the General Manager Office building and took out a .303 rifle and twenty (20) rounds from the armory.	None
He came out of the station from the GM Porch abutting DN Road.	None
SI Bhosale (PW68) and Inspector Kshirsagar were with him.	None
They took position in the GM Porch.	None
At that time they saw two terrorists coming towards the porch situated near the subway.	None
Both the terrorists fired at them.	None
They also retaliated and fired back at the terrorists.	None
The firing by Khiratkar and his men forced the terrorists to reenter the railway station and move in the opposite direction towards platform no. 1 from where they went out of the railway station through the footoverbridge.	None
When Khiratkar and his men reached near the gate of the footoverbridge they were informed that the terrorists had already left the railway station.	None
Khiratkar then went to the control room of the CCTV cameras in the RPF office.	None
There he found that on that date the CCTV cameras of the main lines were shut down for maintenance but the movements of Kasab and Abu Ismail were recorded by the CCTV cameras in the main hall and platform no.1 of the local lines.	None
At about 11.30 PM on the same day, he was informed by Constable Jadhav that the movements of the terrorists had been recorded on the Data Visual Recorder.	None
Immediately thereafter he prepared from the DVR a CD of the visuals captured by CCTV cameras of the main hall and other places wherever the movements of the terrorists had been seen.	None
The CD was sealed by him immediately and it was later handed over to an officer of DCB CID, Mumbai.	None
He further stated before the court that the recording on the DVR is stored for a period of seven days.	None
At the end of the seventh day the first days recording would get deleted to make space for the recording of the eighth day.	None
Khiratkar identified the appellant as the shorter of the two terrorists.	None
He identified Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1) from his photograph on Article 61.	None
He had earlier identified the appellant in the test identification parade held on December 28, 2008, at Arthur Road prison, Mumbai.	None
Pandurang Subrao Patil (PW63) was an Assistant SubInspector of Police on duty carrying a lathi.	None
He told the court that he was fired at by the shorter terrorist (i.e., the appellant).	None
The bullet hit his left thigh and, passing through it, pierced his right thigh and exited from the exterior portion of his right thigh.	None
He simply collapsed on to the floor.	None
He further said that he had seen the two terrorists from a distance of twentytwo to twentyfive (22 to 25) feet.	None
Patil identified the appellant as the shorter of the two terrorists.	None
He also identified Abu Ismail, (deceased accused no.1) from his photograph on Article 61.	None
Geetanjali Krishnarao Gurav (PW60) was on duty at the CST local railway station near main gate no. 3.	None
On hearing the explosion and the gun shots she along with Shinde (killed), API Bhosale (PW49), PSI Khandale and other policemen went towards the main hall of the main lines.	None
She saw two terrorists in the main hall and she saw the taller of the two throwing a hand grenade at a crowd of passengers.	None
The grenade exploded, causing injuries to a large number of passengers.	None
Both terrorists were continuously firing from AK47 rifles.	None
She and Bhosale, therefore, proceeded towards the railway police station to call for additional force.	None
While on way to the police station, Bhosale was hit by a bullet in his left upper arm and he fell down.	None
She tied a handkerchief to his wound and helped him in getting back on his feet.	None
At that time, she saw both the terrorists proceeding in the direction of the local railway station.	None
More than hundred (100) passengers lay badly injured in the main hall of the main lines.	None
Geetanjali Gurav identified the appellant as the shorter of the two terrorists.	None
She also identified Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1) from his photograph on Article 61.	None
Now, some of the passengers Natwarlal Gigaji Rotawan (PW50) and his daughter Devika Natwarlal Rotawan, aged about ten (10) years, (PW51) Farooqi Nasiruddin Khaliluddin (PW52) Nafisa Shadab Qureshi (PW53) Sangeeta Niranjan Sardar (PW86) and her husband Niranjan Sadashiv Sardar (PW87) and Ansar Alabaksha Mohd.	None
Hanif Saudagar (PW88), are some of the passenger witnesses.	None
They were in the main hall of the main lines waiting for their respective trains.	None
They were jolted out of whatever they might be doing or thinking at that moment by the explosion of the first grenade thrown by Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1) and from that moment they watched, in abject horror, the appellant and his companion firing indiscriminately at the group of passengers in the main hall Abu Ismail throwing the second grenade and then the two moving around on the platforms in different directions until the spray of bullets and the shrapnel from the exploding grenades hit them or one of their group.	None
Natwarlal Rotawan (PW50) was lucky to escape unhurt but his daughter, Devika Rotawan (PW51), was hit by a bullet on her right leg.	None
She was treated as an indoor patient in the hospital for about a month and a half and thereafter remained bedridden for four to six (46) months.	None
When she came to depose in court after about 6 months of the occurrence, she was still unable to walk properly.	None
Natwarlal identified the appellant as the shorter one and said that his companion was not present in court.	None
Devika identified the appellant as the person who was firing at the VT railway station.	None
Farooqi Nasiruddin Khaliluddin (PW52) was at the station with his son.	None
Both of them were injured, the son far more badly than the father, by the splinters from the second grenade thrown by Abu Ismail (deceased accused no. 1).	None
Khaliluddin told the court that the firing by the terrorists continued for about fifteen to twenty (1520) minutes.	None
He further said that the taller man had paused in the firing as he took out a bomb from his bag and threw it in their direction but that the other man (that is, the appellant) continued with the firing and he appeared to be in a joyous mood on seeing the lethal effect of his firing.	None
Identifying the appellant in court, he once again said that he was the same person whom he had seen in joyous mood.	None
Nafisa Qureshi (PW53), who worked as a maidservant, lost her six (6) year old daughter Afrin to the terrorists bullets.	None
She was hit by a bullet on the back and died at the spot.	None
Nafisa herself sustained a bullet injury on her left leg.	None
She identified the appellant as one of the two persons who were firing at CST in all directions.	None
The appellant was the person whom she had, earlier in her deposition, referred to as the shorter one.	None
Sangeeta Sardar (PW86) and her husband Niranjan Sadashiv Sardar (PW87) also sustained injuries as a result of the firing and throwing of grenades.	None
Sangeeta was hit by steel balls (from the hand grenade) that pierced her body, and some of which were still lodged inside her body as she deposed.	None
Her husband, Niranjan, sustained two (2) bullet injuries, one on the right side of the head and the other below the right ear.	None
Both of them remained indoor patients in the hospital for weeks.	None
Sangeeta identified the appellant as the butka who was firing at the CST railway station.	None
She identified the lamboo fellow from his photograph on the identity card Article 61.	None
Ansar Alabaksha Mohd.	None
Hanif Saudagar (PW88) was hit by a bullet on his right leg, below the knee joint.	None
In court, Saudagar was asked to identify the appellant from among the three (3) accused in the dock.	None
He identified the appellant as the butka firing at the passengers at the CST railway station.	None
He also identified the person who was accompanying the appellant from the photograph on Article 61.	None
Cama In Seven (7) dead and ten (10) injured Kasab and Abu Ismail were seen exiting CST via the footoverbridge and coming down the bridge in the evidence of Vernekar (PW102) and in the photograph of Kasab (Ext. no. 410D) taken by him.	None
On descending from the footoverbridge, they came to Badruddin Tayabji Marg, which is a long, meandering road, a part of which runs along the premises of Cama Hospital.	None
Cama Hospital has large premises, on which there are a number of buildings including a sixstorey structure called the New Hospital Building.	None
The entry to Cama Hospital is from Mahapalika Road on its western side, and Badruddin Tayabji Marg runs along the back of its premises.	None
The prosecution, with the aid of eleven (11) eyewitnesses, has traced practically every step taken by Kasab and Abu Ismail from the moment they came out of CST, entered Cama hospital and eventually left the hospital.	None
We, however, propose to examine only some of these steps, to get a broad idea of how the two were moving around killing people, completely mindlessly.	None
Bharat Budhabhai Waghela (PW103) worked as a Safai Kamgar with Voltas.	None
He lived in a hut off Badruddin Tayabji Marg.	None
At about 9.30 PM on November 26, 2008, he was sitting near the back gate of Cama Hospital on Badruddin Tayabji Marg engaged in small talk with his friends Sandeep Waghela (PW105), who lived on the premises of Cama Hospital, and Bhagan Shinde, who lived in the same hutments as Waghela.	None
Gupta bhelvendor was also near the gate selling snacks of bhelpuri.	None
At about 10.30 PM they saw two persons coming on to Badruddin Tayabji Road from the direction of the Times of India Building.	None
One of them was lamboo (tall) and the other was butka (short).	None
Both were carrying bags on their shoulders.	None
Suddenly, they started firing.	None
The butka man fired straight at them, and he shot Gupta bhelwala in full view of Waghela.	None
Waghela was frightened and ran towards his hut.	None
His friends also ran away from the spot.	None
Back in his hut, Waghela told his mother about the incident.	None
He shut the doors of his hut and peeped out from the little gap between the frame of the door and the panels.	None
He saw the butka fellow standing near his brothers shanty, adjoining Waghelas own hut, and firing at it.	None
He heard his brother cry out.	None
He saw the lamboo fellow firing in the lane.	None
After some time, he saw both of them going towards the gate of Cama Hospital.	None
After a while, Waghela went to his brother, Thakur Waghelas shanty.	None
He found his brother lying in a pool of blood.	None
His five (5) year old son was also there but his wife was not present.	None
Waghela took his brother to the GT Hospital where he was declared dead by the doctors.	None
Five minutes later, Bhagan Shinde was brought to the hospital.	None
He was also declared dead.	None
Waghela identified the appellant as the gunman who had shot Gupta bhelwala and fired at his brothers shanty.	None
He said before the court that he had identified the accused in the test identification parade on December 27, 2008.	None
He had also identified the dead body of the lamboo when it was placed among six (6) other dead bodies at the mortuary of JJ Hospital.	None
He then identified him from the photograph on the identity card, Article 61.	None
Anjali Vijay Kulathe (PW101) worked as a staff nurse at Cama Hospital.	None
On November 26, 2008, she arrived for duty at 8.00 PM.	None
She was on duty on the first floor of the New Building.	None
At about 10.30 PM she heard the sound of firing from the back of the hospital.	None
She looked out from the back window of the antenatal care unit and saw two persons climbing over the steel gate at the back of the hospital.	None
One of them was lamboo (tall) and the other was butka (short).	None
She could see them clearly in the light from the street lights.	None
She further said that the gate was at the distance of ten to fifteen (1015) feet from the window from where she saw the intruders.	None
The two men jumped inside the Cama Hospital premises.	None
The tall man fired towards the window from where she was looking at them.	None
One of the bullets hit the right wrist of a hospital servant, Hira Jadhav.	None
She was immediately removed to the casualty ward on the ground floor of the hospital.	None
Kulathe further said that she informed the CMO on duty, Dr. Archana, that two terrorists had entered the hospital building.	None
She then rushed back to her ward and closed all the doors from inside.	None
She also locked the wards collapsible (iron grill) gate.	None
Moreover, since the ward had windows on all sides, all twenty (20) patients who were in the ANC ward at that time were moved to the pantry for their safety.	None
She further stated before the court that the noise of firing and explosions went on for about two hours.	None
She and all the patients were frightened due to the continuous noise of explosions and firing.	None
She and the patients stayed inside the pantry till 4.00 AM the following morning, when senior officers came and took them out.	None
She then identified the appellant as the butka man who, along with his tall partner, had entered the Cama Hospital premises by jumping over its back gate.	None
She identified the tall partner of the appellant from the photograph on the identity card, Article 61.	None
She further told the court that she had identified the appellant in the test identification parade on December 27, 2008, held by judge (sic) Sharad Vichare.	None
She further said that, on being identified by her, the appellant had said that he was in fact Ajmal Kasab and she had correctly identified him.	None
Raosaheb Changdev Funde (PW107) is an exserviceman and he worked as an unarmed security guard at Cama Hospital.	None
On November 26, 2008, his shift ended at 10.00 PM but he learnt that some incidents had taken place at CST and, therefore, decided not to go home but to stay back for the night at the hospital.	None
He stated before the court that, on learning about the CST incidents, he returned to Cama Hospitals main (front) gate, near the collapsible gate.	None
Another security guard, Baban Ugade, was also there.	None
As Funde was standing with Ugade near the collapsible gate, he saw the appellant and one other person coming towards them.	None
The appellant fired a shot at Ugade from his rifle.	None
The shot hit Ugade in the abdomen and he fell down.	None
Funde was scared and ran up the stairs to the fifth floor, where he took shelter in a ward, hiding behind a stand which is used for drying clothes.	None
The appellant, however, followed him there and, putting the barrel of his rifle on his head, ordered him, Utho (getup).	None
The appellant then asked Funde to proceed towards the bathroom.	None
Funde saw one person lying in a pool of blood in front of the bathroom with a tall man standing near him.	None
The appellant made him enter the bathroom where three (3) persons were already confined The bathroom was then bolted from outside.	None
After two to three (2 or 3) hours, the police arrived there and opened the bathroom.	None
Funde narrated the incident to the police.	None
Funde then identified the appellants partner from the photograph on the identity card, Article 61.	None
He further told the court the he had identified the appellant at the test identification parade on December 27, 2008.	None
He had also identified the dead body of the appellants partner on January 7, 2009, at JJ Hospital.	None
Harishchandra Sonu Shrivardhankar (PW106) was the person whom Funde had seen lying in a pool of blood near the door of the bathroom.	None
His encounter with the two terrorists has something uncanny about it.	None
Fate seemed to force his every step towards meeting the terrorists and when he actually stood facetoface with them, quite certain of death, he did not go down without fighting.	None
Tough, two and a half times the age of his opponents, completely unarmed and untrained in any kind of fighting, he put up a fight nonetheless.	None
Unfortunately, his attempt could not succeed against an armed and trained killer.	None
He was stabbed and shot and left behind by the terrorist in the belief that he was dead or would soon die.	None
Shrivardhankar, however, survived to tell the story and to identify his assailant.	None
Shrivardhankar worked as a Senior Clerk at the Mantralaya at the time.	None
Apparently a devotee of Hazrat Sayyed Shah Baba (a Muslim saint), after leaving his office at 6.00 PM on November 26, 2008, Shrivardhankar went to the Urs at the saints Durgah (shrine), situated behind Metro Cinema.	None
He left the Durgah at 10.30 PM and proceeded to CST via the Metro subway and St. Xaviers College to catch a train home.	None
On approaching the gate of Cama Hospital at Mahapalika Road, Shrivardhankar saw many people running in panic and learnt about the incident of firings at CST.	None
To avoid getting caught in the firing, he sought refuge in Cama Hospital.	None
On entering the gate of the hospital he saw a dead body (Ugade) lying in front of the entrance to the main building.	None
On seeing the dead body he was scared and, suspecting that some incident must have taken place on the premises of the hospital, he entered the main building through the collapsible gate.	None
There was complete silence in the building and he found all the doors closed.	None
He went up to the fourth floor all the floors appeared to be deserted and the doors of all the wards were closed.	None
As soon as he reached the fifth floor, the luckless man found himself standing in front of a man holding a gun and a knife, and carrying a bag on his shoulder.	None
He was about five feet six inches (5 6) tall and had short hair.	None
He was wearing a jacket.	None
He put his knife on Shrivardhankars neck.	None
Shrivardhankar realised that the man would kill him in any case and, therefore, decided to fight.	None
He tried to hit the man in the groin with his knee and also attempted to hit him with his bag.	None
The bag, however, slipped out of Shrivardhankars hand and the killer struck him two (2) times on the neck with his knife, causing bleeding.	None
The killer caught hold of Shrivardhankars collar and pushed him down.	None
He inflicted a third knife blow on his back and also shot a bullet in his back.	None
By that time, Shrivardhankar had lost any strength to resist and fell unconscious.	None
He regained consciousness after three to four (34) days at JJ Hospital and was treated as an indoor patient for about three (3) months.	None
Shrivardhankar vividly recounted his encounter with one of the terrorists.	None
He also told the court that in the fight with the killer his spectacles had fallen down.	None
At that time he was wearing brown slippers (footwear).	None
Shrivardhankar told the court that his footwear and spectacles were lost and he did not find them on regaining consciousness at JJ Hospital.	None
He then identified his assailant at Cama Hospital from the photograph on the identity card, Article 61.	None
He also identified the assailant in the photographs Ext. no.	None
410A Ext.	None
no.	None
410B (part of Ext.	None
no. 410 collectively).	None
He also identified his spectacles, Article 310 (recovered and seized from Cama Hospital and produced in court as one of the case articles) but said that the slippers shown to him as Article 309 did not belong to him.	None
Chandrakant Dnyandev Tikhe (PW109) was the lift operator at Cama Hospital.	None
On November 26, 2008, he was on duty as Generator Operator from 10.00 PM in the evening till 700 AM the following morning.	None
The generator room is situated on the terrace of the building.	None
At about 1000 PM, when he was on the terrace, Tikhe heard the sound of firing from the ground floor.	None
On hearing the gunshots he immediately went inside the enclosure where the solar system is installed and locked its collapsible gate.	None
He was still inside the enclosure when, around 1100 PM, the two terrorists arrived on the terrace.	None
He saw them clearly in the light of the electric bulb of 200 watts that was lit on the terrace.	None
One of them was taller and the other was shorter.	None
The butka (short) fellow pointed his rifle towards Tikhe and asked him to come out or else he would blow him to bits (Aage aao warna uda dunga).	None
Therefore, Tikhe opened the gate and came out of the enclosure.	None
The tall man was also holding a gun.	None
Tikhe then identified the appellant as the short man who had pointed his gun at him.	None
When Tikhe came out of the enclosure, the appellant asked him the way out from the hospital.	None
Tikhe told them that there was only one staircase that alone could be used to exit the hospital.	None
The tall fellow, who was keeping a watch, suddenly shouted Police and started firing towards the stairs.	None
The appellant held his gun against Tikhes back and pushed him towards the stairs.	None
The appellant and his tall partner brought Tikhe to the landing between the sixth floor and the terrace.	None
From there, Tikhe saw three to four (34) policemen in front of the lift on the sixth floor.	None
Tikhe raised his hands apprehending that he might be killed by the police if they suspected him of being a terrorist.	None
A staff member of Cama Hospital, namely Kailash (PW111), was also with the policemen and he identified Tikhe to the police as one of the hospital staff.	None
The police fired at the appellant and his tall partner forcing them to retreat to the terrace.	None
In that time, Tikhe escaped and came down to the sixth floor landing.	None
He told the police that there were two terrorists.	None
The appellant then started firing at them from above.	None
He also threw a hand grenade on to the sixth floor.	None
The splinters from the hand grenade hit Tikhe on his neck and he sustained a bleeding injury.	None
Some policemen were also injured from the explosion of the hand grenade.	None
The appellant and his tall partner kept firing at the policemen.	None
Tikhe saw a police officer and another policeman getting shot and falling down in front of the lift.	None
After some time, the terrorists again threw down a hand grenade and fired indiscriminately in the direction of the lift.	None
The other policemen and the officers were also injured by the second explosion and the firing.	None
At this point, Tikhe came down to the second floor.	None
He was accompanied by two policemen and by Kailash.	None
One of these policemen went further down but the other stayed with them.	None
After being given first aid they were shifted to GT Hospital.	None
From there, Tikhe was taken to KEM Hospital for treatment as hand grenade splinters were lodged in his neck.	None
He was treated as an indoor patient for seven (7) days.	None
He also told the court that he had identified the appellant in the test identification parade on December 27, 2008.	None
Sadanand Vasant Date (PW118) is an IPS Officer and, at the material time, he was posted as Additional Commissioner of Police, Central Region, Mumbai.	None
On November 26, 2008, at about 10.00 PM, he was at his residence when the assault at CST took place.	None
CST did not come within his jurisdiction but, on the request of his colleague Dr. Vankatesham whose jurisdiction included CST, Date came out like any dutiful police officer.	None
He first went to the Malabar Hill Police Station, which was close to his residence, and collected one carbine and twenty (20) rounds.	None
On the way to CST he got information about the movements of the terrorists and, in light of this information, he and his team reached Cama Hospital a little after 11.00 PM.	None
Date came to learn that the terrorists had gone up to the terrace of Cama Hospital building and, therefore, he took the lift to the sixth floor landing, from where stairs led up to the terrace holding Tikhe there.	None
On reaching the sixth floor, instead of rushing to the terrace, Date picked up an iron object lying there and threw it towards the door of the terrace, to check the position of the terrorists.	None
In response, a burst of firing from an automatic weapon came from the terrace door.	None
Shortly thereafter, Date saw a bulky person (Tikhe) coming down to the landing on the stairs between the terrace and the 6th floor.	None
Date challenged the bulky person but Kailash (PW111) identified him as a member of the hospital staff.	None
The bulky person indicated that there was somebody behind him.	None
Date asked him to bend down and then fired over his head towards the terrace.	None
That forced the terrorists to go back to the terrace.	None
Taking advantage of the situation, Tikhe came down to the sixth floor landing.	None
In the meantime, a grenade was thrown from the terrace.	None
It exploded on the sixth floor in front of the lift causing injuries to some police officers, including Date, and also to Tikhe.	None
Dates team comprised seven (7) police officers and policemen.	None
All of them were armed with firearms.	None
Dates operator Tilekar and police constable Khandelkar had one carbine each.	None
Date himself was wearing a bulletproof jacket and he had a carbine with twenty (20) rounds.	None
But all this did not prove sufficient to take out Kasab and Abu Ismail or even to stop them.	None
The two terrorists were able to overcome the police and to escape from the tight spot in which they had landed the terrace that had only one (1) exit by the stairs.	None
This was because, besides having superior fire power, they had the great advantage of hand grenades.	None
Grenades exploding in the very small landing area badly injured the policemen who had no cover or shelter there.	None
Date stated before the court that, after the first hand grenade exploded, his officers continued to fire towards the terrace.	None
But shortly afterwards, another hand grenade was thrown, which caused injuries to almost all officers who were present there, including Date.	None
The injured police officers, policemen and staff members of Cama Hospital were asked to go down.	None
More (killed) could not go down because he was badly injured and unconscious.	None
Police constable Khandekar (killed) also could not go down as he, too, was badly injured.	None
Date said before the court that he continued to fire towards the terrace in retaliation of the firing from there.	None
The exchange of fire went on for about forty (40) minutes during which he had taken cover behind a wall situated in front of the right side lift.	None
After some time he sensed some movement and, as he came out from behind the wall which he was using for cover, he found that two persons had already gone down towards the fifth floor.	None
He fired two shots towards the two persons going away but was unable to say whether or not they were hit.	None
He was unable to pursue them because of his leg injury.	None
He said it would be 11.50 PM at that time.	None
Accordingly, Date informed his superiors that two persons had gone down from the sixth floor of the building and that they had automatic weapons and hand grenades.	None
Date further said that the help came at about 00.45 AM and he was shifted to KEM Hospital, where he was admitted for three (3) days.	None
Apart from several minor injuries he had sustained injuries from splinters and fragments of the hand grenade in his right eye and on the left side of chest just below armpit, and in his throat, right knee and left ankle.	None
Cama Out Nine (9) dead, seven (7) injured Date on the sixth floor landing was unable to stop Kasab and Abu Ismail and, while he took shelter against the hail of bullets and shrapnel from the grenades behind a wall, the two managed to sneak down the stairs.	None
Suresh Shantaram Kadam (PW138) and Yashwant Shankar Thorawade (PW128) next saw Kasab and Abu Ismail coming out of Cama Hospital from its front side on Mahapalika Road and immediately gunning down a police officer.	None
Thorawade was a Police Inspector and, on the evening of November 26, 2008, in the absence of the senior police inspector, he was holding charge of Azad Maidan police station.	None
Kadam was a constable attached to the same Police Station.	None
As Azad Maidan police station received information that terrorists had entered CST and were firing there, the policemen proceeded to the railway station in two police vehicles.	None
On the way, they learnt that the terrorists had left the railway station and were seen going in the direction of Metro Cinema.	None
Accordingly, they came to Metro junction where they came across Additional Police Commissioner Date (PW118).	None
Date asked them to go back and collect bulletproof jackets and arms and ammunition from Azad Maidan police station as information had arrived by then that the terrorists had reached the terrace of Cama Hospital building and were firing from there.	None
As directed by Date, Kadam, Shelke (PW141) and some others went back to Azad Maidan police station where they collected two bulletproof jackets and some firearms and ammunition.	None
Returning to the scene of firing, they decided to go to the front gate of Cama Hospital (instead of going to the back side), expecting the terrorists to exit the hospital from its main gate.	None
Kadam stated that he was accompanied by PI Thorawade (PW128), PSI Shelke (PW141), and police constables Utekar and Rathore.	None
Constable Gawade was driving the Bolero vehicle (called PeterI	None
Azad Maidan) in which they came there.	None
The vehicle was parked on the left side of the road facing Metro junction and they took position by the side of the vehicle.	None
At about 1145 PM, the policemen saw two persons coming out of Cama Hospital.	None
Kadam first saw them on the footpath of Cama Hospital and Thorawade when they were near the gate of St. Xaviers College adjoining the hospital.	None
Kadam said that one of them was lamboo (tall) and the other was butka (short).	None
In the meantime, they saw a motorcycle driving on Mahapalika Road from Metro junction towards CST.	None
It was driven by a police constable and a police officer was on its pillion.	None
The officer got down near the gate of St. Xaviers College and, according to Kadam, the motorcycle went ahead.	None
(According to Thorwade, the constable made a uturn and went back towards Metro).	None
The officer who got down from the motorcycle started directing people coming from the direction of CST to return.	None
He seemed to have asked the lamboo and the butka also not to proceed further but to go back.	None
But they continued moving towards him and fired at him from a distance of about fifteen to twenty (1520) feet.	None
The officer collapsed to the ground.	None
This confirmed to Thorawade and Kadam that the two persons who had come out from Cama Hospital were the terrorists whom they had been watching for.	None
Thorawade started firing at them from his service pistol.	None
Kadam also fired one round from his pistol and then he stopped because Thorawade was firing at the terrorists.	None
The terrorists fired back in retaliation.	None
Thorawade told the court that he tried sending messages to South Control from the wireless installed in his Bolero police vehicle but, due to heavy traffic on the network, he was unable to send the message.	None
Therefore, Thorawade went to the Metro junction where two to three (23) police vehicles were available.	None
The message was sent from the wireless set of one of those vehicles.	None
There were many people at the metro junction.	None
After a short while, one police vehicle (Qualis) appeared from Badruddin Tayabji Road and took right turn on Mahapalika Road towards Metro junction.	None
Thorawade saw the two terrorists in that vehicle.	None
The person who was sitting on the right side was firing at the large crowd assembled at Metro junction.	None
One policeman and another person were injured due to firing from that vehicle.	None
In the meanwhile, Kadam had remained in front of Cama Hospital.	None
He went on to state before the court that he saw a white car with a red beacon approaching Mahapalika Road from Badruddin Tayabji Road but, immediately thereafter, he saw the car going backwards on Badruddin Tayabji Road.	None
The lamboo and the butka fired at that car.	None
One of them also threw a handgrenade towards the white car.	None
Thereafter, both of them proceeded towards Rang Bhavan Lane on (BT Road).	None
The officer who was shot near the gate of St. Xaviers College was later identified from the name plate on his uniform as Durgude.	None
Kadam then identified Kasab in the dock as the butka who had fired at Durgude and who was accompanying the lamboo.	None
Kadam further stated that he had earlier identified the appellant in the identification parade on December 27, 2008, and had also identified the dead body of the lamboo on January 6, 2009, at the JJ Hospital mortuary.	None
Maruti Madhavrao Phad (PW139) was the driver of the white car with red beacon which Kadam had seen coming from Badruddin Tayabji Road towards Mahapalika Road and then going in the reverse direction.	None
It was actually a white Honda City car, a government vehicle allotted to one Bhushan Gagrani, IAS, Secretary Medical Education and Drugs Department (PW140).	None
Phad was the driver on duty for the vehicle.	None
On November 26, 2008, at 6.30 PM the car was, as usual, parked in the premises of High Rise Building situated on Badruddin Tayabji Road.	None
Between 1130 and 1145 PM, Phad received a call on his mobile from Gagrani, asking him to bring the car to his residence to take him to Mantralaya to attend an emergency meeting that seems to have been called as news broke of the terrorists attack on Mumbai.	None
As directed, Phad took the car from its parking place on Badruddin Tayabji Road and proceeded towards Mahapalika Road on his way to Gagranis residence.	None
As he approached Mahapalika Road, Phad saw two persons, one tall and the other short, firing on the road.	None
He, therefore, stopped the car and began to reverse.	None
At this, those two persons fired at his vehicle.	None
Phads right hand was on the steering wheel.	None
Two bullets pierced the cars windscreen and hit him on his right hand.	None
He continued to reverse the vehicle, ducking down to save himself from the volley of bullets, but a third bullet hit him on the left side of his waist.	None
He also realized that the left front wheel of the car was punctured.	None
He, therefore, locked all four doors of the car by means of the central locking switch and, pretending to be dead, lay down on the drivers seat.	None
At this time, he heard an explosion near the car.	None
A little while later, the two terrorists came near his car and tried to open its doors but they were unable to do so as the doors were locked.	None
After some time, he saw them from the rear windscreen of the car near the SBI office behind him.	None
His car was standing on the road in a slanting position but there was enough space on both sides for vehicles to pass.	None
As the two terrorists approached High Rise Building, they took cover behind bushes abutting that building.	None
At the same time, Phad saw a police vehicle approaching his vehicle from behind, i.e., from the side of the SBI office on Badruddin Tayabji Road.	None
As soon as the police vehicle came close to the two persons hiding in the bushes, they started firing indiscriminately at the police vehicle.	None
At the same time, the shorter fellow seemed to have sustained a bullet injury, probably from the firing from the police vehicle.	None
His gun fell down.	None
The butka, however, picked up the gun and resumed firing at the police vehicle.	None
Firing from the police vehicle stopped, and the taller man went to the vehicle and opened its right front door, pulling the driver on to the road.	None
He also pulled down another person from the vehicles middle seat.	None
The butka fellow went to the left side of the vehicle and pulled down the person sitting on the left front seat.	None
The lamboo fellow occupied the drivers seat and the butka took the front left seat.	None
Phad stated before the court that he had witnessed the above incident from a distance of about one hundred and fifty (150) feet.	None
The police vehicle thus taken over by the two terrorists proceeded towards Mahapalika Road.	None
Apprehending danger from those two persons, Phad pretended to be dead and continued lying in his vehicle.	None
That vehicle crossed Phads vehicle and went towards Mahapalika Road.	None
It was a Qualis vehicle.	None
Phad stated before the court that as a result of the injuries sustained by him he lost the ring finger on his right hand and two other fingers were not functioning properly.	None
He was no longer able to drive auto vehicles.	None
Phad gave a description to the court of the two persons whom he had seen firing on Badruddin Tayabji Road.	None
The lamboo was six (6) feet in height, of fair complexion, and was aged about twentytwo to twentyfive (2225) years.	None
The butka was five feet three inches (5 3) inches in height, of fair complexion and strongly built.	None
Phad said he could identify both of them and added that one of them was present in court, identifying the appellant as the butka.	None
He further said that he had identified the appellant in the identification parade on December 27, 2008.	None
He had identified the appellant from amongst seven (7) persons put in line with him.	None
SEO, Vichare was conducting the test identification parade.	None
He then identified the lamboo from his photograph (Article 61) and stated that earlier he had identified his dead body at the JJ mortuary from amongst ten (10) dead bodies.	None
In crossexamination Phad said that as he approached Mahapalika Road he had seen a police vehicle parked near the busstop on Mahapalika Road and had also seen the two terrorists firing on the police officers standing near the vehicle.	None
Bhushan Ashok Gagrani, who was examined as PW140, stated before the court that he called Phad between 11.30 and 11.45 PM, to bring the car to his residence at Yashodhan Building and take him to Mantralaya.	None
When the car did not come, he again called Phad	None
but he did not turn up.	None
Therefore, Gagrani went to Mantralaya in his personal vehicle.	None
At about 12.15 AM he tried to contact Phad once again.	None
This time, he got a response from the driver who told him that he had been fired at in the car that the car was stranded in the vicinity of Rang Bhavan and that he was lying injured inside it.	None
Gagrani then tried to contact the police control room but could not get through as the number was continuously engaged.	None
He then contacted the Superintendent of GT Hospital and requested him to provide help to Phad.	None
After an hour he was informed that Phad had been admitted to the hospital with bullet injuries.	None
All the phone calls made by Gagrani from his mobile phone to the mobile phone of Phad and to the hospital were independently established from the mobile phones records.	None
Arun Dada Jadhav (PW136) is a very special witness.	None
He was in the extraordinary position of actually traveling with the two terrorists, lying badly injured in the back side of the Qualis vehicle that the terrorists had hijacked after killing three (3) senior police officers and three (3) policemen on Badruddin Tayabji Road.	None
In the time that Additional Commissioner of Police Date (PW118) was engaged in the encounter with the terrorists on the sixth floor landing of the New Cama Hospital Building, a number of senior officers and policemen had gathered at the back of the hospital.	None
At that time, an injured policeman emerged from the back of the hospital.	None
He told the assembled officers that Date and some other police officers were lying injured on the higher floors of the hospital.	None
Thereupon, Kamate, Additional Commissioner of Police (East Region), Karkare, Joint Commissioner of Police (ATS) and Salaskar, Senior Police Inspector, decided to go to the front gate of Cama Hospital, anticipating that the terrorists would go out from that side.	None
They took a Qualis police jeep of Pydhonie Division that was standing there.	None
Salaskar took the drivers seat, Kamate occupied the front left seat and Karkare sat on the middle seat of the vehicle.	None
Jadhav, who was attached to the AntiExtortion Cell of which Salaskar was the chief, sat in the extreme rear of the vehicle.	None
The driver of the vehicle, Bhosale (killed), sat alongside Jadhav.	None
Two constables, namely Yogesh Patil (killed) and Jaywant Patil (killed), occupied the rear seat, opposite Jadhav and Bhosale.	None
Yogesh Patil was the wireless operator on duty for that vehicle and Jaywant Patil was the wireless operator of Kamtes vehicle.	None
As they proceeded on Badruddin Tayabji Road towards the SBI office, a message was received on wireless that the two terrorists were hiding on Rang Bhavan Lane near a red vehicle.	None
Rang Bhavan Lane begins from the SBI office.	None
Kamate directed Salaskar to slow down the vehicle and proceed cautiously.	None
Jadhav told the court that there were bushes on the right side of the road, about five to five and a half (55.5) feet in height.	None
As the Qualis came near the bushes, it was greeted by a burst of gunfire.	None
Jadhav looked out from the vehicles window and saw one lamboo and one butka firing at their vehicle with AK47 rifles.	None
Jadhav, Karkare, Kamate and Salaskar also fired at the lamboo and the butka from the windows of the vehicle.	None
Jadhav sustained bullet injuries on his right elbow and left shoulder.	None
Because of the injuries, the carbine fell from his hands on the vehicles floor.	None
The terrorists continued to fire at them.	None
By now, all the policemen had suffered gunshots and were injured.	None
Jadhav was unable to pick up his carbine.	None
After some time, the firing stopped and the lamboo tried to open the vehicles rear side door.	None
However, the door did not open.	None
Jadhav tried to pick up his weapon once again but could not.	None
The driver Bhosale was also badly injured and he had fallen down on Jadhav.	None
Yogesh Patil and Jaywant Patil were also unable to move.	None
Realising that it was not possible for him to retaliate, Jadhav pretended to be dead.	None
At this time he heard a door of their vehicle opening and also heard the noise of the vehicle starting.	None
He realised that the vehicle was being driven, and he then saw that the drivers seat was occupied by the lamboo.	None
Karkare, Salaskar and Kamate were no longer in the vehicle.	None
At the metro junction, Jadhav heard the sound of firing but he continued pretending to be dead.	None
He realised that one of the vehicles wheels was punctured.	None
After some time, he also realised that even the tube and tyre had come off the punctured wheel.	None
He could sense this as he was himself an experienced driver.	None
The vehicle stopped on the road behind the Vidhan Bhavan.	None
There was more firing and then he saw the two terrorists leaving the Qualis and going to a car that had stopped.	None
They left in the other car, which looked like a Honda City.	None
He could see them clearly in the street light.	None
After the terrorists had left, Jadhav informed the Police Control Room on the vehicles wireless that the two terrorists had run away in a car and that he was lying injured in the vehicle of Pydhonie division (Able) in front of the State Bank of Mysore.	None
He was rescued by a team of policemen including Amrute, Senior Police Inspector (PW137).	None
Jadhav went on to describe the two terrorists.	None
He said that the lamboo was six (6) feet tall, of strong built and fair complexion, and aged twentytwo to twentyfive (2225) years.	None
The butka was about five feet three inches (5 3) tall, of medium built and fair complexion, and aged twenty to twentytwo (2022) years.	None
He identified the appellant in court as the butka.	None
He added that he had identified the appellant in the identification parade held on December 27, 2008, at Arthur Road Prison.	None
On January 6, 2009, he had identified the dead body of the lamboo from amongst seven (7) dead bodies.	None
He also identified the carbine and the magazine (Article 444 collectively) which he had in his possession at the time of the occurrence.	None
In crossexamination on behalf of the appellant, Jadhav stated that while proceeding on Badruddin Tayabji Road he had seen one white car with a red beacon.	None
The exchange of fire between the occupants of the police vehicle and the terrorists had taken place in front of the ATM centre.	None
He further stated that, at the time of the exchange of fire, his carbine was on single fire mode and he had no opportunity to put it on burst fire mode.	None
Jadhav, Salaskar, Karkare and Kamate had fired at the terrorists in retaliation.	None
The AK47 held by the appellant had fallen down from Jadhavs firing.	None
The appellant, however, picked up the gun and resumed firing at them.	None
Jadhav also said that while the Qualis was being driven by the terrorists, Yogesh Patil was lying on his knee.	None
At that time Patils mobile rang.	None
The appellant, who was sitting on the front left seat, shot a burst of bullets with the barrel of his gun pointing backwards.	None
The bullets pierced the middle seat and riddled the body of Yogesh Patil and he died as a result.	None
Jadhav was not injured in that firing.	None
Jadhav said that the appellant must have fired ten to fifteen (1015) shots in that burst.	None
He also stated that the lamboo had pulled Salaskar and the appellant had pulled Kamate out of the vehicle.	None
Karkare was pulled out by the lamboo assisted by the appellant.	None
While pulling him down from the vehicle the appellant had cursed him, using foul language, saying that he was wearing a bulletproof (jacket).	None
He further said that the whole incident, from the beginning of firing by the terrorists until they took the vehicle lasted three to four (34) minutes.	None
THE SKODA ROBBERY Sharan Arasa (PW144), Samit Vijay Ajgaonkar (PW147) and his wife Megha were the three occupants of the white Skoda car that Kasab and Abu Ismail snatched at gunpoint, and which Arun Dada Jadhav (PW136), lying in the back seat of the police Qualis, had thought to be a white Honda City car.	None
Arasa and Ajgaonkar had a common friend Siddharth Umashankar (PW238) who worked as Sales Manager in Oberoi Hotel.	None
When the two terrorists, namely Abdul Rehman (Chhota) and Fahadullah, entered Oberoi Hotel and started shooting there, Umashankar, along with other guests and staff members, escaped through the exit door in the lobby area.	None
They went to Inox multiplex, which is a few minutes walking distance from the Oberoi.	None
When Ajgaonkar called him on the telephone, Umashankar asked him to come to Inox and take him away from there.	None
Ajgaonkar contacted Arasa and asked him to come with his car so that they could go to Inox to fetch Umashankar.	None
Thus, Arasa took the Skoda Car (of which his father was the registered owner) and came to Ajgaonkars house at Mahim.	None
From Mahim they proceeded to Inox with Arasa driving, Ajgaonkar occupying the front left seat and his wife Megha sitting in the back.	None
They were going to rescue Umashankar but they themselves had a brush with death when they came across the two terrorists facetoface.	None
They reached Rajani Patel Road, Nariman Point, at about 00.15 hours on November 27, 2008.	None
They saw a Qualis police vehicle approaching them from the opposite direction.	None
When the Qualis was about sixty (60) feet away, someone from the police vehicle shouted at them to stop.	None
Simultaneously, a shot was fired in the air from that vehicle.	None
The Qualis stopped and two persons got down from it and approached their car.	None
The person who had got out from the left side of the police vehicle came in front of their car.	None
He asked Arasa to get out of the vehicle.	None
The other person, who had been driving the Qualis, pulled Arasa out of the Skoda car, holding him by his collar.	None
In the meantime, Samit and Megha had already left the car and were sitting on the footpath.	None
As Arasa got out of the car, he realised that he was carrying the key.	None
He, therefore, immediately threw the key away.	None
The person who had come out of the Qualis from the left side was shorter than the other person.	None
Arasa identified the appellant in court as the same short person who had come to him and asked for the cars key.	None
When Arasa had thrown away the key, it had landed near the cars rear right wheel.	None
Arasa picked up the key and gave it to the appellant.	None
The two men drove away in the car the appellant sat in the front left seat and his partner drove the car.	None
Let us now see the description of the occurrence by Ajgaonkar.	None
He stated in his deposition before the court that, when the Qualis stopped, two persons got down from it and approached their car.	None
One of them was taller and the other was shorter.	None
He identified the appellant as the shorter person who approached their car along with his associate who was taller than him.	None
The taller man approached Arasa while the appellant stood in front of the car.	None
The appellant ordered them to get out of the car (Gadi se bahar aao).	None
The taller fellow pulled Arasa out by his collar.	None
In the meantime, Ajgaonkar and his wife got down from the car and went to the footpath on the left side of the car.	None
The taller fellow occupied the drivers seat and the appellant sat on the front left seat.	None
The taller fellow, however, could not find the car keys and, hence, the appellant got down from the car and demanded the key from Arasa.	None
Arasa picked up the key which he had thrown near the car and gave it to the appellant.	None
Thereafter, both of them drove away in the Skoda car.	None
The terrorists proceeded towards Inox theatre.	None
Arasa further told the court that, at about 300 PM on November 27, 2008, he received a phone call from PSI Zende (PW148) of Marine Drive police station, asking him to come to the police station.	None
Accordingly, he went and reached there at about 345 PM.	None
He was taken to the spot from where the car was taken from him.	None
A Panchnama was drawn up by the police.	None
He was finally shown his vehicle on December 25, 2008, in the premises of the office of DCB CID.	None
There was a bullet hole on the right front door.	None
The car was badly damaged on the right side.	None
He told the court that the car was in proper condition when it was snatched away from his custody.	None
As seen above, both Arasa and Ajgaonkar identified the appellant in court.	None
Both said that they had earlier identified him in the test identification parade.	None
Arasa was one of the witnesses in the test identification parade held on December 28, 2008, and Ajgaonkar on January 14, 2009.	None
Both had identified him in a group of seven (7) persons of similar height and built.	None
The identification was made in the presence of the SEO and two panchas.	None
VINOLI CHOWPATY	None
For this part of the case the prosecution has examined ten (10) witnesses.	None
Leaving aside two (2) panch witnesses and a formal police witness, there are seven (7) police witnesses of whom three (3) are members of the team that overpowered Kasab and Abu Ismail and took them in custody (one of them is injured), two (2) reached the spot after Kasab was apprehended and had taken him and Abu Ismail to hospital, one (1) maintained the police logs and the last secured the area after the incident.	None
VINOLI CHOWATY ONE DEAD, ONE INJURED Kasab and Abu Ismail along with eight (8) others (the dead accused) were seen landing on the shore of Mumbai on November 26, 2008, between 9.15 and 9.30 PM.	None
Kasab and Abu Ismail snatched the Skoda car near Vidhan Sabha around 12.15 AM on November 27.	None
They came to Mumbai armed to the teeth they had the great advantage of complete surprise and were also aided by a lot of luck.	None
They were thus able to have a free run for over three (3) hours, killing innocent people and policemen at will.	None
However, their run would soon come to end as a team of policemen were waiting, determined to stop them, caring little for their own lives.	None
Abu Ismail was killed in their last encounter with a police team, but Kasab was taken alive in custody.	None
We propose to examine here three (3) witnesses who were members of the police team that stopped Kasab and Abu Ismail travelling in the stolen Skoda car and took them in custody.	None
Bhaskar Dattatray Kadam (PW1) was a SubInspector of Police attached to DB Marg Police Station.	None
On November 26, 2008, at about 22.00 hours, Senior Police Inspector Nagappa Mali told him that terrorists had attacked some parts of South Mumbai and directed him to go to Girgaon (Vinoli) Chowpaty along with members of the Crime Detection Branch and to do a nakabandi there by putting up barricades.	None
As directed by Mali, Kadam proceeded to Vinoli Chowpaty accompanied by six (6) members of the Detection Branch.	None
On reaching there, he found API Hemant Bavthankar (PW3), Peter Mobile Operator Sanjay Patil, Peter Mobile Driver Chandrakant Kamble, Girgaon Chowpaty Beat Incharge ASI Pawar, ASI Kochale, Head Constable Chavan, PN Naik and some other policemen already present there and barricades already put up.	None
Kadam and the members of the Detection Branch joined the police team already present there.	None
After some time, API Govilkar (PW2 injured) and ASI Tukaram Ombale (killed), along with some other policemen, also arrived at the nakabandi.	None
The police team was receiving messages regularly through wireless on the Peter Mobile Van.	None
They received a message that two terrorists were proceeding towards Chowpaty from Vidhan Bhawan via Marine Drive in a Skoda car.	None
At about 00.30 hours they spotted a Skoda car on Marine Drive coming from South Bombay towards Chowpaty.	None
Having been alerted in regard to the Skoda, all the policemen, including Kadam, signalled to the driver to stop the car.	None
The car stopped at a distance of about fifty (50) feet from the barricades.	None
The police team shouted to tell the driver that there was a nakabandi and they would check the car.	None
They asked the driver to put off the head lights and to put on the inside lights of the car.	None
Instead of following these directions, the driver of the car did just the opposite.	None
Not only were the head lights kept on but the wipers and the water spray on the windscreen were also switched on.	None
Therefore, it became difficult to see anything inside the car.	None
Then, in a bid to escape, the driver tried to take a uturn just before the barricades.	None
However, the car could not climb over the road divider it dashed against it and stopped.	None
Kadam and six (6) other policemen rushed towards the car and surrounded it.	None
The driver and the other person who was sitting on the front left seat raised their hands pretending surrender but, when Kadam approached the driver, he started firing at him through the lowered window.	None
Kadam fired back from his service revolver.	None
At that time Kadam was about ten to twelve (1012) feet from the driver of the car.	None
Kadam told the court that he shot the driver of the Skoda car and injured him.	None
The other occupant of the Skoda car, who was sitting on the front left seat, opened the door on his side and got out of the car.	None
While getting out, he deliberately fell on the road.	None
ASI Tukaram Ombale and API Sanjay Govilkar were proceeding towards the cars front left door.	None
The person who had got out of the car from the front left door started firing at Tukaram Ombale with an AK47 rifle.	None
Even as he was being fired at, Tukaram Ombale threw himself bodily upon his assailant.	None
Tukaram Ombale and Govilkar were injured by shots from the AK47 rifle.	None
Other members of Ombales and Govilkars team started hitting the assailant with lathis.	None
They succeeded in disarming him.	None
His AK47 rifle was snatched away from him by policemen and he was taken into custody.	None
Within ten (10) minutes of this occurrence, Senior PI Mali, PI Sawant (PW31), PI Surulkar, API Yadav, API Gawade (PW4), PSI Gaikwad (PW24) and PSI Warang (PW27) reached the spot.	None
Two (2) ambulances also reached there within the same time.	None
Ombale and Govilkar, who had sustained injuries, were sent to hospital in the Peter Mobile Van. PI Surulkar and API Gawade took one of the two terrorists (Abu Ismail) to hospital in one of the ambulances and the other terrorist (Kasab) was taken to hospital by PSI Warang (PW27) and some other policemen.	None
Kadam further told the court that, on reaching the DB Marg Police Station, he received a call from Gawade, speaking from Nair Hospital, informing him that one of the terrorists (Abu Ismail) had been declared brought dead by the hospital and that the other terrorist (Kasab) had been admitted for treatment.	None
Gawade also informed Kadam that the terrorist who was alive had disclosed his name as Ajmal Amir Kasab, gave his age as 21 years and address as Faridkot, Taluka Jipalpura, District Ukhad, Punjab State, Pakistan.	None
He also gave the name and address of the deceased terrorist as Abu Ismail, aged 25 years, resident of Dera Ismail Khan, Punjab State, Pakistan.	None
Station diary entries (Ext. no. 150A) were made on the basis of the information received from Gawade.	None
After some time, API Yadav called from Harkisandas Hospital to inform that ASI Ombale had died as a result of injuries sustained by him.	None
Station diary entry was also made in regard to this information.	None
The FIR of Kadam was recorded by PI Sawant at 2.10 hours, giving rise to CR no.	None
305/2008 (later converted into DCB CID CR no. 182/2008).	None
The FIR was shown to him in the course of his deposition.	None
He identified it and also identified his signatures on all the pages.	None
The FIR was then marked Ext.	None
no.	None
57.	None
Kadam then identified the appellant in court as the terrorist who was sitting on the Skodas front left seat.	None
He also described the terrorist who was driving the car.	None
He said that he was strongly built and about six (6) feet in height he had shallow complexion and was clean shaven.	None
He had black hair.	None
He was wearing an ashcoloured Tshirt and blue cargo trousers.	None
He identified a pair of blue cargo trousers (Article 3) and an ashcoloured Tshirt (Article 5) in court as the same as those that the deceased driver of the Skoda car was wearing at the time of the occurrence.	None
He then identified the appellant as the terrorist who had fired at the deceased Ombale.	None
He further said that the appellant was wearing green cargo pants and a blue half Tshirt.	None
On these articles being produced in court, he identified the green cargo trousers (Article 7) and a blue Tshirt (Article 9) as those that the appellant was wearing at the time of the occurrence.	None
Kadam further said that in all four firearms (two AK47 rifles and two pistols) were seized from the place of the occurrence.	None
Both the pistols were found on the road, one was lying on the right side of the drivers seat on the road and the other was lying on the left side of the car near the front left door.	None
One of the AK47 rifles was found in the leg space below the drivers seat and the other was found lying on the road on the left side of the car.	None
He claimed that he could identify the AK47 rifle with which the appellant had fired at the deceased Tukaram Ombale.	None
Kadam identified the AK47 rifle (Article 10) in court as being the same AK47 rifle with which the appellant had fired at the deceased Tukaram Ombale.	None
He also identified the other AK47 rifle (Article 12) as the same AK47 rifle that was found in the leg space below the drivers seat of the Skoda car.	None
He added that Article 10 was found loaded with one magazine and that another magazine was attached to the first one with cellophane tape.	None
Kadam further claimed that he could identify the pistols seized from the spot.	None
He identified the 9 mm pistol (Article 14) and another 9 mm pistol that bore the name of its maker Diamond Nedi Frontiar Arms Company Peshawar (Article 16) as the same two pistols seized from the place of occurrence by PI Sawant (PW31) under a Panchnama.	None
Kadam proceeded to identify another 9 mm pistol (Article 18) along with one (1) empty magazine (Article 20), five (5) live cartridges (Article 21 collectively), two (2) empty cartridge cases (Article 22 collectively), and two (2) bullets (Article 23 collectively) as the service pistol Kadam was carrying and from which he had fired three rounds at the time of the occurrence.	None
He also said that he had identified the appellant in the test identification parade held on December 27, 2008, at Arthur Road Prison.	None
He had also identified the dead body of the deceased terrorist at the JJ Hospital mortuary on January 6, 2009.	None
He had identified the dead body of the deceased driver from amongst seven (7) dead bodies shown to him.	None
He also said that the operation lasted for about four (4) minutes and it was over by 0030 hours or 0035 hours.	None
The appellant and the deceased driver (Abu Ismail) were taken to hospitals in two different ambulances.	None
Sanjay Yashwant Govilkar (PW2) was another member of the police team at Vinoli Chowpaty that took Kasab in custody.	None
On the direction of Senior PI Mali, he arrived at Chowpaty in front of Ideal Caf for nakabandi around 00.05 hours on November 27, 2008.	None
His deposition was similar to that of Kadam (PW1) the arrival of the Skoda car at the barricades at about 0030 hours, the attempt by the occupants of the car to confuse the police team by keeping the headlights on and switching on the windscreen wipers and water spray, and the unsuccessful bid to escape by taking a uturn before the barricades.	None
Govilkar told the court that when the car stopped after dashing against the road divider, he, ASI Tukaram Ombale and other policemen proceeded towards the left side of the car.	None
Simultaneously, API Bavthankar (PW3), PSI Bhaskar Kadam (PW1) and other policemen went towards the drivers side.	None
Though Govilkar was a Police Inspector, he was not carrying any weapon at the time of the occurrence.	None
He had come to DB Marg Police Station only a few days ago and had earlier been working in the immigration department where officers are not provided with any official firearms.	None
He was yet to get a weapon when the occurrence took place.	None
Tukaram Ombale was also unarmed.	None
In short, these unarmed policemen proceeded to tackle a desperate terrorist armed with an AK47 rifle and a pistol.	None
When Govilkar and Tukaram Ombale reached near the cars front left door, the terrorist sitting on that side opened the door and came out holding an AK47 rifle in his hand.	None
Govilkar and Tukaram Ombale attempted to catch hold of the weapon.	None
The terrorist fell down on the road and started firing at them while lying down on the road.	None
Both Govilkar and Tukaram Ombale sustained injuries from the firing.	None
Tukaram Ombale was seriously injured.	None
Govilkar sustained only one injury on the right side of his waist.	None
Both policemen were bleeding from their injuries.	None
In the meanwhile, the other policemen hit the fallen terrorist with lathis and it was only then that he was brought under control and could be disarmed.	None
The AK47 rifle was snatched away by Govilkar and other policemen.	None
Govilkar could see the terrorist clearly in the street light.	None
He claimed that he could identify the terrorist and he identified the appellant as the terrorist who was holding the AK47 rifle and who had fired at him and ASI Tukaram Ombale.	None
Govilkar was then shown AK47 rifles (Articles 10 and 12).	None
He identified Article 10 as the AK47 rifle that the appellant was holding and from which he had fired at them.	None
Govilkar further stated before the court that the appellant was wearing a blue Tshirt and green cargo trousers.	None
He was also wearing grey sports shoes.	None
When these were produced in court, Govilkar identified the pair of shoes (Article 25 collectively) as the same that were worn by the appellant at the time of the occurrence.	None
Govilkar and Tukaram Ombale were taken to Harkisandas Hospital in Peter Mobile van.	None
Tukaram Ombale died there.	None
Govilkar remained admitted in the hospital till November 29, 2008.	None
Govilkar told the court that he had identified the appellant in the test identification parade held on December 27, 2008, at Arthur Road Prison.	None
Special Executive Officer Vichare conducted the parade.	None
In crossexamination on behalf of the appellant, Govilkar said that while getting out of the car, the appellant had fallen down deliberately.	None
Govilkar added that he continued to hold the appellants rifle despite sustaining injuries, and that Tukaram Ombale had thrown himself bodily over the appellant even after being shot.	None
Replying to a question in the cross examination, Govilkar said that he identified the AK47 rifle (Article 10) as belonging to the appellant because it had no sling while the other AK47 rifle (Article 12) had a sling.	None
Hemant Anant Bavthankar (PW3) was another Assistant Police Inspector present at the nakabandi at Vinoli Chowpaty on the direction of Senior Police Inspector Mali.	None
He had arrived at the nakabandi at about 2155 hours on November 26, 2008.	None
His narration of events during the occurrence was similar to that of Kadam and Govilkar the arrival of the Skoda car at the nakabandi at about 0030 hours on November 27, 2008 the drivers attempt to flee the barricades by trying to make a uturn and the car getting stuck on the road divider.	None
Bavthankar added that he was standing on the road divider when the car hit against the divider.	None
The divider was about two and a half (2.5) feet high and made of RCC.	None
He was on the right side of the car at the divider.	None
Kadam (PW1) was about fifteen (15) feet away from him on the eastern side of the road meant for southbound traffic.	None
Shouting at the terrorist, they tried to approach the car.	None
The driver of the car fired from his pistol at Bavthankar, Kadam and other policemen who were trying to approach him.	None
The bullets missed Bavthankar and he did not sustain any injury.	None
At that time he was on the road meant for northbound traffic.	None
He went behind the Skoda car and fired three rounds from his service pistol at the cars rear windscreen.	None
Kadam (PW1) also fired at the driver at the same time.	None
The driver was injured due to their firing.	None
He was taken into custody by the police officers policemen who were present on the spot.	None
In the meantime, Bavthankar moved to the front left door of the car.	None
The person sitting on the front left seat had fired at ASI Tukaram Ombale, API Sanjay Govilkar and other policemen.	None
Ombale and Govilkar had both been shot and injured by this person.	None
The other policemen, who were with Govilkar and Ombale, disarmed and apprehended him.	None
Bavthankar told the court that he could identify the person sitting on the left front seat of the car.	None
He said he was present in court and he identified the appellant as the same person who had fired at Ombale and Govilkar.	None
He further said that he saw the whole incident in the street lights.	None
Bavthankar further stated before the court that, in the course of inspecting the car, the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) found one (1) hand grenade and two (2) magazines of AK47 rifle in a jacket lying on the rear seat of the car.	None
One AK47 rifle was found in the leg space beneath the drivers seat.	None
PSI Ghodse (PW9) of the BDDS removed the hand grenade and proceeded towards Girgaon Chowpaty.	None
Bavthankar told the court that he could identify the AK47 rifle found in the leg space of the car.	None
Articles 10 and 12 were shown to the witness.	None
He identified Article 12 as the AK47 that was found in the leg space below the drivers seat, and Article 10 as the AK47 rifle which was held by the appellant.	None
He then proceeded to give a description of the driver.	None
He said that the driver had wheatish complexion, was strongly built and was aged twentyfour to twentysix (2426) years.	None
He was about six (6) feet tall and was wearing an ashcoloured half Tshirt and blue cargo trousers.	None
Bavthankar further said that he had identified the dead body of the driver at the mortuary of JJ Hospital on January 6, 2009.	None
He had identified the dead body from amongst seven (7) dead bodies placed for identification.	None
He added that he had identified the appellant in the identification parade held on December 27, 2008, at Arthur Road Prison.	None
On these articles being produced in court, Bavthankar identified one (1) pistol (Article 29), one (1) magazine (Article 30), five (5) live cartridges (Article 31 collectively), two (2) empties (Article 32 collectively), and two (2) bullets (Article 33 collectively), and said this was the same pistol that he had used at the time of the occurrence and which he had handed over, along with the rounds, to PI Sawant (PW31) In cross examination, Bavthankar said that bullets fired by him had hit the driver.	None
He further said that he could not say how many bullets might have hit him.	None
The driver also sustained injuries from firing by PSI Kadam (PW1)	None
The driver was removed from the seat by them.	None
He was unconscious at that time as he was injured by the bullets.	None
It needs to be clarified here that Article 12, the AK47 rifle which was identified by Kadam (PW1), Govilkar (PW2) and Bavthankar (PW3) as having been recovered from the leg space below the drivers seat of the Skoda car actually belonged to the slain police officer Ashok Kamte, Additional Police Commissioner.	None
Abu Ismail evidently picked it up while switching from the Qualis to the Skoda, leaving his own AK47 rifle in the damaged Qualis.	None
Arun Balkrishna Jande (PW7) who was working at Naigaon Police Armoury at the relevant time deposed before the court that Article 12, the AK47 rifle and the magazine were issued to Ashok Kamte, Additional Commissioner of Police on August 4, 2008.	None
He identified Article 12, the AK47 rifle from the number on its butt (94) and the body (LY8860) on the basis of the entry (Ext. no. 76) made in the register maintained in the armoury.	None
The empty magazine with it also bore the same number.	None
On the other hand the AK47 rifle along with a magazine (labeled Articles 427 and 428 respectively) that was recovered from the damaged Qualis police vehicle under seizure Panchnama (Ext. no. 529) belonged to Abu Ismail and he had carried it with him from Pakistan.	None
This becomes clear from the ballistic analysis of the bullets recovered from dead bodies which shows that one Ashrafali, who was killed at CST and Ashok Kamte, who was killed in the Qualis police vehicle were hit by bullets fired from the AK47 rifle, Article 427.This is also in conformity with what the appellant stated in his confession before the magistrate that as they left the Qualis police vehicle, Abu Ismail left behind his AK47, the magazines of which had emptied by then and picked up the AK47 of one of the officers lying dead in the vehicle.	None
VILE PARLE BLAST TWO DEAD, THREE INJURED Before concluding the narration of crimes directly committed by Kasab in the company of Abu Ismail, we must take note of another event.	None
A taxi bearing registration number MH01G7792 was blown up by a bomb blast on western express highway, Vile Parle (East), near Swan City Club at slightly after 1045 PM on November 26, 2008.	None
The explosion destroyed the vehicle and instantly killed its two occupants (the driver and a passenger).	None
The explosion was witnessed by Shyamsunder Rambharat Choudhary (PW171), Balkrushna Ramchandra Bare (PW490) and Sheldon Alman (PW491).	None
As a result of the explosion, Choudhary suffered a bleeding injury on his right shoulder, Bare sustained injuries on his face below the eyelid, and on the forehead, nose and ear, and Alman on his left hand.	None
Choudhary and Bare were admitted as indoor patients and treated at Cooper Hospital, and Alman at Holy Spirit Hospital.	None
The two occupants of the taxi, i.e., the driver and the passenger, who lost their lives in the explosion, were Umar Shaikh and Laxminarayan Goyal respectively.	None
In the narration of this painful and gory tale, one comes across brutal and mindless killings at every step but there are some killings, like the present one, that stand out as especially sorrowful.	None
Shaikh was a taxi driver eking out a livelihood by plying a taxi of which he was not even the owner, and Goyal was a lawyer from Hyderabad who had come to Mumbai in connection with some professional work.	None
The only fault of the taxi driver was that he was hired by the two messengers of death to carry them from Badhwar Park to CST and of the passenger that on that chaotic night in Mumbai, when death seemed to be lurking around every corner, he had thought that a taxi would be a safer mode of transport than the local trains.	None
As noted above, Goyal had come to Mumbai in connection with some professional work and he was due to go back to Hyderabad by a train leaving CST in the evening of November 26, 2008.	None
He reached CST but missed the train.	None
His sisterinlaw Usha Sharad Chaudhary (PW168) lived in Mumbai at Charkop, Kandivali (W).	None
Goyal called her from his mobile phone to tell her that there was some incident of firings at CST and he had missed his train and he was coming back to her place.	None
On account of the city being under terrorist attack, she asked him not to travel by any local train but to take a taxi.	None
After five (5) minutes, he called her again to tell her that he had boarded a taxi and left CST.	None
Usha Sharad Chaudhary was quite anxious and called Goyal from her mobile phone again at about 1030 PM.	None
He told her that he had reached Dadar.	None
At about 1145 PM, Usha Sharad Chaudhary received a phone call from Goyals daughter Diksha, who stayed at Walkeshwar, Mumbai, saying that she had last spoken to her father at about 1045 PM and thereafter her fathers phone was not reachable.	None
That was the last anyone spoke to or heard from Goyal.	None
His mutilated body was later found at Cooper Hospital.	None
Umar Sheikh, too, while carrying Goyal in his taxi, was called by his friend Irshad Ahmed Shaikh (PW169) on his mobile at about 1000 PM on November 26, 2008.	None
Irshad had given his driving licence for renewal to Umar (the deceased) and he was enquiring whether it had been renewed.	None
Umar told him that the friend to whom he had given the licence for renewal had not brought it back and added that in view of all the disturbances in the city it was good that he (Irshad Ahmed Shaikh) would not be driving on that night.	None
At this Irshad, asked him why, in that case, was he proceeding to Kandivali with a passenger in his taxi?	None
Umar told him that it was only because the passenger seemed to be in trouble and he had made a very earnest request to take him to Kandivali by any means.	None
In the morning of November 27, 2008, Irshad Shaikh learnt from TV news that there had been a bomb blast in a taxi at Vile Parle.	None
He and some friends went in search of Umar Shaikh and found his dead body at Coroners Court at Cooper Hospital.	None
BEYOND VINOLI	None
The above is a broad account of the havoc wrought by Kasab and Abu Ismail over a period of slightly more than three (3) hours, beginning with their arrival at Badhwar Park and ending with their being apprehended at Vinoli Chowpaty.	None
It must, however, be made clear that the above account is based only on part of the ocular evidence led by the prosecution before the trial court.	None
Besides the depositions referred to above, the prosecution has an enormous volume of other evidence such as articles recovered and seized from places through which the two terrorists passed, and the places where they stopped the vehicles they used until they were finally caught medical and forensic reports, CCTV recordings, phone call records, Station Diary entries, police logs, etc.	None
We see no reason, however, to refer to all that evidence since, on the basis of the ocular evidence discussed above alone, we have no doubt that the appellant, personally and jointly with Abu Ismail, is directly responsible for killing at least seventytwo (72) people.	None
and causing injuries of various kinds to one hundred and thirty (130) people All the witnesses discussed above (except those relating to the Vile Parle and Mazgaon Taxi blasts) had a life and death encounter with the appellant and his associate, Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1), at close quarters.	None
The physical appearance of the two terrorists was etched on their minds.	None
All the witnesses gave a detailed description of the two terrorists to the court.	None
They described them by their complexion, age, bodybuilt and height, stating that one of them was tall and the other was short.	None
All of them identified the appellant in court as the shorter of the two assailants.	None
They also identified Abu Ismail from the photograph on the fake identity card Article 61.	None
They also stated before the court that they had identified the appellant in the test identification parades held.	None
We accept their testimony without any hesitation.	None
From the forensic evidence it further appears that of the seventytwo (72) dead, at least six (6) persons fell to shots fired by the appellant.	None
We, therefore, see no difficulty whatsoever in holding him guilty of multiple murder, murder with common intention and abetment, attempt to murder with common intention and abetment, abducting in order to murder, robbery with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt, and several other allied offences under the Penal Code (IPC), committing terrorist act punishable under Section 16 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, as well as offences under the Explosives Act, 1884, Explosive Substances Act, 1908, and Arms Act, 1959.	None
Nothing will please Mr. Raju Ramachandran, senior counsel appearing for the appellant, more than stopping at this stage.	None
As a matter of fact, he made a fervent plea to segregate the case of the appellant from the other eight (8) dead accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that, for the purpose of this appeal, the court need not go into the offences committed by the eight (8) other dead terrorists who, though, arrived together with the appellant and Abu Ismail at Badhwar park, but went their separate ways from there.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that the appellants culpability should be judged, and the commensurate punishment for him should be determined only on the basis of the offences directly attributable to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, he would like to confine the case only to acts committed by the appellant along with the dead Abu Ismail from the time the two landed at Badhwar Park until they were caught at Vinoli Chowpaty.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gopal Subramanium, learned senior advocate appearing for the State of Maharashtra, was quite shocked by the suggestion made by Mr. Ramachandran.	None
Mr. Subramanium submitted that stopping at this stage of the case would amount to shutting out the prosecution unheard.	None
Learned Counsel submitted that the offences committed by the appellant in the company of the dead Abu Ismail can never be properly appreciated in isolation.	None
The appellant and his companion, the dead Abu Ismail, were part of a closeknit team of ten (10) terrorists who arrived together on the soil of Mumbai in a highly organised way and attacked their various targets in furtherance of a common conspiracy.	None
The learned Counsel submitted that the full magnitude of the case would only be clear as the prosecution unfolds the evidence relating to conspiracy.	None
He submitted that, as the evidence relating to the other aspects of the case and the five (5) other venues of violence is set out before the court, it would become clear that a much larger and ominous conspiracy was hatched in Pakistan, the aim of which was to destabilize the country and to wage war against the Government of India.	None
It would also be clear that all ten (10) terrorists, including Kasab and Abu Ismail, who spread out from Badhwar Park in pairs, were acting in concert and in execution of the larger conspiracy.	None
Seen thus, the appellant would appear equally culpable for the carnage and other offences committed by the other terrorists of the team at different places, though admittedly he was not physically present at the venues of those crimes.	None
Mr. Subramanium submitted that the course suggested by Mr. Ramachandran would do grave injustice to the prosecution, nay to the people of the country who came under a completely unprovoked attack and suffered a war waged against them that was encouraged, monitored, and guided from minute to minute from a command post based in a foreign land.	None
We are of the view that Mr. Subramanium is clearly right.	None
The suggestion made by Mr. Ramachandran that the appellant should only be held liable for acts committed by him in the company of Abu Ismail is based on the premise that the appellant and Abu Ismail were acting independently and separately from the other terrorists who, on arriving at Mumbai, went to four different targets.	None
It is contended that though all ten (10) terrorists arrived in Mumbai together, on the same inflatable rubber dinghy, each of the five pairs into which they divided themselves must be held liable for the actions of the pair alone and not for what the other four pairs might have done, because each pair went in a different direction from the landing site.	None
The underlying assumption is that the five pairs were not connected to each other by a common conspiracy and that they were not acting in furtherance of a conspiracy that was keeping them bound together even after they had separated physically in order to execute their assigned roles under the conspiracy.	None
We find no basis for such an assumption, even in light of the prosecution evidence discussed so far.	None
Further, it would be wrong to proceed on such an assumption even without taking into account the evidence of conspiracy that the prosecution has to present with reference to the other aspects of the case and the other venues of the terrorist attack.	None
We, therefore, deem it necessary to proceed with the matter further and to examine the other venues of carnage.	None
But we propose to scrutinize the other aspects of the case and visit the other four places of terrorist violence primarily with the view to see what the prosecution has to offer by way of evidence of conspiracy and in support of the various other charges against the appellant.	None
We do not propose to discuss the evidence relating to the offences committed by the other eight (8) dead terrorists at those places in any great detail for the simple reason that, being dead, they were not on trial.	None
After landing at Badhwar Park, the appellant and Abu Ismail, the leader of the group (deceased accused no.1), went to CST by a taxi.	None
At the railway station they killed as many people as they could and then left via the footoverbridge to Badruddin Tayabji Marg.	None
They overcame any efforts by the police to stop them on the sixth floor of the Cama Hospital building, at the main front gate of the hospital and on Badruddin Tayabji Marg near Rang Bhavan Lane.	None
In the process, they killed, among many others, three (3) senior police officers and grabbed the Qualis vehicle in which they were trying to intercept the two terrorists.	None
They were unable to go very far in the Qualis as one of its wheels was destroyed in the gun fire.	None
They then commandeered another vehicle, a Skoda, from its occupants at gunpoint.	None
They were driving the Skoda on Marine Drive when they were finally caught at Vinoli Chowpaty.	None
The road on which they were travelling goes to Malabar Hill and their car was headed in that direction.	None
In his statement before the magistrate, the appellant had said that as they sat in the Skoda after seizing it from its occupants he had asked Abu Ismail where they had to go.	None
Abu Ismail said they had to go to Malabar Hill.	None
The appellant further asked where exactly in Malabar Hill, but Abu Ismail said that he would tell him on reaching Malabar Hill.	None
There is no other evidence that their destination was actually Malabar Hill.	None
It is also not clear as to where exactly they intended to go once they reached Malabar Hill or who was were their target(s) there.	None
But it is worth remembering that the Governor and the Chief Minister of Maharashtra as well as the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court all reside on Malabar Hill.	None
It is quite possible that the two desperados had anyone among them as their next target.	None
Following the appellant and Abu Ismail, Nazir Ahmad Abu Omair (deceased accused no.4) and Shoaib Abu Soheb (deceased accused no. 9) took a taxi from Badhwar Park for Leopold Caf.	None
They were followed by Abdul Rahman Bada Hajazi (deceased accused no.5) and Javed Abu Ali (deceased accused no.8) who went to Hotel Taj by taxi.	None
After them, Imran Babar Abu Aqsa (deceased accused no.2) and Nasir Abu Umar (deceased accused no.3) went to Nariman House on foot.	None
After these eight (8) men had left, the remaining two, namely, Fahadullah (deceased accused no.7) and Abdul Rahman Chhota Saqib (deceased accused no.6) sailed the rubber boat to Nariman Point from where they just walked into Hotel Oberoi.	None
Here it needs to be made clear that the nine (9) dead accused could only be known by their respective names after the appellant identified them through photographs of their dead bodies Later he also named them and referred to their respective roles in his confessional statement before the magistrate.	None
Further, the fact that the four terrorists at Hotel Taj were called Abu Soheb, Omair, Rahman and Abu Ali also comes in the evidence of Sunil Rajaram Jadhav (PW224) and Nivruti Tukaram Kadam (PW242).	None
Also, the names of the terrorists who went to Hotel Oberoi and Nariman House come through in the transcripts of their intercepted phone calls, in which they are talking with their collaborators and to which we shall advert in due course.	None
Leopold Caf eleven (11) dead and twentyeight (28) injured and the Mazgaon blast three (3) dead and nineteen (19) injured Nazir (deceased accused no.4) and Shoaib (deceased accused no.9) launched an attack on Leopold Caf with grenades and gunfire from AK47 rifles and left it within minutes, leaving behind eleven (11) dead (of whom two (2) were foreign nationals) and twentyeight (28) injured (of whom nine (9) were foreign nationals).	None
They walked to Hotel Taj, which is at a distance of about hundred (100) metres to join Abdul Rahman Bada and Javed who had gone directly to the Hotel by taxi from Badhwar Park.	None
Nazir and Shoaib were carrying two RDX bombs, one of which they had planted in the taxi they took from Badhwar Park to Leopold Caf.	None
The bomb in the taxi exploded at about 1030 PM while it was going through the Wadi Bunder Road in the Mazgaon Area of the city, killing its driver, Fulchandra Ramchandra Bind, and its two passengers, Zarina Shamsuddin Shaikh and her daughter Reema Mohammad Rabiul Shaikh (the motherinlaw and wife, respectively, of Mohammad Shaikh (PW176)) and causing injuries to nineteen (19) people on the road.	None
The other RDX bomb they planted while on way from Leopold Caf to Hotel Taj, in Gokul Wine Shop Lane behind Hotel Taj, near Gokul Restaurant in front of the State Bank of Hyderabad.	None
The bomb, however, did not explode and it was finally recovered and seized under the Panchnama Ext. no. 736.	None
Hotel Taj thirtysix (36) dead and thirty (30) injured Abdul Rahman Bada (deceased accused no.5) and Javed (deceased accused no.8), on reaching Hotel Taj, first put their RDX bomb near a tree at a distance of about fifty (50) metres from the porch of the New Taj Hotel.	None
This bomb, too, did not explode and was recovered and seized along with the bomb planted by the Leopoldteam under the Panchnama Ext. no. 736.	None
They then entered the lobby of the hotel and started firing with their AK47 rifles on burst mode.	None
Leaving the commotion behind, they went to the upper floors of the hotel using its wide winding stairs.	None
On the fifth floor of the hotel they planted the second RDX bomb, placing it under the central dome so as to cause maximum damage to the building.	None
Next, they proceeded to the sixth floor where they took Kuttalam Rajgopalan Ramamoorthy (PW184) into captivity.	None
Ramamoorthy was the nonExecutive Chairman of ING Vysya Bank After having taken and he had gone to Mumbai in connection with a board meeting of one of the companies.	None
He was staying at Hotel Taj Palace in Room no.632 on the sixth floor.	None
Abdul Rahman Bada and Javed also took four employees of the hotel as hostages, namely, Adil Rohinton Irani .	None
(PW188), Sunil Jadhav (PW224), Rajendra Bagade and Swapnil.	None
In room no.632, Abdul Rahman Bada and Javed were joined by Nazir and Shoaib, coming from Leopold Caf.	None
At about 2.15 AM (on November 27, 2008) all four terrorists came down to the fifth floor, bringing with them all five hostages, with their hands tied behind their backs, and went into room no.520.	None
While they were in that room, a call came from Adils wife on his mobile phone.	None
Adil was then held captive by the terrorists who had also taken away his mobile phone.	None
The terrorists talked to his wife menacingly and asked her to stop security forces acting against them otherwise they would not only kill Adil but wreak havoc.	None
All the while, they were engaged in a long conversation with their collaborators and handlers on a mobile phone these handlers were constantly urging them to throw grenades and to set fire to the hotel building.	None
While they were trying to build a fire by setting ablaze inflammable articles in the room like sofa(s), foam mattresses, curtains, bed sheets, etc., there was a major blast somewhere in the hotel building and heavy smoke started to fill the room.	None
When it became difficult to breathe inside the room, the four terrorists came out of the room and in that confusion the four hotel staff were able to escape through rooms window by tying up bed sheets and curtains into a rope for climbing down.	None
Ramamoorthy was unable to climb down by this rope but he too was able to escape and to reach a window from where he was finally rescued by the fire brigade personnel.	None
Having lost their hostages, the four terrorists settled down in the hotel, taking position for a longdrawn battle with security forces and continued their attempts to set fire to the hotel and to destroy it by whatever means they could.	None
They gave a tough fight to the security forces till they were finally killed on the morning of November 29, 2008.	None
The last of the four terrorists at Hotel Taj (Abdul Rahman Bada) was shot by security forces at 900 AM on November 29, 2008.	None
By that time, the four men had killed thirtysix (36) people (of whom nine (9) were foreign nationals) and caused injuries of various kinds to thirty (30) others (of whom five (5) were foreign nationals).	None
Nariman House nine (9) killed and seven (7) injured Imran Babar Abu Aqsa (deceased accused no.2) and Nasir Abu Umar (deceased accused no.3) had gone to Nariman House from Badhwar Park on foot.	None
On reaching near Nariman House they first planted an RDX bomb at the Express Petrol Pump on SBS Road, Colaba.	None
From there they proceeded to Nariman House, where they planted the second RDX bomb near the staircase on the ground (parking level area).	None
They then entered the upper floors of Nariman House without difficulty.	None
Nariman House is a six (6) storied (ground plus five) building.	None
It is a residentialcumprayer house used by Israeli people for temporary accommodation.	None
An Israeli priest called Gabriel Holtzberge lived there permanently with his wife Rivka and their two (2) year old son Moshe.	None
They had two (2) employees.	None
One was Kazi Zakir Hussain (PW239), who was provided accommodation on the ground floor, and the other was a woman called Sandra.	None
Besides these two, they had a watchman called Kesari who, however, was not present at the time of the occurrence on November 26, 2008.	None
On the date of the occurrence there were four guests, two males and two females, staying with the Holtzberge couple at Nariman House.	None
Dinner, on November 26, 2008, was over by 8.00 PM.	None
And by 9.45 PM Hussain was going down to his accommodation after he and Sandra had finished their days work.	None
On the stairs he saw a person armed with a gun standing on the landing area between the first and second floors.	None
The gunman fired a shot at Hussain but he was not hit.	None
Hussain immediately returned to the first floor where Sandra was still in the hall.	None
On entering the first floor hall, Hussain shut the door from inside.	None
Gabriel, Rivka and their four guests were at that time on the second floor.	None
Hussain and Sandra hid themselves in the store room, bolting the door from inside and putting off the lights.	None
They came out of the store room at 11.00 AM on November 27, 2008.	None
All through the night and in the morning there had been sounds of gunshots being fired from inside the building.	None
While they were trying to get out of the building, they heard the child Moshe crying on the second floor.	None
They went up and found Moshe on the second floor hall.	None
Sandra picked up the boy and brought him out with them.	None
On coming out of Nariman House they were immediately taken to Colaba Police Station.	None
See the evidence of KaziHussai Zakir n (PW239).	None
It was their exemplary courage, humanity and loyalty to their employers that saved the child Moshe from certain death at the hands of the two terrorists.	None
The Nariman House episode indeed presents a shining example of good and proper human conduct in the face of grave personal danger, but there were also many tragic killings of innocent people at Nariman House.	None
The two terrorists took Gabriel, Rivka and their guests as hostages.	None
They first tried to use them as bargaining chips to start some sort of negotiation with the Indian authorities but, when they were unable to start any negotiation and as they came under the heat of the security forces operation, they simply killed all their hostages as being expendable baggage and encumbrances in their fight against the security forces.	None
Apart from the inmates of Nariman House, two other people lost their lives in the most tragic circumstances.	None
Mohammad Salim Harharwala (PW206) lived along with his family at 73/4 Faridun Court Building, SBS Road, Colaba, which is very close to Nariman House.	None
Apprehending danger and feeling insecure at Faridun Court because of the incident of firings in Nariman House, he shifted with his family to a flat on the fourth floor of Colaba Court, which is situated in front of Nariman House.	None
This, unfortunately, turned out to be a fatal decision.	None
In the Colaba flat, he and his parents were standing near a window facing Nariman House when, at about 1030 PM, his parents were hit by bullets fired directly from Nariman House.	None
They were taken to ST Georges hospital where they were declared dead.	None
From Nariman House the terrorists made random firings in all directions and threw hand grenades at adjoining buildings, roads and lanes that resulted in many injuries.	None
There is another aspect of the Nariman House episode to which we shall advert in greater detail in the latter part of the judgment.	None
From Nariman House the two terrorists, Imran Babar in particular, were in regular contact on the mobile phone with their handlers and corroborators across the border.	None
At one stage, the controllers even tried to use one of their hostages, Norma Shvarzblat Robinovich (a Mexican citizen, later killed), as an intermediary in an attempt to start some sort of negotiation with the Indian authorities.	None
The collaborators tried to tutor her as to what she should speak to the Indian authorities on the telephone.	None
She was told not to disclose her own position or the position of her captors inside the house and further not to disclose the number of hostages taken by them but to persuade the Indian authorities to stop the operation by the security forces and to negotiate with her captors in order to save the lives of the hostages.	None
Apart from the collaborators and handlers, Imran Babar also engaged in dialogues with India TV, a popular news channel in the country, and with one Levi from the US who apparently intervened as a selfstyled mediator to try and save the lives of the Jewish hostages.	None
The two terrorists holed up in Nariman House, Imran Babar Abu Aqsa and Nasir Abu Umar, were finally killed by security forces in the night of November 28, 2008.	None
But, by then, they had been able to kill nine (9) people (of whom five (5) were foreign nationals) and injure seven (7) people.	None
Hotel Oberoi thirtyfive (35) dead twentyfour (24) injured.	None
Fahadullah (deceased accused no.7) and Abdul Rahman Chhota Saqib (deceased accused no.6) entered Hotel Oberoi at about 2155 hours on November 26, 2008 and started burst firing in the hotel lobby.	None
In the CCTV recording one can clearly see a hotelstaff opening a door, coming out and going around the reception desk.	None
He gets hit by shots fired by the two terrorists and slumps down to the floor.	None
They next went to Tiffin Restaurant, situated in the main lobby of the Hotel, and fired indiscriminately from their AK47 rifles.	None
The hotel staff in Kandhar Restaurant, situated on the mezzanine floor, heard and saw them firing in Tiffin Restaurant.	None
At that time there were fifty to sixty (5060) guests in Kandhar Restaurant.	None
The staff members closed the door of Kandhar Restaurant and bolted it from inside and started taking out the guests from the rear (service) door.	None
From Tiffin Restaurant the two terrorists proceeded towards Kandhar Restaurant but they found the restaurants entrance door locked from inside.	None
They fired at the closed doors.	None
One of the shots pierced through the glass pane and hit Dinaj Sharma, one of the hotel staff, on her right forearm.	None
They eventually succeeded in breaking open the door and entering Kandhar Restaurant but by that time, fortunately, all the guests in the restaurant had been evacuated and the two terrorists found only two hotel employees, namely Jorden and Pradeep Rammurthy Bengalorkar (PW212).	None
They threatened them that they would kill them if they tried to run away.	None
Then they asked Bengalorkar to pour liquor on the tables and other items of furniture from the bottles in the bar counter and handed a lighter to Jorden, telling him to set fire to the furniture soaked with liquor.	None
The lighter did not work and they asked Jorden to make the fire with matchsticks.	None
Jorden took out a matchbox from his pocket and tried to set fire to the table cloth.	None
The poor fellow was so nervous that he was unable to start the fire but, in the process, he burnt his own hands.	None
As he was wringing his hands and crying that his hands were burnt, one of the two terrorists, evidently annoyed at his lack of efficiency as an arsonist, fired a burst of bullets, killing him on the spot.	None
They then asked Bengalorkar to set the furniture on fire.	None
He somehow succeeded in setting fire to a table.	None
The terrorists then asked him to take them to the floor where the hotels VIP guests were staying.	None
Bengalorkar entered the lift, as bidden by the terrorists, but as their attention was momentarily diverted in throwing hand grenades he quickly pressed the down button of the lift.	None
The lift door thus closed and the lift started descending even as the terrorists fired at its closed door.	None
Bengalorkar thus gave the slip to the terrorists and saved himself by his presence of mind.	None
Fahadullah and Abdul Rahman Chhota then went to the upper floors of the hotel in search of any VIP guests staying there.	None
They were unable to find any but they got holed up there and fought the security forces till they were finally killed at about 7.00 AM on November 28, 2008.	None
A complete and ocular account of the final encounter of the two terrorists with the National Security Guard (NSG) Commando may be seen in the evidence of Rajesh Ganpat Kadam (PW215) who was the Assistant Chief Security Officer, Hotel Oberoi, and who was accompanying the NSG Commandos headed by Colonel Rathi and Lt. Colonel Sharma in the final encounter with the terrorists.	None
Before Fahadullah and Abdul Rahman Chhota were killed, they had left behind thirtyfive (35) people as dead (of whom ten (10) were foreign nationals) and twentyfour 24 injured (of whom seven (7) were foreign nationals).	None
THE FIREPOWER, THE TENACITY Just to have an idea of the fire power the terrorists were carrying, we propose to take a look at the seizure Panchnamas from Hotel Taj and we note below only some of the firearms and ammunitions seized under those Panchnamas Exhibit No. 744 Seven (7) magazines of black colour.	None
Of them, six (6) contained live rounds and one (1) was empty One (1) cotton bag containing one hundred and thirtytwo (132) live cartridges Five (5) hand grenades	None
One (1) bullet bayonet Exhibit No. 746 One hundred and fifty (150) pistol empties Six (6) big empties Twentyeight (28) bullets Ten (10) small empties Twelve (12) big empties Five (5) bullets	None
One (1) grenade pin One (1) small empty Exhibit No. 751 Three (3) empties Exhibit No. 752 One (1) pistol with magazine One (1) pistol with empty magazine Exhibit No. 757 One (1) tin box of size two by four (2x4) inches of explosives Seven (7) empties	None
Exhibit No. 760 Four (4) AK47 (damaged) rifles one (1) rifle was with magazine Eight (8) magazines of AK 47 Two (2) pistols of Star make with one (1) magazine each One (1) separate pistol magazine Eight (8) 9 mm loose cartridges Six (6) 7.62 mm cartridges One (1) 7.62 mm empty Exhibit No. 763 One (1) bayonet Two (2) magazines were found in a bag lying in the debris.	None
One of the magazines contained five (5) live rounds and another magazine contained two (2) live rounds.	None
Exhibit No. 910 Twentyone (21) empty cartridges Three (3) live cartridges Six (6) metal pieces	None
Exhibit No. 1125	None
One (1) pistol manufactured by Khyber Arms Manufacturing Company, Peshawar Five (5) magazines of AK47 rifle, two (2) of them tied with plastic adhesive tape and the other three (3) loose and in rusted condition Twelve (12) live cartridges Two (2) bayonets The seizure Panchnamas from the other venues of violence are no less full.	None
It may also be noted here that once the terrorists had taken position at their respective targets of attack it did not prove easy to neutralize them or to take them out.	None
The Maharashtra police was quite unequal to the task and, consequently, MARCOS (Naval) Commandos were called in at Hotel Taj.	None
Finally, the whole operation at all the three places, Hotel Taj, Hotel Oberoi and Nariman House, was handed over to the National Security Guards who were able to clear the sites but not before the terrorists gave them a stiff resistance.	None
The second of the two terrorists at Hotel Oberoi was killed at about 7.00 A.M. on November 28, 2008.	None
Nariman House was cleared in the night of November 28 and Hotel Taj, thereafter, at about 900 AM on November 29.	None
The prosecution has documented the episodes at Leopold Caf, Hotel Taj, Hotel Oberoi, and Nariman House, as well as the Mazgaon Taxi Blast as exhaustively as it has documented the incidents at CST, Cama in, Cama out, Skoda robbery and Vinoli Chowpaty relating to the appellant and his dead companion Abu Ismail.	None
In regard to Leopold Caf, the prosecution examined ten (10) witnesses besides producing other kinds of evidence.	None
Of the ten (10) witnesses, three (3) are eyewitnesses of whom Nilesh Mahendra Gandhi (PW478) and Prakash Bharvani (PW479) are injured witnesses.	None
Sudhakar Dattu Deshmukh (PW179) is a Police SubInspector of Colaba Police Station who arrived at the spot shortly after the terrorists had left the place and gone towards Hotel Taj.	None
In regard to the incidents at Hotel Taj, the prosecution examined twentyseven (27) witnesses besides two (2) witnesses summoned by the trial court.	None
Three of them, namely, Kuttalam Rajgopalan Ramamoorthy (PW184), Sunil Rajaram Jadhav (PW224) and Adil Rohintan Irani (PW188), are witnesses who were taken hostage by the terrorists and who also suffered injuries at their hands.	None
Annie Irani (PW255) is the wife of Adil Rohintan Irani who had called Adil on his mobile while he was held captive and to whom the terrorists had talked threateningly.	None
Prakash Sampatrao Bhoite (PW 182) is a Police Inspector who discovered the two unexploded bombs planted near Hotel Taj.	None
Another substantive witness is Captain Anil Jhakar (CW3) who is an NSG Commando.	None
The rest are formal witnesses and panch witnesses.	None
Regarding Nariman House, the prosecution examined nine (9) witnesses of whom Kazi Zakir Hussain (PW239), Kamal Liladhar Singh (PW201), Rambuval Chandrapati Yadav (PW202) and Hanmant Vishnu Bhandalkar (PW200) are substantive eyewitnesses.	None
Another substantive witness is Mohd.	None
Salim Harharwala (PW206), whose parents, as we have seen above, succumbed to shots fired by the terrorists.	None
Regarding Hotel Oberoi, the prosecution examined fourteen (14) witnesses of whom Pradeep Bengalorkar (PW212), Rajesh Kadam (PW215) and Lisa Ringner (PW250) are substantive witnesses who had personal encounters with the terrorists.	None
The Police Inspector Bhagwat Kachru Bansode (PW208) is another substantive witness.	None
The rest are formal witnesses and panch witnesses.	None
Having thus examined the other venues of the terrorists violence, we fail to see how it can even be suggested that the appellant and his dead accomplice, Abu Ismail, were acting separately and that their actions were not connected in any manner with the offences committed at the other places by the other eight (8) terrorists with whom they jointly made the sea journey to Mumbais shore.	None
To us it is obvious that all five (5) teams were bound together and each team was acting in execution of a common conspiracy.	None
Earlier it was observed that the landing site for the terrorists at Badhwar Park was selected with great care.	None
Here it must be added that the selection of the targets for attack was made with even greater care.	None
CST is a place where people would be present in large numbers, completely defenseless and helpless, within a relatively small and confined space.	None
The appellant and Abu Ismail went to CST for numbers and, according to plan, they were able to kill fiftytwo (52) and wound one hundred and nine (109) people.	None
The intention was plainly to shock and create terror.	None
From CST, the appellant and Abu Ismail were headed for Malabar Hill, presumably with the intent to take captive some very important person there, which would put enormous pressure on the Government of Maharashtra and the Central Government.	None
Of the other two teams, one went to Leopold Caf and then to the Taj Hotel, and the other to the Oberoi Hotel.	None
Leopold Caf is a highly popular eatinh which he had a personal relationship of a very intimate king and drinking establishment, frequented not only by Mumbaikars but also by domestic and international tourists in large numbers.	None
The Caf is open to the pavement, and it is known as a place where one can sit at leisure over a cup of coffee or a glass of beer, and watch bustling Mumbai pass by on the pavement and road just outside.	None
The attack on Leopolds was meant to kill in large numbers, including foreign tourists.	None
Hotel Taj is an iconic hotel, part of the history of Mumbai Hotel Oberoi is a modern, superluxury hotel.	None
These are places where the upper crust of the country rubs shoulders with its colleagues and peers from across the globe.	None
The attack at those two hotels and at Leopold Caf had a dual purpose.	None
First, the killing of wealthy and powerful Indians and foreigners would not only send shock waves across this country but would also attract international attention, which is the greatest prize and inducement for any terrorist group.	None
Secondly the terrorists hoped to take some very important people as hostages there this would, they believed, enable them to negotiate with the Indian authorities regarding some highly vague and fantastic demands.	None
The attack at Nariman House was intended to somehow involve Israel in the matter and to further internationalize the issue by killing the Jewish and Israeli citizens living there.	None
For a short while, the terrorists who had taken possession of Nariman House seemed to be succeeding in their objective as they were able to establish contact with someone called Levi in the US, who appears to have rushed in as a selfstyled intermediary, negotiating to save the lives of the people taken hostage by the terrorists.	None
Thus seen, the attacks at all five targets appear to be integrally connected with each other and the appellant and Abu Ismail are as much part of the offences committed at the other places as they are responsible for the offences committed by them directly.	None
It may even be said that even if the appellant was apprehended without firing a single shot and without personally committing any offence on the soil of India, he would still have been connected through conspiracy to the offences committed by the other four teams of terrorists in whose company he came to Mumbai.	None
But the above discussion is meant only to reject the contention made on behalf of the appellant that, for the purpose of this appeal, there is no need to go beyond the acts directly attributed to him and his dead associate, Abu Ismail.	None
The real and far more tangible evidence of conspiracy is yet to unfold in the following part of the judgment.	None
KUBER To look for evidence of conspiracy, let us go back to the beginning, i.e., the MV Kuber.	None
It is seen above that the identity of the appellant and his companion who was killed in the encounter with the police at Vinoli Chowpaty first came to light when he made a statement at Nair Hospital at 0130 hours on November 27, 2008, disclosing his name, age and address and those of his accomplice, the dead Abu Ismail.	None
In the morning of November 27, 2008, at 1100 hours, Chandrakant Jabardast Jadhav (PW 42) came to Nair Hospital to interrogate the appellant, as directed by PI Vinod Pandurang Sawant (PW31) who was till then the Investigating Officer of the case relating to the occurrence at Vinoli Chowpaty.	None
At that time, PI Prashant Kashinath Marde of CBCID (PW 48) was also present at the hospital having gone there on the direction of his superiors.	None
Jadhav obtained the necessary permission from the doctor treating the appellant and, at 1300 hours, recorded his disclosure statement in the presence of Marde and two panch witnesses, namely, Pravin Ashok Hargude and Bhavesh Mahadeo Takalkar (PW25).	None
The statement made by the appellant that first led to the recovery of the Indian boat on the sea and then to the recovery of the dead body of its navigator, Amar Singh Solanki, and of the satellite phone, the GPS and the notebook is as under My nine Pakistani associates and I, with an intention to make Fidayeen attack in India started from Karachi Creek in one small boat on the twentysecond of this month.	None
We got AlHusaini boat in the sea.	None
There were seven persons in AlHusaini boat.	None
Next day, in the afternoon, we caught Indian boat.	None
We dumped four persons of Indian boat into AlHusaini boat.	None
My nine associates and I reached close to Mumbai about four nautical miles away in Indian boat with the Nakhva (Navigator) of Indian boat, on the date twentysixth in the afternoon.	None
There my associates Abu Soheb and Ismail and I took Nakhva to engine room and tied his hands and legs and covered his eyes with black strip and I slit the neck of Nakhva by a knife and killed him.	None
I have hidden Nakhvas deadbody there only.	None
We have kept our Satellite phone, G.P.S. and NoteBook in the very Indian boat and have left the said Indian boat in the sea.	None
My nine associates and I with the rifles, bombs and grenades bags boarded the rubber boat and reached the shores of Mumbai.	None
I will show the Indian boat in which deadbody of Nakhva, Satellite phone, G.P.S. and notebook are there and the place where Nakhvas deadbody is hidden and will take out Satellite phone, G.P.S. and notebook.	None
(Emphasis added to indicate admissibility under Section 27 of the Evidence Act)	None
The disclosure statement recorded by Jadhav was signed by him and the two panchas.	None
The memo does not bear the signature of the appellant but there is a certificate by Dr. Vikaskumar Kashinath Kesari (PW13) stating that the appellant was unable to hold the pen due to injuries in his right hand (the writing hand) and he was not, therefore, in a position to put his signature on paper.	None
On the basis of the information received from the appellant a search was mounted for the abandoned Indian boat and it was found and brought to Sassoon Dock in Mumbai with the assistance of the Coast Guard.	None
The abandoned boat was first sighted at 1640 hours at a distance of six (6) nautical miles (southwest) from the Mumbai shore by Commandant Malhotra (PW26) of the Coast Guard, who made a reconnaissance by helicopter at the request of the Additional Commissioner of Police Jagannathan (PW37).	None
He kept a watch over the abandoned boat till the Coast Guard ship Sankalp46 arrived there and brought the boat to Sassoon Docks in Mumbai.	None
The abandoned boat was undeniably an Indian fishing boat called MV Kuber.	None
It was registered with the port authorities at Porbandar, Gujarat, and bore the registration no.	None
PBR2342.	None
Its registered owner was one Heeralal Masani of Porbandar.	None
Deepakkumar Vishwanath Dave (PW46), who was the Superintendent of Customs, Porbandar, testified before the court that Creek Pass No. CH	None
PBR/174 was issued to the fishing vessel Kuber on August 16, 2008, for the period August 16 to December 31, 2008.	None
He produced the office copy of the Creek Pass bearing his signature (Exhibit 201).	None
He further stated that the owner of the vessel was one Hiralal Masani and its Tandel was Amarsingh Solanki.	None
Vinod Babulal Masani (PW43) stated that his was a fishing family and owned six (6) boats, including MV Kuber.	None
He added that he looked after the family business.	None
Masani further stated that the Kuber and another fishing boat of the family called Maa had gone out to the sea on November 14, 2008.	None
Both boats were scheduled to return to Porbandar within ten (10) to twelve (12) days.	None
The boat Maa returned to Porbandar on November 25 but there was no information about the Kuber.	None
The Tandel of Maa only said that the two boats had separated as a result of a storm in the sea.	None
Masani first heard of the Kubers fate at 500 PM on November 27, 2008, on getting a phone call from a Coast Guard officer in Mumbai who made a detailed enquiry from him about the boat and asked him to come over to Mumbai.	None
He went to Mumbai on December 2, 2008, and found the boat anchored at Melat Bandar, Sewree, Mumbai, and came to learn that the Nakhva of the boat, Amar Singh Solanki, had been killed by the terrorists who had captured his boat on the sea.	None
While the Kuber was being searched and brought to Sassoon Docks, the investigation of the case was assigned to the Crime Branch and, at 2125 hours on November 27, 2008, when the appellant was discharged from Nair Hospital, Marde took him in his custody.	None
Marde brought the appellant to the office of the DCBCID, Unit 3, Lower Parel, where the appellant was formally arrested by him between 2230 and 2245 hours in CR No.182/2008 (vide Arrest Memo Ext.	None
no. 215).	None
At 2245 hours, Marde received a call from Jadhav requesting him to bring the appellant to DB Marg Police Station where information was received in the meanwhile that the vessel Kuber had been brought to Sassoon Docks.	None
Marde reached DB Marg Police Station along with the appellant at 2310 hours and, at 2330 hours, Marde and Jadhav, along with the appellant and the two witnesses of the disclosure statement Panchnama, namely, Pravin Ashok Hargude and Bhavesh Mahadeo Takalkar (PW25), left for Sassoon Docks and reached there at 0000 hours.	None
On reaching Sassoon Dock, they went near a wooden boat brought from the sea that was anchored near the jetty, alongside a launch of the Yellow Gate Police Station called Amboli.	None
On seeing the two, the appellant identified the wooden boat as the Indian boat in which he, along with his nine associates, had approached the Mumbai shore and on which he had killed the Nakhva of the boat, whose body he had kept in the engine room.	None
The appellant then led the police team and the panchas to the engine room and showed them the dead body of a male that was kept in the corner near the ladder.	None
The bodys hands were tied at his back and the body was kept in a supine position.	None
The appellant then proceeded to take out a satellite phone, a GPS and a notebook that were kept concealed under a wooden plank in the engine room on the left side of the dead body.	None
He took out these three articles and handed them to the police team.	None
The articles that were taken out and produced by the appellant from the engine room of the Kuber and were seized under the panchnama (Ext. no. 138) may be described as follows One satellite phone in black cover, make HUGHES, THURAYA 7101 IMEI no.352884000541526 assembled in EU MCN 80082110006 SIM CARDTHURAYA 89882 05980 80530 6377 the battery had the words Assembled in France inscribed on it.	None
One black colour GPS, make GARMIN modelGPS 12 MAP S N 98205626 made in Taiwan.	None
One notebook with cover in faded green with writings and jottings in Urdu on various pages.	None
Another seizure Panchnama, Exhibit no. 182, in respect of all the other articles found on the boat, was drawn up in the presence of panchas.	None
Chandrakant Jabardast Jhadhav (PW42) deposed that nearly 145 articles were seized and enumerated under the Panchnama Ext. no. 182.	None
He also gave a list to the court of those articles recovered from the Kuber that are not normally found on a fishing boat.	None
This list of articles given by Jhadhav to the court is as under Six (6) pieces of foam of pink colour Fourteen (14) blankets Two (2) shawls One (1) mattress	None
One (1) empty bottle of cold drink One (1) scarf used at the time of Namaj Four (4) caps Six (6) Tshirts Six (6) pants (one of the pants was branded with the name of a Pakistani manufacturing company, i.e., South Pole)	None
One (1) shirt Fifteen (15) jackets Seven (7) tooth brushes Shaving razors One (1) tube of shaving cream One (1) tube of tooth paste One (1) empty sugar bag One (1) empty paper bag of wheat flour Two (2) air pumps Four (4) packets of detergent powder (Brand name PAK)	None
Empty containers of Nestle milk powder A reference to the panchnama, Ext.	None
no. 182 would show that each of these articles had markings writings that unmistakably indicated that all the articles originated in Pakistan.	None
Eight (8) cans of oil having a capacity of fiftyfive (55) litres each (One of the cans had markings of Gulf and Karachi)	None
Five (5) barrels of diesel (One of them was empty)	None
Five (5) containers of colour spray One (1) dagger One (1) knife	None
One (1) pair of scissors Three (3) boat covers made of tarpaulin Floor cleaning brush (made in Pakistan)	None
Of course, the panchnama Ext.	None
no. 182 contains a much longer list of articles that were recovered from the Kuber and seized under the Panchnama.	None
The following articles listed in the Panchnama may be added to the list given by Jadhav (PW42), of articles that are not expected to be found on a fishing boat of Indian origin Six (6) inch steel spanner with writings thereon in Urdu, and spanners having pictures of a gun, as well as a big knife with a four (4) inch wooden hilt Empty packets of fifty (50) bullets for 30 bore pistol, made in China Nylon rope meant for unloading goods from the big ship to the small one, having a round knot on one side Pieces of silver foil used to consume drugs One matchbox with the mark Hockey of Fazal Sons match industries, Pakistan One (1) white plastic container with a red lid inscribed with the words National Food, and with its contents listed in both English and Urdu One (1) khakicoloured paper cover with writing in Urdu It may be added here that Vinod Babulal Masni (PW43), on being shown the satellite phone, the GPS and the other articles recovered from Kuber and seized under the two Panchnamas (Ext. nos.	None
138 and 182), told the court that those articles did not belong to him nor were those articles on board when the boat had sailed out to sea from Porbandar on November 14, 2008.	None
One of the three articles that were produced by the appellant before the police after taking them out from their hiding place on the Kuber, and that were then seized under the Panchnama Ext.	None
no. 138, is a thin notebook, loosely stitched with a faded green cover (Ext. no. 174).	None
The first page of the notebook contains the guard duty roster under the heading 24 Hours Entire Journey.	None
The guard roster is made in the following manner Fahadulla Saqib Sohaib morning 6 to 8 Ali Hejazi Umer morning 8 to 10 Ismail Mujahid Umar morning 10 to 12 At 1200 PM, the first team would again take over for the next two (2) hours followed by the second and third teams for twohour shifts each, and the roster would thus go on till the next morning.	None
On the second page on the right side there is a list of the following articles Biscuit (Candy Bakery) Sewayyan fine Flour red Drum (for luggage with lock) On the left side there is another list of the following Phone number of this place Satellite number of this place Photocopies of maps SIMs for mobile sets TT Pistol 2 in number Mineral water Aquafina Dates good (quality) 10 kilo Current store charger GPS or navigator Satellite Phone card	None
The third page contains a list of code words Halat theek hain (All is well) Macchli lag rahi hai (Fish are coming)	None
Civil Boat Bhai log (Brothers) Navy Boat Yaar log (Friends) Navy Ship Yaar logon ka group (Group of friends)	None
Engine Machine Madad (help) Maal (Goods) Safar (journey) Barf (Ice) Below the above codes it is written that the one who gives GR would add three and the taker would himself deduct three.	None
And below that there is a reminder that the satellite is to be kept open (1000 AM to 1000 PM).	None
On the next page there is another list of the following articles Gun 1 in number Magazine 8 in number Grenade 8 in number GPS Group 1 Dagger 1 in number Additional rounds Mobile Batteries On the next two pages there are some figures indicating degrees, minutes and seconds.	None
On the next page, there is the number 23270972879217 written on the top and below it the names of the following places in Mumbai Qulaba Cuff Parade Macchlimaar Nagar Rajabhai Tower Regal Chowk Nathalal Marg Nariman Point WTC Regal Cinema.	None
On the last page there are once again some figures indicating degrees, minutes and seconds.	None
The Thuraya satellite phone and the GARMIN GPS recovered from MV Kuber, along with four other GPS devices recovered from the other sites of terrorist violence, were sent for forensic examination to the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) where the data stored in the GPS devices were analyzed by Daniel Jackson (PW152) who was working in the FBI as Electronic Engineer Forensic Examiner.	None
He had vast experience in his field of specialty, particularly mobile phones, GPS devices, Ipods, etc., and he stated before the court that before examining the devices sent by the Mumbai Police he had examined over a thousand electronic devices in the Bureaus laboratory.	None
He had marked the satellite phone and the five (5) GPS devices sent for data retrieval and analysis as Q119, Q120, Q121, Q122, Q123 and Q124.	None
Q119 and Q120 were marks given by him to the satellite phone and the GARMIN GPS device recovered from MV Kuber.	None
Q123 and Q124 were the other GARMIN GPS devices that were recovered from Taj Hotel.	None
Q121 was, in all probability, recovered from Nariman House and Q122 from Oberoi Hotel.	None
Q121 and Q122 were Magellan GPS devices and the data in those devices were irretrievable as the internal batteries of the two devices had discharged.	None
Jackson stated before the court that his examination of the satellite phone and the five GPS received by him from the Mumbai Police commenced from February 11, 2009, and was completed on February 18, 2009.	None
He explained to the court that to retrieve the data from a GPS device, the device must be connected to a computer and the data is then copied on the computer.	None
Software is then used to examine the data copied on the computer.	None
He stated that he had made his report after examining all the devices.	None
He had copied the data from the GPS devices on the computer and, from the computer, recorded the data on a CD.	None
He identified the CD, Article 517, in court.	None
He also identified the physical copy (Derivative 2) that bore his signature and was marked Ext. no. 601 collectively.	None
He further explained to the court that the waypoints on the GPS were locations that might be latitude and longitude and those waypoints could be saved on the GPS.	None
He further stated that he had prepared the maps with the help of the GARMIN software on the basis of the waypoints retrieved from the GPS Q120.	None
Jackson said that JALA 1 and JALA 2 were the names used by the user of GPS Q120.	None
The waypoints list of Q120 showed that the waypoints between Karachi and Mumbai were saved on the device.	None
The route shown on page No.36 of the annexure to his report showed the intermediate waypoints stored by the user and those waypoints were between Karachi and Mumbai.	None
The first waypoint was in the ocean of the Gulf of Karachi and the last waypoint was in Mumbai.	None
He added that page No.38 of the annexure to his report showed the track back route from Mumbai to the Gulf of Karachi.	None
Page No.38 showed the waypoints of the journey of the user from OCEN1 to OCENA.	None
He explained that OCEN1 was the coast of Pakistan and OCENA was the coast of Mumbai.	None
The maps prepared by Jackson (PW152) were based on printouts of computer generated images.	None
To make the maps even more explicit, the prosecution examined Sandeep Siddhlilngappa Shivangi (PW161).	None
Shivangi, who had completed the course of Master Marine in the year 1998, was working at the relevant time as Professor (Nautical Officer) in Lal Bahadur Shastri College for Advance Maritime Studies and Research.	None
He stated before the court that, on February 24, 2009, he was called to the office of DCB CID where Inspector Chavan had shown him the printouts taken from two GPS devices.	None
The printouts showed the waypoints.	None
He was required to plot those waypoints on maps.	None
He had brought two maps from his college and one printed map was purchased from the market.	None
On being shown pages No.3 54 of Ext. no. 601 collectively, he stated before the court that on page No.3 of the Exhibit, the waypoints were described as JALA 1, JALA 2, JALA 3 and JALA 4.	None
He was required to plot those waypoints on a printed map.	None
He had plotted those waypoints by means of a parallel ruler.	None
The maps on which those points were plotted by him were shown to him in court.	None
He said that the points were in his handwriting and the map bore his signature.	None
The map was marked as Ext. no. 651.	None
To have a closer view of the waypoints, he had also plotted waypoints no.	None
JALA 3 and JALA 4 on another map (marked Ext. no. 652).	None
The waypoints described as OCENS1, OCENS2, OCENS3 and OCENSA were also plotted on the map Ext. no.	None
651.	None
He explained that the OCENS waypoints showed the route from south of Pakistan to south Mumbai.	None
The JALA waypoints showed the route from Gujarat to South Mumbai.	None
THE DNA CONNECT It is seen above that among the articles recovered from Kuber were a number of blankets, shawls and many other items of clothing.	None
The stains of sweat, saliva and other bodily secretions on those articles were subjected to DNA profiling and, excepting Imran Babar (deceased accused no.2), Abdul Rahman Bada (deceased accused no.5), Fahadullah (deceased accused no.7) and Shoaib (deceased accused no.9), the rest of the six accused were connected with various articles found and recovered from the Kuber.	None
The appellants DNA matched the DNA profile from a sweat stain detected on one of the jackets (see report Ext. no. 205F).	None
A chart showing the matching of the DNA of the different accused with DNA profiles from stains on different articles found and recovered from the Kuber is annexed at the end of the judgment as Schedule No. III.	None
THE INFLATABLE RUBBER BOAT From Kuber, in order of sequence, we come to the inflatable rubber dinghy on which the appellant and the other nine dead accused landed on Mumbais shore.	None
It is seen above that Prashant Hemnath Dhanu (PW29) had found the rubber dinghy abandoned at Nariman Point and had towed it back to Badhwar Park between 945 PM and 1000 PM, on November 26, 2008, and informed the Coast Guard regarding the dinghy.	None
At 2300 hours on the same day, the dinghy and the articles found in it were seized by SubInspector of Police Anil Kamble in the presence of two panch witnesses, namely, Parshuram Kashinath Meher (PW34) and Prakash Krishna Naik under Panchnama Ext.	None
no. 162.	None
From the seizure Panchnama it appears that fourteen (14) articles were seized along with the rubber dinghy.	None
Of these, we may take note of the following A Yamaha Enduro outboard motor of 40 horsepower, fitted to the dinghy.	None
Eight (8) life jackets of saffron (red) colour on which was written Made in China, MYC 865 model, make year 2006 bearing serial numbers 0404663, 0404725, 0404731, 0404766, 04404847, 0404974, 0404869 and 0404996.	None
One (1) red fuel box on which was written GASOLINE.	None
One (1) glue tube in one (1) plastic bag, on which was written Samad Rubber Pvt. Ltd., Ferozpur Road, Lahore, Pakistan.	None
One (1) blue oil can with Shell, Advance Sport HT 20 W 50 Motorcycle oil written on it, of 0.7 litre and one (1) plastic bag containing tools for repairing a boat.	None
The Yamaha outboard machine that was fitted to the rubber dinghy is of special significance for the case.	None
Gatala (PW30), who was a Marine Engineer and who was working as Service Supervisor in George Maijo Industries (P) Ltd., stated before the court that his company was the authorized importer of Yamaha outboard machines (OBMs) in India.	None
The head office of the company maintained record of all the OBMs imported and sold in India.	None
He further stated before the court that he was called to the Crime Branch Office of the Mumbai Police and there he had inspected one Yamaha OBM.	None
He was shown an inflatable rubber speed boat and the OBM of Yamaha make by Inspector Kale (PW47).	None
He had inspected the OBM and on examination he had found certain numbers on different parts of the engine.	None
He had noted down the numbers in his diary and he had brought the diary to the court and he could tell those numbers from his diary (Ext. no. 147).	None
He stated before the court that the Engine Bracket Number of the OBM shown to him was 67602E3 the CDI number was 6F601F 8 T 411727 Y 09 and the sticker on the unit showed engine number as 1020015.	None
The size of propeller was 11x15G.	None
He further stated that his company was the sole authorized importer and dealer of Yamaha OBMs in India.	None
The verification of those numbers from the companys head office confirmed that the engine examined by him was not imported and sold by their company.	None
He identified in court the OBM, Article 157 that was examined by him.	None
The other witness in this connection was Pat Williams (PW154), whose evidence was recorded through audiovideo linkage while he was sitting in the office of the FBI at Los Angeles, USA.	None
One Geoffrey Maron (PW153) who was working as a Special Agent of FBI identified Paul Orphanides as an FBI Agent of Los Angeles Office.	None
Paul Orphanides, in turn, identified Pat Williams to the court.	None
Pat Williams stated to the court that he was working as Senior Product Specialist in Yamaha Motor Corporation.	None
The head office of his company was situated at Cypress California, US, and they were manufacturers of outboard machines, motor cycles, scooters, etc.	None
Some of those items were manufactured at the US manufacturing unit but outboard machines were manufactured in Japan, not the US.	None
He further stated that the outboard machine could be identified on the basis of the serial numbers on the motor bracket and the engine, and that the last seven (7) digits of the number identified the motor boat.	None
There would never be more than one OBM having the same last seven (7) digits of serial number for the same size of machine.	None
He further stated that Yamaha outboard machine Enduro 40 bearing serial number 1020015 was dispatched to Business and Engineering Trend from Japan to Karachi Sea Port in Pakistan on January 20, 2008.	None
A letter dated February 17, 2009, written on the letter head of Yamaha Customer Support Group under the signature of one Michelle Tejeras (Assistant Manager Service Support) and addressed to the US Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation, was shown to Williams.	None
On being shown the letter Williams stated to the court that he knew Ms. Michelle Tejeras who was the Assistant Manager (Service) of Yamaha Motor Corporation, US, and with whom he had been working for at least six to seven (67) years.	None
He could identify her signature and he proceeded to identify the signature of Ms. Tejeras on the aforesaid letter dated February 17, 2009, whereupon it was marked Ext. no.	None
604.	None
The letter of Ms Tejeras Ext.	None
no. 604 was as under February 17, 2009 S. Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation 11000 Wilshire Blvd., 17th Floor Los Angeles, CA 90403 Attention Special Agent Geoffrey Maron Re File No. LA252196	None
Dear Mr. Maron, This letter is to confirm the conversation on February 13, 2009 between our Yamaha representative and representatives from your location.	None
We have contacted Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. regarding Yamaha Outboard Enduro 40, model E40JMHL	None
serial 1020015 to confirm the following Country of production Japan Destination for export Islamic Republic of Pakistan Distributor Business and Engineering Trend (BET)	None
Within the scope of my employment with Yamaha Motor Corporation, I am authorized to provide this information.	None
Sincerely, Michelle Tejeras Asst.	None
ManagerService Support Cc SR 19130852.	None
THE PINKCOLOURED FOAM, THE TERRORISTS SIGNATURE From the rubber dinghy that touched Mumbais shore at Badhwar Park, we return to CST.	None
We have earlier seen the absolute mayhem created by the appellant and his associate, the dead Abu Ismail, at CST railway station.	None
We now revisit the place looking for any evidence of conspiracy that might bind them with the other eight terrorists who were on a similar murderous spree at other venues in the city.	None
What we find at CST appears quite innocent, something as ordinary as a piece of foam, pink coloured foam.	None
But that piece of foam inseparably connects the appellant to the other eight terrorists.	None
As we proceed further, we will find the pink foam running like a thread through all the episodes and connecting them as integral pieces of one single, horrible drama.	None
We may recall here that the pink foam first appeared among the many articles found and seized from MV Kuber.	None
In Ext. no. 182, the seizure Panchnama regarding the articles found and seized from the Kuber, it is listed at serial no. 10 as Six (6) pieces of pink colour foam of different sizes.	None
Serial no.13 of the Panchnama mentions a six (6) inch stainless steel pair of scissors.	None
The pink foam is also present at CST.	None
While dealing with the attack on CST in the earlier pages of the judgment, it was noted that before opening fire from his AK47 rifle, Abu Ismail, the dead companion of the appellant Kasab, had put a bag carrying the RDX bomb among the passengers luggage in the waiting hall.	None
Luckily, however, the bomb did not explode.	None
After the carnage was over, the authorities collected the passengers unclaimed belongings, lying scattered all over CST Railway Station, and put them all at one place.	None
It appears that the bag containing the bomb was also picked up and was kept along with this collected baggage.	None
In the process of returning the luggage pieces to their respective owners who came forward to claim their belongings byandby, a suspicious redandblack sackbag was discovered lying in the baggage.	None
When the bag was inspected by police officials, it was found that it contained explosives which were later diffused by personnel of the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad.	None
A seizure Panchnama, Ext. no. 269, was drawn up on December 3, 2008, at 1900 hours in the presence of two panchas, namely, David Raj Thomas and Sham Ratan Dhake.	None
From the Panchnama it appears that inside the redandblack nylon sack bag, there was a locked square tin box containing the indigenous explosive device (IED).	None
The tin box was covered on all sides by a piece of pink colour foam From CST, the appellant and his dead associate had gone to the terrace of the Cama Hospital building where they had an encounter with Sadanand Vasant Date (PW118) and his team.	None
After the episode was over, a search was made and a large number of articles were collected and seized from the premises of the hospital and from different parts of the hospital building, particularly its terrace, from where the appellant and his dead accomplice had battled Date and his team.	None
The seizure of the articles found on the buildings terrace was made under the Panchnama dated November 27, 2008, Ext. no.	None
486.	None
One of the articles seized from the terrace of the Cama Hospital building was a blue, purple and black coloured rexine bag that could be carried on the back by fastening the belts around the shoulder and the waist.	None
The bag had the words CHANGING THE TIDE printed on it.	None
Inside the bag, there were several articles including a pink foam piece 51 c.m.	None
x 193 c.m.	None
x 1 c.m. in size.	None
It may further be noted that two (2) other bombs placed by the terrorists near and around Taj Hotel had failed to explode.	None
One bag containing the explosive was picked up from near a tree near Quni Tourism Chowki at a distance of fifty (50) metres from the porch of New Taj Hotel and the other was found near Gokul Restaurant in Gokul Wine Shop Lane in front of the State Bank of Hyderabad.	None
Both the bags containing explosives were seized under the Panchnama dated November 27, 2008, Ext. no. 736, in the presence of panchas Hiteshchandra Vijaykumar Awasthi and Amarnath Ramvilas Yadav.	None
In the Panchnama the description of the first explosive is given as follows One black colour carrying bag containing rectangular metal container approximately measuring 10 10 02, 5 with a metal cover on the top and latch on the side, covered by pink colour foam from all sides.	None
The firing mechanism electronic timing device, one white paper written in Urdu and English stuck upon the electronic timer, two 9V durasale (sic.) batteries, 2 electrical detonators.	None
The description of the second explosive is as follows One rectangular metal container approximately measuring 10100 2.5 with a metal coveres (sic.)	None
on the top and latch on the side.	None
Covered by pink colour foam from all sides.	None
The firing mechanism electronic timing device, one white paper written in Urdu and English stuck upon the electronic timer, two 9V durasale (sic.) batteries, 23 electrical detonators The pink foam reappears in one of the bags of blue and darkblue colour that was found in Wasabi Harbour Bar 1933 of the Taj Mahal Hotel.	None
This bag is one of the articles seized under the Panchnama dated November 29, 2008, Ext. no. 749, in the presence of the panchas Ishwar Mahadeo Kolekar and Vaibhav Vilas Patil.	None
In the Panchnama the bag is described as follows One blue and dark blue colour bag, of the height of about, two and quarter feet and 1 foot in width having two belts (strips) for carrying on the back and a blue (strip) of 5 inch in width for tying around the waist bearing the words in English as CHANGING THE TIDE in black colour and a picture in saffron, parrot green and blue colour on the bag and light pink colour foam of the size of about 2 feet in length and 1 feet in width in the bag.	None
It is obvious that the foam was used to provide padding and cushion to the IEDs and the hand grenades kept in the bags so as to prevent them exploding accidentally while the terrorists were carrying them on their person.	None
The foam pieces recovered from the Kuber and found in the bags that were picked up from CST, the terrace of the Cama Hospital building and the two bags containing unexploded IEDs found near Hotel Taj and seized under the Panchnama, Ext. no. 736, were sent for chemical examination at the Forensic Science Laboratory.	None
Rajendra Ramchandra Mavle (PW247) is the forensic expert who deposed before the court that all the foam pieces tallied with each other in respect of hue (appearance) and physicothermal characteristics.	None
He further stated to the court that the foam pieces were examined by him under Differential Thermal Analyser and that they were found to be similar in thermal characteristics.	None
Mavle concluded that the source of all the foam pieces was the same.	None
He identified his report before the court, marked as Ext. no. 1013.	None
INTERCEPTED PHONE CALLS RECORDS The most clinching evidence regarding conspiracy comes from the recordings of intercepted telephone calls between the terrorists and their coconspirators and collaborators sitting in a foreign land that, in light of the over all facts and circumstances of the case, can only be Pakistan.	None
Unlike the appellant and his dead companion, Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1), who were constantly on the move, the other terrorists had gone to Hotel Taj, Hotel Oberoi and Nariman House and were holed up there, even taking hostages for some time.	None
From their respective positions they were in regular contact with their collaborators and were constantly receiving moral support, tactical advice and guidance from them by means of mobile phones.	None
The phone calls made by the terrorists from Hotel Taj, Nariman House and Hotel Oberoi came to be noticed and were intercepted by a watchful member of the Anti Terrorist Squad.	None
Nivruti Tukaram	None
Kadam (PW242) was an Inspector of Police attached to the Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS), Mumbai.	None
He was looking after the technical wing of the ATS, which was assigned the tasks of collecting intelligence, phone interceptions and data analysis.	None
On the night of November 26 to November 27, 2008, he was on duty in his office at Nagpada, Mumbai.	None
At midnight of November 26, 2008, he received information that terrorists were making regular calls from mobile phone no.9910719424.	None
In normal circumstances, a telephone interception can only be done after getting sanction from the Government but in an emergency, interception is permissible with the approval of the immediate superior who, in this case, was the officer incharge of the ATS.	None
Hemant Karkare, Special IG, was the chief of the ATS and, as seen above, he was killed by the appellant and Abu Ismail around midnight of November 26, 2008, when the two terrorists had snatched a Qualis police vehicle after killing him and two other officers and policemen who were travelling in that vehicle.	None
Following the killing of Karkare, Param Bir Singh (PW241), Additional Commissioner of Police and Karkares deputy, had assumed charge in his place.	None
Hence, Kadam (PW242) obtained Param Bir Singhs written permission for intercepting calls from mobile phone No.9910719424.	None
The permission granted by Param Bir Singh was later accorded postfacto sanction by Chitkala Zutshi (PW253), who was at that time the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Government of Maharashtra.	None
On the basis of the permission granted for interception, directions were given to the service provider of the aforesaid phone number (Bharti Airtel) and to all other service providers, since the number was in roaming, to transfer all calls from or to that number to the police landline number 02223053162.	None
The calls made from or to the aforesaid mobile number thus diverted to the police landline could then be heard on headphones or the speaker of a computer with the aid of appropriate software.	None
The ATS office had software called Shogie installed in the office computer for that purpose.	None
Kadam stated before the court that the first conversation recorded by him from that mobile number commenced at 0104 hours on November 27, 2008, and the last call from that mobile number was recorded by him at 1027 hours of November 27, 2008.	None
He further stated before the court that the conversation was being heard by him personally and being recorded on the hard disk of the computer simultaneously.	None
The recordings from the hard disc of the computer were copied on to CDs and the conversations recorded on the CDs were later transcribed on paper.	None
He further told the court that, from the conversations made from mobile phone number 9910719424, he could make out that the callers from that phone were speaking from Hotel Taj and that their names were Ali, Umar, Abdul Rehman and Shoeb.	None
The two persons on the other end were called Vashibhai and Kafabhai.	None
In course of the night, Kadam came across two other mobile phone numbers, 9820704561 and 9819464530.	None
The first of these two was being used by the terrorists at Hotel Oberoi and the second by those at Nariman House.	None
After obtaining the necessary permissions in regard to those two phone numbers following the same procedure, Kadam intercepted and recorded the conversations made from those two phone numbers also.	None
He stated that the interception of these calls by him commenced at 0104 hours on November 27, 2008, and the last call from one of these numbers concluded at 0852 hours on November 28, 2008.	None
The total recordings of intercepted phone calls were spread over twelve (12) hours and thirtythree (33) minutes.	None
The CDs recording the intercepted phone conversations were played in court on a laptop and, on comparing the recorded voices with the written transcripts, Kadam told the court that, except for a very few minor errors, the transcripts were accurate.	None
He then proceeded to identify all the different CDs recording conversations from the three different mobile numbers and the transcripts of conversations made from those CDs.	None
Significantly, Kadam told the court that all the calls from the above three mobile phones were made to a single number, 012012531824, which later investigation revealed to be the number of private Corporation based in New Jersey, USA, with the domain name Callphonex.	None
THE CALLPHONEX Kadam (PW42) told the court that the collaborators of the terrorists appeared to be speaking from telephone number 012012531824.	None
As the international code would indicate, the number was based in the US.	None
Clarification about the number comes from the evidence of Nizar Al Sharif, who was examined by the prosecution as PW156.	None
The evidence of this witness was recorded through audiovideo linkage.	None
The witness was sitting in room no.222 of Hotel Fairfield Inn, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, where video conference facility was available.	None
Geoffrey Maron, the Special Agent of FBI who was earlier examined as PW153, first identified one David Shea on the screen as the FBI Agent in Los Angeles.	None
Shea in turn identified Nizar Al Sharif to the court on the screen.	None
Al Sharif stated before the court that he was the owner of International Connection Services (ICS) which was a Private Corporation incorporated in the year 1993 and registered in the State of Delaware.	None
The office of the Corporation was situated in New Jersey.	None
The brand name as well as the domain name of the Corporation was Callphonex.	None
The Callphonex telephone number, in the month of November, 2008, until January 6, 2009, was (201)2531824.	None
Al Sharif further stated before the court that they were providing Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) Services in wholesale as well as in retail.	None
Any person, who wanted to avail of their services, in case he was not in the US, could contact them through their website.	None
The customer had to register through email.	None
After getting the email from the customer, they would set up services in accordance with the customers requirement.	None
Prepayment was necessary in all cases.	None
He further stated that ordinarily, in case a customer availing their services made a call to any phone that displayed caller ID, the screen would display the Callphonex number (which, as noted above, was (201)2531824 in November, 2008).	None
He explained that the carrier could suppress the number but the user had no control over their number (201)2531824.	None
He further said that they had numbers from different countries.	None
Some of them were USbased and their customers could make calls to mobile numbers through VoIP.	None
He further said before the court that one person calling himself Kharak Singh (wanted accused No. 21) had contacted them through email and had told them that he was a reseller of VoIP services.	None
Kharak Singh had contacted them on October 20, 2008, by email.	None
After correspondence with Kharak Singh on email they had provided him fifteen (15) PC2Phone accounts, ten (10) Common Client accounts and five (5) DID Austrian phone numbers.	None
The email ID of Kharak Singh was Kharaktelcoyahoo.com.	None
No specific address was provided by Kharak Singh.	None
He had only said that he was from India.	None
The mails received from Kharak Singh were replied to by Nizar Al Sharif personally.	None
The first payment made by Kharak Singh was of 250 US dollars and it was received through Moneygram from Pakistan.	None
The payment was made by some Mohammed Isfaq.	None
On being shown a copy of the receipt of the Moneygram, Al Sharif identified it and it was then taken in evidence as Article 530.	None
The second payment of 229 US dollars was received through Western Union.	None
He identified the receipt of this payment as well, which was marked Article 531.	None
More importantly, Al Sharif stated to the court that the services provided by him to Kharak Singh were used most heavily from November 24 to 27, 2008.	None
The initial use was only for testing.	None
He further informed the court that he had supplied the following details to the FBI along with his letter of February 13, 2009 (Ext. No. 614).	None
Call Detail Records for subaccount 310000xx and 400000xx for client Mr. Kharak Singh Callphonex Call Detail Records for calls to 5 DID numbers Voxbone Call Detail Records to DID numbers (that Callphonex has access to and obtained on its own)	None
Three (3) chat logs between a representative of Callphonex and Mr. Kharak Singh Copy of MoneyGram receipt dt.	None
27th October, 2008, and copy of Western Union receipt dt.	None
25th	None
November, 2008.	None
Emails between Mr. Kharak Singh and Callphonex.	None
He further deposed before the court that the last mail received by him from Kharak Singh was on November 25, 2008, at 1208 PM and thereafter there was no contact between him and Kharak Singh.	None
The account of Kharak Singh was closed after December 25, 2008.	None
It does not require much imagination to see that Kharak Singh, claiming to be from India, was a fake identity created for the sole purpose of obtaining the VoIP services from Callphonex.	None
But this was made very clear by the investigation made by the FBI as would appear from a communication dated February 18, 2009, from the Special Agent of the Bureau (PW153) in response to the letterogatory issued by the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Esplanade, Mumbai, on Miscellaneous Application No.1/2009.	None
The communication from the FBI dated February 18, 2009, is Ext. no.	None
617A	None
and it states the following with regard to the two payments made to Callphonex from Kharak Singhs account Two payments were made to Callphonex for Singhs accounts.	None
On October 27, 2008, the initial payment of 250.00 was wired to Callphonex via MoneyGram, receipt number 80700471903880005473.	None
The sender for this payment was Muhammad Ishfaq.	None
The sender used MoneyGram agent Paracha International Exchange located at Road Anarkali Fayazuddin in Lahore, Pakistan.	None
According to MoneyGram records, Ishfaq provided an address of Postoffice Mall Awn Teh Gujar K, Peshawer, Pakistan and telephone number 03455698566.	None
Copies of the MoneyGram receipts are attached.	None
On November 25, 2008, the second payment of 229.00 was wired to Callphonex via Western Union, receipt number 83643077160.	None
The sender of this payment was Javaid Iqbal.	None
The sender used Western Union agent Madina Trading, located in Bescia, Italy, to make the payment to Callphonex.	None
For identification, Iqbal provided Madina Trading with Pakistani passport number KC092481.	None
The owner of Callphonex noticed that neither of the wire transfers were sent from India.	None
On November 25, 2008, he emailed Singh and asked why the transfers were not coming from India, however, he received no response.	None
As to Kharak Singh being an Indian in the aforesaid communication, the FBI Agent made the following observations The FBI determined that the kharaktelcoyahoo.com account was created on October 20, 2008, via Internet Protocol (IP) address 66.90.73.125.	None
Between October 20, 2008, and November 28, 2008, a user with access to this account logged in from the following IP addresses, which, according to opensource information, resolve to the corresponding geographic locations IP Addresses Location 58.27.167.153 (Pakistan) 66.90.73.125 (U.S. apparent proxy) 67.159.44.63 (U.S. apparent proxy) 80.78.132.155 (Kuwait) 82.114.138.18 (Russia apparent proxy) 82.114.141.99 (Russia apparent proxy) 118.107.140.138 (Pakistan) 203.81.224.201 (Pakistan) 203.81.224.202 (Pakistan)	None
203.81.224.203 (Pakistan)	None
Singhs Callphonex account has been inactive since November 28, 2008.	None
Callphonex closed Singhs account because there has been no payment, no activity and no communication from him since November 28, 2008.	None
It is noted above that among the documents furnished by Nizar Al Sharif to the FBI there were three chat logs between a representative of Callphonex and Kharak Singh and the emails between Kharak Singh and Callphonex.	None
Mr. Gopal Subramanium, in his meticulous and painstaking way, took us through the three chat logs and the emails exchanged between Kharak Singh and Callphonex.	None
We have no doubt that even in the three chat logs it is not the same person who is chatting under the fictitious name of Kharak Singh.	None
That the persons chatting as Kharak Singh are different persons is evident from the different styles of language and their use of slang.	None
Perhaps Nizar Al Sharifs commercial interest got the better of his sense of discretion, or perhaps he was too nave to see through the clear deception.	None
His services were thus used by a bunch of terrorists for the mass killing of innocent people.	None
According to him, he realized that a false account was opened with him for unlawful purposes only after the massacre in Mumbai.	None
MOBILE NUMBERS 9910719424, 9820704561 AND 9819464530	None
THE MOBILE PHONES USING THOSE NUMBERS We have seen how the collaborators of the terrorists killing innocent people in India hid behind the phone number of Callphonex and tried to conceal the locations from which they were making calls.	None
We shall now take a brief look at the three numbers from which the terrorists holed up in at Hotel Taj, Hotel Oberoi and Nariman House were calling or receiving calls from their collaborators.	None
A great many mobile phones were collected and seized from the various places through which the terrorists had passed as also from the vehicles used by the appellant and his dead companion, Abu Ismail, for moving through the city.	None
But of interest to us are only five (5) mobile phones, two (2) of which were recovered from Hotel Taj, two (2) from Nariman House and one (1) from Hotel Oberoi.	None
The two phones that were recovered from Hotel Taj are mentioned in Exhibit nos.	None
749 and 760.	None
Both were Nokia 1200 and silverandblack in colour.	None
ne of them had the IMEI No.353526024049451 and an Airtels Sim No.8991310000200898887842.	None
This phone was never used by the terrorists.	None
The other Nokia 1200 phone had the IMEI No. 353526025840890.	None
It had a Sim card purchased from Delhi in the name of one Suresh Prasad and, on calls being made from this phone, the number that was displayed on the receiving phone would be 9910719424, the first number that had come to the notice of Kadam (PW242).	None
The investigation later revealed that the Sim card for this phone was purchased from Gurvinder Singh Bakshi (PW259), a retailer in Delhi, by producing fake identity documents.	None
Suresh Prasad was a fictitious person.	None
Two Nokia 1200 phones were also recovered from Nariman House and they found mention in Exhibit no. 771.	None
One of the phones had the IMEI No.353526025828739.	None
The phone was without a Sim card and it was never used.	None
The other Nokia 1200 phone had the IMEI No.353526025842235.	None
It had a Sim card belonging to Gabriel Holtzberg, who was first taken hostage and was later killed by the terrorists.	None
It appears that the terrorists had taken away the mobile phone of Gabriel Holtzberg, took out the Sim card from his mobile and put it in their own mobile phone.	None
A call made through the Sim card of Gabriel Holtzberg would display this number on the receiving phone 9819464530.	None
This was one of the two numbers that later came to the notice of Kadam (PW242).	None
The fifth Nokia 1200 of silverandblack colour was recovered from Hotel Oberoi vide Ext.	None
no. 790.	None
Its IMEI number was 353526025933620.	None
This mobile phone had a Sim card issued in the name of one Rita Agarwal.	None
She was among those killed by the terrorists at Hotel Oberoi.	None
It appears that, as with Gabriel Holtzberg, Rita Agarwals mobile phone was also taken away by the terrorists at Hotel Oberoi, who took out the Sim card from her mobile and used it to make calls from their own mobile.	None
Any call made through the Sim card of Rita Agarwal would display the number 9820704561 on the receiving phone.	None
This was the third number that had come to the notice of Kadam (PW242).	None
It is thus clear that the terrorists at Hotel Taj were using a Sim card that was obtained in India under a fictitious name Suresh Praad on the basis of fake identity documents.	None
The terrorists at Nariman House and Hotel Oberoi used Sim cards snatched from their respective victims, which they used to make calls from their own mobile phones.	None
From the materials brought on record, it is evident that all the aforementioned five Nokia 1200 mobile phones were manufactured in DongGuan, China, and were shipped to Pakistan.	None
Exhibit no.	None
606 is a communication dated February 12, 2009, from Mary Lozano, ACP, Enforcement Manager Americas Nokia Inc. (PW155) addressed to SA Geoffrey Maron of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (PW153).	None
In the aforesaid communication it is stated as follows February 12, 2009.	None
SA Geoffrey Maron Federal Bureau of Investigation 11000 Wilshire Blvd Los Angeles, CA 90024	None
In response to the FBIs request via United States legal authority, Nokia provides information from our records concerning the following specific Nokia devices Nokia 1200, IMEI 353526024049451 2.	None
Nokia 1200, IMEI 353526025828739 Manufactured DongGuan, China Manufactured DongGuan, China Date shipped June 28, 2008 Date shipped June 26, 2008 Country shipped to Pakistan Country shipped to Pakistan Vendor product sold to United Mobile Vendor product sold to I2 Pakistan (Pvt.)	None
Ltd.	None
Nokia 1200, IMEI 353526025842235 4.	None
Nokia 1200, IMEI 353526025840890 Manufactured DongGuan, China Manufactured DongGuan, China Date shipped June 26, 2008 Date shipped June 26, 2008 Country shipped to Pakistan Country shipped to Pakistan Vendor product sold to I2 Pakistan (Pvt.)	None
Ltd.	None
Vendor product sold to I2 Pakistan (Pvt.)	None
Ltd.	None
Nokia 1200, IMEI 353526025933620 Manufactured DongGuan, China Date shipped June 28, 2008 Country shipped to Pakistan Vendor product sold to United Mobile Further, our records reflect that at the time of shipment, I2 Pakistan (Pvt.)	None
Limiteds address was I2 Pakistan (Pvt.)	None
Limited 2nd Typical Floor, Executive Tower Dolmen City, Block 4, Clifton Karachi Pakistan	None
Within the scope of my employment with Nokia, and in compliance with United States law, I am authorized to provide the above listed information derived from Nokias records.	None
Sincerely, Mary Lozano, ACP Enforcement Manager Americas Nokia Inc. 6021 Connection Drive, MS 25520 Irving, Texas We have seen the mobile phones and the SIM cards by means of which the terrorists holed up in the places targeted by them were calling their collaborators across the border and also the medium through which the exact location of the collaborators was hidden.	None
Now we come to the substance of the conversations between the terrorists and their collaborators.	None
THE TALKS	None
The attack on Mumbai killing and wounding scores of innocent people was a wicked act, and the conversations between the terrorists and their collaborators while the attack was underway appear to be its ugliest and most hateful part.	None
Those conversations unveil warped minds conceiving perverted objectives and trying to realize those objectives through vicious and dastardly means.	None
In an early talk Described in the transcripts of intercepted calls from Hotel Taj Talk no.2 that took place between 011501 to 011642 hrs.	None
on November 27, 2008, between one of the terrorists from Hotel Taj and the collaborators, the latter appear quite anxious that the hotel building should be set on fire.	None
They constantly urge the terrorist to start the fire but this man seems to be a little nervous as he finds himself alone holding a hostage (Ramamoorthy) while his other partners, who had gone on reconnaissance and in search of more hostages, are delayed in returning.	None
Every time the collaborators ask him to start the fire and throw grenades he complains that his partners have not come back even though he had told them to come back quickly.	None
The collaborators ask him many questions about the sea journey and get answers that would not have made them very happy as everything did not go as per instructions.	None
The terrorist in Hotel Taj told them that the Indian boat was not sunk in the sea but was left afloat.	None
What is more, Abu Ismails satellite phone and a GPS too were left in the boat.	None
The only information that seems to have pleased the collaborators was that the navigator of the Indian boat was killed by cutting his neck.	None
But on that score also the happiness was not complete because his body was not thrown into the sea but left on the boat itself.	None
In the midst of getting all this information the collaborators keep pressing the terrorist to start the fire but this man appears unequal to the task.	None
In another conversation between the terrorists at Nariman House and the collaborators, one of the hostages, a Mexican citizen called Norma Shvarzblat Robinovich, is brought to the phone and is threatened by the collaborators that if she wanted to remain alive she must do their bidding and talk to the Indian authorities as dictated by them.	None
The poor woman agreed to do all that they demanded and yet she was killed at the end without the slightest qulams.	None
As noted above, the recording of the intercepted conversation extend over twelve and a half (12.5) hours.	None
The transcripts of the recorded conversations are accordingly long.	None
We propose to take a look at a few excerpts as samples under the following heads.	None
Exhortation to fight in the name of Islam against heresy, and the allurement of martyrdom.	None
Deception that the terrorists were Indians and were venting the grievance of the Indian Muslims also an attempt to involve Israel.	None
Rejoicing over the killing of the high police officers.	None
Advising the terrorists on tactics to deal with the security forces, who were called in to neutralize them.	None
Killing of the hostages Exhortation to fight in the name of Islam against heresy, and the allurement of martyrdom 392.	None
(1) TRANSCRIPTS FROM HOTEL TAJ Talk No. 3 (Ext. no. 970 Collectively) (The collaborator talking from across the border is marked as UK and the terrorists holed up in Hotel Taj are marked as T) UK 2 Allah yaar aapka kaam kabool kare.	None
Bahot saare logon ke zakhm par marham rakha gaya hai.	None
Jo dua aapko batayee thee na wo bhoolni nahi hai.	None
Jahan bhi baitho teen baar dua zaroor padhni hai.	None
My friend, may Allah accept your deed.	None
Balm has been put on the wounds of many people.	None
Do not forget the prayer that we made you learn wherever you sit recite the prayer three times.	None
UK 2 Baaki bhaiyon ko salaam kehna.	None
Mazboot rehna apni baaton mein, apni baaton mein mazbooti paida karo.	None
Aapne duniya ko chhoda hai.	None
Jannat Inshaallah iss se bahut behtar hai.	None
Apne vaade zaroor poore karna jo sachhe vaade hain.	None
Hamare liye bhi dua karna.	None
Tell my Salaam to the rest of the brothers.	None
Be strong in your actions in your actions instill strength.	None
You have left this world.	None
Paradise is far better than this world.	None
You must fulfil your promises, which are true promises.	None
Pray for us too.	None
TRANSCRIPTS FROM HOTEL OBEROI Talk No. 4 (Ext. no. 979) (The collaborator talking from across the border has been marked as UK nd the terrorists holed up in the Hotel Oberoi are marked as T) UK Inshaallah, pata matlab yeh hai ki iss waqt Islam aur Kufr ka mamla hai.	None
Hum	None
woh bande hain jisko Allah ne apne deen ke jahaan ke liye bheja hai.	None
Matlab shahadat ki maut toh badi hai.	None
Lekin hai shahadat ka andaaz hai ki dushmanon ke dil mein khauf bitha dein.	None
Aur sahi andaaz hai matlab shahadat.	None
Matlab, na darne ki baat hai, shaheed ka paigaam aage rakhna hai.	None
God willing, you know, what I mean is at this time the issue is between Islam and heresy.	None
We are the slaves of God whom he has sent for expansion of the true faith.	None
I mean, death as a martyr is a big thing.	None
But the style of martyrdom should be such as to put fright in the heart of the enemies and that is the style of martyrdom.	None
What I mean is there is nothing to fear, the message of the martyr must be put forward.	None
UK Dua karo, dua ka waqt hai.	None
Sahi Allah ke saath kiye vaade poore karein.	None
Theek hai.	None
Pray.	None
It is time for prayer and keep your promise to Allah.	None
All right UK Aisa ladna hai ki unhein maloom pade	None
ki	None
Allah ka sher mere peechey pada hai.	None
Fight in such a way, they should feel that Allahs lion is after them.	None
TII Inshaallah.	None
God willing.	None
UK Inshaallah.	None
Matlab Shaheed.	None
God willing.	None
What I mean is martyr.	None
TII Inshaallah.	None
Dua karo.	None
God willing.	None
Pray for me.	None
UKII	None
Unko bada maan hai	None
Hindu bhai ko, unka maan khaak mein mila dein.	None
They have great pride those Hindu bhais.	None
Let their pride be trampled in mud.	None
T Inshaallah.	None
God willing.	None
UKII Sahi hai.	None
Zikr karo Inshaallah kaamyaabi har taraf se aapki hai.	None
Aapki yeh kaamyaabi Allah kabool karle, theek hai.	None
Sahi Inshaallah, Allahtala ne Jannat bilkul clear kar di.	None
Aapke liye shareer mahi hai.	None
Inshaallah sabne jaana wahin par hai.	None
Jis raste se aap chal rahe ho woh himmatwala rasta hai.	None
Inshaallah, himmatwala kaam karna hai.	None
Remember Him and God willing success will be of yours.	None
May God accept your success.	None
That is right.	None
Right, God willing.	None
Allah has completely cleared paradise for you.	None
Everyone has to go there.	None
The path on which you are treading that is the path of strength.	None
God willing.	None
You have to do the courageous deed.	None
T Inshaallah.	None
God willing.	None
Talk No. 11 (Ext. no. 981) (This is towards the conclusion perhaps the last minutes of Fahadullah).	None
T AssalaamValeykum.	None
AssalaamValeykum.	None
UK Valeykum Salaam, kya haal hai Fahadullah, mere yaar khairiyat hai?	None
Valeykum Salaam.	None
How are you Fahadullah, my friend are you all right?	None
T Abdul Rahman Bhaiyya Allah ko pyaare ho gaye.	None
Abdul Rahman Bhaiyya has been taken away by God.	None
UK Achha, aapke paas hi hain?	None
Well, is he near you?	None
T Haan jee paas hi hain.	None
Yes.	None
He is near me.	None
UK Allah kabool kare.	None
Mere veer sabr karna hai, himmat karni hai aur muquabla karna hai datt ke.	None
May Allah accept him.	None
My brother have forbearance.	None
Be brave, you have to fight unrelentingly.	None
T Inshaallah.	None
God willing.	None
UK Haan.	None
Allah madad karega.	None
Yes.	None
Allah will help you.	None
UK Theek hai mere yaar, himmat karo.	None
Muquabla karo, josh se lado.	None
Theek hai.	None
Dua karo, iss waqt karo, iss waqt ki dua badi kabool hoti hai.	None
All right my friend.	None
Be brave.	None
Fight, fight with passion.	None
Alright.	None
Pray, pray.	None
Prayer at this time is very readily accepted.	None
Talk No. 12 (Ext. no. 982) UK Giraftaari waali shakl nahin hone deni.	None
Yeh baat yaad rakhni hai.	None
(There cannot be the eventuality of arrest.	None
You have to remember this.)	None
T Nahin.	None
Inshaallah, Inshaallah. (No. God willing, god willing.)	None
UK Himmat karni hai mere veer, ghabraana nahin hai, Inshaallah goli lage toh kaamyaabi hai.	None
Allah intezaar kar raha hai.	None
(My brother you have to be strong.	None
Do not be afraid.	None
God willing.	None
If you are hit by a bullet, in that is your success.	None
God is waiting for you.)	None
T Haan jee.	None
Inshaallah.	None
(All right.	None
God willing.)	None
Deception that the terrorists were Indians and were killing people to vent the grievance of the Indian Muslims also the attempt to involve Israel 393.	None
(2) TRANSCRIPTS FROM NARIMAN HOUSE Talk No. 7 (Ext. no. 984) (The collaborator talking from across the border has been marked as UK and the terrorists holed up in the Nariman House are marked as T) UKIII Aap woh poochhenge aap kahan ke hain.	None
Kehna mein Hyderabad Deccan ka hoon.	None
Now they will ask where do you belong to?	None
Say, I am from Hyderabad Deccan.	None
T Jee.	None
Yes.	None
UKIII Hyderabad city ka theek hai.	None
City of Hyderabad, understand.	None
T Hyderabad Deccan.	None
UKIII Hyderabad city ka Hyderabad city ka hoon aur chowki ka mera area hai.	None
Hyderabad city, I am from Hyderabad city, from the Chowki area T Chowki UKIII Tolee Chowki.	None
Tolee Chowki.	None
T Tolee Chowki theek hai.	None
Tolee Chowki, all right.	None
UKIII Aur phir poochhey toh kehna Mujahedeen Hyderabad Deccan se mera talluk hai.	None
Theek hai.	None
And if they ask further, say that you are associated with Mujahedeen Hyderabad Deccan.	None
T Theek hai.	None
All right UKIII Mujahedeen Hyderabad Deccan ise hasi sangeen (sic tanzeem) se mera taluk hai.	None
Aur agar weh kehte hain ye action kyon ki hai.	None
Hum hukumat ki doshi policy hukumat ki dohri policy hukumat peeth thapthapati hai.	None
Aur prashasan sar pe tole marti hai.	None
Mujahedden Hyderabad Deccan is the organization to which I belong.	None
And if they say why did you do this action.	None
(say) against the wrong policy of the Government, the dual policy of the Government.	None
The Government pats the back and the administration knocks on the head.	None
T Hukumat ki doshi policy.	None
Hukumat peeth thapthapati hai.	None
The wrong policy of the Government.	None
The Government pats the back.	None
UKIII Hukumat peeth thapthapati hai.	None
The Government pats the back.	None
T Peeth thapthapati hai.	None
Pats the back.	None
UKIII Aur prashasan jo hai sar par tole maarta hai.	None
And the administration, such as it is, knocks on the head.	None
T Aur prashasan.	None
And administration.	None
UKIII Sar par tole maarta hai.	None
Uski taaza misaal Sachhar Committee ki shifarishein, uski taaza misaal.	None
Knocks on the head.	None
Its recent example (is) the recommendations of the Sachhar Committee.	None
T Uski taaza misaal.	None
Its recent example.	None
UKIII Sachhar Committee shifarish.	None
Jis taraf hukumat jo ye ailaan karti hai aur darasal vajah prashasan Muslim yuvkon ko pakad pakad kar giraftaar karti hai.	None
Sachhar Committee recommendations.	None
On the one hand the Government makes this announcement and in reality in order to harass them, the administration pursues Muslim youths and arrests them.	None
T Hukumat koi aur insaan karti hai.	None
The Government makes another announcement.	None
UKIII Prashasan uska amal Muslim yuvkon ko giraftaar karke deta hai.	None
Saabit karta hai.	None
(And) the administration implements it by arresting the Muslim youth.	None
This just shows.	None
T Muslim.	None
UKIII Muslim yuvkon ko, Muslim jawaanon ko.	None
The Muslim youth, the young Muslim.	None
T Nau jawaanon ko.	None
The youngsters.	None
UKIII Giraftaar karke sabit karta hai.	None
Makes it clear by arresting them.	None
T Haan.	None
Yes.	None
UKIII Unka future barbaad karti hai.	None
Unko ye ultimatum de denge hamra abhi toh trailor hai abhi asal film to baaki hai.	None
Hukumat ye jaan le yeh trailor hai, asal film to baaki hai.	None
Destroys their future.	None
Give them the ultimatum that this is only the trailor and the main film is yet to come.	None
The Government should know that this is only the trailor and the main film still remains.	None
T Hukumat ye jaan le sarkaar	None
ye jaan le yeh trailor hai asal film to baaki hai.	None
The Government should know, the Government should know that this is the trailor and the real film is still remaining.	None
UKIII Yeh to abhi trailor hai.	None
This is only the trialor.	None
T Yeh to abhi trailor hai.	None
This is only the trialor.	None
UKIII Yeh to chhotta sa udaharan hai mein.	None
Chhota sa example hai.	None
Trailor hai.	None
This is only a small example, is a small example, is only the trailor.	None
T Yeh trailor hai.	None
This is only the trialor.	None
UKIII Yeh chhotta sa humne aapko dikhaya hai.	None
We have shown you only this little thing.	None
T Film to abhi saara pada hai.	None
The whole film is still there.	None
UKIII Unko kaho ye chhota sa namoona hai.	None
Abhi hukumat ko dekhna hai.	None
Aage aur kya kya hota hai.	None
Tell them this is only a small sample.	None
The Government is yet to see what happens in the time to come.	None
T Abhi hukumat dekhegi kya hota hai.	None
The Government will see what happens now.	None
UKIII Theek hai.	None
Alright.	None
T Theek hai.	None
Theek hai.	None
Alright.	None
Alright.	None
UKIII Woh kahenge na aapka demand kaya hai.	None
Hello.	None
They will say what is your demand.	None
Hello.	None
T Haan jee, haan jee.	None
Yes jee, yes jee.	None
UKIII Jitne bhi jailon mein musalman qaid hain unko riha kiya jaaye.	None
Ek number.	None
All the Musalmans who are languishing in jails should be released.	None
Number one.	None
T Saare musalman riha.	None
All the Musalmans released.	None
UKIII Jitne bhi jailon mein band musalman hain unko riha kiya jaaye.	None
All the Musalmans who are locked up in jails should be released.	None
T Theek hai.	None
Alright.	None
UKIII Theek hai.	None
Number do.	None
Alright.	None
Number two.	None
T Jee.	None
Yes.	None
UKIII Muslim state, Muslmanon ke hawaale kiya jaaye.	None
Muslim state should be handed over to the Musalmans.	None
T State Musalmanon ke hawaale kiya jaaye.	None
State should be handed over to the Musalmans.	None
UKIII Number teen.	None
Kashmir se fauj bulayee jaaye.	None
Unko unka haq diya jaaye.	None
Kashmiriyon ko unke haq diya haaye (jaaye).	None
Number three.	None
The Army should be withdrawn from Kashmir.	None
They should be given their rights.	None
Kashmiris should be given their rights.	None
T Theek hai.	None
Alright.	None
UKIII Babri Masjid ki jagah par fauran masjid ka kaam shuru kiya jaaye.	None
Uss Jagah ko musalmanon ke hawaale kiya jaaye.	None
At the site of Babri Masjid, work should immediately commence for construction of the mosque.	None
That spot should be handed over to the Musalmans.	None
T Theek hai.	None
Theek hai.	None
Alright.	None
Alright.	None
UKIII Uss jagah ko musalmanon ke hawaale kiya jaaye.	None
Israel ke saath gathbandhan na kiya jaaye.	None
That spot should be handed over to the Musalmans.	None
There should be no collaboration with Israel.	None
T Israel ke saath gathbandhan na kiya jaaye.	None
There should be no collaboration with Israel.	None
UKIII Israel ke saath gathbandhan na kiya jaaye.	None
There should be no collaboration with Israel.	None
T Jee Jee.	None
UKIII	None
Hello Hello.	None
T Haan jee.	None
Yes jee.	None
UKIII Israel ko ye ultimatum diya jaaye ya bawar beware kiya jaaye ki	None
woh musalmanon par zulm na kare.	None
Philippines udhar zulm jaati bandh kare.	None
An ultimatum should be given to Israel it should be made to realize not to oppress the Musalmans and Philippines too should stop oppressing and harassing.	None
T Israel ko.	None
To Israel.	None
UKIII Philippines ki musalmanon ke upar jaatati jyadati bandh kiya jaaye.	None
The harassment of the Musalmans of Philippines should stop.	None
T Israel musalman ke khoon se khelna chhod dein.	None
Israel should stop playing with the blood of Musalmans.	None
UKIII Ha.	None
(Whispers Oberoi mein dhamakon ki awwaz)	None
Theek hai.	None
Ha.	None
(Whispers to the colleagues with him Sound of explosion in Oberoi.	None
Alright.	None
T Jee, Jee.	None
Jee, Jee.	None
UKIII Agar Israel uss tarah nahin karegaa toh poore Yahi hai bus theek hai.	None
If Israel does not do like this then all this That is it and alright.	None
T Jee, Jee.	None
Jee, Jee.	None
UKIII Yahi kehna hai.	None
Bus yahi kehna hai.	None
This is to be said.	None
Only this is to be said.	None
T Jee, Jee.	None
Jee, Jee.	None
UKIII Israel jo yeh bharat ke musalmanon ke beech mein dakhal andaazi nahin karein.	None
Israel should not interfere with the Musalmans of Bharat.	None
T Theek hai.	None
Alright.	None
UKIII Theek.	None
Right.	None
T SalaamValeykum.	None
UKII Valeykumassalaam.	None
And it was exactly on these lines that the terrorists from Nariman House talked to India TV as the transcripts of those interviews would indicate.	None
The deception, the falsehood that the terrorists were Indian Muslims coming from Hyderabad and were connected with some fictitious organization called Mujaheddin, Hyderabad Deccan, is one of the most ominous and distressing parts of the conspiracy.	None
If the appellant had not been caught alive and the investigating agencies had not been able to unravel the conspiracy fully and in all its devious ways, the terrorists might have passed as Indian Muslims and that would have led to devastating shortterm and equally debilitating longterm consequences.	None
It would have caused a cleavage of distrust and suspicion between communities and disturbed the communal peace and harmony of the country.	None
It is not impossible that conflagrations would have erupted in different parts of the country which the governments would have found difficult to contain.	None
In this regard, the selection of CST as one of the targets for carnage assumes great importance.	None
Trains leave for many parts of the country from CST.	None
Thus, as news of the carnage spread across the country through the media, travelers would start arriving in different parts of the country, some having lost their near and dear ones at CST, some with a wounded companion and others shellshocked by the experience of a terrorist attack on the railway station.	None
Their firsthand, eyewitness accounts of the carnage added to reports in the print media and visuals in the electronic media could be highly inflammable and could easily evoke communal violence that would be difficult to contain.	None
The deception was ominous because it aimed at destabilising Indian society and its governments.	None
But it was equally distressing for being so deeply untruthful.	None
Indian Muslims may have a long list of grievances against the establishment.	None
Some of the grievances may be fanciful, some may be of their own making and some may be substantive.	None
Nevertheless, no Indian Muslim would even think of venting his grievance like an animal, killing, maiming and wounding innocent people his own countrymen.	None
This is because he is not only loyal to his faith and community but equally loves his country and fellow countrymen.	None
Rejoicing over the killing of high police officials 398.	None
(3) TRANSCRIPTS FROM HOTEL TAJ Talk No. 3 (Ext. no. 970) (The collaborator talking from across the border has been marked as UK and the terrorists holed up in the Hotel Taj are marked as T) UK Koi masla nahin mere yaar, pareshaan nahin hona mere yaar.	None
Aap kaam karo, Allah ki dua se saari Bombay mein tabahi mach gayi hai.	None
260 bandhe zakhmi hain aur kayee officer mare gayee hain, pachaas fidayeen ghusey hain.	None
Har terah choudah jagah firing ho rahi hai.	None
Sahi Allah ke dua se mahaul bana raha hai.	None
Koyee pareshaani ki baat nahin.	None
There is no problem my friend, dont get worried my friend.	None
You do your work.	None
By the blessing of God there is destruction all around in the whole of Bombay.	None
Two hundred and sixty (260) people are wounded and many officers are killed.	None
Fifty (50) fidayeens have entered.	None
Firing is going on at thirteenfourteen (1314) places.	None
By the blessing of God the right atmosphere is developing.	None
There is nothing to worry.	None
T Pareshaani wah bass hai.	None
Do bhai gaye hain.	None
Who jaldi aa jaayein.	None
Unko mein baar baar kehta hoon.	None
Jaldi aa jaao, jaldi aa jaana.	None
The only worry is two brothers have gone.	None
They should come quickly.	None
I told them repeatedlyCome quickly, come quickly.	None
UK Aapke yahan shayad koyee helicopter aayega.	None
Kyonki aapke yahan koyi wazeer fansey hain hotel mein?	None
Hotel mein bhi media bata rahe hain ki wazeer fansey hain.	None
A helicopter may come to your place.	None
Because there is some Minister trapped in the hotel?	None
The media too informs that some Minister is caught in the hotel.	None
T Achha.	None
Very well.	None
UK Ab wazeer alam ye kaha hai.	None
Helicopter bhejkar woh wazeer logon nikalo.	None
To aap aag laga do darwaza nahin khol rahe hain.	None
Parde nikalkar aag lagao.	None
Kamron ko aag lagao to wazeer jale.	None
Aur unki jaan jaayen.	None
Now the Prime Minister has asked for sending a helicopter to get that Minister (those Ministers?) out.	None
Then you set fire (if) they are not opening the doors.	None
Take the curtains and set them on fire.	None
Set the rooms on fire so that the Minister should burn.	None
And get killed.	None
T Chalo koshish karte hain.	None
Woh aa jaaye na yaar to yeh masla hai.	None
Hum donon rumaaliyon ke paas bethe hain, woh aa jaate hain to hum ikattha koshish karte hain.	None
Very well, well try.	None
The problem is that theyre not coming.	None
I am sitting with the two hostages.	None
When they come back, we shall try (to start the fire) together.	None
UK Aur ek Commissioner maara gaya hai Allah ki dua se.	None
Aapko kaha hai ek hathoda opener dhoondo.	None
And one commissioner is killed by the blessing of God.	None
I told you to find a hammer or an opener.	None
T Nahin, nahin mila.	None
It is not found.	None
UK Mere bhai jahan bhi deewaron par cylinder aag bujhane ko lagaayein hain, udhar hathoda latkaay rehtey hain.	None
Har hotel mein rehta hai.	None
Har manzil pe rehta hai, har gali mein hota hai.	None
My brother at all the points where cylinders are fixed for extinguishing fire a hammer would also be hanging.	None
It is there in every hotel.	None
It is there on each floor, it is in every corridor.	None
T Woh kis liye hota hai.	None
(Whisper) Sabse zyada zulm karnewala Commissioner maara gaya.	None
What is its purpose.	None
(Whisper) The Commissioner who oppressed most is killed.	None
UK Achha mere veer mere bhai jaldi se aag lagao jaise maahol banega.	None
Aur log ghabra jaayengein, aag ke sholey bahar nazar aa jaayengein.	None
Alright my veer, my brother, please start the fire quickly.	None
That would set the scene and people will panic, the flames would be visible from outside.	None
UK Haa, Maine kaha yahan ka Bombay ka police.	None
Yes I said of this place, of Bombay police.	None
T Haa haa Pathan hai.	None
Yes yes, he is pathan.	None
UK Yeh Bombay ka Chief maara gaya.	None
The Bambay Chief is killed.	None
T Whisper (to the handler) Maharashtrya hai.	None
(to the hostage)	None
Tu kidhar ka hai.	None
Kis ilake ka hai tu kidhar ka hai.	None
Whisper (to the handler)	None
He is Maharashtrian.	None
(To the hostage) Where do you belong?	None
From which region, which place?	None
UK Chief maara gaya hai.	None
ATS chief maara gaya hai.	None
The chief is killed.	None
The ATS chief is killed.	None
TRANSCRIPTS FROM NARIMAN HOUSE Talk No. 18 (Ext. no. 988) (The collaborator talking from across the border has been marked as UK and the terrorists holed up in the Nariman House are marked as T)	None
T Woh toh keh raha tha do bhai surrender ho gaye.	None
He was saying two brothers have surrendered.	None
UK Nahi bakwaas kar rahe hain.	None
No they are talking nonsense.	None
T Jee Jee UK Surrender ho gaya.	None
Bakwaas kar raha hai.	None
Kal se lekar aaj tak unse koyi bhi jagah clear nahin hui hai.	None
Surrendered He is talking rubbish.	None
From yesterday till today no place has been cleared by them.	None
T Aur kya naam lete hain.	None
Uska.	None
Baaki bhai kahan tak pahunch gaye hain.	None
And what other names do they take.	None
His.	None
Till where the rest of the brothers have reached.	None
UK Sab jahaan jahaan apni apni jagah par gaye they na.	None
They all went where they were meant to go.	None
T Haan jee.	None
Yes jee.	None
UK Udhar hain.	None
Allam Dulla	None
woh toh sahi behtreen ladh rahe hain.	None
Kaam jaari hai.	None
Insey ab tak koyi bhi jagah clear nahin hui.	None
Yeh koyi	None
na kahe rahe humne yeh jagah chudwa lee hai.	None
They are there.	None
Allah be praised they are fighting excellently.	None
The work is in progress.	None
They have not been able to clear any place.	None
No one is saying that they have got this place freed.	None
T Achha Achha dua karein, shahadat kee maut kubool karein.	None
Dua	None
Well well pray for me, the martyrs death may be accepted.	None
Pray Advising the terrorists on the tactics to deal with the security forces who were called in to neutralize them 399.	None
(4) TRANSCRIPTS FROM HOTEL TAJ Talk No. 3 (Ext. no. 970) (The collaborator talking from across the border has been marked as UK and the terrorists holed up in the Hotel Taj are marked as T) UK2 Baat suno.	None
Listen.	None
T3 Haan jee.	None
Yes jee.	None
UK2 Jahan se aap mudhkar aaye ho, aapka munh samudr ke baaju hua.	None
The spot from where you have returned, you should be facing the sea.	None
T3 Haan haan.	None
Yes yes.	None
UK2 Hello.	None
Hello. T3 Haan jee.	None
Mein sun raha hoon.	None
Yes jee.	None
I am listening.	None
UK2 Jis taraf aap mude ho aapka munh samudr ke paas hua.	None
Wahan mod ke road ke upar ek building hai civil logon ki.	None
Woh asal mein Navy ki hai.	None
Woh civil ko di hai.	None
Uskey taraf do jagah police waale khade hain.	None
Woh position lekar aapke upar shisht lekar firing kar rahe hain.	None
Jis tarah aap gaye hain.	None
Uske peechey se aakar aapko fire karna padhega.	None
Theek hai.	None
The way you have turned, you should be facing the sea.	None
There, at the corner of the road, there is a building of civilian people.	None
In reality that belongs to the Navy.	None
It is given to the civilians.	None
Over there, policemen are standing at two places.	None
They have taken position and, taking aim at you, they are firing at you.	None
The way you have gone you would have to come from behind and fire at them.	None
You understand?	None
T3 Theek hai.	None
All right.	None
Talk No. 8 (Ext. no. 972) UK Kyaa haal mere yaar?	None
Shift ho gaye neechey.	None
How are you, my friend?	None
Have you shifted below?	None
T Haan ji shift ho gaye hein aur doosare kamron mein chale hain clear karne ke liye.	None
Yes jee, we have shifted and are moving to clear the other rooms.	None
UK Upar aag laga di hai?	None
Have you set fire upstairs?	None
T Grenade fenka hai.	None
Grenade.	None
We have thrown a grenade.	None
Grenade.	None
UK Grenade ki awaaz aa gayi hai.	None
Grenade unhone dikha diya hai.	None
Dhamaka hua hai.	None
Aadmi zakhmi hue hain.	None
The sound of the grenade has come.	None
They have shown the grenade.	None
The explosion has taken place.	None
People are wounded.	None
T Toh aag lagane lagey hain.	None
So, (you) have started to lit the fire.	None
UK Jis kamre se nikal kar aaye ho upar waali manzil hai na?	None
The room from where youve come (is) on the upper floor?	None
T Haan jee, haan jee.	None
Yes jee, yes jee.	None
UK Usko mere yaar jaakar aag lagao.	None
My friend, go and set fire to it T Haan jee bhai.	None
Yes jee, bhai.	None
UK Kamron ke beech pardey hain gadde hain unko ikathha karke aag laga do.	None
In the rooms there are curtains and cushions, Put them together and set them on fire.	None
T Asal aag lagane mein bhi utni der lagati hai aur rumaali dhondhne ko utni der lagati hai.	None
Bataao ki hum kya karein.	None
Aage ki toh mauj laga denge mashaallah.	None
Actually it takes some time to start a fire, and it takes as long to find hostages.	None
Tell us what to do.	None
Well create real fun, presently.	None
UK Aag laga do, aag laga do mere yaar, kamra koyi naya clear karne lage ho.	None
Set fire, set fire my friend are you clearing any new rooms?	None
T Haan jee.	None
Yes jee UK Pehle chalo aag lagao mere yaar upar ek banda bas ho gaya.	None
Aag lagake neechey aa jaao.	None
Ek banda hai na.	None
First go and set a fire, my friend.	None
One fellow (is caught)	None
upstairs, that is enough.	None
Set fire and come down.	None
You have one fellow, dont you?	None
T Nahin do bandey hain.	None
No there are two men.	None
UK Nahin do bandey toh upar, party poori bhej do unke paas phone hai na doosra.	None
No, two men are upstairs.	None
Send the whole party to them.	None
You have the other phone?	None
T Haan jee.	None
Yes jee.	None
UK Dono ikkatha karke aag lagake aao.	None
Put them together and set the fire and come.	None
T Asal mein hum seediyon ke paas ek kamra liya hai bada jabardast, ek banda seediyon ke paas ek banda andar mein baitha hai roomali ke saath aur do bande baahar khyal rakhenge.	None
Actually, we have taken a room near the stairs that is great.	None
One man is near the stairs, one man is sitting inside with the hostage, and two men are keeping watch outside.  	None
UK2 Fire hua hai.	None
There has been a fire T2 Haan fire hua.	None
Abhi apna darwaaza band rakhein?	None
Yes, there has been a fire.	None
Should we keep our door closed?	None
UK Nahin aap chaaron ek kamre mein nahin ikkatha hongein.	None
Woh yaad rakhein aapke kareeb koyi pahunchega toh aapke hain na jo aapke paas baithey hue.	None
No, all four of you should not be together in one room.	None
Keep in mind, if anyone comes close to you then those (hostages) who are sitting with you T2 Haan.	None
Yes UK Jab aapko lage koyi hamarey kareeb pahunch gaye hain aur hamare liye mushkil ho rahi hai.	None
Tab unko aapne khadka dena hai.	None
When you feel someone has reached close to you and its getting difficult for you, then you have to kill them (the hostages).	None
T2 Haan haan.	None
Inshaallah. Khadka denge.	None
Inshaallah chaaron hum ek hi kamre mein hain hum log.	None
Yes yes.	None
Godwilling, we shall kill them.	None
Godwilling all four of us are in the same room.	None
UK Haan yeh baat suno.	None
Chaaron ek kamrey na hon.	None
Do kamron mein aapne intezaam karna hai.	None
Yes, listen to this.	None
All four of you, dont be in one room.	None
Make arrangements in two rooms.  	None
UK2 Yeh aap kis manzil par hain aap.	None
On which floor are you?	None
T2 Hum sabse upar waali chhodkar neecheywale pe.	None
On the topmost but one.	None
UK2 Sabse ooperwali chhodkar neechey wale pe.	None
Bande kitne hain aapke paas.	None
On the topmost but one.	None
How many hostages are with you?	None
T2 Ek minute jee.	None
Sohaib ko fire maara hai unhon ne toh pehle band karte hain phir aapse raafta (baat kartey hain) kartey hain.	None
One minute jee.	None
Sohaib has been fired at by them so we stop this talk and get connected with you later on.	None
UK2 Line mat kato hum sun rahe hain.	None
Dont cut the line, we are listening.	None
T2 Ek minute.	None
One minute.	None
UK2 Position badlo.	None
Position badlo.	None
Change your position.	None
Change your position.	None
T2 Achha achha.	None
Sohaib ne maara hai un bandon ko fire.	None
All right, all right.	None
Sohaib has shot at those men.	None
UK2 Allam Dulla jagah badlo, position badlo, ikkattha mat baitho.	None
Jahan se aa rahe hain wahan grenade fenko.	None
Teesri manzil pe baithe hain.	None
Allah be praised, changed your place, change your position, dont sit together.	None
Throw a grenade at (the direction from) where they are coming.	None
They are on the third floor.	None
TRANSCRIPTS FROM HOTEL OBEROI Talk No. 4 (Ext. no. 979) (The collaborator talking from across the border has been marked as UK and the terrorists holed up in the Hotel Oberoi are marked as T) UK Aapki building ke upar fauji apni position bahut mazboot kar rahi hain.	None
Number ek.	None
On the top of your building the soldiers are making their position very strong.	None
Number one (1).	None
T Jee, Jee.	None
Jee, Jee. UK Agar aapko manzil pe aawaaz aa rahi ho toh chhupo andar.	None
If noises are coming on your floor then hide inside.	None
T Haan jee.	None
Yes jee.	None
UK Aapko aawaaz nahin aa rahi ho to aap nikal kar jahah aapko movement nazar aati hai wahan par fire karo.	None
If there are no noises coming to you then come out and fire at the spot where you see any movements.	None
T Aawaaz to khair aa rahi hai bahut jyaada balki dhamaka bhi kiya hai.	None
Definitely, there is a lot of noise, and there has also been an explosion.	None
UK Pehli manzil par aa rahi hai aawaaz.	None
Dhamaka, dhamaka, kaun sa hua hai?	None
The noise is coming on the first floor?	None
Explosion, explosion, what explosion happened?	None
T Pata nahin kaun sa hai.	None
I dont know what (explosion) is this.	None
UK Army ne kiya na?	None
Is it by the Army?	None
T Haan jee.	None
Yes jee.	None
UK Saamne aapke manzil par se aa rahi hain kya aawaazein?	None
Are noises coming from the front side of your floor?	None
T Haan jee, aa rahin hain.	None
Yes jee, (noises) are coming.	None
UK Haa, phir aap mazboot hokar dono iss tarah se position lekar agar do teen bande andar ikkathha aate hain toh aapke paas magazine kitni hai?	None
Ha, then be strong and the two of you should take positions in a manner that in case two or three men come inside together then how many magazines do you have?	None
T Char paanch hain.	None
Fourfive (45) are there.	None
UK Aapki magazine ko burst pe kar lo.	None
Char char hain naa?	None
Put your magazine on burst mode.	None
Each of you have four (4), right?	None
T Haan jee.	None
Yes jee.	None
UK Aap magazine ko load kar, aap apni gun ko burst par kar lo.	None
Jab bhi fire karna hai.	None
You load the magazine and put your gun on burst when you have to fire.	None
T Sahi.	None
Right.	None
UK Phir control karke chhota karna hai kyonki jab entry hogi toh ek ke baad doosra, doosre ke baad teesra, aisa aana hai unhonein.	None
Tab burst fire karna hai.	None
Zarase bhi nazdeek aayenge to grenade fenko aur jaise grenade fenkoge tab aapne bahar nikal kar saamne daayein baayein firing karni hai toh phir Fadullah.	None
Then you have to control and make it smaller because when they enter, the second would come after first and the third after the second.	None
They would come like this.	None
Then you have to fire the burst.	None
If they come any closer, then throw the grenade and as soon as you throw the grenade come out and fire in the front and to the right and left and then Fadullah  UK Theek hai naa, hausle dena.	None
Mere dost gun burst par karlo.	None
Matlab bilkul position set karke baitho.	None
Aap kissi aad se baithe ho ya khule baithe ho?	None
Is it all right, give courage.	None
My friend put the gun on burst.	None
I mean sit in perfect position.	None
Are you sitting behind some cover or are you exposed?	None
T Side par baithe hain.	None
We are sitting at one side.	None
UK Aise baithen ke andar aate hain, aapke upar nazar nahin pade.	None
Aap kissi sofe ke peechhey bairal gun ki nikaal kar baitho.	None
Yeh ek andaaza hai.	None
Khada banda nazar aa jaata hai.	None
Aaap aise position leke baitho, unko andar aate hi unhein nazar ghumani pade, unko clear karna pade, woh kamre clear kar rahe hain.	None
Sabse pehle unhone clear karna hai.	None
Aapke kamre mein bed aur saamaan kitna hai?	None
Sit in a manner that you may not be within the sight of someone coming inside.	None
Sit behind some sofa with the barrel of the gun sticking out.	None
This is only a suggestion.	None
A standing man is easily sighted.	None
Sit at a position that on coming inside they may have to look around, they may have to make clear.	None
They are clearing the rooms.	None
First of all they have to clear.	None
How many beds and other articles are there in your room?	None
T Haan jee hai.	None
Yes jee	None
it is there.	None
UK Aapke kamre mein bed saamaan hai na unki aad leke baitho toh aap uske peechhey dekhkar baithna.	None
Bahar jab aap grenade fenkna hai toh aap ek bandene peechhey ho jaana hai.	None
Achha, jaise grenade khatam hoti hai bahar nikal ke dono taraf se fire shuru karna.	None
Jitna dushman marna ya bhaagna, poora floor kaabu kar lena, Inshaallah.	None
Uske baad ladhai chaalu hogi.	None
In your room there is bed and other articles.	None
Make sure that you sit behind them.	None
When you are throwing grenade outside, then one of you should stand behind the other.	None
And as the grenades explosion dies down, go out and start firing on both sides.	None
Kill as many of the enemy as possible or make them flee, control the entire floor, Godwilling and then the battle will begin.	None
T InshaAllah, theek hai.	None
Godwilling alright.	None
UK Matlab position safe rakho, agar aapke aage bed hai na foam wagaira kaa, lakkad ka foam ka sofa hai.	None
Aisi cheez se aadh milegi agar aapko grenade fenkna padta hai to fenko.	None
Matlab aisa darwaza kholkar fenko apne pairon mein nahin fenk lena.	None
Lekin yeh option hai.	None
Magazine laga ke sab tarah se taiyar rakho.	None
Inshaallah jo ek banda milta hai Inshaallah chhodna nahin hai.	None
I mean keep your position safe.	None
If you have a bed in front of you of foam etc. or a sofa of foam or wood.	None
Such things will provide you cover, if you have to throw the grenade then throw.	None
I mean open the door and throw it and dont throw it on your own feet.	None
But there is an option.	None
Fix the magazine and be ready in all ways.	None
Godwilling, if you get hold of a person Godwilling he is not to be spared.	None
Talk No. 12 (Ext. no. 982) UK Salaam vaaleykum.	None
Fahadullah mere veer ladayee ki koyi shikast banti nahin ki aap bahar aakar ladain.	None
Grenade fenk kar wahan se nikalne ki koshish karein, kahin aur jaa sakein.	None
Salaam vaaleykum Fahadullah my brother.	None
You should come out and fight.	None
Throw the grenade and try to come out so that you may change your position.	None
T Grenade fenk diye hain donon.	None
I have thrown both the grenades.	None
UK Grenade fenk diye hain?	None
Have you thrown the grenades.	None
T Haan jee.	None
Yes jee.	None
UK Ab kalashan magazine kitni hain tumhare paas?	None
How many kalashan magazines do you have?	None
T Mere paas do hi hain.	None
I have only two.	None
UK Giraftaari waali shakl nahin hone deni.	None
Yeh baat yaad rakhni hai.	None
There should be no situation of arrest.	None
You must remember that.	None
T Nahin.	None
Inshaalla, Inshaallah.	None
No.	None
Godwilling, Godwilling UK Aur ladhna padhega toh hi maamla seedha hoga, aisa na ho ki who dhooein ka bomb fenk kar aap behosh kar dein aur jaayein aur aapko uthalein.	None
And it is only by fighting that the situation will be straightened out.	None
There should not be a situation that they make you unconscious by throwing a smoke bomb and later take you (alive).	None
T Nahin.	None
No. UK Woh badha nuksaan hai.	None
Aap aagey badhkar ladhein, aapko kaheen se bhi nazar aa jaate hain.	None
Khidkiyon se aap nahin dekh sakte, nazar aate hi aap fire karo.	None
Fire karo, burst maaro.	None
Uske saath halchal mach jayeegi toh aap nikalne ki koshish karo.	None
That would be a great loss.	None
You come forward and fight if you see (them) from anywhere.	None
Cannot you see from the window?	None
Fire as soon as you see (them).	None
Fire, shoot a burst.	None
That would cause a commotion and then you can try to get out.	None
T Chalo, try karte hain, Inshaallah.	None
Very well, I will try, Godwilling.	None
UK Haan mere veer gun ki barrel nikalein, burst nikalein, ussi burst ke saath dono side nikale aur aap nikal kar jagah badalne ki koshish karo.	None
Yes my brother, put the barrel of the gun outside and fire a burst and with the firing of the burst come out and fire on both sides and try to change your place.	None
T Theek hai jee.	None
All right jee.	None
UK Jahaan baithe hain aapko pata hai ki fire aata hai udhar dono taraf se?	None
Pandrahbees goli nikal jaaye, poori magazine khaali ho jaaye aur doosari magazine aapke haath mein hai	None
woh laga do aur aap wahan se nikal jaao.	None
From where you are sitting do you know that shots are coming (at you) from both sides?	None
Fire 1520 bullets, empty your whole magazine, load the other magazine that is in your hand, and get away from that spot.	None
T Theek hai, Inshaallah.	None
All right, Godwilling UK Himmat karni hai mere veer, ghabraana nahin hai, Inshaallah goli lagey toh kaamyaabi hai Allah intezaar kar raha hai.	None
Be brave, my bother, dont worry.	None
Godwilling, getting shot by a bullet is to be successful.	None
Allah is waiting for you.	None
Killing of hostages 400.	None
(5) TRANSCRIPTS FROM NARIMAN HOUSE Talk No. 26 (Ext. no. 990) (The collaborator talking from across the border has been marked as UK and the terrorists holed up in the Nariman House are marked as T)	None
UK.II Achha, aap yeh khyaal rakhna jo bandhi hain naa, yeh jab tak aapke paas hain tab tak yeh aapke upar fire nahin karenge.	None
Samjha meri baat?	None
Well keep this in mind, that as long as these hostages are with you, they will not fire at you.	None
You understand me?	None
T Jee jee.	None
Yes, yes UK.II	None
Inka faayda tabtak hai jabtak aapke upar fire aane se rok raha hai.	None
They are useful only until they are stopping any firing at you.	None
T Fire jab open ho jaayga.	None
When the firing starts.	None
UK.II Fire jab open ho jaayga toh aap unko khatm kar do.	None
When the firing starts, finish them.	None
T Jee Jee	None
Yes, yes UK.II	None
Baat samajh aayi aapko?	None
Fire jab open ho jaayga to aap unko khatm kar do.	None
Theek hai.	None
Do you understand?	None
When the firing starts, then finish them.	None
All right.	None
T Inshaallah.	None
Godwilling UK.II Jab aapne dekha ke aapke upar dabaav aa raha hai sabse pehle inhein khatm karo.	None
When you feel that you are coming under pressure, then first of all finish them T Inshaallah.	None
Godwilling UK.II Kisi army ka yeh daava hota hai ki koyi bhi bande ko taqleef na hote hue kaam karna hota hai.	None
Every army has this commitment to do their job without causing any harm to anyone.	None
T Inshaallah.	None
Inshaallah.	None
Godwilling, Godwilling UK.II	None
Abhi baat yeh hai ki inn logon ko bachane ke liye approach aa rahi hai.	None
Agar yeh log maare jaate hain toh unke desh ke saath taalukaat kharab ho sakte hain.	None
Shor bhi mach jaayga.	None
Now the fact is that approaches are being made to save those people (hostages).	None
If they are killed the relationship with their countries is likely to get strained.	None
There may be a lot of noise too.	None
Inshaallah.	None
Inshaallah.	None
Godwilling, Godwilling.	None
In view of the enormous evidence of all possible kinds it is clear that the terrorist attack on Mumbai was in pursuance of a larger conspiracy of which the appellant was as much part as the nine dead accused and the other wanted accused.	None
It will be futile even to suggest that the appellant while he was shooting at CST and at the other places along with Abu Ismail had no connection with the attacks taking place at the other targets by the other eight (8) members of the terrorist group.	None
From the evidence on record it is further clear that the conspiracy did not stop with the group of 10 terrorists leaving the Pakistani shore.	None
It continued developing and growing even while the larger conspiracy was under execution.	None
In course of execution of the larger conspiracy by the ten terrorists in Mumbai, they were being advised and guided to meet the contingencies arising at those three different places.	None
In other words, newer conspiracies were being hatched even in course of execution of the larger conspiracy and the conspiracies came to an end only when all the remaining eight terrorists were killed at the three places where they were holding up.	None
AN OBITER Role of the media Before parting with the transcripts, we feel compelled to say a few words about the way the terrorist attacks on Taj Hotel, Hotel Oberoi and Nariman House were covered by the mainstream, electronic media and shown live on the TV screen.	None
From the transcripts, especially those from Taj Hotel and Nariman House, it is evident that the terrorists who were entrenched at those places and more than them, their collaborators across the border were watching the full show on TV.	None
In the transcripts there are many references to the media reports and the visuals being shown on the TV screen.	None
The collaborators sitting in their hideouts across the border came to know about the appellant being caught alive from Indian TV they came to know about the killing of high ranking police officers also from Indian TV.	None
At one place in the transcript, the collaborators and the terrorists appear to be making fun of the speculative report in the media that the person whose dead body was found in Kuber was the leader of the terrorist group whom his colleagues had killed for some reason before leaving the boat Nariman House, .	None
At another place in the transcript the collaborators tell the terrorists in Taj Hotel that the dome at the top (of the building) had caught fire.	None
The terrorists holed up in some room were not aware of this.	None
The collaborators further advise the terrorists that the stronger they make the fire the better it would be for them.	None
At yet another place the terrorists at Hotel Taj tell the collaborators that they had thrown a grenade.	None
The Collaborators reply, the sound of the grenade has come, they have shown the grenade, the explosion has taken place, people are wounded .	None
At yet another place the collaborators tell the terrorists at Hotel Oberoi that the troops were making their position very strong on the roof of the building.	None
At yet another place the collaborators tell the terrorists at Taj Hotel the exact position taken by the policemen (close to a building that belonged to the navy but was given to the civilians) and from where they were taking aim and firing at them (the terrorists) and advised them the best position for them to hit back at those policemenThere are countless such instances to show that the collaborators were watching practically every movement of the security forces that were trying to tackle the terrorists under relentless gun fire and throwing of grenades from their end.	None
Apart from the transcripts, we can take judicial notice of the fact that the terrorists attacks at all the places, in the goriest details, were shown live on the Indian TV from beginning to end almost nonstop.	None
All the channels were competing with each other in showing the latest developments on a minute to minute basis, including the positions and the movements of the security forces engaged in flushing out the terrorists.	None
The reckless coverage of the terrorist attack by the channels thus gave rise to a situation where on the one hand the terrorists were completely hidden from the security forces and they had no means to know their exact position or even the kind of firearms and explosives they possessed and on the other hand the positions of the security forces, their weapons and all their operational movements were being watched by the collaborators across the border on TV screens and being communicated to the terrorists.	None
In these appeals, it is not possible to find out whether the security forces actually suffered any casualty or injuries on account of the way their operations were being displayed on the TV screen.	None
But it is beyond doubt that the way their operations were freely shown made the task of the security forces not only exceedingly difficult but also dangerous and risky.	None
Any attempt to justify the conduct of the TV channels by citing the right to freedom of speech and expression would be totally wrong and unacceptable in such a situation.	None
The freedom of expression, like all other freedoms under Article 19, is subject to reasonable restrictions.	None
An action tending to violate another persons right to life guaranteed under Article 21 or putting the national security in jeopardy can never be justified by taking the plea of freedom of speech and expression.	None
The shots and visuals that were shown live by the TV channels could have also been shown after all the terrorists were neutralized and the security operations were over.	None
But, in that case the TV programmes would not have had the same shrill, scintillating and chilling effect and would not have shot up the TRP ratings of the channels.	None
It must, therefore, be held that by covering live the terrorists attack on Mumbai in the way it was done, the Indian TV channels were not serving any national interest or social cause.	None
On the contrary they were acting in their own commercial interests putting the national security in jeopardy.	None
It is in such extreme cases that the credibility of an institution is tested.	None
The coverage of the Mumbai terror attack by the mainstream electronic media has done much harm to the argument that any regulatory mechanism for the media must only come from within.	None
ARGUMENTS Denial of Due Process Mr. Raju Ramachandran 408.	None
In the face of the evidence stacked against the appellant, overwhelming both in volume and in weight, Mr. Ramachandran took a course that would neatly sidestep everything.	Arguments of Petitioner
He struck at the root.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the appellant did not get a fair trial and added that the denial of fair trial, for any reason, wittingly or unwittingly, would have the same result it would render the trial a nullity and no conviction or sentence based on such a trial would be legal or enforceable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran prefaced his submissions by gently reminding the court that, having taken the path of the rule of law, we must walk the full mile we cannot stop halfway and fall short of the standards we have set for ourselves.	Arguments of Petitioner
409.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that the right to fair trial is an integral part of the right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, and that the fundamental right under Article 21 was inalienable and there can be no question of any waiver of the right by any person.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the first limb of his submission, he referred to the decisions in Zahira Habibullah Sheikh (5) v. State of Gujarat (2006) 3 SCC 374 (paragraphs 3339 with special reference to paragraph 38, T. Nagappa v. Y.R. Muralidhar (2008) 5 SCC 633 (paragraph 8, page 636), Noor Aga v. State of Punjab (2008) 16 SCC 417 (paragraphs 71, 113, 114), NHRC v. State of Gujarat (2008) 16 SCC 497 (paragraph 5, page 499) , Jayendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 7 SCC 104 (paragraph 53, page 127) and G. Someshwar Rao v. Samineni Nageshwar Rao (2009) 14 SCC 677 (paragraph 10, page 680) and in support of the second limb he relied upon the decisions in Behram Khursheed v. State of Bombay (1955) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 613 (page 653, 2nd paragraph, 654) and Olga Tellis v. Bombay Municipal Corp. (1985) 3 SCC 545 (paragraph 28 and 29, page 569, 570).	Arguments of Petitioner
410.	Arguments of Petitioner
Proceeding from the premise that fair trial is an inalienable right of every person, Mr. Ramachandran submitted that in case of the appellant the Constitutional guarantee remained unsatisfied because of denial to him of two valuable Constitutional rights protections first, the right to counsel at the earliest, as provided under Article 22 (1) of the Constitution and secondly, the right to protection against selfincrimination as stipulated by Article 20(3) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
411.	Arguments of Petitioner
Elaborating the first submission regarding the right to counsel at the earliest, Mr. Ramachandran said that the appellant was not made aware of his Constitutional right to counsel under Article 22(1) of the Constitution at the time of his arrest and production before the Judicial Magistrate in remand proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that a mere offer of legal aid is not the same as being made aware that one has the Constitutional right to consult, and to be defended by, a legal practitioner, and that simply the offer of legal aid does not satisfy the Constitutional requirement.	Arguments of Petitioner
He stated that until the appellant was produced before the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate on February 17, 2009, for recording his confession, he was not informed of such a right.	Arguments of Petitioner
This statement is factually inaccurate but in fairness to Mr. Ramachandran it must be stated that, as the facts unfolded and the correct picture emerged, he immediately corrected himself and adapted his submissions, as we shall see in due course, to the correct facts.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned magistrate also did not tell him that under the Constitution he had the fundamental and inalienable right to consult and be represented by a lawyer, but simply asked him whether he wanted a lawyer.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to Mr. Ramachandran, resulted in the confession being recorded without the appellant being made aware of his Constitutional right against self incrimination under Article 20(3).	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran further submitted that the repeated cautioning administered by the learned magistrate to the appellant and her admonitions to him about making the confession undoubtedly satisfied the requirements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but they fell far short of higher Constitutional standards.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel maintained that telling the appellant that he was not bound to make the confession and that it could be used against him did not amount to Constitutional compliance.	Arguments of Petitioner
The magistrate was required to inform him of his rights under Article 22(1) and 20(3) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only if an accused is so informed that he can be said to have made a Constitutionally acceptable choice either to have or not to have a lawyer or to make or not to make a confession.	Arguments of Petitioner
412.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel sought to buttress his submission by referring to the decision in Nandini Satpathy v. P. L. Dani (1978) 2 SCC 424 and through Nandini Satpathy to the decision of the US Supreme Court in Miranda v. Arizona 384 US 436 (1966).	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred to paragraphs 42 to 44 of the judgment that contain the discussion regarding the stage at which the right under Article 20(3) comes into operation paragraphs 62 to 65 that deal with the stage at which the accused gets the right to have the assistance of a lawyer and put particular stress on paragraphs 21 to 34 of the judgment, where the right under Article 20(3) of the Constitution and the provisions of Section 161(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (said to be the parliamentary gloss on the constitutional clause) are seen through the Miranda prism.	Arguments of Petitioner
413.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from Nandini Satpathy, Mr. Ramachandran relied upon the decision of this Court in Khatri (II) v. State of Bihar (1981) 1 SCC 627 relating to the infamous case of blinding of prisoners in Bihar.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Khatri, this Court reiterated that the right to free legal aid is an essential ingredient of due process that is implicit in the guarantee of Article 21 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
414.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran also relied upon the decision of this Court in State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu (2005) 11 SCC 600 .	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred to paragraphs 159 to 164 of the judgment where the Court discussed the decision in Nandini Satpathy and the US decision in Miranda and found that the safeguards and protections provided to the accused under Sections 32 and 52 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 (POTA), apart from stemming directly from the guarantees enshrined in Articles 21 and 22 (1) of the Constitution and embodying the guidelines spelt out in the earlier decisions of this Court in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab (1994) 3 SCC 569 and D.K. Basu v State of West Bengal (1997) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCC 416 , were in complete harmony with the observations of this Court in Nandini Satpathy as well as the Miranda rule enunciated by the U.S. Supreme Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran also referred to paragraphs 181, 182 and 185 of the judgment, where the Court eschewed the confessional statement of the accused from consideration on the grounds that they were not apprised of the right to consult a legal practitioner either when they were initially arrested or after POTA was introduced in the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel contended that the reasons for which the Court held that strict compliance with the Constitutional safeguards was necessary in Navjot Sandhu would hold equally good in the present case as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
As observed in that case, the protections under Sections 32 and 52 of the POTA ultimately flow from Articles 20(3), 21 and 22(1) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would, therefore, be incorrect to contend that the magistrate recording a confession under Section 164 of CrPC had no obligation to comply with the Miranda rule or the requirements of Sections 32 and 52 of the POTA only because Miranda and Navjot Sandhu are cases in which confessions to police officers were admissible while, under the normal law of the land, confession to police officers are not admissible in evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is precisely because the police cannot be expected to inform the accused of his Constitutional rights that the magistrate must be required to do so when the accused is brought for recording his her confession.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that in Navjot Sandhu the Court actually implanted the right to information within articles 20(3), 21 and 22(1) and submitted that in order to give any meaningful content to those three articles it was necessary to read them along with Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that unless a person is informed, in clear terms, that it is his basic right to be defended by a lawyer he would not be in a position to exercise the right under Article 22(1) in any informed and effective manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that it should be obligatory for every authority responsible for deprivation of liberty of a person to inform him of his rights.	Arguments of Petitioner
It, thus, followed that a magistrate, at the stage of recording a confession under Section 164 CrPC, should mandatorily make the accused aware of his rights under Articles 20(3) and 22(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that in this case, though the magistrate (PW218) asked the appellant whether he required a lawyer, she was also bound to find out whether he was made this offer earlier.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that even strict compliance with Section 164 CrPC would not fulfil the Constitutional requirements in the absence of a Constitutional choice by the accused to avail or not to avail of a defence lawyer.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that Section 304 of the CrPC makes it mandatory to provide a defence lawyer at the trial stage and this requirement of law cannot be waived by the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the same way, he argued, the administration of justice mandates the provision of a defence lawyer at the earliest because a lawyer provided at the trial stage would be disabled from offering any effective defence if he is presented with a fait accompli in the form of a confession in which the accused condemns himself.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, imperative that a Constitutionally acceptable choice is made by the accused before a point of no return is reached.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that a statutory caution administered by a magistrate, howsoever carefully done in letter and spirit, cannot be a substitute for a lawyers advice.	Arguments of Petitioner
By the very nature of their differing professions, a judge and a lawyer perform different roles in this context.	Arguments of Petitioner
A judge is required to be detached and can therefore only administer cautions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The nature of legal advice is entirely different.	Arguments of Petitioner
415.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran further submitted that the omission to make the appellant aware of his Constitutional right to consult, and be defended by, a legal practitioner resulted in the denial of protection against selfincrimination guaranteed under Article 20(3) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the submission, he relied upon a recent decision of this Court in Selvi and others v. State of Karnataka (2010) 7 SCC 263 .	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred to paragraphs 92 to 101 under the marginal heading Historical origins of the right against selfincrimination paragraphs 102 to 112 under the marginal heading Underlying rationale of the right against selfincrimination paragraphs 113 to 119 under the marginal heading Applicability of Article 20(3) to the stage of investigation and paragraphs 120 to 144 under the marginal heading Who can invoke the protection under Article 20(3)?.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gopal Subramanium In reply to the submissions made on behalf of the appellant, Mr. Subramanium submitted that all Constitutional rights of the appellant, including the right to be defended by a lawyer and protection against self incrimination, were fully secured and upheld and it is incorrect to say that the trial of the appellant was vitiated by denial of any Constitutional right or privilege to him.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium agreed that the Constitution of India indeed accorded a primary status to the rights of a person accused of committing any offences.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 21 of the Constitution guaranteed the right to life and personal liberty in the widest amplitude, and other related provisions in the Constitution provided for the safeguards essential to preserve the presumption of innocence of the accused, as well as for the trial of the accused in an adversarial system.	Arguments of Respondent
He further pointed out that the rights, privileges and protections accorded by the Constitution to a person accused of committing a criminal offence were comprehensively translated into the statutory scheme framed by Parliament and that the relevant provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, were crafted in such a way as to translate the Constitutional promises to the accused into reality and to ensure that the rights, privileges and protections given to the accused are, in fact, available to him in actual practice.	Arguments of Respondent
The Constitutional rights and protection referred to by Mr. Ramachandran are to be found in Articles 20(3), 21 and 22(1) which are as follows Protection in respect of conviction for offences.	Arguments of Respondent
No person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself.	Arguments of Respondent
21 Protection of life and personal liberty.	None
No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.	Arguments of Respondent
Protection against arrest and detention in certain cases.(1)	Arguments of Respondent
No person who is arrested shall be detained in custody without being informed, as soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest nor shall he be denied the right to consult, and to be defended by, a legal practitioner of his choice.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium submitted that the Constitution prescribed values and norms and set out standards of sociopolitical life, but for actual enforcement those norms and standards were manifested in the provisions of the CrPC.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that in order to understand the true import and contents of the provisions of the CrPC, one must look for the Constitutional norms and standards incorporated in those provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus viewed, the provisions of the CrPC would appear to be the Constitutional guarantees at work.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred to Section 161 of CrPC that provides as follows Examination of witnesses by police.	None
(1) Any police officer making an investigation under this Chapter, or any police officer not below such rank as the State Government may, by general or special order, prescribe in this behalf, acting on the requisition of such officer, may examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
Such person shall be bound to answer truly all questions relating to such case put to him by such officer, other than questions the answers to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or to a penalty or forfeiture.	Arguments of Respondent
The police officer may reduce into writing any statement made to him in the course of an examination under this section and if he does so, he shall make a separate and true record of the statement of each such person whose statement he records Provided that statement made under this subsection may also be recorded by audiovideo electronic means.	Arguments of Respondent
(Emphasis supplied)	None
He pointed out that the provisions of subsection (2) of Section 161 that disallow incriminating answers to police interrogations, are clearly an extension and application of the principle enshrined in Article 20(3).	Arguments of Respondent
A similar position obtains from the provisions of Section 162, which reads as follows Statements to police not to be signed Use of statements in evidence.	None
(1) No statement made by any person to a police officer in the course of an investigation under this Chapter, shall, if reduced to writing, be signed by the person making it nor shall any such statement or any record thereof, whether in a police diary or otherwise, or any part of such statement or record, be used for any purpose, save as hereinafter provided, at any inquiry or trial in respect of any offence under investigation at the time when such statement was made Provided that when any witness is called for the prosecution in such inquiry or trial whose statement has been reduced into writing as aforesaid, any part of his statement, if duly proved, may be used by the accused, and with the permission of the Court, by the prosecution, to contradict such witness in the manner provided by Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872) and when any part of such statement is so used, any part thereof may also be used in the reexamination of such witness, but for the purpose only of explaining any matter referred to in his crossexamination.	Arguments of Respondent
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any statement falling within the provisions of clause (1) of Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), or to affect the provisions of Section 27 of that Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Explanation.	None
An omission to state a fact or circumstance in the statement referred to in subsection (1) may amount to contradiction if the same appears to be significant and otherwise relevant having regard to the context in which such omission occurs and whether any omission amounts to a contradiction in the particular context shall be a question of fact.	Arguments of Respondent
(Emphasis supplied) Mr. Subramanium stated that subsection (1) of Section 162, insofar as it makes any statement, in any form, made to police officers inadmissible, is a mirror reflection of the right against selfincrimination contained in Article 20(3).	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that subsection (2) of Section 162 carves out only limited exceptions to subsection (1), to the extent of statements falling under the provisions of Sections 32(1) and 27 of the Evidence Act, 1872.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 163 of CrPC is also significant in its import No inducement to be offered.	None
(1) No police officer or other person in authority shall offer or make, or cause to be offered or made, any such inducement, threat or promise as is mentioned in Section 24 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872).	Arguments of Respondent
But no police officer or other person shall prevent, by any caution or otherwise, any person from making in the course of any investigation under this Chapter any statement which he may be disposed to make of his own free will Provided that nothing in this subsection shall affect the provisions of subsection (4) of Section 164 (Emphasis supplied) Mr. Subramanium submitted that subsection (1) of Section 163 contains the universally accepted principle, enjoining against inducement or coercion etc.	Arguments of Respondent
but it is subsection (2) that rounds off and completes the provision by introducing the distinction between a statement obtained by inducement, coercion etc., and another made freely and voluntarily and separating the one from the other subsection (2) upholds the individual volition of an accused person to confess to an offence, as an attribute of his free will.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium further submitted that the scheme of Sections 161 to 163 needs to be understood in the context of the investigation process in India.	Arguments of Respondent
He stated that the inadmissibility of statements by the accused to the police and the resultant distancing of the police from the accused are meant to adequately protect and uphold the rights and liberty of the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
Though primarily providing a procedural framework, the Code also contained provisions meant to be substantive safeguards for an accused person.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Indian law, there is no concept of incriminatory statements whilst in the course of police investigation (except as contemplated under Section 162(2)).	Arguments of Respondent
The law contemplates only judicial confession, recorded in accordance with Section 164 CrPC, to be admissible as evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 164 CrPC is another statutory incorporation of the Constitutional privilege against selfincrimination and it reads as follows Recording of confessions and statements.	Arguments of Respondent
(1) Any Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate may, whether or not he has jurisdiction in the case, record any confession or statement made to him in the course of an investigation under this Chapter or under any other law for the time being in force, or at any time afterwards before the commencement of the inquiry or trial 1Provided that any confession or statement made under this subsection may also be recorded by audiovideo electronic means in the presence of the advocate of the person accused of an offence Provided further that no confession shall be recorded by a police officer on whom any power of a Magistrate has been conferred under any law for the time being in force.	Arguments of Respondent
The Magistrate shall, before recording any such confession, explain to the person making it that he is not bound to make a confession and that, if he does so, it may be used as evidence against him and the Magistrate shall not record any such confession unless, upon questioning the person making it, he has reason to believe that it is being made voluntarily.	Arguments of Respondent
If at any time before the confession is recorded, the person appearing before the Magistrate states that he is not willing to make the confession, the Magistrate shall not authorise the detention of such person in police custody.	Arguments of Respondent
Any such confession shall be recorded in the manner provided in Section 281 for recording the examination of an accused person and shall be signed by the person making the confession and the Magistrate shall make a memorandum at the foot of such record to the following effect I have explained to (name) that he is not bound to make a confession and that, if he does so, any confession he may make may be used as evidence against him and I believe that this confession was voluntarily made.	Arguments of Respondent
It was taken in my presence and hearing, and was read over to the person making it and admitted by him to be correct, and it contains a full and true account of the statement made by him.	Arguments of Respondent
(Signed) A.B. Magistrate.	None
Any statement (other than a confession) made under subsection (1) shall be recorded in such manner hereinafter provided for the recording of evidence as is, in the opinion of the Magistrate, best fitted to the circumstances of the case and the Magistrate shall have power to administer oath to the person whose statement is so recorded.	Arguments of Respondent
The Magistrate recording a confession or statement under this section shall forward it to the Magistrate by whom the case is to be inquired into or tried.	Arguments of Respondent
(Emphasis supplied) Mr. Subramanium pointed out that subsection (1) of Section 164 provides for the recording of a confession during the course of an investigation under Chapter XII of CrPC subsection (2) of Section 164 mandates the magistrate to administer the preconfession caution to the accused and also requires the magistrate to be satisfied, as a judicial authority, about the confession being made voluntarily.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, subsection (2) has to be read with subsection (3), wherein it is provided that if, at any time before the confession is recorded, the person appearing before the magistrate states that he is not willing to make the confession, the magistrate shall not authorise the detention of such person in police custody.	Arguments of Respondent
The postconfession safeguard is incorporated under subsection (4), wherein the magistrate is required to make a memorandum at the foot of the confession regarding the caution administered to the accused person and a certificate to the effect that the confession as recorded is a full and true account of the statement made.	Arguments of Respondent
The protection of the privilege of the accused against selfincrimination is thus cast as a mandatory duty upon the magistrate, a judicial authority, under subsections (2), (3) and (4) of Section 164.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanian further submitted that the confession of the accused under Section 164 CrPC is not a statement recorded under oath and, therefore, the proceedings retain their adversarial character and do not take any inquisitorial colour.	Arguments of Respondent
He contrasted the recording of a confession under Section 164 with the examination of the accused as a witness in support of his own case (under Section 315 CrPC), wherein the accused is examined on oath, and pointed out that the voluntary character of the judicial confession is, thus, ascertained at three stages Under Section 164(2), by the magistrate prior to the recording of the confession ii) Under Section 164(4), by the magistrate subsequent to the recording of the confession and iii) Upon the examination of the magistrate, who recorded the confession, on oath in course of the trial.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium argued that Indian law, in regard to the investigation of crimes, recognised and put into application the extremely important distinction between an involuntary statement obtained by inducement or coercion and a voluntary statement.	Arguments of Respondent
The former was condemned and completely excluded from consideration as a piece of evidence but the latter was accepted as a sign of respect for the expression of free will.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, on the one hand, a confession or a statement cannot be obtained by means of inducement, threat or promise, as prohibited by subsection (1) of Section 163, but, on the other hand, a confession made voluntarily as an expression of free will and volition cannot be disallowed as provided in subsection (2) of Section 163 and Section 164.	Arguments of Respondent
Here Mr. Subramanium referred to the decision of this Court in State of Bombay v. Kathi	Arguments of Respondent
Kalu Oghad 1962 3 SCR 10 , in which an elevenJudge Bench of this Court examined the true import of Article 20(3) and held that an accused person cannot be said to have been compelled to be a witness against himself simply because he made a statement while in police custody without anything more and that the mere questioning of an accused person by a police officer, resulting in a voluntary statement, which may ultimately turn out to be incriminatory, is not compulsion.	Arguments of Respondent
In light of the decision in Kathi Kalu Oghad, Mr. Subramanium submitted that voluntary statements are not proscribed by Article 20(3) and do not amount to violation of the privilege against selfincrimination.	Arguments of Respondent
Having thus established the connections between the provisions of the CrPC and the relevant Articles of the Constitution, Mr. Subramanium contended that the provisions of Section 161, 162, 163 and 164 CrPC are mirror images of the Constitutional safeguards provided under Articles 20(3) and 21, and that compliance with the statutory provisions would amount to effective compliance with the Constitutional provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
The provisions of the CrPC could naturally be tested against these Constitutional safeguards, and the manner in which the CrPC provisions are to be interpreted would be informed by the Constitutional safeguards in Articles 20 to 22, but once the CrPC provisions stand complied with, there is no scope for a separate and distinct species of Constitutional compliance.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the provisions of the CrPC would be amenable to be tested on the grounds of due process, but having passed such a test, compliance with the CrPC would entail compliance with the various Constitutional safeguards.	Arguments of Respondent
The purpose of placing such safeguards in the Constitution is not to create a separate level of compliance, but to emphasize the importance and enduring nature of these protections by giving them Constitutional status.	Arguments of Respondent
Dealing with the right to legal assistance, Mr. Subramanium submitted that the right to legal aid and the stage when the right comes into effect are to be found in Article 22(1) of the Constitution, which states that no person who is arrested shall be denied the right to consult, and to be defended by, a legal practitioner of his choice.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Subramanium, Article 22(1) has thus two significant facets The enablement of an arrested person to consult a legal practitioner of his choice ii)	None
The right of an arrested person to be represented by a legal practitioner of his choice.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the phrase to be defended made it clear that the character of the right guaranteed under Article 22(1) transforms from an enablement to a positive right only when an arrested person is put on trial.	Arguments of Respondent
In this regard, he made a reference to the provisions of Section 304 CrPC.	Arguments of Respondent
He called the provisions of Section 304 CrPC as the statutory enablement of the right to legal aid and pointed out that the Section provides that, in a trial before the Court of Session, a pleader may be assigned to the accused for his defence if the accused is not represented by a pleader and it appears to the court that he may not have sufficient means to engage a pleader.	Arguments of Respondent
The effectiveness of the right to legal aid at the stage of trial is also buttressed by the provisions of Section 169 CrPC, wherein an accused may be discharged upon the completion of the process of investigation if there is insufficient evidence or no reasonable ground of suspicion to justify the forwarding of the accused to a magistrate.	Arguments of Respondent
He added that the rationale behind the provision of the right to legal aid must be understood in the context of the Indian system of investigation.	Arguments of Respondent
Unlike certain foreign jurisdictions, Indian procedural and evidence laws do not permit statements made to the police to be admissible, and only judicial confessions made to a magistrate in compliance with the provisions of Section 164 are admissible.	Arguments of Respondent
The same position does not obtain in certain other jurisdictions, for example, the United States of America and the United Kingdom, where statements made to police officers are fully admissible and used as evidence against the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
There are, therefore, consequences attached to statements made whilst in custody of the police in such jurisdictions however, the same consequences do not attach under the Indian scheme of investigation of crimes.	Arguments of Respondent
Dealing with the Miranda decision, Mr. Subramanium submitted that the US decision was rendered in the context of a system in which statements made to police officers are admissible and it has, therefore, no application insofar as the Indian criminal process is concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Indian law, vide chapter XII of the CrPC, read with Sections 24 and 25 of the Evidence Act, 1872, statements made before the police are per se inadmissible and a confession is considered as admissible only if made to a magistrate, in accordance with the provisions of Section 164 of the CrPC.	Arguments of Respondent
Indian law, therefore, completely excludes the possibility of an extrajudicial confession extracted by the police in the course of incommunicado interrogation in which the accused is subjected to threat, inducement or coercion.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel further submitted that the Miranda rule was substantially diluted even in the US and the Miranda decision has not been consistently and uniformly followed in the United States itself.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this submission, he referred to the judgment of the US Supreme Court in Davis v. United States 512 US 452 (1993), in which it was held by that Court that the suspect must unambiguously request for counsel and that the police were not prohibited from continuing with the interrogation if the request for counsel by the suspect did not meet the requisite level of clarity.	Arguments of Respondent
Significantly, it was observed by the US Supreme Court that a suspect who knowingly and voluntarily waives his right to counsel after having that right explained to him has indicated his willingness to deal with the police unassisted.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium further submitted that the principle of waiver of the privilege against selfincrimination and the right to counsel was further elaborated upon by the US Supreme Court in its recent judgment in the matter of Berghuis, Warden v. Thompkins 130 S.Ct. 2250 (2010) State Compilation 1, pg.	Arguments of Respondent
138.	Arguments of Respondent
In the said judgment, the US Supreme Court reiterated the requirement of an unambiguous invocation of the Miranda rights by an accused person in order to avoid difficulties of proof and to provide guidance to officers.	Arguments of Respondent
130 S.Ct. 2250 at 2260 (2010) State Compilation 1, pg.	Arguments of Respondent
151	Arguments of Respondent
The US Supreme Court has therefore developed a parallel jurisprudence with respect to the assessment of the waiver by the accused of his Miranda rights and has stated in Berghuis that a waiver must be voluntary, i.e. the product of a free and deliberate choice rather than of intimidation, coercion or deception, and made with full awareness of both the nature of the right being abandoned and the consequences of the decision to abandon it.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium also submitted that the Miranda principles that gave the accused the right to silence and an absolute right to counsel at the stage of police interrogation have not been uniformly followed in several other jurisdictions.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that the Miranda principle has been held to be inapplicable in Australia in a judgment of the High Court of Australia in Dietrich v. R. 1992 177 CLR 292.	Arguments of Respondent
In this regard, he also referred to the judgment of the Supreme Court of Canada in R. v. Sinclair 2010 2 S.C.R. 310.	Arguments of Respondent
He also referred to a decision of the European Court in Salduz v. Turkey (2009) 49	Arguments of Respondent
EHRR 19, and two decisions of the UK Supreme Court in Ambrose v. Harris (Procurator Fiscal, Oban) (Scotland) 2011 UKSC 43 and McGowan, (Procurator Fiscal, Edinburgh) v. B (Scotland) 2011 UKSC 54.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium also referred to a number of academic articles and papers to contend that, in the United States itself, the Miranda principles have been considerably eroded by later case laws.	Arguments of Respondent
Next, dealing with the issue of the right to counsel, as claimed on behalf of the appellant in light of the decision in Nandini Satpathy, Mr. Subramanium pointed out that at least in two cases, namely, Poolpandi v. Superintendent, Central Excise (1992) 3 SCC 259 and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence v. Jugal Kishore Samra (2011) 12 SCC 362 , this Court had expressly declined to follow Nandini Satpathy.	Arguments of Respondent
Miranda and Nandini Satpathy, which draws heavily upon the former, are, of course, referred with approval in D.K. Basu and in Navjot Sandhu, but those decisions were in completely different contexts.	Arguments of Respondent
In D.K. Basu, the Court was dealing with the use of compulsion during investigation and the need to insulate the accused from any coercive measures.	Arguments of Respondent
It was in that connection that this Court issued guidelines incorporating the requirements that the arrestee may be permitted to meet his lawyer during interrogation, though not throughout the interrogation.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium submitted that the decision in D.K. Basu has construed Article 22(1) as an enablement and not as a mandatory right.	Arguments of Respondent
Navjot Sandhu was the case of a terrorist attack on the Parliament of India and, in that case, this Court considered the import of the right to counsel in the context of the provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium submitted that a comparison of the provisions of the POTA with the Miranda principle was quite apt, in that the statutory scheme of the POTA, like US law, allowed confessions made to police to be admissible.	Arguments of Respondent
With respect to the right to counsel, this Court made the following observation in paragraph 160 of the judgment, after analyzing the judgments in Miranda and Nandini Satpathy Based on the observations in Nandini Satpathy case it is possible to agree that the constitutional guarantee under Article 22(1) only implies that the suspect in the police custody shall not be denied the right to meet and consult his lawyer even at the stage of interrogation.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, if he wishes to have the presence of the lawyer, he shall not be denied that opportunity.	Arguments of Respondent
Perhaps, Nandini Satpathy does not go so far as Miranda in establishing access to a lawyer at the interrogation stage.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Subramanium submitted that the Miranda principle has no application to normal criminal procedure in India because similar safeguards and precautions with respect to the rights of the accused are expressly recognized in India under the law.	Arguments of Respondent
He emphasized that the rights of the accused (including the right against selfincrimination and the right to legal representation) have been placed on a much higher pedestal in Indian law, even prior to such judicial developments in the United States.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel submitted that the Constitutional provisions of Article 20(3) and Article 22(1), read with the statutory protections under Sections 161, 162, 163 and 164 CrPC as well as Sections 24 and 25 of the Evidence Act, 1872, make the rights of an accused sacrosanct.	Arguments of Respondent
He also referred to the decision in Selvi, relied upon on behalf of the appellant, and submitted that in Selvi this Court made the following observations In Indian law, there is no automatic presumption that the custodial statements have been extracted through compulsion.	Arguments of Respondent
In short, there is no requirement of additional diligence akin to the administration of Miranda warnings.	Arguments of Respondent
Summing up his submissions, Mr. Subramanium formulated them into the following points The right to legal assistance under Article 22(1) is not a mandatory right upon arrest, but an enablement to be exercised by the person arrested.	None
ii)	None
The right against selfincrimination under Article 20(3) does not proscribe voluntary statements made in exercise of free will and volition.	Arguments of Respondent
iii)	None
The right against selfincrimination under Article 20(3) has been statutorily incorporated in the provisions of CrPC (i.e. Sections 161, 162, 163 and 164) and the Evidence Act, 1872, as manifestations of enforceable due process, and thus compliance with statutory provisions is also compliance with Constitutional requirements.	Arguments of Respondent
iv)	None
The right to counsel as contemplated in the judgment of Miranda has not been followed in either the United States or in other jurisdictions, particularly due to the qualification of intelligent and voluntary waiver.	Arguments of Respondent
THE COURT Let us first put aside the Miranda decision that seems to have entered into the discussions of this case as a red herring.	None
The Miranda decision was rendered under a system of law in which an utterance made by a suspect before the police could lead to his conviction and even the imposition of the death penalty.	None
From the judgment in the Miranda case it further appears that the police would subject the suspect to incommunicado interrogation in a terribly oppressive atmosphere.	None
The interrogator would employ all the intimidation tactics and interrogations skills at his command, not to find out the truth but to somehow crack the suspect and make him confess to his guilt.	None
It was in such a situation that the US Supreme Court evolved the Miranda rules, in order to provide necessary protection to the accused against selfaccusation and to ensure the voluntary nature of any statement made before the police, and came to hold and direct as under To summarize, we hold that when an individual is taken into custody or otherwise deprived of his freedom by the authorities in any significant way and is subjected to questioning, the privilege against self incrimination is jeopardized.	None
Procedural safeguards must be employed to protect the privilege, and unless other fully effective means are adopted to notify the person of his right of silence and to assure that the exercise of the right will be scrupulously honored, the following measures are required.	None
He must be warned prior to any questioning that he has the right to remain silent that anything he says can be used against him in a court of law, that he has the right to the presence of an attorney, and that if he cannot afford an attorney one will be appointed for him prior to any questioning if he so desires.	None
Opportunity to exercise these rights must be afforded to him throughout the interrogation.	None
After such warnings have been given, and such opportunity afforded him, the individual may knowingly and intelligently waive these rights and agree to answer questions or make a statement.	None
But unless and until such warnings and waiver are demonstrated by the prosecution at trial, no evidence obtained as a result of interrogation can be used against him.	None
(Emphasis Added)	None
We have not the slightest doubt that the right to silence and the right to the presence of an attorney granted by the Miranda decision to an accused as a measure of protection against selfincrimination have no application under the Indian system of law.	None
Interestingly, an indication to this effect is to be found in the Miranda judgment itself.	None
Having set down the principle, extracted above, that Court proceeded in the next part (Part IV) of the judgment to repel the arguments advanced against its view and to find support for its view in other jurisdictions.	None
Part IV of the judgment begins as under A recurrent argument made in these cases is that societys need for interrogation outweighs the privilege.	None
This argument is not unfamiliar to this Court Rejecting the argument, the Court pointed out that very firm protections against selfincrimination were available to the accused in several other jurisdictions, in which connection it also made a reference to Indian laws.	None
The Court observed The experience in some other countries also suggests that the danger to law enforcement in curbs on interrogation is overplayed.	None
In India, confessions made to police not in the presence of a magistrate have been excluded by rule of evidence since 1872, at a time when it operated under British law.	None
The Court then noticed Sections 25 and 26 of the Indian Evidence Act and then referred to the decision of the Indian Supreme Court in Sarwan Singh v. State of Punjab AIR 1957 SC 637 (644) in the following words To avoid any continuing effect of police pressure or inducement, the Indian Supreme Court has invalidated a confession made shortly after police brought a suspect before a magistrate, suggesting It would, we think, be reasonable to insist upon giving an accused person at least 24 hours to decide whether or not he should make a confession.	None
The US Supreme Court, thus, clearly acknowledged and pointed out that he measures to protect the accused against selfincrimination evolved by it under the Miranda rules were already part of the Indian statutory scheme.	None
Moreover, a bare reference to the provisions of the CrPC would show that those provisions are designed to afford complete protection to the accused against selfincrimination.	None
Section 161(2) of the CrPC disallows incriminating answers to police interrogations.	None
Section 162(1) makes any statements, in any form, made to police officers inadmissible excepting those that may lead to discovery of any fact (vide Section 27 of the Evidence Act) and that may constitute a dying declaration (vide Section 32 of the Evidence Act).	None
Coupled with these provisions of the CrPC is Section 25 of the Evidence Act that makes any confession by an accused made to a police officer completely inadmissible.	None
Section 163 of the CrPC prohibits the use of any inducement, threat or promise by a police officer.	None
And then comes Section 164 CrPC, dealing with the recording of confessions and statements made before a magistrate.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 164 provides for recording any confession or statement in the course of an investigation, or at any time before the commencement of the inquiry or trial subsection (2) mandates the magistrate to administer the preconfession caution to the accused and also requires him to be satisfied, as a judicial authority, about the confession being made voluntarily subsection (3) provides one of the most important protections to the accused by stipulating that in case the accused produced before the magistrate declines to make the confession, the magistrate shall not authorize his detention in police custody subsection (4) incorporates the postconfession safeguard and requires the magistrate to make a memorandum at the foot of the confession regarding the caution administered to the accused and a certificate to the effect that the confession as recorded is a full and true account of the statement made.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 164 of the CrPC is to be read along with Section 26 of the Evidence Act, which provides that no confession made by any person whilst he is in the custody of a police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a magistrate, shall be proved as against such person.	None
It is thus clear to us that the protection to the accused against any selfincrimination guaranteed by the Constitution is very strongly built into the Indian statutory framework and we see absolutely no reason to draw any help from the Miranda principles for providing protection against selfincrimination to the accused.	None
Here it will be instructive to see how the Miranda decision has been viewed by this Court in what ways it has been referred to in this Courts decisions and where this Court has declined to follow the Miranda rules.	None
Significant notice of the Miranda decision was first taken by a threeJudge bench of this Court in Nandini Satpathy.	None
The appellant in that case, a former Chief Minister of Orissa, was summoned to the police station in connection with a case registered against her under Section 5(1) and (2), Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, and Sections 161/165, 120B and 109 of the Penal Code, and was interrogated with reference to a long string of questions given to her in writing.	None
On her refusal to answer, a complaint was filed against her under Section 179 of the Penal Code and the magistrate took cognizance of the offence.	None
She challenged the validity of the proceedings before the High Court.	None
The High Court dismissed the petition following which the Chief Minister came to this Court in appeal against the order passed by the High Court.	None
It was in that context that this Court made a glowing reference to the Miranda decision however, in the end, this Court refrained from entirely transplanting the Miranda rules into the Indian criminal process and, with regard to the Indian realities, suggested certain guidelines that may be enumerated as under Under Article 22(1), the right to consult an advocate of his choice shall not be denied to any person who is arrested.	None
Articles 20(3) and 22(1) may be telescoped by making it prudent for the police to permit the advocate of the accused to be present at the time he is examined.	None
Overreaching Article 20(3) and Section 161(2) will be obviated by this requirement.	None
But it is not as if the police must secure the services of a lawyer, for, that will lead to police station lawyer system with all its attendant vices.	None
If however an accused expresses the wish to have his lawyer by his side at the time of examination, this facility shall not be denied, because, by denying the facility, the police will be exposed to the serious reproof that they are trying to secure in secrecy and by coercing the will an involuntary selfincrimination.	None
It is not as if a lawyers presence is a panacea for all problems of selfincrimination, because, he cannot supply answers or whisper hints or otherwise interfere with the course of questioning except to intercept where intimidatory tactics are tried and to caution his client where incrimination is attempted and to insist on questions and answers being noted where objections are not otherwise fully appreciated.	None
The lawyer cannot harangue the police, but may help his client and complain on his behalf.	None
The police also need not wait for more than a reasonable time for the advocates arrival.	None
Where a lawyer of his choice is not available, after the examination of the accused, the police officer must take him to a magistrate, a doctor or other willing and responsible nonpartisan official or nonofficial and allow a secluded audience where he may unburden himself beyond the view of the police and tell whether he has suffered duress, in which case he should be transferred to judicial or other custody where the police cannot reach him.	None
The collocutor communicate the relevant conversation to the nearest magistrate.	None
In later decisions, Nandini Satpathy guidelines and the Miranda rule are referred to, approved and followed in an ancillary way when this Court moved to protect or expand the rights of the accused against investigation by lawless means, but we are not aware of any decision in which the Court might have followed the core of the Nandini Satpathy guidelines or the Miranda rule.	None
In Poolpandi, the appellants before this Court, who were called for interrogation in course of investigation under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1963, and the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973, claimed the right of presence of their lawyer during interrogation, relying strongly on Nandini Satpathy.	None
The question before the Court was thus directly whether a person summoned for interrogation is entitled to the presence of his lawyer during questioning.	None
But a threejudge bench of this Court rejected the appeal, tersely observing in paragraph 4 of the judgment as under Both Mr. Salve and Mr. Lalit strongly relied on the observations in Nandini Satpathy v. P.L. Dani.	None
We are afraid, in view of two judgments of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Ramesh Chandra Mehta v. State of W.B. and Illias v. Collector of Customs, Madras, the stand of the appellants cannot be accepted.	None
The learned counsel urged that since Nandini Satpathy case was decided later, the observations therein must be given effect to by this Court now.	None
There is no force in this argument.	None
More recently in Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, (to which one of us, Aftab Alam J., is a party) the question before the Court was, once again, whether a person summoned for interrogation by the officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, had the right of the presence of his lawyer at the time of interrogation.	None
The Court, after discussing the decision in Nandini Satpathy and relying upon the decision in Poolpandi, rejected the claim but, in light of the decision in D.K. Basu and with regard to the special facts and circumstances of the case, directed that the interrogation of the respondent may be held within sight of his advocate or any person duly authorized by him, with the condition that the advocate or person authorized by the respondent might watch the proceedings from a distance or from beyond a glass partition but he would not be within hearing distance, and the respondent would not be allowed to have consultations with him in the course of the interrogation.	None
But, as has been said earlier, Nandini Satpathy and Miranda may also be found referred quite positively, though in a more general way, in several decisions of this Court.	None
In D.K. Basu, this Court, while dealing with the menace of custodial violence, including torture and death in the police lockup, condemned the use of violence and thirddegree methods of interrogation of the accused, and described custodial death as one of the worst crimes against the society.	None
In paragraph 22 of its judgment, the Court observed Any form of torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment would fall within the inhibition of Article 21 of the Constitution, whether it occurs during investigation, interrogation or otherwiseThe precious right guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India cannot be denied to convicts, undertrials, detenus and other prisoners in custody, except according to the procedure established by law by placing such reasonable restrictions as are permitted by law.	None
In that connection, the Court examined international conventions and declarations on the subject and visited other jurisdictions, besides relying upon earlier decisions of this Court, and laid down a set of guidelines to be strictly followed in all cases of arrest or detention as preventive measures.	None
While dealing with the question of striking a balance between the fundamental rights of the suspectaccused and the necessity of a thorough investigation in serious cases that may threaten the very fabric of society, such as acts of terrorism and communal riots etc.	None
this Court, in paragraph 32 of the judgment, referred to the opening lines of Part IV of the judgment in Miranda.	None
A recurrent argument, made in these cases is that societys need for interrogation outweighs the privilege.	None
This argument is not unfamiliar to this Court.	None
See e.g., Chambers v. Florida 309 US 227 84 L Ed 716 60 S Ct 472 (1940), US at pp.	None
24041	None
L Ed at p. 724	None
60 S Ct 472 (1940).	None
The whole thrust of our foregoing discussion demonstrates that the Constitution has prescribed the rights of the individual when confronted with the power of Government when it provided in the Fifth Amendment that an individual cannot be compelled to be a witness against himself.	None
That right cannot be abridged.	None
(Emphasis Original)	None
Navjot Sandhu is a case under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 (in short POTA).	None
The law of the POTA is a major departure from the ordinary mainstream criminal law of the country.	None
Under Section 32 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002, contrary to the provisions of the CrPC and the Evidence Act, as noted above in detail, a confession made by an accused before a police officer, not lower in rank than a Superintendent of Police, is admissible in evidence though subject, of course, to the safeguards stipulated in subsections (2) to (5) of Section 32 and Section 52 that lay down the requirements to be complied with at the time of the arrest of a person.	None
Insisting on a strict compliance with those safeguards, the Court in Navjot Sandhu pointed out that those safeguards and protections provided to the accused were directly relatable to Articles 21 and 22(1) of the Constitution and incorporated the guidelines spelled out by this Court in Kartar Singh and D.K. Basu.	None
In that regard, the Court also referred in paragraph 55 of the judgment to the decision in Nandini Satpathy, and in paragraph 63 to the Miranda decision, observing as follows In the United States, according to the decisions of the Supreme Court viz., Miranda v. Arizona 384 US 436 16 L Ed 2d 694 (1966)	None
Escobedo v. Illinois 378 US 478 12 L Ed 2d 977 (1964)	None
the prosecution cannot make use of the statements stemming from custodial interrogation unless it demonstrates the use of procedural safeguards to secure the right against selfincrimination and these safeguards include a right to counsel during such interrogation and warnings to the suspect accused of his right to counsel and to remain silent.	None
In Miranda case (decided in 1966), it was held that the right to have counsel present at the interrogation was indispensable to the protection of the Vth Amendment privilege against selfincrimination and to ensure that the right to choose between silence and speech remains unfettered throughout the interrogation process.	None
However, this rule is subject to the conscious waiver of right after the individual was warned of his right.	None
As we see Navjot Sandhu, it is difficult to sustain Mr. Ramachandrans submission made on that basis.	None
To say that the safeguards built into Section 32 of the POTA have their source in Articles 20(3), 21 and 22(1) is one thing, but to say that the right to be represented by a lawyer and the right against selfincrimination would remain incomplete and unsatisfied unless those rights are read out to the accused and further to contend that the omission to read out those rights to the accused would result in vitiating the trial and the conviction of the accused in that trial is something entirely different .	None
As we shall see presently, the obligation to provide legal aid to the accused as soon as he is brought before the magistrate is very much part of our criminal law procedure, but for reasons very different from the Miranda rule, aimed at protecting the accused against selfincrimination.	None
And to say that any failure to provide legal aid to the accused at the beginning, or before his confession is recorded under Section 164 CrPC, would inevitably render the trial illegal is stretching the point to unacceptable extremes.	None
What seems to be overlooked in Mr. Ramachandrans submission is that the law of the POTA is a major departure from the common criminal law process in this country.	None
One can almost call the POTA and a few other Acts of its ilk as exceptions to the general rule.	None
Now, in the severe framework of the POTA, certain constitutional safeguards are built into Section 32, and to some extent in Section 52, of the Act.	None
But the mainstream criminal law procedure in India, which is governed by the CrPC and the Indian Evidence Act, has a fundamentally different and far more liberal framework, in which the rights of the individual are protected, in a better and more effective manner, in different ways.	None
It is, therefore, wrong to argue that what is said in context of the POTA should also apply to the mainstream criminal law procedure.	None
We are also not impressed by Mr. Ramachandrans submission that providing a lawyer at the stage of trial would provide only incomplete protection to the accused because, in case the accused had already made a confession under Section 164 CrPC, the lawyer would be faced with a fait accompli and would be defending the accused with his hands tied.	None
The object of the criminal law process is to find out the truth and not to shield the accused from the consequences of his wrongdoing.	None
A defense lawyer has to conduct the trial on the basis of the materials lawfully collected in the course of investigation.	None
The test to judge the Constitutional and legal acceptability of a confession recorded under Section 164 CrPC is not whether the accused would have made the statement had he been sufficiently scared by the lawyer regarding the consequences of the confession.	None
The true test is whether or not the confession is voluntary.	None
If a doubt is created regarding the voluntariness of the confession, notwithstanding the safeguards stipulated in Section 164 it has to be trashed but if a confession is established as voluntary it must be taken into account, not only constitutionally and legally but also morally.	None
In light of the above discussion, we are in agreement with the submissions of Mr. Subramanium as formulated in paragraphs II and III of his summing up.	None
We accept that the right against selfincrimination under Article 20(3) does not exclude any voluntary statements made in exercise of free will and volition.	None
We also accept that the right against selfincrimination under Article 20(3) is fully incorporated in the provisions of the CrPC (Sections 161, 162, 163 and 164) and the Evidence Act, 1872, as manifestations of enforceable due process, and thus compliance with these statutory provisions is also equal compliance with the Constitutional guarantees.	Arguments of Respondent
But on the issue of the right of the suspect or the accused to be represented by a lawyer, we find Mr. Subramaniums submissions equally unacceptable.	None
Mr. Subramanium contends that Article 22(1) merely allows an arrested person to consult a legal practitioner of his choice and the right to be defended by a legal practitioner crystallizes only at the stage of commencement of the trial in terms of Section 304 of the CrPC.	None
We feel that such a view is quite incorrect and insupportable for two reasons.	None
First, such a view is based on an unreasonably restricted construction of the Constitutional and statutory provisions and second, it overlooks the socioeconomic realities of the country.	None
Article 22(1) was part of the Constitution as it came into force on January 26, 1950.	None
The Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (Act 2 of 1974), that substituted the earlier Code of 1898, came into force on April 1, 1974.	None
The CrPC, as correctly explained by Mr. Subramanium in his submissions, incorporated the Constitutional provisions regarding the protection of the accused against selfaccusation.	None
The CrPC also had a provision in Section 304 regarding access to a lawyer, to which Mr. Subramanium alluded in support of his submission that the right to be defended by a legal practitioner would crystallize only on the commencement of the trial.	None
But the Constitution and the body of laws are not frozen in time.	None
They comprise an organic structure developing and growing like a living organism.	None
We cannot put it better than in the vibrant words of Justice Vivian Bose, who, dealing with the incipient Constitution in State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar AIR 1952 SC 75 made the following observations I find it impossible to read these portions of the Constitution without regard to the background out of which they arose.	None
I cannot blot out their history and omit from consideration the brooding spirit of our times.	None
They are not just dull, lifeless words static and hidebound as in some mummified manuscript, but, living flames intended to give life to a great nation and order its being, tongues of dynamic fire, potent to mould the future as well as guide the present.	None
The Constitution must, in my judgment, be left elastic enough to meet from time to time the altering conditions of a changing world with its shifting emphasis and differing needs.	None
I feel therefore that in each case Judges must look straight into the heart of things and regard the facts of each case concretely much as a jury would do and yet, not quite as a jury, for we are considering here a matter of law and not just one of fact Do these laws which have been called in question offend a still greater law before which even they must bow?	None
In the more than four decades that have passed since, true to the exhortation of Justice Bose, the law, in order to serve the evolving needs of the Indian people, has made massive progress through Constitutional amendments, legislative action and, not least, through the pronouncements by this Court.	None
Article 39A came to be inserted in the Constitution by the Constitution (42nd Amendment Act, 1976) with effect from 3.1.1977 as part of the Directive Principles of the State Policy.	None
The Article reads as under Article 39A. Equal justice and free legal aid The State shall secure that the operation of the legal system promotes justice, on a basis of equal opportunity, and shall, in particular, provide free legal aid, by suitable legislation or schemes or in any other way, to ensure that opportunities for securing justice are not denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities.	None
In furtherance to the ideal of Article 39A, Parliament enacted the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, that came into force from 9.11.1995.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act, insofar as relevant for the present, reads as under Article 39A of the Constitution provides that the State shall secure that the operation of the legal system promotes justice on a basis of equal opportunity, and shall, in particular, provide free legal aid, by suitable legislation or schemes or in any other way, to ensure that opportunities for securing justice are not denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities.	None
(Emphasis Added)	None
Sections 12 and 13 in Chapter IV of the Act deal with entitlement to legal services, and provide for legal services under the Act to a very large class of people, including members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, women and children and persons in receipt of annual income less than Rupees nine thousand (Rs 9,000/) if the case is before a court other than the Supreme Court, and less than Rupees twelve thousand (Rs 12,000) if the case is before the Supreme Court.	None
As regards income, an affidavit made by the concerned person would be regarded as sufficient to make him eligible for entitlement to legal services under the Act.	None
In the past seventeen (17) years since the Act came into force, the programme of legal aid had assumed the proportions of a national movement.	None
All this development clearly indicates the direction in which the law relating to access to lawyers legal aid has developed and continues to develop.	None
It is now rather late in the day to contend that Article 22(1) is merely an enabling provision and that the right to be defended by a legal practitioner comes into force only on the commencement of trial as provided under Section 304 of the CrPC.	None
And this leads us to the second ground for not accepting Mr. Subramaniums submission on this issue.	None
Mr. Subramanium is quite right and we are one with him in holding that the provisions of the CrPC and the Evidence Act fully incorporate the Constitutional guarantees, and that the statutory framework for the criminal process in India affords the fullest protection to personal liberty and dignity of an individual.	None
We find no flaws in the provisions in the statutes books, but the devil lurks in the faithful application and enforcement of those provisions.	None
It is common knowledge, of which we take judicial notice, that there is a great hiatus between what the law stipulates and the realities on the ground in the enforcement of the law.	None
The abuses of the provisions of the CrPC are perhaps the most subversive of the right to life and personal liberty, the most precious right under the Constitution, and the human rights of an individual.	None
Access to a lawyer is, therefore, imperative to ensure compliance with statutory provisions, which are of high standards in themselves and which, if duly complied with, will leave no room for any violation of Constitutional provisions or human rights abuses.	None
In any case, we find that the issue stands settled long ago and is no longer open to a debate.	None
More than three decades ago, in Hussainara Khatoon (IV) v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar (1980) 1 SCC 98 , this Court referring to Article 39A, then newly added to the Constitution, said that the article emphasised that free legal aid was an unalienable element of a reasonable, fair and just procedure, for without it a person suffering from economic or other disabilities would be deprived from securing justice.	None
In paragraph 7 of the judgment the Court observed and directed as under 7The right to free legal services is, therefore, clearly an essential ingredient of reasonable, fair and just, procedure for a person accused of an offence and it must be held implicit in the guarantee of Article 21.	None
This is a constitutional right of every accused person who is unable to engage a lawyer and secure legal services on account of reasons such as poverty, indigence or incommunicado situation and the State is under a mandate to provide a lawyer to an accused person if the circumstances of the case and the needs of justice so require, provided of course the accused person does not object to the provision of such lawyer.	None
We would, therefore, direct that on the next remand dates, when the undertrial prisoners, charged with bailable offences, are produced before the Magistrates, the State Government should provide them a lawyer at its own cost for the purpose of making an application for bail, provided that no objection is raised to such lawyer on behalf of such undertrial prisoners and if any application for bail is made, the Magistrates should dispose of the same in accordance with the broad outlines set out by us in our judgment dated February 12, 1979.	None
The State Government will report to the High Court of Patna its compliance with this direction within a period of six weeks from today.	None
Two years later, in Khatri (II) relating to the infamous case of blinding of prisoners in Bihar, this Court reiterated that the right to free legal aid is an essential ingredient of due process, which is implicit in the guarantee of Article 21 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In paragraph 5 of the judgment, the Court said This Court has pointed out in Hussainara Khatoon (IV) case Hussainara Khatoon (IV) v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar, (1980) 1 SCC 98 which was decided as far back as March 9, 1979 that the right to free legal services is clearly an essential ingredient of reasonable, fair and just procedure for a person accused of an offence and it must be held implicit in the guarantee of Article 21 and the State is under a constitutional mandate to provide a lawyer to an accused person if the circumstances of the case and the needs of justice so require, provided of course the accused person does not object to the provision of such lawyer.	None
Then, brushing aside the plea of financial constraint in providing legal aid to an indigent, the Court went on to say Moreover, this constitutional obligation to provide free legal services to an indigent accused does not arise only when the trial commences but also attaches when the accused is for the first time produced before the magistrate.	None
It is elementary that the jeopardy to his personal liberty arises as soon as a person is arrested and produced before a magistrate, for it is at that stage that he gets the first opportunity to apply for bail and obtain his release as also to resist remand to police or jail custody.	None
That is the stage at which an accused person needs competent legal advice and representation and no procedure can be said to be reasonable, fair and just which denies legal advice and representation to him at this stage.	None
We must, therefore, hold that the State is under a constitutional obligation to provide free legal services to an indigent accused not only at the stage of trial but also at the stage when he is first produced before the magistrate as also when he is remanded from time to time.	None
In paragraph 6 of the judgment, this Court further said But even this right to free legal services would be illusory for an indigent accused unless the Magistrate or the Sessions Judge before whom he is produced informs him of such right. . . .	None
The Magistrate or the Sessions Judge before whom the accused appears must be held to be under an obligation to inform the accused that if he is unable to engage the services of a lawyer on account of poverty or indigence, he is entitled to obtain free legal services at the cost of the State.	None
We would, therefore, direct the Magistrates and Sessions Judges in the country to inform every accused who appears before them and who is not represented by a lawyer on account of his poverty or indigence that he is entitled to free legal services at the cost of the State.	None
Unless he is not willing to take advantage of the free legal services provided by the State, he must be provided legal representation at the cost of the State.	None
(Emphasis Added)	None
The resounding words of the Court in Khatri (II) are equally, if not more, relevant today than when they were first pronounced.	None
In Khatri (II) the Court also alluded to the reasons for the urgent need of the accused to access a lawyer, these being the indigence and illiteracy of the vast majority of Indians accused of crimes.	None
As noted in Khatri (II) as far back as in 1981, a person arrested needs a lawyer at the stage of his first production before the magistrate, to resist remand to police or jail custody and to apply for bail.	None
He would need a lawyer when the chargesheet is submitted and the magistrate applies his mind to the chargesheet with a view to determine the future course of proceedings.	None
He would need a lawyer at the stage of framing of charges against him and he would, of course, need a lawyer to defend him in trial.	None
To deal with one terrorist, we cannot take away the right given to the indigent and underprivileged people of this country by this Court thirty one (31) years ago.	None
We, therefore, have no hesitation in holding that the right to access to legal aid, to consult and to be defended by a legal practitioner, arises when a person arrested in connection with a cognizable offence is first produced before a magistrate.	None
We, accordingly, hold that it is the duty and obligation of the magistrate before whom a person accused of committing a cognizable offence is first produced to make him fully aware that it is his right to consult and be defended by a legal practitioner and, in case he has no means to engage a lawyer of his choice, that one would be provided to him from legal aid at the expense of the State.	None
The right flows from Articles 21 and 22(1) of the Constitution and needs to be strictly enforced.	None
We, accordingly, direct all the magistrates in the country to faithfully discharge the aforesaid duty and obligation and further make it clear that any failure to fully discharge the duty would amount to dereliction in duty and would make the concerned magistrate liable to departmental proceedings.	None
It needs to be clarified here that the right to consult and be defended by a legal practitioner is not to be construed as sanctioning or permitting the presence of a lawyer during police interrogation.	None
According to our system of law, the role of a lawyer is mainly focused on court proceedings.	None
The accused would need a lawyer to resist remand to police or judicial custody and for granting of bail to clearly explain to him the legal consequences in case he intended to make a confessional statement in terms of Section 164 CrPC to represent him when the court examines the chargesheet submitted by the police and decides upon the future course of proceedings and at the stage of the framing of charges and beyond that, of course, for the trial.	None
It is thus to be seen that the right to access to a lawyer in this country is not based on the Miranda principles, as protection against selfincrimination, for which there are more than adequate safeguards in Indian laws.	None
The right to access to a lawyer is for very Indian reasons it flows from the provisions of the Constitution and the statutes, and is only intended to ensure that those provisions are faithfully adhered to in practice.	None
At this stage the question arises, what would be the legal consequence of failure to provide legal aid to an indigent who is not in a position, on account of indigence or any other similar reasons, to engage a lawyer of his own choice?	None
Every accused unrepresented by a lawyer has to be provided a lawyer at the commencement of the trial, engaged to represent him during the entire course of the trial.	None
Even if the accused does not ask for a lawyer or he remains silent, it is the Constitutional duty of the court to provide him with a lawyer before commencing the trial.	None
Unless the accused voluntarily makes an informed decision and tells the court, in clear and unambiguous words, that he does not want the assistance of any lawyer and would rather defend himself personally, the obligation to provide him with a lawyer at the commencement of the trial is absolute, and failure to do so would vitiate the trial and the resultant conviction and sentence, if any, given to the accused (see Suk Das v. UT of Arunachal Pradesh (1986) 2 SCC 401) .	None
But the failure to provide a lawyer to the accused at the pretrial stage may not have the same consequence of vitiating the trial.	None
It may have other consequences like making the delinquent magistrate liable to disciplinary proceedings, or giving the accused a right to claim compensation against the State for failing to provide him legal aid.	None
But it would not vitiate the trial unless it is shown that failure to provide legal assistance at the pretrial stage had resulted in some material prejudice to the accused in the course of the trial.	None
That would have to be judged on the facts of each case.	None
Having thus enunciated the legal position, we may examine the facts of the appellants case.	None
As noted in the earlier part of the judgment (under the marginal heading Kuber), the appellant was arrested by Marde (PW48) at DCBCID, Unit III, on November 27, 2008, at 10.45PM.	None
At the time of his arrest the appellant stated that he was a Pakistani national and he did not have any friend or relative in India.	None
Marde, accordingly, made a note in the Record of Formalities to be Followed at the time of Arrest A detailed form prescribed after this Courts decision in D.K. Basu, which every police officer in Maharashtra is required to fill up at the time of making arrest in compliance with the directions of this Court that intimation of his arrest could not be given to anyone in India but information about his relatives was being procured for giving intimation to them (in Pakistan).	None
He added that information about his arrest was duly given to the Crime Branch, the Control Room and the superior officers.	None
He also noted in the Arrest Panchnama that the appellant belonged to an economically weaker section, with an annual income of under Rupees twenty thousand (Rs.20,000/) per annum.	None
What is important for the present, however, is the note in the Record of Formalities that the appellant refused the offer of legal aid made to him.	None
We were also shown an undated letter written by the appellant to the Pakistani Consulate High Commission (Pakistani Wakalat), New Delhi.	None
The letter is in broken Urdu and is written in halfliterate handwriting.	None
The appellant handed over the letter to Marde on December 10, 2008.	None
Marde passed the letter to his superiors, and the ACP (Crime), Mumbai, forwarded it to the Joint Secretary (Foreigners), Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, on December 11, 2008, with a request to arrange Consular access for the appellant.	None
In this letter, the appellant asserts his Pakistani identity and nationality, and states that after having received armed training at different places in Pakistan, he and his associates made an attack on India.	None
In the exchange of firing with the police, Ismail was killed and he received gunshot injuries.	None
He requested legal aid and asked that the Pakistani authorities should make arrangements to take the dead body of Ismail to his home.	None
He signed the letter as Yours Patriotic (Aapka Watan Parast)	None
Mohammad Ajmal.	None
Further, on December 26, 2008, on being produced before the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, he handed a similar letter, written by him in Urdu, to the magistrate.	None
In this letter, he once again asserted his Pakistani identity and nationality, and requested a Pakistani lawyer.	None
In this letter, he clearly said that he did not want any Indian lawyer for his defence.	None
He also said that he had already written a letter to the Pakistani Consulate High Commission, requesting a lawyer, but he failed to get any reply from there.	None
He requested the magistrate to make a request on his behalf to the Pakistani Consulate High Commission for providing him legal aid.	None
On that date, the court remanded him to magisterial custody for the purposes of an identification parade, recording in the order sheet that the appellant had requested a Pakistani lawyer.	None
On December 29, 2008, the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 37th Court, Esplanade, Mumbai, took the rather unusual step of directly forwarding the appellants letter to the Honble Ambassador, Pakistan, with a covering letter under his seal and signature.	None
Unfortunately for the appellant, the country of his nationality was in a mode of complete denial at that stage, and there does not seem to be even an acknowledgement of his letters requesting a Pakistani lawyer.	None
On February 17, 2009, the appellant was produced before the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate for recording his confession under Section 164 of the CrPC, and we have already seen in great detail the proceedings of the next four dates till February 21, 2009.	None
On February 25, 2009, a chargesheet was submitted in the case, and on March 23, 2009, the appellant was produced before the Sessions Court through electronic video linkage for the first time.	None
He then made a request to be given a lawyer at the expense of the State.	None
On March 30, 2009, the court appointed Ms. Anjali Waghmare to represent the appellant from the panel of lawyers maintained by the court.	None
Moreover, since the appellant was charged with offences carrying the death penalty, under legalaid rules he was entitled to be defended by a senior lawyer assisted by a junior.	None
The court, therefore, appointed Mr. Pawar as the junior counsel to represent the appellant on April 1, 2009.	None
At this stage, one Kaikhushru Lam, who had been clamouring for some time to be allowed to represent Kasab, filed a petition against the appointment of Ms. Anjali Waghmare, stating that she was representing a victim of the terrorist attack and a potential witness in the trial for compensation for the victim, in a separate civil proceeding.	None
When this fact came to light, the trial judge revoked the appointment of Ms. Anjali Waghmare by a reasoned order passed on April 15, 2009, observing that there was a possibility of conflict of interests.	None
Then, after careful consideration and consultations with a number of senior advocates, the court finally chose Mr. Abbas Kazmi, advocate, to represent the appellant.	None
The court selected Mr. Kazmi in consultation with the President of the Bar, and taking into account the magnitude of the case and the competence and experience of Mr. Kazmi.	None
Mr.Kazmi was then provided a chamber on the first floor of the court building and was given all the facilities to conduct the case properly and without any difficulty (including roundtheclock armed security).	None
On April 17, 2009, the confession of the appellant recorded by the Judicial Magistrate was opened before the court and copies were given to the Special Public Prosecutor and Mr. Kazmi.	None
On that very day, Mr. Kazmi submitted an application (Exhibit 18) stating that the appellant retracted from the confession recorded before the magistrate.	None
On the same day, the prosecution opened its case.	None
It is another matter that, towards the end of the trial, Mr. Kazmi picked repeated quarrels with the court.	None
From the orders passed by the court in that regard, it is clear that Mr. Kazmi was bent upon delaying the trial proceedings and was raising groundless objections at every step, trying to make it impossible for the court to proceed with the trial.	None
As a result, the court was eventually forced to remove Mr. Kazmi from the trial.	None
Mr. Kazmi challenged the courts order removing him from the trial before the High Court, but the High Court affirmed the order of the trial court.	None
It may be noted here that even Mr. Ramachandran did not find any fault with the decision of the court to remove Mr. Kazmi from the court proceedings.	None
From that stage, the appellant was represented by Mr. Pawar, who seems to have handled the case as well as anyone could have done in face of the evidence against the appellant.	None
On the basis of the appellants two letters in which he sought the help of the Pakistani Consulate High Commission to provide him with a Pakistani lawyer, Mr. Ramachandran submitted that it is clear that the appellant wanted a lawyer but he wanted a lawyer who should be Pakistani.	None
He contended that it was, therefore, the duty of the court either to make arrangements for him to be represented by a Pakistani lawyer or to tell him clearly that his request could not be acceded to, but that under the Constitution of India he had the right to be defended by a lawyer and, in case he so wished, he would be given adequate legal representation.	None
He argued that apart from the Constitutional and legal principles, the rules of natural justice demanded that the appellant be so informed.	None
We feel that Mr. Ramachandran is taking the matter to unacceptable extremes.	None
It is seen above that the appellant was offered a lawyer at the time of his arrest by the police officer making the arrest.	None
He declined the offer.	None
He then wrote a letter to the Pakistani High Commission asking to be provided with a lawyer.	None
He made a similar request in a second letter that was handed over to the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate.	None
In the second letter, there is an assertion that he did not want to be represented by an Indian lawyer.	None
It is thus clear that, in his mind, the appellant was still at war with India, and he had no use for a lawyer from the enemy country.	None
Moreover, the negative assertion that he did not want an Indian lawyer itself implies that he had received offers of legal counsel.	None
But those offers were not acceptable to him.	None
The appellants refusal to accept the services of an Indian lawyer and his demand for a lawyer from his country cannot be anything but his own independent decision.	None
The demand for a Pakistani lawyer in those circumstances, and especially when Pakistan was denying that the appellant was even a Pakistani citizen, might have been impractical, even foolish, but the man certainly did not need any advice from an Indian court or authority as to his rights under the Indian Constitution.	None
He was acting quite independently and, in his mind, he was a patriotic Pakistani at war with this country.	None
On March 23, 2009, the appellant finally asked for a lawyer, apparently convinced by then that no help would come from Pakistan or anywhere else.	None
He was then immediately provided with a set of two lawyers.	None
In the aforesaid facts we are firmly of the view that there is no question of any violation of any of the rights of the appellant under the Indian Constitution.	None
He was offered the services of a lawyer at the time of his arrest and at all relevant stages in the proceedings.	None
We are also clear in our view that the absence of a lawyer at the pretrial stage was not only as per the wishes of the appellant himself, but that this absence also did not cause him any prejudice in the trial.	None
Too little time allowed to the lawyer for preparation Mr. Ramachandran submitted that after Mr. Kazmi was appointed by the court to represent the appellant, he filed an application on April 21, 2009, requesting for grant of four weeks time to prepare a reply to the submissions made by the Special PP under Section 226 CrPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
His application was only partly allowed and he was given only eight days time, till May 2, 2009, to prepare a reply to the address of the Special PP.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that date, Mr. Kazmi submitted an application raising the issue of the juvenility of the appellant, which was rejected by the court after it held an enquiry into the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the time of eight days given by the trial court to the courtappointed lawyer was unreasonably short, considering that Mr. Kazmi had made a reasonable request for four weeks time.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that justice is not only to be done but also to be seen to be done, and the short time granted to the defence counsel fell foul of this principle and thus affected fair trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that while appointing Mr. Kazmi the court itself recognized that he was a lawyer of some standard and would be required to adjust his other commitments.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran, therefore, submitted that the trial procedure was also vitiated and that it cannot be said to be just, fair and reasonable because of the denial of sufficient time to the defence lawyer to prepare his case.	Arguments of Petitioner
499.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the submission, Mr. Ramachandran relied upon an unreported decision of this Court in Owais Alam v. State of U.P., in which this Court observed that an Amicus may feel hesitation in asking for time but the court itself must allow adequate time to him for preparing the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also relied upon the decision of this Court in Bashira v. State of U.P. (1969) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 32.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, the court had proceeded with the trial on the same day on which it appointed the Amicus to represent the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court held that the defence was not given sufficient time and, accordingly, set aside the judgments of the courts below and remanded the case for retrial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran relied upon yet another decision of this Court in Ranchod Mathur Wasawa v. State of Gujarat (1974) 3 SCC 581 (para 1).	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, though this Court held that sufficient time was given to the counsel representing the accused, it observed that the courts should adopt a sensitive approach to see that the accused felt confident that the counsel chosen for him by the court has had adequate time and material to defend him properly.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Kazmi was appointed to represent the appellant on April 16, 2009, and he made an application for time on April 21, 2009.	None
The court allowed him eight (8) days time, which cannot be said to be unreasonable.	None
It is true that during those eight (8) days some very brief hearings were held on 23 days on the issue of the juvenility of the appellant.	None
But that does not mean that the counsel for the appellant was not given sufficient time to prepare for the case.	None
Mr. Subramanium gave us a chart showing not only the daytoday developments in the trial but also giving details of the hours of the court proceedings on each day, and from this chart we are satisfied that Mr. Kazmi was allowed ample time for preparation.	None
It would be pertinent to note here that Mr. Kazmi himself never complained about not being given sufficient time.	None
We may further note that, from the record of proceedings of the trial court, Mr. Kazmi does not appear to be the noncomplaining type, one who would suffer silently or take things lying down.	None
In the later stages of the trial, Mr. Kazmi raised all kinds of objections and left no opportunity to noisily protest against the procedural decisions of the trial court, yet he never complained that he was given insufficient time for preparation.	None
We further find that, in the course of the trial, when Mr. Kazmi requested for adjournment for crossexamination of some important witnesses, the court accommodated him on most occasions.	None
We are, therefore, unable to agree with Mr. Ramachandran that the defence was not allowed sufficient time for preparation of the case and that denial of sufficient time vitiated the trial.	None
II.	None
The charges not established Mr. Ramachandran feebly submitted that the evidence adduced by the prosecution did not fully establish all the charges against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
But finding us not inclined to even listen to this he moved on to his other submissions trying to chip away at the prosecution case in different ways.	None
III.	None
Confession Not Voluntary and Liable to be Eschewed from Consideration Mr. Raju Ramachandran submitted that the confession by the appellant was not voluntary but that it was a tutored statement to suit the prosecutions case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The very language, tone and tenor of the confession showed that it was not voluntary in nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
There were many indicators in the confession itself showing that it was made at the instance of the investigating agency.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the confession was inordinately long and it was full of unnecessary details that were completely out of place, as those had no connection or relevance to the offences in regard to which the confession was being made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel pointed out that the confession started by giving the address of the village where the appellant was born and where he spent his childhood.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant then gave the names of his parents and the mobile phone number of his father the names of his younger siblings who lived with his parents and those of his elder brother and sister who were married and lived at different places, along with their addresses.	Arguments of Petitioner
After the names of the immediate family, he went on to give the names and addresses of his uncles and aunts and cousins, both on the paternal and maternal sides.	Arguments of Petitioner
Those were people whom the appellant had left long before joining the LashkareToiba and taking on the mantel of a Jihadi.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that there was no reason to mention all of them in a confession regarding the terrorist attack on Mumbai.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further pointed out that the appellant seems to exhibit a phenomenal memory in the confessional statement, naming a large number of persons with their aliases and their home towns, with street names as well as the names given to them by the Jihadi group, along with the Hindu names assigned to them for the purpose of the attack on Mumbai.	Arguments of Petitioner
In regard to his visits to the different offices of the LashkareToiba at different places, the appellant would mention not only the mode of transport but also the time taken in travelling from one place to another.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would give the name of the person whom he met at the gate of the office and then of the person whom he met inside the office.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would say what was written on the slips of paper given by one office while sending him to the other office or training camp.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Ramachandran, all those details were quite unnecessary in a confession and a person making a confession with regard to the Mumbai attack would normally not go into all those particulars on his own unless prompted by some external agency.	Arguments of Petitioner
506.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that the confession as recorded by the magistrate was too tightly organized, wellstructured and properly sequenced to be the true and honest narrative of the appellant, who was merely a semiliterate rustic.	Arguments of Petitioner
The confession started with the childhood days of the appellant at his village Faridkot, tehsil Dipalpur, district Okara, Punjab Province, Pakistan, and ended with his arrest at Vinoli Chowpaty in Mumbai, and all the intervening circumstances were detailed one after the other in a highly structured and properly sequenced manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that a person of the appellants education, when making an oral confessional statement, was bound to slightly ramble and many parts in the narrative would be out of sequence, but that was not so in the appellants confessional statement as produced before the court.	Arguments of Petitioner
507.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran next pointed out that there were certain words occurring in the confessional statement which could not possibly have been used by the appellant and which show that the confessional statement was not in his own words.	Arguments of Petitioner
For instance, he referred to the record of proceedings dated February 18, 2009, before the learned magistrate, Mrs. SawantWagule (PW218), who recorded his confessional statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
The magistrate asked (vide question number 14) him the offence about which he wanted to make a confessional statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
In reply, the appellant is shown to have said that he wanted to make the confessional statement in connection with the Fidayeen attack on Bombay by him along with his associates on November 26, 2008, as well as the Sahzish behind the attack.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran said that Sahzish is an Urdu word which would be roughly translated into English as conspiracy but that it has negative connotations.	Arguments of Petitioner
To the appellant, the preparation and the training for launching the attack on India were a patriotic duty and not Sahzish.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also referred to the passage in the confession about the training camp at Muzzaffarabad.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the confessional statement the appellant is shown to have described Muzaffarabad as being situated in POK.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that for the appellant, unlike for an Indian, this region was not POK (Pakistan Occupied Kashmir) but rather it was Azad Kashmir, and contended that the appellant could not have used the words Sahzish or POK and several other similar words that occur in his confessional statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
508.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran further submitted that operations of the kind in which the appellant was involved work strictly on a need to know basis, such that individual operatives are given information limited to what is essential for execution of the role assigned to them.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is for their own safety and for the safety of the larger group, as also for the success of the conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
But in this case it would appear that, in the course of his training, the appellant was being freely introduced to all and sundry in the organization and was also told about their respective positions in the hierarchy of the organization and their special skills.	Arguments of Petitioner
As an instance, Mr. Ramachandran referred to the passage in the confessional statement where the appellant is taken to the media room of the organization and Kafa tells him about Zarar Shah being the head of the media wing of the organization.	Arguments of Petitioner
509.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran pointed out that the appellant describes a number of events in the course of his training in Pakistan in the minutest detail.	Arguments of Petitioner
He not only recalls what someone said at that time but actually reproduces long statements made by someone else in direct speech, which is recorded by the magistrate within inverted commas.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that this feature of the confessional statement was itself sufficient to discredit it.	Arguments of Petitioner
510.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further pointed out that, at several places, in course of some discussion in a group, the appellant asks a question to elicit an answer that would fit exactly into the prosecutions case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that, if viewed objectively, those parts of the confession would appear quite out of place and contrived.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also referred to some other passages in the confessional statement, like the one where the members of the terrorist squad are told that the SIM cards for their mobile phones were procured from India by fooling some people there, and characterized these passages as quite contrived and out of place.	Arguments of Petitioner
511.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran further submitted that the introduction of Fahim and Sabauddin (accused 2 and 3) with the maps allegedly prepared by them, in the confessional statement, was clearly fabricated.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said that the other two accused were mentioned in the confession at three places and at each place the reference appeared to be more incongruous than at the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
512.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that, beginning from the Kuber right up to his being taken into custody at Vinoli Chowpaty, the appellant seems to be narrating events so as to confirm all the findings of the investigation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran referred to the passage where Abu Ismail and the appellant proceed in the Skoda car, having snatched the vehicle from its owner at gunpoint.	Arguments of Petitioner
At this point, the appellant asks Abu Ismail where they are going and Abu Ismail vaguely replies that they are going to Malabar Hill and, on being asked again, tells the appellant that he would tell him the exact destination only after reaching Malabar Hill.	Arguments of Petitioner
And then, as they pass through the road by the sea, the appellant recalls that this was the same road as was shown in the maps prepared by the other two accused, as going towards Malabar Hill.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran said that if Malabar Hill was actually the area they were headed for, it is impossible to believe that he would not know their exact target there, or that Abu Ismail would hold it back from him till they reached there.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel contended that the whole passage was clearly an untrue insertion for filling up the blanks in the prosecution case.	Arguments of Petitioner
513.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran also referred to two other passages in the confession, one relating to the terrorists encounter with two persons as they came ashore at Badhwar Park, and the other regarding the appellants planting of an RDX bomb in the taxi by which the appellant and Abu Ismail came to CST.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the first passage was intended to prop up the evidence of Bharat Dattatrya Tamore (PW28), who was just a chance witness and whose credibility was otherwise wholly unsupported and the other passage was to foist the killings in the taxi blast at Vile Parle on the appellant, for which also there was otherwise no evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
514.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran further submitted that the appellant had wanted to make a confession as soon as he was apprehended (see his answer to question no. 9 by the magistrate in the record of proceedings dated February 18, 2009, before Mrs. SawantWagule, PW218).	Arguments of Petitioner
Even Ramesh Padmanabh Mahale, the Chief Investigating Officer (PW607), said in his deposition in court that he realised in the first week of December 2008 that the appellant was willing to give a confession before a magistrate (vide Paragraph 25 of his deposition before the court).	Arguments of Petitioner
And yet, he was brought before the magistrate for making the confession as late as February 17, 2009.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the appellant was produced before the magistrate only after the investigation was complete is evident from the fact that the recording of the confession was completed on February 21, 2009, and the chargesheet was filed on February 25, 2009.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that after the investigation was over, the police wanted the appellant to confirm all the findings made in course of the investigation and that the appellant was produced before the magistrate with that objective.	Arguments of Petitioner
515.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that for the reasons pointed out by him, this Court should keep the appellants confessional statement completely out of consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
And if the confessional statement is put aside then his conviction, at least for the murder committed on the Kuber and the killings in the Vile Parle taxi blast, cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have read the appellants confession a number of times in light of its denunciation by Mr. Ramachandran as not being a voluntary statement.	None
But we find it impossible to hold that the confession is not voluntary and is liable to be thrown out for that reason.	None
Indeed, some of the criticisms by Mr. Ramachandran appear, at first sight, quite convincing, but a little reflection would show that there is not much force in any of those criticisms.	None
Before proceeding further, however, we may state that his censure regarding the mentions of the other two accused in the confessional statement is quite justified, and we too find the references to accused 2 and 3 at three (3) places in the confessional statement highly unsatisfactory.	None
We are also of the view that the reference to their destination being Malabar Hills when Abu Ismail and the appellant were caught at Vinoli Chowpaty is equally vague, and that also is perhaps mentioned to establish a connection with the alleged maps prepared by accused 2 and 3.	None
But so far as the rest of the very detailed confession is concerned, there is absolutely no reason to doubt that it was made voluntarily and without any influence or duress from any external agency.	None
Taking Mr. Ramachandrans criticisms one by one, the detailed references by the appellant to his parents and a larger number of his relatives, their addresses and the mobile phone numbers of some of them, and his references to the different places in Pakistan, appears to us to be directed against the Pakistani authorities.	None
It is the appellants assertion, made consciously or subconsciously, of his Pakistani identity and nationality.	None
It is noted above that, shortly after his arrest, he had sent two letters (one undated, handed over to Marde the other dated December 26, 2008, and handed over to the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate both addressed to the Pakistani High Commission asking for a Pakistani lawyer).	None
Those two letters were not even acknowledged and, for all intents and purposes, he was disowned by the country to which he belongs.	None
Thus, in the statement that he made before the magistrate on February 20, 2009, the appellant was making it clear that he was a Pakistani by birth and by citizenship, and was making assertions that no one could deny.	None
Proceeding to the structure of the statement the sequence of events narrated therein and the use of some words that prima facie seem unnatural in his mouth.	None
It needs to be kept in mind that the appellant was making the statement after being in police custody for several months.	None
The police, in the course of countless sessions of interrogations, would have turned him inside out, and he would have earlier made the very same statements in the same sequence before the police many a times.	None
Under relentless police interrogations, he would have recalled the smallest details of his past life, specially relating to the preparation and training for the attack on Mumbai.	None
(The statements made before the police were not, however, admissible in evidence as being barred by the various provisions of the CrPC and the Evidence Act, as discussed in detail above.)	None
But when the appellant went to the magistrate to make his confession, everything would be completely fresh in his mind.	None
He would also have unconsciously picked up those words pointed out by Mr. Ramachandran from his interrogators, and these would have become part of his own vocabulary.	None
We, therefore, find nothing surprising in his uttering words like Sahzish or POK.	None
As to his knowing the names of many people in LashkareToiba, their respective positions in the hierarchy and their roles in the organization, again there is nothing unusual about it.	None
It is to be noted that the appellant was not a mercenary hired for the operation.	None
He was a highly committed and devoted member of the organization and, therefore, there is nothing strange or wrong in his coming to know many people in the organization during the course of his training.	None
Further, it is to be kept in mind that his being caught alive was not part of the plan of the handlers.	None
According to the plan, he, like the other nine terrorists in the team, was supposed to die in the course of the attack, and with his death everything would have remained unknown.	None
It was only thanks to the fact of his being caught alive (which, as the phone transcripts indicate, made his handlers quite anxious) that the Indian authorities were able to learn the names of the other people in the organization, their specific roles and their positions in the organization.	None
As to the recording of certain statements within quotes by the learned magistrate, that is only a manner of how the appellant spoke.	None
The appellant would say a long sentence and then add that this was what soandso said.	None
The magistrate would then record the statement within inverted commas even though the sentences would be made by the appellant himself, paraphrasing the words of others.	None
Further, to say that the confessional statement was intended to confirm the findings of the police investigation is actually to blame the police for an excellent investigation.	None
If the confessional statement confirms the findings of the investigation that should go to the credit of the investigation, and it cannot be said that the confessional statement was recorded to confirm the police investigation.	None
Finally, the production of the accused before the magistrate on February 17, 2009, even though he had expressed his willingness to make the confessional statement in early December, 2008, is equally legitimate and understandable.	None
The police could not afford to lose custody of the appellant at that stage, as it was essential in connection with their investigation, which was still incomplete to a very large extent at that time.	None
Once the appellant was produced for recording of the confession under Section 164 of the CrPC, the law ordained the magistrate to send him to judicial custody and not back on police remand.	None
In those circumstances, the police was fully justified in producing the appellant for confession only after completing its own investigation, when it no longer needed the appellant in its custody.	None
Leaving aside Mr. Ramachandrans criticisms, the proof of the voluntariness and the truthfulness of the confessional statement comes directly from the appellants own statements.	None
It is noted in the earlier part of the judgment that, on February 18, 2009, when the appellant was brought before the magistrate, she asked him when he first felt like making a confession, to which he had replied that the thought of making the confession came to him when he was arrested by the police he then added that he had absolutely no regret for whatever he had done.	None
At another stage in the proceedings, the magistrate once again asked why he wished to make the confessional statement, to which he replied that he wanted to set an example for others to follow and to become Fidayeen like him.	None
It is thus clear that he was not making a confessional statement from any position of weakness or resignation, or out of remorse.	None
He was a hero in his own eyes, and in those circumstances it is not possible to hold that the confession was not voluntary.	None
It may further be noted that, though Mr. Ramachandran questioned the voluntariness of the confession, he did not say that the statements made therein were untrue in any manner.	None
It needs to be noted here that, in the course of the trial, after fiftyeight (58) prosecution witnesses had been examined and the next witness, Police SubInspector Chavan was about to enter the witness box on July 20, 2009, the appellant in the dock expressed a desire to have a word with his Counsel.	None
After a brief consultation that lasted for about half a minute, Mr. Kazmi informed the court that the appellant wanted to say something to the court directly.	None
On being asked to speak by the court, the appellant said that he was accepting his guilt.	None
The Special Public Prosecutor objected to entertaining any plea of guilty at that stage, on the grounds that the stage of Section 229 CrPC was already over.	None
The court, however, rightly overruling the objection, allowed the appellant to make a statement, which was recorded after giving him due caution.	None
This is once again a long statement but it does not have the organized structure that Mr. Ramachandran pointed out in respect of the confessional statement recorded by the magistrate.	None
In his statement before the court the appellant began the story from CST station, where both he and Abu Ismail fired from AK47 rifles and Abu Ismail threw hand grenades at a crowd of passengers.	None
Starting from CST he went up to Vinoli Chowpaty, where he and Abu Ismail were finally caught.	None
From there, he went back to the point when they had started their sea journey from Karachi for Mumbai, recounting their journey first on the small boat, then on the larger vessels AlHussaini and Kuber, until he came to the landing at Badhwar Park on the inflatable rubber boat.	None
He then went back again to the various kinds of trainings that he had received at different places in Pakistan.	None
However, what is of importance is that, though structurally and sequentially the statement made in the court is completely different from the confessional statement made before the magistrate, it has broadly the same contents.	None
It is true that in the confessional statement he presents himself as the central figure in almost all the episodes while in the statement before the court he appears to be perceptibly retreating to the background.	None
The lead role in and the overt acts are attributed to others rather than to himself.	None
In all the offences that he committed in Mumbai along with Abu Ismail, it is now the latter who is in the lead and he himself is simply following behind him.	None
The killing of Amarchand Solanki on the boat Kuber that he owned up to almost with pride before the magistrate is now assigned to Abu Soheb with Kasab not even present in the engine room.	None
Significantly, however, as regards his joining of LashkareToiba, the formation of the conspiracy, the preparation and training for the attack on Mumbai, as well as the identities of the men in the organisation, there is hardly any omission in the appellants statement made in the court.	None
Further, in the statement to the court, though there is mention of the handprepared maps, there is no mention of their source.	None
There is no reference to Fahim and Sabauddin (accused nos.	None
2 and 3) as the maker and the deliverer (respectively) of those maps.	None
In the appellants statement before the court there is no reference at all to his family but the reason for this is not far to seek.	None
In paragraph 40 of the statement recorded by the court the appellant said as follows I wanted to confess the offence.	None
Since Pakistan had beendisowning, I was not confessing.	None
I have now learnt that Pakistan has accepted that I am Pakistani National and that they are ready to prosecute the offenders.	None
Therefore, I am voluntarily confessing to the charges framed against me.	None
I have made the statement voluntarily without being influenced by any extraneous source or reason.	None
His Pakistani identity and nationality having been acknowledged there was no need for the appellant to remind the Pakistani establishment of his nationality by giving details of his family and their addresses.	None
The court, of course, did not accept the statement that was sought to be made as the plea of guilty because it was a very diluted and partial admission of only some of the charges.	None
It, accordingly, proceeded with the trial.	None
While dealing with the statements made by the appellant, it may also be noted that, finally, in the statement recorded under Section 313 of the CrPC, he denied the entire prosecution case and also retracted his two previous statements.	None
It is evident that by the time the statement under Section 313 was recorded towards the end of December 2009, the Jihadi sheen had worn off and the desire to live was again exerting its pull on the appellant.	None
In light of the discussions made above, we are unable to accept Mr. Ramachandrans submission to eschew the appellants confessional statement made before the magistrate completely from consideration.	None
We are clearly of the view that the confessional statement recorded by the magistrate is voluntary and truthful, except insofar as it relates to the other two accused, namely, Fahim and Sabauddin.	None
IV.	None
Conspiracy Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the charge of conspiracy cannot be said to have been fully established against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that the appellant was charged with a larger conspiracy and he was alleged to have Attempted to destabilize the Government of India by engineering violence in different parts in India 2) Attempted to create instability in India by the aforesaid subversive activities 3) Terrorized the people in different parts of India by indulging in wanton killings and destruction of properties through bomb attacks and use of firearms and lethal weapons 4) Conspired to weaken Indias economic ight 5) Conspired to kill foreign nationals with a view to cause serious damage to tourism business of India 6) Conspired to adversely affect harmony between various communities and religions in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that if the appellants confession is excluded from consideration there is not enough evidence brought by the prosecution to prove the aforesaid allegations beyond all reasonable doubts.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that the transcripts of the telephonic conversation which have been pressed by the prosecution to prove the charges relating to conspiracy cannot be used against the appellant.	None
We find no force in the submission.	None
Earlier it is found that the confession by the appellant was quite voluntary and there was no violation of any Constitutional or legal right of the appellant in the recording of the confession.	None
Hence, there is no reason for not taking the confession into consideration to judge the charges against the appellant.	None
Moreover, in the earlier pages of this judgment we had examined the evidence of conspiracy in considerable detail, which may be broadly classified under three heads (i) the confessional statement by the appellant (ii) the objective findings in the vessel Kuber, the inflatable rubber dinghy, the different places of attack by the other groups of terrorists and the locations of bomb explosion in the two taxis and (iii) the transcripts of the phone conversations between the terrorists and their collaborators and handlers from across the border.	None
In our view, evidence under any of these three heads is sufficient to bring home the charges relating to conspiracy against the appellant.	None
At this stage, however, we must address Mr. Ramachandrans point regarding the admissibility of the transcripts in evidence against the appellant.	None
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the transcripts begin from 01.04 AM on November 27, 2008, whereas the appellant was taken into custody at 0030 hours on that date.	None
In other words, the transcripts begin after the appellant was in police custody.	None
He contended that with the arrest of the appellant his link with the other alleged conspirators was snapped, and it could no longer be said that he continued to be a part of the conspiracy.	None
In that situation, the conversation among the alleged coconspirators cannot be used against the appellant.	None
In support of the submission, he placed reliance on a threeJudge Bench of this Court in State v. Nalini (1999) 5 SCC 253 (para 111).	None
We find no force or substance in the submission, and the reliance placed on the decision in Nalini is quite misconceived.	None
In Nalini, the Court was examining the question whether a confession made by an accused and recorded under Section 32 of TADA, though a substantive evidence against the maker thereof, could be used with the same force against a coaccused being tried in the same case.	None
The Court considered the question first in light of the amendment of TADA by Act 43 of 1993, and came to hold and find that while a confession is substantive evidence against its maker, it cannot be used as substantive evidence against another person, even if the latter is a coaccused, and can only be used as a piece of corroborative material to support other substantive evidence.	None
The State then fell back on Section 10 of the Evidence Act, arguing that the width of the provision is so large as to render any statement made by a conspirator as substantive evidence if it satisfies the other conditions of the Section.	None
Rejecting the States submission, the Court pointed out that a confession can normally be made when an accused is under arrest and his contact with the other conspirators has snapped, and it was in that context that the Court held and observed in paragraph 111 of the judgment as under Whether a particular accused had ceased to be a conspirator or not, at any point of time, is a matter which can be decided on the facts of that particular case.	None
Normally a conspirators connection with the conspiracy would get snapped after he is nabbed by the police and kept in their custody because he would thereby cease to be the agent of the other conspirators.	None
Of course we are not unmindful of rare cases in which a conspirator would continue to confabulate with the other conspirators and persist with the conspiracy even after his arrest.	None
That is precisely the reason why we said that it may not be possible to lay down a proposition of law that one conspirators connection with the conspiracy would necessarily be cut off with his arrest.	None
In the case in hand the situation is entirely different.	None
The phase of planning the attack and training for it, which form the core of the conspiracy, took place in Pakistan, and the terrorists, including the appellant, came to Mumbai in execution of the main objects of the conspiracy.	None
The appellant was apprehended while he was on a killing spree in execution of the objects of the conspiracy and the transcripts of the phone conversation of the other terrorists, associates of the appellant and their foreign collaborators, relate to a time when the speakers were not only free but were actively involved in trying to fulfil the objects of the conspiracy.	None
The transcripts are by no means any confessional statements made under arrest and they are fully covered by the provisions of Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act.	None
There is no reason not to take them into consideration in support of the charge of conspiracy against the appellant.	None
Waging War Against the Government of India The appellant has been convicted on the charge of waging war against the Government of India and is awarded the death penalty under Section 121 of the Penal Code.	None
In addition, he is separately convicted, under Section 121A, for conspiracy to commit offences punishable by Section 121 of the Code and Section 122 for collecting arms with intention of waging war against the Government of India, and given life sentences under these two Sections.	None
Mr. Ramachandran stated that the conviction under Section 121A pertains to the incidents at venues where the appellant was not present, and in that regard he has already made his submissions while dealing with the question of conspiracy.	None
In regard to the conviction under Section 121, therefore, he would confine his submissions to the offences directly attributable to the appellant.	None
Mr. Ramachandran was anxious to somehow rescue the appellant from the grave charge of waging war against the Government of India.	None
His anxiety in regard to this particular charge stems from the fact that the conviction for the offence of waging war has been viewed by the High Court as the most aggravating factor for awarding the death sentence to the appellant.	None
Mr. Ramachandran evidently hoped that if he succeeded in getting the appellant acquitted of the charge of waging war he would be in a better position to plead before the Court for mitigation of the punishment and commutation of his sentence to life imprisonment.	None
Mr. Ramachandran argued that killing of people, even though in large numbers, within the precincts of CST, or the other offences committed by the appellant, earlier described under the heads Cama in, Cama out, Skoda robbery and Vinoli Chowpaty, by no means amount to waging war within the meaning of Section 121 of the Penal Code.	None
To constitute the offence of waging war, there must be a challenge to the sovereign authority of the Government of India, which is completely absent in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that the acts said to have been committed by the appellant may constitute a terrorist act within the meaning of Section 15 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, but not waging war.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that if the views of the trial court and the High Court were to be upheld, it would amount to equating every terrorist act with waging war.	None
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that even assuming that the words Government of India in Section 121 of the Penal Code are to be read as synonymous with the Indian State, that would not make the attack on CST Station waging war within the meaning of that Section.	Arguments of Petitioner
The attack on CST was not an attack directly targeting any important symbol of the State or any vital establishment of the State or any important functionaries of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
The intent to weaken or terrorize the State may render such an act a terrorist act but it would still not satisfy the ingredients of Section 121 of the Penal Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel went on to contend that, in any event, after the enactment of the very comprehensive provisions in Chapter IV of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, the provisions of Section 121 of the Penal Code would cease to apply to terrorist attack on the Indian State on principles analogous to those governing the implied repeal of statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran further submitted that, similarly, the mindless killing of persons in a public place would not constitute the offence of waging war against the Indian State.	None
Any argument that an attack on a place which is no more than the hub of a public transportation system amounts to an attack on the State is, according to Mr. Ramachandran, quite fallacious in the context of a criminal statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that to say that an attack on a very important and busy railway station or an attack on Indias financial capital or economic might would be an attack on the State would amount to giving a greatly extended, expansive and liberal meaning to a criminal statute, which is not permissible.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran further submitted that on the question of waging war the present case was not comparable to the cases of Navjot Sandhu and Mohd.	None
Arif v. State of Delhi 2011 (8) SCALE 328 .	Arguments of Petitioner
In Navjot Sandhu and Mohd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Arif, the targets of attack were the Parliament building and the Red Fort, which this Court held were clearly symbols of the Indian State and its sovereignty.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Ramachandran, the same could not be said of CST, which is only a public building.	Arguments of Petitioner
The offences concerning waging war are in Chapter VI of the Penal Code under the heading of offences against the State.	None
Section 121 uses the phrase Government of India and it provides as follows Waging, or attempting to wage war, or abetting waging of war, against the Government of India.	None
Whoever, wages war against the Government of India, or attempts to wage such war, or abets the waging of such war, shall be punished with death, or imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Section 121A makes a conspiracy to commit offences punishable by Section 121 per se an offence punishable with imprisonment for life or for a period that may extend to ten (10) years.	None
The explanation to the Section makes it clear that the offence is complete even without any act or illegal omission occurring in pursuance of the conspiracy.	None
This Section uses the expression the Central Government or any State Government.	None
The Section reads as under 121A. Conspiracy to commit offences punishable by Section 121.	None
Whoever within or without India conspires to commit any of the offences punishable by Section 121, or conspires to overawe, by means of criminal force or the show of criminal force, the Central Government or any State Government, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Explanation.	None
To constitute a conspiracy under this section, it is not necessary that any act or illegal omission shall take place in pursuance thereof.	None
Section 122 similarly makes collection of arms with intention of waging war per se an offence, regardless of whether or not the arms were put to actual use.	None
This Section again uses the expression Government of India and it reads as under Collecting arms, etc., with intention of waging war against the Government of India.	None
Whoever collects men, arms or ammunition or otherwise prepares to wage war with the intention of either waging or being prepared to wage war against the Government of India, shall be punished with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Section 123 deals with Concealing with intent to facilitate design to wage war against the Government of India.	None
Section 125 deals with Waging war against any Asiatic Power in alliance with the Government of India, and Section 126 deals with Committing depredation on territories of Power at peace with the Government of India.	None
Here it may also be noted that Section 39 CrPC read with Section 176 of the Penal Code makes it an offence for any person who is aware of the commission of, or of the intention of any person to commit, an offence under Sections 121 to 126, both inclusive (that is, offences against the State specified in Chapter VI of the Code), to omit giving any notice or furnishing any information to any public servant.	None
Moreover, Section 123 of the Penal Code makes it an offence to conceal, whether by act or omission, the existence of a design to wage war against the Government of India, when intending by such concealment to facilitate, or knowing it to be likely that such concealing will facilitate, the waging of such war.	None
The question that arises for consideration, therefore, is what is the true import of the expression Government of India?	None
In its narrower sense, Government of India is only the executive limb of the State.	None
It comprises a group of people, the administrative bureaucracy that controls the executive functions and powers of the State at a given time.	None
Different governments, in continuous succession, serve the State and provide the means through which the executive power of the State is employed.	None
The expression Government of India is surely not used in this narrow and restricted sense in Section 121.	None
In our considered view, the expression Government of India is used in Section 121 to imply the Indian State, the juristic embodiment of the sovereignty of the country that derives its legitimacy from the collective will and consent of its people.	None
The use of the phrase Government of India to signify the notion of sovereignty is consistent with the principles of Public International Law, wherein sovereignty of a territorial unit is deemed to vest in the people of the territory and exercised by a representative government.	None
It is important to note here that earlier the word used in Section 121 (as well as all the other Sections referred to above) was Queen.	None
After the formation of the republic under the Constitution it was substituted by the expression Government of India by the Adaption of Laws Order of 1950.	None
In a republic, sovereignty vests in the people of the country and the lawfully elected government is simply the representative and a manifestation of the sovereign, that is, the people.	None
Thus, the expression Government of India, as appearing in Section 121, must be held to mean the State or interchangeably the people of the country as the repository of the sovereignty of India which is manifested and expressed through the elected Government.	None
An illuminating discussion on the issue of Waging war against the Government of India is to be found in this Courts decision in Navjot Sandhu.	None
In paragraph 272 of the judgment P. Venkatarama Reddi, J., speaking for the Court, referred to the report of the Indian Law Commission that examined the draft Penal Code in 1847 and quoted the following passage from the report We conceive the term wages war against the Government naturally to import a person arraying himself in defiance of the Government in like manner and by like means as a foreign enemy would do, and it seems to us, we presume it did to the authors of the Code that any definition of the term so unambiguous would be superfluous.	None
To us, the expression, in like manner and by like means as a foreign enemy (highlighted by us in the above quotation), is very significant to understand the nature of the violent acts that would amount to waging war.	None
In waging war, the intent of the foreign enemy is not only to disturb public peace or law and order or to kill many people.	None
A foreign enemy strikes at the sovereignty of the State, and his conspiracy and actions are motivated by that animus.	None
In Navjot Sandhu, the issue of waging war against the Government of India has also been considered in relation to terrorist acts and in that regard the Court observed and held as follows War, terrorism and violent acts to overawe the established Government have many things in common.	None
It is not too easy to distinguish them It has been aptly said by Sir J.F. Stephen Unlawful assemblies, riots, insurrections, rebellions, levying of war are offences which run into each other and not capable of being marked off by perfectly definite boundaries.	None
All of them have in common one feature, namely, that the normal tranquility of a civilized society is, in each of the cases mentioned, disturbed either by actual force or at least by the show and threat of it.	None
To this list has to be added terrorist acts which are so conspicuous nowadays.	None
Though every terrorist act does not amount to waging war, certain terrorist acts can also constitute the offence of waging war and there is no dichotomy between the two.	None
Terrorist acts can manifest themselves into acts of war.	None
According to the learned Senior Counsel for the State, terrorist acts prompted by an intention to strike at the sovereign authority of the State Government, tantamount to waging war irrespective of the number involved or the force employed.	None
It is seen that the first limb of Section 3(1) of POTA with intent to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India or to strike terror in the people or any section of the people does any act or thing by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable substances or firearms or other lethal weapons or poisons or noxious gases or other chemicals or by any other substances (whether biological or otherwise) of a hazardous nature or by any other means whatsoever.	None
and the acts of waging war have overlapping features.	None
However, the degree of animus or intent and the magnitude of the acts done or attempted to be done would assume some relevance in order to consider whether the terrorist acts give rise to a state of war.	None
Yet, the demarcating line is by no means clear, much less transparent.	None
It is often a difference in degree.	None
The distinction gets thinner if a comparison is made of terrorist acts with the acts aimed at overawing the Government by means of criminal force.	None
Conspiracy to commit the latter offence is covered by Section 121A.	None
This answers Mr. Ramachandrans submissions to the effect that if an offence comes within the definition of terrorist act under Section 15 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, it would automatically fall out of Section 121 of the Penal Code, as also his rather extreme submission that the incorporation of Chapter IV of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, should be viewed as deemed repeal of Section 121 of the Penal Code.	None
As explained in Navjot Sandhu, a terrorist act and an act of waging war against the Government of India may have some overlapping features, but a terrorist act may not always be an act of waging war against the Government of India, and viceversa.	None
The provisions of Chapter IV of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and those of Chapter VI of the Penal Code, including Section 121, basically cover different areas.	None
Coming back to the facts of the case in hand, we find that the primary and the first offence that the appellant and his coconspirators committed was the offence of waging war against the Government of India.	None
It does not matter that the target assigned to the appellant and Abu Ismail was CST Station (according to Mr. Ramachandran, no more than a public building) where they killed a large number of people or that they killed many others on Badruddin Tayabji Marg and in Cama Hospital.	None
What matters is that the attack was aimed at India and Indians.	None
It was by foreign nationals.	None
People were killed for no other reason than they were Indians in case of foreigners, they were killed because their killing on Indian soil would embarrass India.	None
The conspiracy, in furtherance of which the attack was made, was, inter alia, to hit at India to hit at its financial centre to try to give rise to communal tensions and create internal strife and insurgency to demand that India should withdraw from Kashmir and to dictate its relations with other countries.	None
It was in furtherance of those objectives that the attack was made, causing the loss of a large number of people and injury to an even greater number of people.	None
Nothing could have been more in like manner and by like means as a foreign enemy would do.	None
In this connection Mr. Gopal Subramanium has referred to the transcripts of the conversations between the terrorists and their collaborators across the border.	None
The learned Counsel referred from the appellants confessional statement made before the magistrate to the passages where instructions are given by Amir Hafiz Sayeed (wanted accused no. 1), ZakiurRehman Lakhvi (wanted accused no. 2), and others in connection with the main purpose of the attack.	None
He also referred to a number of passages from the transcripts of conversations between the terrorists and their collaborators across the border (which we have already referred to in the earlier part of the judgment), to show that the attack was clearly an enemy action.	None
We are of the view that the submission of Mr. Subramanium is wellfounded and fit to be accepted.	None
On a careful consideration of the submissions of the two sides and the materials on record we have no hesitation in holding that the appellant has been rightly held guilty of waging war against the Government of India and rightly convicted under Sections 121, 121A and 122 of the Penal Code.	None
VI.	None
The Question of Sentence The trial court has awarded five (5) death sentences to the appellant for the offences punishable under Section 120B IPC read with Section 302 IPC for conspiracy to commit murder ii) Section 121 IPC for waging war against the Government of India iii) Section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 iv) Section 302	None
IPC for committing murder of 7 persons Section 302 IPC read with Section 34 and Section 302 IPC read with Sections 109 and 120B IPC.	None
The High Court confirmed the death sentences given to the appellant by the trial court.	None
Mr. Ramachandran, however, submitted that in no case should the appellant be given the death penalty.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that no person can be deprived of his life except according to procedure established by law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is now wellestablished that the procedure must be fair, just and reasonable, in other words following the due process of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the Court must refrain from awarding the extreme penalty of death, irrevocable and irreversible in nature, in a case where there is the slightest doubt regarding the complete fairness of the trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that the appellants trial was compromised on due process and, therefore, he should not be given the death sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandrans contention that the trial of the appellant was less than completely fair is based on the same grounds that he earlier advanced to suggest that the trial was vitiated and nullified.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the appellants confession was recorded without adhering to the constitutional safeguards and that the lawyer nominated to represent him was not given a reasonable time to prepare the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that an unhappy compromise was struck between the demands of speedy trial and the requirements of a fair trial in this case, and in that situation, prudence would demand that this Court should not confirm the death penalty given to the appellant but change it to life sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
559.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the earlier parts of the judgment we have already considered in detail both the submissions and found them not worthy of acceptance.	None
We have held that there was no lowering of the standard of fairness and reasonableness in the appellants trial and it, therefore, follows that no mitigation in punishment can be asked for on that score.	None
Mr. Ramachandran next submitted that the High Court has committed a serious error in balancing the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has viewed the appellants conviction for waging war as the most aggravating circumstance for awarding him the death penalty after wrongly holding him guilty of the charge relating to waging war against the Government of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the High Court wrongly held the appellant individually responsible for the murder of seven (7) persons, including Amarchand Solanki.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court erroneously relied upon the testimony of a single witness (PW52) who said that while firing at the crowd of passengers at CST the appellant was in a joyous mood (a fact which the witness did not mention in his statement before the police) 561.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to the charge of waging war against the Government of India and the appellant being personally responsible for the killing of seven (7) people, including Amarchand Solanki, those are fully in accord with our own findings, arrived at independently, and hence, the High Court was quite justified in taking those facts into account for determining the punishment for the appellant.	None
As regards the statement of PW52 that the appellant was in joyous mood, nothing depends on that and we asked Mr. Ramachandran to address us on the issue of sentence keeping that statement by PW52 completely aside.	None
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the strongest reason for not giving the death penalty to the appellant was his young age the appellant was barely twentyone (21) years old at the time of the commission of the offences.	Arguments of Petitioner
And now he would be twentyfive (25) years of age.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is indeed correct that the appellant is quite young, but having said that one would think that nothing was left to be said for him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran, however, thinks otherwise and he has many more things to say in the appellants favour.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the Court cannot ignore the family and educational background and the economic circumstances of the appellant, and in determining the just punishment to him the Court must take those, too, into account.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submitted that here is a boy who, as a child, loved to watch Indian movies.	Arguments of Petitioner
But he hardly had a childhood like other children.	Arguments of Petitioner
He dropped out of school after class IV and was forced to start earning by hard manual labour.	Arguments of Petitioner
Soon thereafter, he had a quarrel with his father over his earnings and that led to his leaving his home.	Arguments of Petitioner
At that immature age, living away from home and family and earning his livelihood by manual labour, he was allured by a group of fanatic murderers seemingly engaged in social work.	Arguments of Petitioner
He thought that he too should contribute towards helping the Kashmiris, who he was led to believe were oppressed by the Indian Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that, seen from his point of view, the appellant may appear completely and dangerously wayward but his motivation was good and patriotic.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran further submitted that once trapped by LashkareToiba he was completely brainwashed and became a tool in their hand.	Arguments of Petitioner
While executing the attack on Mumbai, along with nine (9) other terrorists, the appellant was hardly in control of his own mind.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was almost like an automaton working under remote control, a mere extension of the deadly weapon in his hands.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that, viewed thus, it would appear wholly unjust to give the death penalty to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The death penalty should be kept reserved for his handlers, who, unfortunately, are not before a court till now.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the submission of Mr. Ramachandran is taken one step further it would almost appear as if it was a conspiracy by destiny that pushed the appellant to commit all his terrible deeds, and all those who were killed or injured in Mumbai were predestined to be visited by his violence.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have no absolute belief in the philosophical doctrine of predetermination and, therefore, we are completely unable to accept Mr. Ramachandrans submission.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this proceeding before this Court we must judge the actions of the appellant and the offences committed by him as expressions of his free will, for which he alone is responsible and must face the punishment.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept the submission that the appellant was a mere tool in the hands of the LashkareToiba.	None
He joined the LashkareToiba around December 2007 and continued as its member till the end, despite a number of opportunities to leave it.	None
This shows his clear and unmistakable intention to be a part of the organization and participate in its designs.	None
Even after his arrest he regarded himself as a watan parast, a patriotic Pakistani at war with this country.	None
Where is the question of his being brainwashed or acting under remote control?	None
We completely disagree that the appellant was acting like an automaton.	None
During the past months while we lived through this case we have been able to make a fair assessment of the appellants personality.	None
It is true that he is not educated but he is a very good and quick learner, has a tough mind and strong determination.	None
He is also quite clever and shrewd.	None
Unfortunately, he is wholly remorseless and any feeling of pity is unknown to him.	None
He kills without the slightest twinge of conscience.	None
Leaving aside all the massacre, we may here refer only to the casualness with which the appellant and his associate Abu Ismail shot down Gupta Bhelwala and the shanty dwellers Thakur Waghela and Bhagan Shinde at Badruddin Tayabji Marg the attempt to break into the wards of Cama Hospital to kill the women and children who were crying and wailing inside and the nonchalance with which he and Abu Ismail gunned down the police officer Durgude on coming out of Cama Hospital.	None
The saddest and the most disturbing part of the case is that the appellant never showed any remorse for the terrible things he did.	None
As seen earlier, in the initial weeks after his arrest he continued to regard himself as a watan parast, a patriotic Pakistani who considered himself to be at war with this country, who had no use for an Indian lawyer but needed a Pakistani lawyer to defend him in the court.	None
He made the confessional statement before the magistrate on February 17, 2009, not out of any sense of guilt or sorrow or grief but to present himself as a hero.	None
He told the magistrate that he had absolutely no regret for whatever he had done and he wanted to make the confession to set an example for others to become Fidayeen like him and follow him in his deeds.	None
Even in the course of the trial he was never repentant and did not show any sign of contrition.	None
The judge trying him had occasion to watch him closely and has repeatedly observed about the lack of any remorse on the part of the appellant.	None
The High Court, too, has noticed that the appellant never showed any remorse for the largescale murder committed by him.	None
This, to our mind, forecloses the possibility of any reform or rehabilitation of the appellant.	None
The alternative option of life sentence is thus unquestionably excluded in the case of the appellant and death remains the only punishment that can be given to him.	None
Coming back to the legalese of the matter The Constitutional validity of death penalty was tested in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 and in that case a Constitution Bench of this Court, while upholding the Constitutional validity of death sentence, observed that the death penalty may be invoked only in the rarest of rare cases.	None
This Court stated that 209.	None
.For	None
persons convicted of murder life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence an exception.	None
A real and abiding concern for the dignity of human life postulates resistance to taking a life through laws instrumentality.	None
That ought not to be done save in the rarest of rare cases when the alternative option is unquestionably foreclosed.	None
(Emphasis Supplied)	None
The Bachan Singh principle of the rarest of rare cases came up for consideration and elaboration in Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 .	None
It was a case of extraordinary brutality (from normal standards but nothing compared to this case).	None
On account of a family feud Machhi Singh, the main accused in the case along with eleven (11) accomplices, in the course of a single night, conducted raids on a number of villages killing seventeen (17) people, men, women and children, for no reason other than they were related to one Amar Singh and his sister Piyaro Bai.	None
The death sentence awarded to Machhi Singh and two other accused by the trial court and affirmed by the High Court was also confirmed by this Court.	None
In Machhi Singh this Court observed that though the community revered and protected life because the very humanistic edifice is constructed on the foundation of reverence for life principle it may yet withdraw the protection and demand death penalty.	None
The kind of cases in which protection to life may be withdrawn and there may be the demand for death penalty were then enumerated in the following paragraphs It may do so in rarest of rare cases when its collective conscience is so shocked that it will expect the holders of the judicial power centre to inflict death penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or otherwise of retaining death penalty.	None
The community may entertain such a sentiment when the crime is viewed from the platform of the motive for, or the manner of commission of the crime, or the antisocial or abhorrent nature of the crime, such as for instance Manner of commission of murder When the murder is committed in an extremely brutal, grotesque, diabolical, revolting or dastardly manner so as to arouse intense and extreme indignation of the community.	None
For instance, when the house of the victim is set aflame with the end in view to roast him alive in the house.	None
when the victim is subjected to inhuman acts of torture or cruelty in order to bring about his or her death.	None
when the body of the victim is cut into pieces or his body is dismembered in a fiendish manner.	None
II.	None
Motive for commission of murder When the murder is committed for a motive which evinces total depravity and meanness.	None
For instance when (a) a hired assassin commits murder for the sake of money or reward (b) a coldblooded murder is committed with a deliberate design in order to inherit property or to gain control over property of a ward or a person under the control of the murderer or visvis whom the murderer is in a dominating position or in a position of trust, or (c) a murder is committed in the course for betrayal of the motherland.	None
III.	None
Antisocial or socially abhorrent nature of the crime 35.	None
(a) When murder of a member of a Scheduled Caste or minority community, etc., is committed not for personal reasons but in circumstances which arouse social wrath.	None
For instance when such a crime is committed in order to terrorise such persons and frighten them into fleeing from a place or in order to deprive them of, or make them surrender, lands or benefits conferred on them with a view to reverse past injustices and in order to restore the social balance.	None
(b) In cases of bride burning and what are known as dowry deaths or when murder is committed in order to remarry for the sake of extracting dowry once again or to marry another woman on account of infatuation.	None
IV.	None
Magnitude of crime When the crime is enormous in proportion.	None
For instance when multiple murders say of all or almost all the members of a family or a large number of persons of a particular caste, community, or locality, are committed.	None
Personality of victim of murder When the victim of murder is (a) an innocent child who could not have or has not provided even an excuse, much less a provocation, for murder (b) a helpless woman or a person rendered helpless by old age or infirmity (c) when the victim is a person visvis whom the murderer is in a position of domination or trust (d) when the victim is a public figure generally loved and respected by the community for the services rendered by him and the murder is committed for political or similar reasons other than personal reasons.	None
The above principles are generally regarded by this Court as the broad guidelines for imposition of death sentence and have been followed by the Court in many subsequent decisions.	None
If we examine the present case in light of the Machhi Singh decision, it would not only satisfy all the conditions laid down in that decision for imposition of death sentence but also present several other features that could not have been conceived of by the Court in Machhi Singh.	None
We can even say that every single reason that this Court might have assigned for confirming a death sentence in the past is to be found in this case in a more magnified way.	None
This case has the element of conspiracy as no other case.	None
The appellant was part of a conspiracy hatched across the border to wage war against the Government of India and lethal arms and explosives were collected with the intention of waging war against the Government of India.	None
The conspiracy was to launch a murderous attack on Mumbai regarding it as the financial centre of the country to kill as many Indians and foreign nationals as possible to take Indians and foreign nationals as hostages for using them as bargaining chips in regard to the terrorists demands and to try to incite communal strife and insurgency all with the intent to weaken the country from within.	None
The case presents the element of previous planning and preparation as no other case.	None
For execution of the conspiracy, the appellant and the nine (9) other dead accused, his accomplices, were given rigorous and extensive training as combatants.	None
The planning for the attack was meticulous and greatly detailed.	None
The route from Karachi to Mumbai, the landing site at Mumbai, the different targets at Mumbai were all predetermined.	None
The nature of the attack by the different teams of terrorists was planned and everyone was given clear instructions as to what they were supposed to do at their respective targets.	None
All the terrorists, including the appellant, actually acted according to the previous planning.	None
A channel of communication between the attacking terrorists and their handlers and collaborators from across the border, based on advanced computer technology and procured through deception, was already arranged and put in place before the attack was launched.	None
This case has the element of waging war against the Government of India and the magnitude of the war is of a degree as in no other case.	None
And the appellant is convicted on the charge, among others, of waging war against the Government of India.	None
This case has shocked the collective conscience of the Indian people as few other cases have.	None
The number of persons killed and injured is not only staggeringly high but also as in no other or in extremely few cases.	None
The terrorists killed one hundred and sixtysix (166) people and injured, often grievously, two hundred and thirtyeight (238) people.	Facts
The dead included eighteen (18) policemen and other security personnel and twentysix (26) foreign nationals.	Facts
The injured included thirtyseven (37) policemen and other security personnel and twentyone (21) foreign nationals.	Facts
Of those dead, at least seven (7) were killed by the appellant personally, about seventytwo (72) were killed by him in furtherance of the common intention he shared with one Abu Ismail (deceased accused no. 1), and the rest were victims of the conspiracy to which he was a party along with the nine (9) dead accused and thirtyfive (35) other accused who remain to be apprehended and brought to court.	None
The number of policemen and members of security forces killed and injured in course of their duty by the appellant and his accomplice Abu Ismail and the eight (8) other coconspirators would hardly find a match in any other cases.	None
Tukaram Ombale was killed by the appellant personally at Vinoli Chowpaty.	None
Durgude, Hemant Karkare, Ashok Kamte, Vijay Salaskar and the other policemen in the Qualis van were killed jointly by the appellant and Abu Ismail.	None
The policemen at Cama Hospital were injured, several of them grievously, jointly by the appellant and Abu Ismail.	None
The rest of the policemen and law enforcement officers, including the NSG Commando Major Sandeep Unnikrihsnan, were killed as part of the larger conspiracy to which the appellant was a party.	None
The loss of property caused by the attack is colossal, over Rupees one hundred and fifty crores (Rs. 150Cr.), again of a scale as in no other case.	None
The offences committed by the appellant show a degree of cruelty, brutality and depravity as in very few other cases.	None
The appellant, as also the other nine (9) terrorists, his coconspirators, used highly lethal weapons such as AK47 rifles, 9 mm pistols, and grenades and RDX bombs.	None
As to the personality of the victims, all the persons killed injured at CST, Badruddin Tayabji Marg and Cama Hospital were harmless, defenceless people.	None
What is more, they did not even know the appellant and the appellant too had no personal animus against them.	None
He killed injured them simply because they happened to be Indians.	None
It is already seen above that the appellant never showed any repentance or remorse, which is the first sign of any possibility of reform and rehabilitation.	None
In short, this is a case of terrorist attack from across the border.	Reasoning
It has a magnitude of unprecedented enormity on all scales.	Reasoning
The conspiracy behind the attack was as deep and large as it was vicious.	Reasoning
The preparation and training for the execution was as thorough as the execution was ruthless.	Reasoning
In terms of loss of life and property, and more importantly in its traumatizing effect, this case stands alone, or it is at least the very rarest of rare to come before this Court since the birth of the Republic.	Reasoning
Therefore, it should also attract the rarest of rare punishment.	None
Against all this, the only mitigating factor is the appellants young age, but that is completely offset by the absence of any remorse on his part, and the resultant finding that in his case there is no possibility of any reformation or rehabilitation.	None
In the effort to have the appellant spared of the death penalty Mr. Ramachandran also relied upon several observations and remarks made by this Court in a number of judgments.	None
He cited before the Court (i) Mohd.	None
Mannan V State of Bihar (2011) 5 SCC 317, paras 2324 (ii) Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka (2008) 13 SCC 767, para 43, 4853 (iii) Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 498, para 6466, 7172, 8089 (iv) Mohd.	None
Farooq Abdul Gafur v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 11 SCALE 327, para 1123 (2010) 14 SCC 641 (v) Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod v. State of Gujarat (2009) 5 SCC 740, para 8384, 107110 (vi) Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod (2) v. State of Gujarat 2011) 2 SCC 764 (vii) Mulla and another v. State of Uttar Pradesh 2010)	None
3 SCC 508 , para 80 (viii) Dilip Premnarayan Tiwari v. State of Maharashtra 2010) 1 SCC 775 , para 6667 (ix) R S Budhwar v UOI 1996)	None
9 SCC 502 , para 15 and (x) State of Maharashtra v.	None
Bharat Chaganlal	None
Raghani 2001) 9 SCC 1 , para 1, 63.	None
The observations relied upon by Mr. Ramachandran were made in the facts of those cases.	None
As a matter of fact, in some of the cases relied upon by Mr. Ramachandran, the Court actually confirmed the death penalty given to the accused.	None
Moreover, the facts of those cases are totally incomparable to the facts of the case in hand, and those decisions are of no help to the appellant.	None
Putting the matter once again quite simply, in this country death as a penalty has been held to be Constitutionally valid, though it is indeed to be awarded in the rarest of rare cases when the alternative option (of life sentence) is unquestionably foreclosed.	None
Now, as long as the death penalty remains on the statute book as punishment for certain offences, including waging war and murder, it logically follows that there must be some cases, howsoever rare or one in a million, that would call for inflicting that penalty.	Reasoning
That being the position we fail to see what case would attract the death penalty, if not the case of the appellant.	Reasoning
To hold back the death penalty in this case would amount to obdurately declaring that this Court rejects death as lawful penalty even though it is on the statute book and held valid by Constitutional benches of this Court.	Reasoning
We are thus left with no option but to hold that in the facts of the case the death penalty is the only sentence that can be given to the appellant.	None
We hold accordingly and affirm the convictions and sentences of the appellant passed by the trial court and affirmed by the High Court.	Reasoning
The appeals are accordingly dismissed.	None
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.1961 OF 2011 This appeal is filed at the instance of the State of Maharashtra against the acquittal of Fahim Ansari and Sabauddin Ahamed (accused Nos. 2 and 3 respectively) recorded by the trial court and affirmed by the High Court.	None
As noted, in the judgment in Criminal Appeal Nos.18991900 of 2011, these two accused faced the trial along with and on the same charges as Kasab.	Facts
Their connection with the other accused in the case, according to the prosecution, was through conspiracy.	None
Fahim Ansari is said to have prepared, by hand, maps of various places of Mumbai to facilitate the attack by the terrorists who landed in the city.	None
One such map was recovered from the trouser pocket of Abu Ismail (deceased accused no.1) during inquest and was seized under the seizure panchnama (Ext. no. 99).	None
According to the prosecution case, Fahim Ansari handed over the maps prepared by him to Sabauddin Ahamed in Kathmandu, Nepal and the latter sent or delivered those maps to the perpetrators of the crime in Pakistan.	None
This part of the prosecution case is based on the testimony of Naruddin Shaikh (PW160).	None
It is further alleged that in order to provide ancillary logistical support to the terrorists landing in Mumbai, Fahim Ansari had made arrangements for his stay in Colaba area of South Mumbai.	None
In order to stay in close proximity to Badhwar Park he was searching for a place of residence in fishermens colony there and he had taken admission in a Computer Institute viz., Softpro Computer Education situated at Fort, Mumbai, as an excuse for staying in that area.	None
However, when the attack took place on November 26, 2008, neither Fahim Ansari nor Sabauddin Ahamed were present in Mumbai.	None
They were in the custody of U.P. Police, having been arrested earlier in connection with a terrorist attack on the RPF Camp at Rampur.	None
In support of the second part of its case, the prosecution has examined a number of witnesses, namely, Police Inspector Prashant Marde (PW48), Jivan Gulabkar (PW35), Rajendra Bhosale (PW38), Ms. Shantabai Bhosale (PW40), Police Inspector Shripad Kale (PW47), Jayant Bhosale (PW146), Sharad Vichare (PW265), Shivaji Shivekar (PW14), API Subhash Warang (PW27), Ashok Kumar Raghav (PW213), Manpreet Vohra (PW254), Krantikumar Varma (PW61) and Dr. Shailesh Mohite (PW23).	None
We have gone through the evidence of Naruddin Shaikh and the other witnesses very carefully.	None
We are of the view that the evidence of Naruddin Shaikh is completely unacceptable.	None
The evidences of the other witnesses also do not inspire confidence insofar as these two accused are concerned.	None
The trial court and the High Court have considered the evidences relating to these two accused in far greater detail.	None
Both the courts have analysed the prosecution evidence in regard to the two accused at great length and have given very good reasons to hold the prosecution evidence unworthy of reliance to hold such grave charges against the two accused.	Reasoning
We are in full agreement with the reasons assigned by the trial court and the High Court for acquitting the two accused of all the charges.	Reasoning
The view taken by the trial court and the High Court is not only correct but on the facts of the case, that is the only possible view.	Reasoning
We find no merit in the appeal and it is, accordingly, dismissed.	None
TRANSFER PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO.30 OF 2012 In view of the judgment in Criminal Appeal Nos. 18991900 of 2011, the Transfer Petition does not survive and it is, accordingly, dismissed.	None
THE POSTSCRIPT	None
The decision in the appeal is over.	None
But there are still a few things for us to say before we finally close this matter.	None
At the beginning of the hearing of the appeal, Mr. Gopal Subramanium avowed that, though appearing for the prosecution, he would like the best for the appellant.	None
He wished that the case of the appellant be presented before the Court at the highest level and that it should receive the most careful scrutiny by the Court.	None
The solemnity and sincerity of his declaration set the tone for the proceedings before the Court.	None
The discourses were luminous, warm and stimulating but completely free from heat, rancour or anger, leave alone any vengefulness.	None
Mr. Subramanium, erudite and sensitive, was full of restraint always downplaying the prosecution case a notch or two and never making a statement of fact unless absolutely certain of its correctness.	None
Mr. Ramachandran, cool and clinical, gently tried to persuade the Court to his point of view.	None
In the course of the hearing of the case, which was spread over 13 weeks, not once were the voices raised, not once was the Counsel of the other side interrupted and contradicted on a statement of fact.	None
In my twenty years on the bench I have not heard a serious case debated in such a congenial atmosphere as created by Mr. Subramanium and Mr. Ramachandran in this case.	None
Mr. Ramachandran, appearing for the appellant, was assisted by Mr. Gaurav Agrawal and a small team of juniors.	None
Mr. Subramanium, representing the State of Maharashtra, was assisted by Mr. Ujjawal Nikkam, the Spl.	None
PP who conducted the trial and a team of juniors.	None
The juniors teams also showed remarkable preparation and resourcefulness.	None
Any query on facts was answered in no time with reference to volume number and page number from the records that appeared like a small mountain.	None
We are indebted to Mr. Subramanium and Mr. Ramachandran and their respective teams and we put our gratitude on record.	None
In this case we came across heroes like Tukaram Ombale, Hemant Karkare, Ashok Kamte, Vijay Salaskar and Sandeep Unnikrishnan, who lost their lives in the fight against terrorism.	None
We salute every policeman, every member of the security forces and others who laid down their lives saving others and helping to catch or neutralise the ten terrorists.	None
We have great admiration for the courage and sense of duty shown by the policemen and the members of the security forces who received injuries in discharge of their duties and we extend our deepest sympathies to them for their injuries.	None
We compliment all those who showed great presence of mind and professionalism and, caring little for their own safety, saved countless lives or photographed the terrorists on their killing spree thus providing unimpeachable evidence for the court.	None
We mourn the death of 148 civilians, both Indians and foreign nationals, who fell victim to the orgy of terror unleashed on the city, and extend our heartfelt condolences to their families.	None
We also extend our deepest sympathies to all the 238 people who suffered injuries at the hands of the terrorists.	None
We also greatly complement the resilient spirit of Mumbai that, to all outward appearances, recovered from the blow very quickly and was back to business as usual in no time.	None
In the course of hearing of the appeal we also came to know the trial Judge Shri Tahiliani.	None
From the records of the case he appears to be a stern, nononsense person.	None
But he is a true flag bearer of the rule of law in this country.	None
The manner in which he conducted the trial proceedings and maintained the record is exemplary.	None
We seriously recommend that the trial court records of this case be included in the curriculum of the National Judicial Authority and the Judicial Authorities of the different States as a model for criminal trial proceedings.	None
We direct the Maharashtra Government to pay a sum of Rupees eleven lakh (Rs.11 Lakhs) to Mr. Raju Ramachandran and Rupees three lakh fifty thousand to Mr. Gaurav Agrawal (Rs 3.5 Lakhs) as token remuneration for their very valuable assistance to the Court.	None
The payments should be made within two months from today.	None
With this we come to the close of the matter and we end here.	None
chart Chandramauli Kr.	None
Prasad, J. I agree.	None
However, I wish to add few words of my own.	None
In all human affairs absolute certainty is myth.	None
Prof. Brett puts it, all exactness is fake.	None
Ordinarily, E.L.Dorado theory of absolute proof being unattainable, the law accepts for it probability as a working substitute.	None
Hardly one come across a case, where Court does not resort to certain probability as working substitute for proof beyond all reasonable doubt.	None
However, in the case in hand, from the evidence, oral and documentary, reference of which have copiously been made in the judgment by my noble and learned Brother Aftab Alam, J. make me believe that absolute certainty may not necessarily be a myth or fake in all cases and can be a reality.	None
The present case is an exception.	None
Here, I am more than certain that the planning and conspiracy to commit the crime were hatched in Pakistan, the perpetrators of crime were Pakistani trained at different centres in that country, and the devastation which took place at various places in the city of Mumbai, were executed by the appellant in furtherance thereof.	None
