 K. Sabharwal,	None
J. The appellants are cement manufacturers.	None
They challenge the legality and validity of Clause 9A of the Cement Control Order 1967 (for short, the Control Order).	Issue
Clause 9A and some other clauses were incorporated by amendments made in the Control Order in the year 1982.	None
Clause 9A requires every producer to pay to the Cement Regulation Account (for short, CRA) an amount at the rate of Rs.	None
9/ per metric tonne of production of nonlevy cement.	Facts
This payment to be made by the producer on production of nonlevy cement was withdrawn on 15th December, 1986.	Facts
One of the manufacturers (Andhra Cements) filed the writ petition in the High Court challenging the validity of the clause in September, 1986 two of them (Mysore cement and Raymond Woolen) filed writ petitions in 1987 and Digvijay Cement in the year 1992.	Facts
Their principle contention before the High Court was that the amount payable under Clause 9A was in the nature of tax and there was no authority of law to impose that tax.	Facts
Undoubtedly, no tax can be levied or collected except by authority of law.	Facts
The contention of the writ petitioners did not find favour with the High Court and, therefore, these appeals were filed on grant of leave.	Facts
Cement is a schedule industry under the provisions of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (for short, the Act).	Facts
Section 18G of the Act, inter alia, empowers the Central Government to provide for regulating the supply and distribution of any article relatable to any schedule industry.	Facts
The acute shortage of cement in the country resulted in the making of the Control Order is exercise of powers conferred by Sections 18G and 25 of the Act.	Facts
The cement manufacturing units in India were located in different places.	Facts
Some of the units manufacturing cement were located at a long distance from consumption centres.	Facts
A huge amount on freight had to be incurred in transporting the cement from various factories to the market.	Facts
The manufacturing cost varied depending upon the age of the unit, manufacturing process and technology utilized etc.	Facts
The transportation cost varied considerably depending upon the location of the unit.	Facts
In the Control Order a mechanism was devised for equalizing the freight cost on the cement.	Facts
An equalization account was provided for in the Control Order.	Facts
Different exfactory retention prices were provided in respect of various cement manufacturing units keeping their varying cost of production.	Facts
It provided for the manufacturer to get a retention price to cover his cost and yield a reasonable return to the manufacturer.	Facts
A uniform FOR (free on rail) destination price for cement was fixed in respect of the whole of India irrespective of the distance over which the cement had to be transported.	Facts
The excess of FOR destination price realized by a cement manufacturer over his retention price, subject to certain adjustments, had to be paid by the cement manufacturers into the Cement Regulation Account (CRA).	Facts
In cases where freight actually incurred was in excess of the specified amount, the differential amount was paid to the manufacturer out of the CRA.3.	Facts
The operation of the Control Order brought out certain serious problems affecting the cement industry.	Facts
The control resulted in the fall of the fresh investments in the cement industry.	Facts
Further, there were consistent demands for revision of the retention prices on the basis that the cost of manufacture had increased considerably.	Facts
The burden of CRA increased rapidly because of the rapid increase in fuel and transport cost.	Facts
The CRA went into deficit, it was unable to meet its commitments.4.	Facts
Considering the problems, the Government on 23rd March, 1981 constituted a high level Committee to review the developments of the cement industry and recommend measures to accelerate its progress including incentives and fair prices.	Facts
The terms of the reference of that Committee were To review the present system of pricing in the cement industry (consisting of existing factories, new factories and mini cement factories), including the merits of establishing uniform prices for different varieties of cement, suggest modifications to ensure the healthy growth of this industry including the achievement of production at optimal levels and recommended fair prices payable to producers for the next pricing period commencing from April 1982(ii)	Facts
To review the incentives (including rebates) and concessions) available to cement factories and suggest what change in these should be made to rapidly augment the domestic production of cement.	Facts
In this connection, also review the incentives available for the erection of cement factories in remote, difficult and deficit areas and recommend what alternatives should be made in these to accelerate the production of cement in these areas in a costeffective manner(iii) To review the progress of modernization and introduction of technological improvements (including efficiency in the use of energy research and development and quality control) in domestic cement factories and recommended measures (including system of incentives to accelerate these in order to reduce costs and effect economies in domestic production and(iv) To consider any other matter relating to rational development of the cement industry.	Facts
After detailed and exhaustive study of all aspects in relation to cement industry a large number of recommendations were made by the aforesaid Committee including recommendation for a partial decontrol so that the cement manufacturers are allowed to sell a certain specified percentage of their production in the open market without any price control.	Facts
It was expected that the cement prices in the open market would be far higher than the controlled prices and this would create incentives for the fresh investment in the cement industry.	Facts
The Committee felt that the need for freight subsidy by payment out of the CRA would have to be continued otherwise serious problems would arise in remote and farflung areas.	Facts
It was noticed that there is already sizeable deficit in the CRA which would make it unable to make its past payment commitments.	Facts
The Committee, therefore, recommended, as an integral part of the package of amendments, that an amount of Rs. 10/ per MT should be recovered from the cement manufacturers for payment into the CRA on every tonne of cement produced, irrespective of whether it was levy cement or nonlevy cement.6.	Facts
With some modifications, the recommendations of the Committee were accepted by the Central Government.	Facts
The Central Government allowed partial decontrol.	Facts
It allowed sale of nonlevy cement to the extent of 33.34 and not 25 as recommended by the Committee.	Facts
Further, instead of recommended payment of Rs. 10/ per MT, the Central Government reduced the payment to the CRA at the rate of Rs. 9/ per MT.	Facts
It was felt that the payment into CRA on decontrolled quantity of cement was necessary because to the extent of decontrol, there will be no contribution into the CRA of the differential amount between FOR destination price and the manufacturers retention price.	Facts
It was felt that the Governments duty and obligation to pay freight subsidy on the controlled output of levy cement which accounted for 66.66 of the total production continued and was expected that this burden would increase sharply because of substantial increases in the transport cost.	Facts
The CRA would, therefore, balance in this situation of decontrol only if the said contribution of Rs.	Facts
9/ per MT was received into CRA on the nonlevy cement.	Facts
It was also contemplated that the sale price of the nonlevy cement would be far higher than the price of the levy cement and, therefore, there will be no unnecessary burden on the cement manufacturers inasmuch as this will be passed on to the customers in the shape of higher prices.	Facts
It seems that by and large, the cement industry welcomed the new package pricing policy.	Facts
It complemented the High Level Committee for departing from the conventional approach to the problems of pricing and distribution and submitted report to the Government which will stimulate the cement industry and ensure its healthy growth.7.	Facts
It appears that out of a large number of cement manufacturers in India, only four manufacturers, namely the appellants, challenged clause 9A and consequent payment under the said clause, three of them filing the writ petitions after the liability to pay had been withdrawn and one manufacturer in September 1986.	Facts
The High Court by the impugned judgment did not accept the contention that the payment under Clause 9A amounted to tax and, thus upheld the validity of the impugned clause.	Facts
The High Court held that the partial decontrol and the impugned contribution was one single integrated and inseverable package.	None
The contention urged on behalf of the appellants is that the payment under Clause 9A constitutes levy and collection of tax without authority of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that Clause 9A is ultra vires Section 18G of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The impugned clause requires the manufacturers to compulsorily pay Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
9/ per MT on the nonlevy cement produced by them.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no authority under the Act to levy or recover such a payment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that no tax can be imposed by any subordinate legislation unless the principle statute specifically authorities such imposition.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submission is that the Act does not authorise levy and recovery of any such tax and, therefore, Clause 9A is ultra vires the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 3 of the Control Order contains prohibition to remove the cement from the precincts or premises of the manufacturer.	None
Clause 4 empowers the Central Government to direct sale or transport of cement to any person or class of persons and on such terms and conditions, as may be specified in the order.	None
The obligation on the producer to maintain and produce the accounts as the Central Government may require is provided in Clause 6.	None
Clause 7 provides that the exfactory prices admissible to the producer for the different varieties of cement shall be as specified in the Schedule, namely, the retention price.	None
Clause 8 provides the price at which the producer can sell the cement.	None
Clause 9 provides for payment by the producer of the cement into the CRA.	None
Clause 9 reads as under Payment to cement regulation account.9.	None
(1) Every producer shall, in respect of each transaction by way of sale of cement effected by him or in respect of every removal of cement made by him, under clause 3 pay within one month of the close of the month in which such sales or removals take place to the Development Commissioner for Cement industry, an amount equivalent to the amount, if any, by which the free or rail destination price of such cement exceeds the aggregate of the following amounts, namely(i) the exfactory price of such cement calculated in accordance with the rates specified in the Schedule(ii) selling and distribution expenses calculated at the rate of Rs. 4.00 per tonne(iii) the excise duty paid thereon and(iv) in the case of packed cement, the charges fixed by the Central Government in respect of packing under the first proviso to clause 8 and where a producer uses second hand jute bags in excess of the limit, if any, specified under the second proviso to that clause such charges as proportionately reduced.provided that the expenditure incurred by the producer on freight by the cheapest mode of transport or where any other mode of transport has been specified by the Central Government under clause 4, by such mode of transport in respect of such transaction shall be reimbursed to the producer by the Development Commissioner for Cement Industry from out of the Cement Regulation Account referred to in clause 11.	None
Clause 10 provides for the maximum price at which cement could be sold.	None
Clause 11 stipulates the maintenance of CRA and the purpose for which the amount credited into CRA could be spent.	None
Clause 11 reads as under Cement regulation account.11.	None
(1) The Development Commissioner for Cement Industry shall maintain an account to be known as the Cement Regulation Account to which shall be credited the amounts paid by the producer under clauses 9 and 9A and such other sums of money as the Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, grant from time to time.(2)	None
The amount credited under subclause (1) shall be spent only for the following purposes, namely(i) paying or equalizing the expenditure incurred by the producer on freight in accordance with the provisions of this Order(ii) equalizing concession, if any, granted in the matter of price, freight supplies to Government or public or for purposes of export under the second proviso to clause 8 or for import(iii) expenses incurred by the development Commissioner for Cement Industry in discharging the functions under this Order subject to such limits, if any, as may be laid down by the Central Government in this behalf.(iv) such reimbursement of expenses by the Development Commissioner for Cement Industry as may be incurred by the producers of cement for the purpose of increasing the production for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of cement.(3)	None
The Development Commissioner for Cement industry shall cause accounts to be kept of all moneys received and expended by him from out of the Cement Regulation Account and he shall prepare and submit such report and returns relating to the said account as may be required by the Central Government from time to time.(4)	None
The balance, if any, remaining unspent in the Cement Regulation Account shall be disbursed in accordance with such directions as may be given by the Central Government in this behalf The amendments made to the Control Order on 28th February 1982, that are relevant for appreciation of respective contentions are as under Applicability.1A.	None
The provisions of the said Order except clause 9A thereof shall apply only in relation to levy cement.	None
Definitions.2.	None
In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires (a) to (oo) (d) levy cement means that part of production of cement with reference to the installed capacity of a cement plant as may be determined by the Central Government, from time to time, not being more than per cent of the installed capacity of the cement plant(e) nonlevy cement means that part of production of a cement plant which is in excess of the production mentioned in subclause (d).9A. Every producer shall, in respect of the production of nonlevy cement pay to the Cement Regulation Account an amount at the rate of rupees nine per metric tonne of such production, within one month of the close of the month in which such production takes place.	None
It is apparent that except Clause 9A, no other clause of the Control Order applies to nonlevy cement.	Reasoning
There is no control on supply, distribution or price of the nonlevy cement.	None
The nonlevy cement is free from price and distribution control in contrast to levy cement.	None
Whereas in respect of levy cement, under Clause 9, the cement producers were required to pay into CRA the difference between FOR destination price charged by them and the retention price admissible to them, in respect of nonlevy cement under Clause 9A, they were required to pay in CRA Rs.	None
9/ per metric tonne.	None
According to the appellants, in respect of non levy cement whatever money in paid by the buyer of the cement to them becomes their money and thereafter the requirement of payment as provided in Clause 9A in a compulsive payment and hence a tax.	None
For such a tax, it is contended, there is no sanction of law.	None
The contention is that the impugned clause is a compulsion on manufacturers of nonlevy cement to pay Rs.	None
9/ per metric tonne as above, which constitutes levy and recovery of tax that cannot be imposed by any subordinate legislation unless the principle statute specifically authorises such imposition.	None
There is no such authorization in the Act.	None
Therefore, it is contended that Clause 9A is ultra vires the Act.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the submission that the impugned levy under Clause 9A, in fact, is a tax, learned counsel for the appellants has placed reliance on the decision of the House of Lords in AttorneyGeneral vs. Wiits United Dairies (1922(91) Law Journal Reports (Kings Bench) 897).	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, the Food Controller was empowered by the Defence of the Realm Regulations to make orders regulating or giving directions with respect of the production, manufacture, treatment, use, consumption, transport, storage, distribution, supply, sale or purchase of or other dealing in or measures to to be taken in relation to any article as appear to him necessary or expedient for the purpose of encouraging or maintaining the food supply of the country.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was found that there was disparity in the prices of milk prevailing in different areas and in order to equalize these prices, the Food Controller purporting to exercise powers conferred on him by the Defence of the Realm Regulations, entered into agreements with the defendantcompany by which the latter were permitted to purchase milk within certain defines area on terms that they should pay him a sum of two pence per gallon for this privilege.	Arguments of Petitioner
The defendantcompany which was required to make this payment, refused to do so and to the information laid against it raised the contention that the charge amounted in effect to a tax levied in an unconstitutional manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
The company succeeded in the Court of appeal and the Attorney General brought the matter in appeal before the House of Lords.	Arguments of Petitioner
In dismissing the appeal, Lord Buckmaster after accepting the argument based upon the extreme difficulty of the situation in which the country found itself owing to the war, and the importance of securing and maintaining vital supplies essential for the life of the community, proceeded to consider the question whether a power to make such a levy was granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statute had confined the duties of the Food Controller to regulating the supply and consumption of food and taking the necessary steps for maintaining proper supplies.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was observed that The question before this House is not whether or not that was a wise and necessary step to take having regard to the difficulties by which the whole question of the milk supply was surrounded the only question which we have to decide is whether there was any power conferred upon the Food Controller to do what he did.	Arguments of Petitioner
They AttorneyGeneral has urged your Lordships to consider the extreme difficult of the situation in which the country found itself owing to the war, and the importance of all the officials who had charge of our vital supplies being enabled to act under the powers conferred upon them without fear or technical and vexatious objections being taken to the powers which they used.	Arguments of Petitioner
All that may be readily accepted	Arguments of Petitioner
but it cannot possibly give to any official a right to act outside the law nor can the law be unreasonably strained in order to legalise that which it might be perfectly reasonable should be done if, in fact it was unauthorized.	Arguments of Petitioner
The real answer to such an argument is to be found in this, that in times of great national crisis Parliament should be, and, generally is, in continuous session, and the powers which are required for the purpose of maintaining the integrity of the country, both economic and military, ought always to be obtained readily from loyal Houses of Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
The only question here is, Were such powers granted?There are only two sources from which those powers can possibly be derived.	Arguments of Petitioner
One is the Act creating the Ministry, and the other the Regulations under the Defence of the Realm Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Neither of these either directly or, in any opinion, by inference enabled the Food Controller to levy the payment of any sums of money from any of His Majestys subjects.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statute of 1916 confines his duties to regulating the supply and consumption of food and taking the necessary steps for maintaining a proper supply of food.	Arguments of Petitioner
The powers so given are no doubt very extensive and very drastic, but they do not include the power of levying upon any man payment of money which the Food Controller must receive as part of a national fund and can only apply under proper sanction for national purposes.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the character of this payment may be clothed, by asking your Lordships to consider the necessity for its imposition, in the end it must remain a payment which certain classes of people were called upon to make for the purpose of exercising certain privileges, and, the result is that the money so raised can only be described as a tax the levying of which can never imposed upon subjects of this country by anything except plain and direct statutory means.	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied by us).16.	None
In Attorney General for New South Wales vs. Homebush Flour Mills Ltd. (56 C.L.R. 390 at 400) the High Court of Australia held that when the exaction of money in a Government in obedience to what is really a compulsive demand the money paid is paid as a tax.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed on the decision of Privy Council in Lower Mainland Dairy Products Sales Adjustment Committee vs. Crystal Dairy Ltd. (1933 AC 168).	Arguments of Petitioner
The case was concerned with the legality of certain adjustment levies imposed on farmers by an adjustment Committee created by an enactment of British Columbia by which the disparity in the production of fluid milk as compared with milk products was sought to be countered.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended on behalf of the State that the levies were not taxes but merely a scheme for pooling profits in a provincial trade.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lord Thankerton speaking for the Board said.	None
The main issue of this appeal is whether the adjustment levies are taxes In the opinion of their Lordships, the adjustment levies are taxes.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are compulsorily imposed by a statutory committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are enforceable by law Compulsion is an essential feature of taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Committee is a public authority, and the imposition of these levies is for a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fact that moneys so recovered or distributed as bonus among the traders in the manufactured products market does not affect the taxing character of the levies made.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed in A. Venkata Subba Rao vs. State of Andhra Pradesh (1965) 2 SCC 577).	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case the Government of Madras passed various orders for procurement and distribution of paddy and rice.	Arguments of Petitioner
Persons were appointed as procuring agents and wholesalers and their duty was to procure rice from specified areas at prices specified by the Government from time to time and to deliver it at prices so specified to the Government or to the persons nominated by it or to other licensed purchasers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The purchasing agents were to get the difference between the purchase price and the sale price.	Arguments of Petitioner
During the year 194748 the Government increased the price and this resulted in excess profits to procuring agents.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Government insisted that this excess sum so earned by the procuring agents should be paid to the Government and this sum was directed to be collected as surcharge.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was held by the Supreme Court that recovery of this money amounted to a tax imposed by an executive fiat without any legislative sanction on the capital value of the stocks of foodgrains held on a particular date.19.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court observing that if there is no legal basis for these demands by the Government, it is not possible to characterize them anything else than as taxes they were imposed compulsorily by the executive and are sought to be collected by the State by the exercise, inter alia, of coercive statutory powers, though these powers are vested in Government for very different purposes.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court has approved the statement of law and the essential characteristics of tax as contained in the aforesaid observations of Lord Thankerton.	Arguments of Petitioner
For deciding the validity of Clause 9A, in view of the aforesaid legal position, it is to be determined whether the contribution payable amounts to compulsory exaction of money and hence has an essential feature of taxation.	Issue
The core question that has to be decided is as to whom the money paid by the buyers of nonlevy cement belongs.	Issue
The real question, therefore, is are the appellants merely holders of the money paid to them by their customers for purchase of nonlevy cement and are not, in fact, entitled to it or the money, in fact, belongs to them?	Issue
In support of the contention that the money, in fact, does not belong to the appellants and they are merely holders thereof, learned counsel for the respondents, besides placing reliance on two decisions, one of the Calcutta High Court upholding the validity of Clauses 4A and 4B of the Aluminium Control Order, 1970 and the other of Delhi High Court upholding validity of Clause 9 of the Control Order, has placed, rather emphatically, strong reliance on the background, scheme and the circumstances under which Clause 9A was inserted in the Control Order by 1982 amendment.	Arguments of Respondent
We have already noticed that Clause 9A was inserted while simultaneously introducing partial decontrol of cement.	None
No fault can be found with the object behind the levy in question.	Reasoning
As a result of partial decontrol, the cement manufacturers were expected to earn huge profits by sale of nonlevy cement in open market.	Reasoning
There was no limitation or restriction on sale price.	Reasoning
The effect of Clause 9A was to make them contribute, out of those profits, Rs. 9/ per metric tonne into the CRA.	Reasoning
Howsoever laudable the object behind the levy and collection of any sum of money may be, but if it does not have sanction of law, it has to be struck down.	Reasoning
The contention that the partial decontrol and contribution under Clause 9 are inseparable and part of the same scheme, though looks attractive at the first brush but closer examination thereof shows that it has no substance.	None
The question before this Court is only about the validity of Clause 9A for want of legal sanction to impose the levy and collect that amount and not about the validity of the partial decontrol.	None
From the affidavit of the respondents filed in this Court as well, it appears that on payment of the sale price of the nonlevy cement by the buyers to the sellers, i.e. the cement manufacturers, the amount so paid becomes their property  amount belongs to them, though they may have passed on the burden to the customers, it cannot be held that the appellants are merely holders of that amount.	None
It would be useful in this connection to quote from the affidavit filed on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion which itself shows that the money received by sale of nonlevy cement becomes the money of the sellers.	None
The affidavit states Further, it was contemplated that the nonlevy open market cement price would be far higher than the levy price or the controlled price by much more than the required contribution of Rs.	Reasoning
9/ per MT and as a result, the said contribution of Rs.	Reasoning
9/ on the nonlevy cement would be easily and effortlessly passed on by the cement manufacturers to their customers in the shape of higher prices.	Reasoning
In fact, this is exactly what happened.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the nonlevy cement price was at all points of time far higher than the levy cement price.	Reasoning
For example, in June, 1985, the levy price of cement was Rs. 532/ per MT whereas, on the other hand, the nonlevy price of cement per MT was as much as Rs. 1660/ i.e, three times the levy price.	Reasoning
Even earlier, right from February, 1982 onwards, when the Cement Control Order, 1967 was amended, the nonlevy cement price was at least double the levy cement price and the manufacturers, therefore, realized a sale price for his 33.34 nonlevy production a total sale price which was much more than the retention price in respect of the 66.66 production of levy cement.	Reasoning
The said contribution of Rs.	Reasoning
9/ per MT of nonlevy cement was, therefore, passed on by the cement manufacturers and was wholly recovered from their customers.	Reasoning
This factual position was made abundantly clear by the letter dated March 12, 1982 addressed to the Government of India by the Cement Manufacturers Association which showed that the contribution to the Cement Regulation Account at Rs.	Reasoning
9/ per MT of nonlevy cement was built into the price of nonlevy cement and recovered from the customers.	Reasoning
The decisions relied upon by learned counsel for the respondents have no relevance.	None
In Union of India and others v. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Limited and Anr.	None
(AIR 1983 Cal. 307 ) while examining the validity of the aforenoticed provisions of Aluminium Control Order, 1970, it was held that the person challenging the validity of the clause which related to the fixation of retention price of indigenous aluminium (Clause 4A) and fair price of aluminium (Clause 4B) is merely the holder of the money.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, the Government had fixed the sale price of indigenous aluminium which was considered to be fair and within the pecuniary limits of the consumers.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government finding that mere fixation of sale price would serve no purpose of the consumers and consequently the objectives under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 cannot be achieved, introduced the concept of retention price in order to obviate the difficulties of the consumer.	Arguments of Respondent
The Calcutta High Court held that as the retention price fixed for HINDALCO was lower than the sale price, HINDLCO has to pay to the Aluminium Regulation Accountant, the sum which is the difference between the sale price and the retention price.	Arguments of Respondent
Under these circumstances, it was held that the steps taken by the Government by fixation of the retention price for each producer and the sale price and the provision for payment to the Aluminium Regulation Account were necessary in the interests of the consumers so as to maintain supply of aluminium consistent with the demand thereof and to make it available to the consumer at a fair price.22.	Arguments of Respondent
Likewise, in R.D. Aggarwala and another vs. The Union of India and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
(ILR 1974(2) Delhi 520), the Delhi High Court was concerned, with the validity of Clause 9.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, the contention that was urged was the requirement in clause 9 that every producer should pay to the Controller the balance that remains from out of the for destination price, and the provision in clause 11(4) enabling the Government to disburse the unspent amount in the Cement Regulation Account in any manner it likes, amount to a colourable exercise of the taxing power of the State, and beyond the legislative competence of the executive under Section 18G of the Act, inasmuch as the outright deprivation of the balance of the freight in the hands of producer and the power of the Government to disburse the same as it likes, amount to a direct and variable levy of tax without any authority of law under Article 265 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court held that the contention was based on the assumption that the producer was deprived of the balance of the freight in his hands.	Arguments of Respondent
It was clear that the producer was not entitled to the said balance of freight according to the scheme of the Control Order.	Arguments of Respondent
The Court said Coming now to the contention urged by the learned counsel, it was based on the assumption that the producer was deprived of the balance of the freight in this hands.	Arguments of Respondent
It is clear from what has been stated above that the producer was not entitled to the said balance of the freight according to the scheme of the Control Order.	Arguments of Respondent
Once it is held, as we did, that the fixation of the exfactory or retention price is valid, it would follow that the balance of the f.o.r. destination price that remains after reducing the said retention price and the other items allowed to be deducted by the producer under clause 9 of the Control Order, does not belong to the producer and, therefore, he cannot be said to be deprived of the same when he pays to the same to the Controller under clause 9.	Arguments of Respondent
In that view, the payment of the balance to the Controller cannot be descried as levy of tax qua the producer.	Arguments of Respondent
Nor can it be a tax qua the consumer, as the amount of freight is paid by the consumer as part of the f.o.r. destination price.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court, therefore, held that the balance of FOR destination price does not belong to the purchaser under the scheme of the Control Order and cannot, therefore, be regarded as tax qua the producer.	Arguments of Respondent
Factual matrix of the two cases relied upon by learned counsel for the respondents and of the present case is entirely different.	Reasoning
As already noticed, there is no control on price of sale of the nonlevy cement.	Reasoning
Except Clause 9A, no other clause of the Control Order is applicable to nonlevy cement.	Reasoning
There is no sale price, there is no retention price and the manufacturers are free to sell the nonlevy cement at whatever price the like.	Reasoning
There is no power in the subordinate legislation to impose levy on that cement which is not covered by the Control Order.26.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that in taxing legislation, legislature deserves greater latitude and greater play in joints.	Reasoning
This principles, however, cannot be extended so as to validate a levy which has no sanction of law, however, laudable may have been the object to introduce it and howsoever laudable may have been the purpose for which the amount so collected may have been spent.27.	Reasoning
It is clear from the above discussion that the impugned levy under Clause 9A is a compulsory exaction.	Reasoning
The amount paid by the customers of nonlevy cement belongs to the appellants.	Reasoning
Such a levy amounts to levy of tax and, therefore, invalid for want of sanction to levy such a tax.	Reasoning
Clause 9A, is, therefore, ultra vires Section 18G of the Act.	Reasoning
To this extent we set aside the impugned judgment of the High Court.	None
The next question is whether the appellants are entitled to refund of the contribution made by them under Clause 9A of the Control Order?	None
There is no automatic right of refund.	None
In Mafatlal Industries Ltd. and ors.	Reasoning
vs. Union of India and ors.	Reasoning
(1997) 5 SCC 536 ), the Constitution Bench has held that the right to refund of tax paid under an unconstitutional provision of law is not an absolute or an unconditional right.	Reasoning
Similar is the position, even if Article 265 can be invoked.	Reasoning
The principles of unjust enrichment are applicable in claim of refund.	None
The claimant has to allege and establish that he has not passed on the burden to another person.	Reasoning
The Constitution Bench has held whether the claim for restitution is treated as a constitutional imperative or as a statutory requirement, it is neither an absolute right nor an unconditional obligation but is subject to the requirement as explained in the judgment.	Reasoning
Where the burden of duty has been passed on, the claimant cannot say that he has suffered any real loss or prejudice.	Reasoning
Real loss or prejudice is suffered in such a case by the person who has ultimately borne the burden and it is only that person who can legitimately claim its refund.	Reasoning
But where such person does not come forward or where it is not possible to refund the amount to him for one or the other reason, it is just and appropriate that amount is retained by the State, i.e. by the people.	Reasoning
The doctrine of unjust enrichment is a just and salutary doctrine.	Reasoning
The power of the Court is not meant to be exercised for unjustly enriching a person.	Reasoning
The doctrine of unjust enrichment is, however, inapplicable to the State for the State represents the people of the country.	Reasoning
No one can speak of the people being unjustly enriched.29.	Reasoning
In the present case, it is clear that the burden of payment under Clause 9A was passed on to the customers.	Reasoning
The President of the Cement Manufacturer Association, soon after the insertion of the amendment in February 1982, in a communication dated 12th March, 1982 sent to the Secretary of Ministry of Commerce, Department of Industrial Development, Government while giving breakup of the price of nonlevy cement added in the said price, a sum of Rs.	Reasoning
9/ per MT payable under Clause 9A on production of the nonlevy cement.	Reasoning
Further, it appears that the levy under Clause 9A was accepted by the entire cement industry except the challenge made by the four appellants by filing the writ petitions one just before the contribution under Clause 9A was withdrawn and three after it was withdrawn.	Reasoning
Besides the principles of unjust enrichment on equitable principles which squarely apply here, the appellants are not entitled to claim refund of amount paid into CRA under Clause 9A.	Reasoning
It is evident that the amount so deposited was expanded for the purpose under the Control Order.	Reasoning
Under these circumstances, we directed that pursuant to declaration of invalidity of Clause 9A of the Control Order, the amount of contribution already paid under Clause 9A will not be liable to be refunded to the appellants.	None
The appeals are accordingly allowed to the above limited extent.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, parties are left to bear their own costs.	Decision
