 Shah, J.1.	None
M s. New India Sugar Mills Ltd. herein after called the assessees own a factory at Hasanpur in the State of Bihar.	Facts
During the assessment period April 1, 1947 to March 31, 1948 the assessees who were registered as dealers under the relevant Sales Tax Acts despatched sugar valued at Rs. 6,89,482/ to the authorised agents of the State of Madras in compliance with the directions issued by the Controller exercising powers under the Sugar and Sugar Products Control Order, 1946.	Facts
The Sales Tax Officer, Darbhanga rejected the plea of the assessees that despatches of sugar to the Province of Madras in compliance with the instructions of the Controller were not liable to be included in the taxable turnover, and ordered the assessees to pay sales tax on a taxable turnover of Rs. 27,62,226/.	Facts
The order of assessment was confirmed by the Deputy Commissioner, but the Board of Revenue exercising jurisdiction in revision set aside the order, in so tar as it related to the inclusion into the taxable turnover the value of sugar despatched to the Province of Madras.	Facts
The Board of Revenue observed that the Controller passed orders in exercise of statutory powers which, as a result of mere compliance, could not create a contract in law, and there was no evidence justifying the view that there could possibly be any contract between the assessees and some dealers in Madras and the Sugar Controller.	Facts
The Board of Revenue under the direction of the High Court of Judicature at Patna submitted under S. 25 (3) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947, the following question for the opinion of the High Court Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, the disposal of sugar to the Province of Madras is liable to be taxed.	Facts
The High Court answered the question in the affirmative observing that the sugar despatched by the assessees to different Provinces including the Province of Madras under orders of the Controller was liable to be taxed under the provisions of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947.	Issue
With special leave the assessees have appealed to this Court against the judgment of the High Court.2.	Facts
The only question arising in the appeal is whether there was a sale by the assessees of sugar despatched by them to the Provincial Government of Madras in compliance with the directions issued by the Controller in exercise of authority under the Sugar and Sugar Products Control Order, promulgated on February 18, 1946 by the Central Government under powers conferred by subrule (2) of Rule 81 of the Defence of India Rules.	Issue
The material Causes of the Order concerning sugar are these By cl.	None
(3) of the Order producers of sugar were prohibited from disposing of or agreeing to dispose of or making delivery of any sugar except to or through a recognised dealer or persons specially authorised in that behalf by the Controller to acquire sugar on behalf of the Central Government or of a Provincial Government or of an Indian State.	None
Clause 5 enjoined upon every producer or dealer duty to comply with such directions regarding production sales, stocks or distribution of sugar as may from time to time be issued by the Controller.	None
By cl.	None
6 the Controller was authorised to fix the price at which sugar may be sold or delivered, and upon fixation of the price all persons were prohibited from selling or purchasing or agreeing to sell or purchase sugar at a price higher than the fixed price.	None
By subclause (1) of c1.(7) the Controller was authorised, inter alia, to allot quotas of sugar for any specified province or area or market and to issue directions to any producer or dealer to supply sugar to such provinces, areas or markets or such persons or organisation, in such quantities, of such types or grades, at such times, at such prices and in such manner as may be specified by the Controller, and subclause (2) provided that every producer shall, notwithstanding any existing agreement with any other person, give priority to, and comply with directions issued to him under subclause (I).	None
Clause 11 provided that against a person contravening the provisions of the Order without prejudice to any other punishment to which he may be liable, an order of forfeiture of any stocks of sugar in respect of which the Court trying the offence was satisfied that the offence was committed, may be passed.	None
By subrule (4) of Rule 81 of the Defence of India Rules, 1939 contravention of orders made under the Rule was liable to be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with both.3.	None
The course of dealings between the assessees and the State of Madras to which sugar was under the directions of the Controller, supplied by the assessees is stated by the High Court as follows The admitted course of dealing between the parties was that the Government of various consuming States used to intimate to the Sugar Controller of India from time to time their requirement of sugar, and similarly the factory owners used to send to the Sugar Controller of India statements of stock of sugar held by them.	None
On a consideration of the requisitions received from the various State Governments and the statements of stock received from the various factories, the Sugar Controller used to make allotments.	None
The allotment order was addressed by the Sugar Controller to the factory owner, directing him to supply sugar to the State Government in question in accordance with the despatch instructions received from the competent officer of the State Government.	None
A copy of the allotment order was simultaneously sent to the State Government concerned, on receipt of which the competent authority of the State Government sent to the factory concerned detailed instructions about the destinations to which the sugar was to be despatched as also the quantities of sugar to be despatched to each place.	None
In the case of the Madras Government it is admitted that it also laid down the procedure of payment, and the direction was that the draft should be sent to the State Bank and it should be drawn on Parry and Company or any other party which had been appointed as stockist importer on behalf of the Madras Government.	None
The assessees contend that sugar despatched pursuant to the directions of the Controller was not sold by them to the Govt.	Arguments of Petitioner
of Madras, and	None
salestax was therefore not exiigible in respect of those despatches under the relevant Safestax Acts of the Province of Bihar The assessment period in respect of which the dispute is raised in one year  April 1, 1947 to March 31, 1948 for the first three months the relevant law imposing liability to pay tax was Bihar Act 6 of 1944 and from July 1, 1947 to March 31, 1948 liability to pay tax had to be determined under Bihar Act 19 of 1947.	None
It is common ground that the scheme of the two Acts for levy of tax was similar and the definition of sale on which primarily the dispute centred under the two Acts was identical.	None
We will therefore refer in dealing with this appeal as if the liability arose under Act XIX of 1947.	None
The expression sale as defined under S. 2 (g) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, at the material time stood as follows Sale means with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, any transfer of property in goods for cash or deterred payment or other valuable consideration, including a transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of contract but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge Provided that a transfer of goods on hire purchase or other instalment system of payment shall, notwithstanding the fact that the seller retains a title to any goods as security for payment of the price, be deemed to be a sale Provided further that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (III of 1930) the sale of any goods which are actually in Bihar at the time when, in respect thereof the contract of sale as defined in S. 4 of that Act is made, shall, wherever the said contract of sale is made, be deemed for the purpose of this Act to have been made in Bihar.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apparently in the first paragraph of the definition a transaction (other than a transaction expressly specified) in which there is a transfer of property in goods for valuable consideration, was included as a sale within the meaning of the Act.	None
By the first proviso transfer of goods on hire purchase or other instalment system of payment are to be deemed sales.	None
The second proviso (which has since been repealed) dealt with the sites of the sale and was not in truth a part of the definition of sale.	None
What constituted a sale, the second proviso did not purport to say it merely fixed for the purpose of the Bihar Sales Tax Act the place of sale, in the circumstances mentioned therein.4.	Arguments of Respondent
Tax is leviable under the Bihar Sales Tax Act on the gross turnover (exceeding a prescribed minimum) on sales which have taken place in Bihar.	None
Counsel for the assessees says that the value of sugar despatched in compliance with the directions of the Controller is not liable to be included in the taxable turnover, for there was no sale of sugar, despatched by the assessees, and that in any event the sale did not take place in Bihar.	Arguments of Petitioner
In elaborating his submission counsel says Under the Government of India Act, 1935 the Provincial Legislature had power to legislate for levy of tax on sale of goods under Entry 48 of List II of the Seventh Schedule that the expression sale of goods in the Entry was used not in the popular but in the narrow and technical sense in which it is used in the Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930 that power under the entry could be exercised for taxing only those transactions in which by mutual assent between parties competent to contract property in goods was transferred absolutely from one person to another, in consideration of price paid or promised, and the transactions in which there was no mutual assent as a result of negotiations express or implied are not sales within the meaning of the Sale of Goods Act and therefore not sales within the meaning of the Bihar Sales Tax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel alternatively submits that even if the despatches resulted in sales, as the sales did not take place in Bihar, the same were not liable to be taxed under the Bihar Sales Act.5.In popular parlance sale means transfer of property from one person to another in consideration of price paid or promised or other valuable consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
But that is not the meaning of sale in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	None
Section 4 of the Sale of Goods Act provides by its first subsection that a contract of sale of goods is a contract where the seller agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a price.	None
Price by cl.	None
(10) of S. 2 means the money consideration for sale of goods, andwhere under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer, the contract is called a sale, but where the transfer of the property in the goods is to take place at a future time or subject to some condition thereafter to be fulfilled, the contract is called an agreement to sell (sub s. (3), S. 4).It is manifest that under the Sale of Goods Act a transaction is called sale only where for money consideration property in goods is transferred under a contract of sale.	None
Section 4 of the Sale of Goods Act was borrowed almost verbatim from S. 1 of the English Sale of Goods Act, 56 and 57 Vict.	None
C.71.	None
As observed by Benjamin in the 8th Edn. of his work on.	None
Saleto constitute a valid sale there must be a concurrence of the following elements viz.(1) parties competent to contract (2) mutual assent (3) a thing, the absolute or general property in which is transferred from the seller to the buyer and (4) a price in money paid or promised.6.	None
The Provincial Legislature by Entry 48 List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Government of India Act, 1935 was invested with power to legislate in respect of Taxes on sale of goods.	None
The expression sale of goods was not defined in the Government of India Act, but it is now settled law that the expression has to be understood in the sense in which it is used in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	None
In State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerly and Co (Madras), Ltd., 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) this Court in considering whether S. 2 (i) Explanation 1 (i) of the Madras General Sales Tax Act IX of 1939 as amended by the Madras General Sales Tax Amendment Act XXV of 1947 was intra vires the Provincial Legislature, has decided that the expression sale of goods in Entry 48, List II is used not in the popular but in the restricted sense of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	None
The primary question which fell to be determined in that case was whether in a building contract which was one, entire and indivisible there was sale of goods of the building materials used in the execution, liable to be taxed under the Madras General Sales Tax Act which by S.2 (c) defined goods as meaning all kinds movable property, (except certain kinds which are not material in this case) and included all materials, commodities and articles including those to be used in the construction, fitting out, improvement or repair of immovable property, and by S. 2 (h) defined the expression sale as meaning every transfer of property in goods by one person to another in the course of trade or business for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration and includes also a transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of a works contract.	None
Power of the Provincial Legislature of Madras to legislate in respect of a levy of tax on the value of goods used in the execution of a works contract was challenged by a firm of building contractors, and this Court held that the power under Entry 48, List II, Seventh Schedule, did not include power to legislate for levying tax on the value of goods used in the course of a building contract which was one, entire and indivisible.	None
The Court held that the expression Sale of Goods in Entry 48 List II was used not in the popular sense but in the strictly limited sense in which it was defined in the Sale of Goods Act and that the Madras Provincial Legislature had no power to legislate under the power derived under Entry 48 in List II for taxing transactions other than those of sales strictly so called under the Sale of Goods Act.	None
It was observedthe expression sale of goods in Entry 48 is a nomen juris, its essential ingredients being an agreement to sell movables for a price and property passing therein pursuant to that agreement.	None
In a building contract which is as in the present case, one, entire and indivisible and that is its norm, there is no sale of goods, and it is not within the competence of the Provincial Legislature under Entry 48 to impose a tax on the supply of the materials used in such a contract treating it as a sale.	None
In Gannon Dunkerley and Companys case, 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ), the Court was concerned to adjudicate upon the validity of the provisions enacted in Acts of Provincial Legislatures imposing liability to pay sales tax on the value of goods used in the execution of building contracts, and the judgment of the Court proceeded on the ground that power conferred by Entry 48 List II was restricted to enacting legislation imposing tax liability in respect of sale of goods as understood in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, and that the Provincial Legislature under the Government of India Act, 1935 had no power to tax a transaction which was not a sale of goods, as understood in the Sale of Goods Act.	None
The ratio decidened of that decision must govern this case.	None
According to S.4 of the Sale of Goods Act to constitute a sale of goods, property in goods must be transferred from the seller to the buyer under a contract of sale.	None
A contract of sale between the parties is therefore a prerequisite to a sale.	None
The transactions of despatches of sugar by the assessees pursuant to the directions of the Controller were not the result of any such contract of sale.	None
It is common ground that the Province of Madras intimated its requirements of sugar to the Controller, and the Controller called upon the manufacturing units to supply the whole or part of the requirement to the Province.	None
In calling upon the manufacturing units to supply sugar, the Controller did not act as an agent of the State to purchase goods he acted in exercise of his statutory authority.	None
There was manifestly no offer to purchase sugar by the Province, and no acceptance of any offer by the manufacturer.	None
The manufacturer was under the Control Order left no volition he could not decline to carry out the order if he did so he was liable to be punished for breach of the order and his goods were liable to be forfeited.	None
The Government of the Province and the manufacturer had no opportunity to negotiate, and sugar was despatched pursuant to the direction of the Controller and not in acceptance of any offer by the Government.7.	None
The High Court observedas soon as an application for allotment is made there is an implication of an offer to purchase the quantity of sugar at the price fixed by the Controller from the producer to whom the allotment order is to be made by the Controller.	None
It is also clear that if the allotment order is communicated by the Controller to the assessee and the latter appropriates the sugar in accordance with the allotment order and in accordance with the despatch instructions of the competent officer appointed by the Madras Government, there is in the eye of law an acceptance of the offer by the assessee and a contract is immediately brought into existence between the parties.	None
We are with respect unable to hold that this view is correct.	None
The Provincial Government of Madras gave intimation of its requirements of sugar to the Controller and applied for allotment of sugar thereby the Government was not making any offer to purchase sugar.	None
Evidently the offer could not be made to the Controller because the Controller was nor a manufacturer of sugar or his agent.	None
The communication of the allotment order to the assessees was again not of any offer made by the State which it was open to the assessees to accept or decline.	None
Mere compliance with the despatch instructions issued by the Controller, which in law the assessees could not decline to carry out, did not amount to acceptance of an offer.	None
A contract of sale postulates exercise of volition on the part of the contracting parties and there was in complying with the orders passed by the Controller no such exercise of volition by the assessees.	None
By the Indian Contract Act 9 of 1872 a proposal or an offer is defined as signification by one person to another of his willingness to do or to abstain from doing anything, with a view to obtaining the assent of that other to such act or abstinence.	None
When the person to whom the proposal is made or signified assents thereto, the proposal is said to be accepted.	None
The person making the proposal is called the promisor and the person accepting the proposal is called the promisal, and every promisee or every set of promises, forming the consideration for each other is an agreement.	None
These provisions of the Contract Act are by S. 2 (15) of the Sale of Goods Act incorporated therein.	None
There was on the part of the Province of Madras no signification to the assessees of their willingness to do or to abstain from doing anything, with a view to obtaining the assent of the assessees to such act or abstinence, and the Controller did not invite any signification of assent of the assessees to the intimation received by them.	None
He did not negotiate a sale of sugar he in exercise of his statutory authority ordered the assessees to supply sugar to the Government of Madras.	None
We are unable to hold that from the intimation of order of the Controller, and compliance therewith by the assessees any sale of goods resulted in favour of the State of Madras.8.	None
Mr. Verma appearing for the state of Bihar contended that even if there was no offer and no acceptance when intimation was sent by the Government of Madras of the Controller, and the Controller, directed the assessees to deliver specified quantities of sugar, still by the conduct of the assessees in despatching sugar to Madras in pursuance of the directions of the Controller and acceptance of price by them, a contract of sale resulted.	Arguments of Respondent
But the action on the part of the assessees in despatching the goods was not voluntary they were compelled to send the goods.	Arguments of Respondent
They could not be deemed by despatching sugar to have made any offer to supply goods and in the absence of any offer, no contract resulted by the acceptance of goods by the Provincial Government.	Arguments of Respondent
To infer a contract from the compulsory delivery of sugar and acceptance thereof would be to ignore the true position of the parties, and the circumstances in which goods were delivered.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Verma contended that in any event the Legislature had by the definition included in the expression sale of goods all transfers of property in goods for consideration and the transactions which are sought to be taxed by the state of Bihar fell within that definition.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that a literal meaning should be given to the words of the Act without any predisposition as to what the expression sale means under the sale of Goods Act.	Arguments of Respondent
But if the Bihar Legislature had under the Government of India Act, 1935 no power to legislate in respect of taxation of transactions other than those of sale of goods as understood in the Sale of Goods Act, a transaction to be liable to pay salestax, had to conform to the requirements of the Sale of Goods Act 1930.	Arguments of Respondent
Attributing a literal meaning to the words used would amount to imputing to the Legislature an intention deliberately to transgress the restrictions unposed by the Constitution Act upon the Provincial Legislative authority.	Arguments of Respondent
It is a recognised rule of interpretation of statutes that the expressions used therein should ordinarily be understood in a sense in which they best harmonise with the object of the statute, and which effectuate the object of the Legislature.	Arguments of Respondent
If an expression is susceptible of a narrow or technical meaning, as well as a popular meaning the Court would be justified in assuming that the Legislature used the expression in the sense which would carry out its object and reject that which renders the exercise of its powers invalid.	Arguments of Respondent
If the narrow and technical concept of sale is discarded and it be assumed that the Legislature sought to use the expression sale in a wider sense as including transactions in which property was transferred for consideration from one person to another without any previous contract of sale, it would be attributing to the Legislature an intention to enact legislation beyond its competence.	Arguments of Respondent
In interpreting a statute the Court cannot ignore its aim and object.	Arguments of Respondent
It is manifest that the Bihar Legislature intended to erect machinery within the framework of the Act for levying salestax on transactions of the sale and the power of the Legislature being restricted to imposing tax on sales in the limited sense, it could not be presumed to have deliberately legislated outside its competence.	Arguments of Respondent
In the definition of the expression sale in S.2 (g) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act it must be regarded as implicit that the transaction was to have all the elements which constitute a sale within the meaning of the Sale of Goods Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Use of the expression including a transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of the contract in the first paragraph of the definition also does not justify the inference that the transfers of property in goods under the earlier part of the definition were not to be the result of a contract of sale.	Arguments of Respondent
If any such intention was attributed to the Legislature the legislation may, for reasons already stated be beyond the competence of the Legislature.	Arguments of Respondent
The nonobstante clause in the second proviso is in truth in the nature of an explanation to the charging section it merely fixes the situs of sale.	Arguments of Respondent
If there is no sale the second proviso will have no application.9.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Varma finally contended that in Tata Iron and Steel Co .Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
v. State of Bihar, (1958)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 ) by implication it was decided that the definition of sale in S.2 (g) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act included transactions in which goods were supplied in compliance with directions which left no volition to the manufacturers.	Arguments of Respondent
But this argument is not borne out by what was actually decided in that case.	Arguments of Respondent
The Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd. which carried on the business of manufacturing iron and steel in its factory at Jamshedpur in Bihar was assessed to sales tax under the Bihar Sales Tax Act 1947.	Arguments of Respondent
The company sent its goods from its factory to different Provinces and Indian States by rail, the railway receipts being obtained by the company in its own name as consignor and consignee.	Arguments of Respondent
The Branch Offices of the company or its Bankers at the destination handed over the railway receipts to the purchasers against payment of the price.	Arguments of Respondent
The Sales Tax Officer of the state of Bihar included in the gross turnover of the company the value of goods manufactured in Bihar but delivered and consumed outside the State of Bihar in the manner already stated.	Arguments of Respondent
The contention of the company that the goods delivered were not liable to be included in the taxable turnover was negatived by the taxing authorities, and the High Court of Patna.	Arguments of Respondent
The matter was then carried in appeal to this Court and it was held that the provisions of S. 4 (1) read with S. 2(g) proviso 2 of the Bihar Sales Tax Act was within the legislative competence of the Province of Bihar.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that the second proviso to the definition of sale in S.2(g) of the Act did not extend the meaning of sale so as to include therein a contract of sale, what it actually did was to lay down certain circumstances in which a sale although completed elsewhere, was to be deemed to have taken place in Bihar.	Arguments of Respondent
Those circumstances did not constitute a sale, but only located the situs of such sale.	Arguments of Respondent
The court in that case was not called upon to consider whether a transaction to be a sale must be preceded by a contract of sale the Court was merely considering the vires of the second proviso to S.2 (g) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Das C.J. in delivering the judgment of the majority of the court observed the basis of liability under S.4 (1) remained as before, name, to pay tax on sale.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact of the goods being in Bihar at the time of the contract of sale or the production or manufacture of goods in Bihar did not by itself constitute a sale and did not by itself attract the tax.	Arguments of Respondent
The taxable event still remained the sale resulting in the transfer of ownership in the thing sold from the seller to the buyer.	Arguments of Respondent
No tax liability actually accrued until there was a concluded sale in the sense of transfer of title.	Arguments of Respondent
It was only when the property passed and the sale took place that the liability for paying the sales tax under the 1947 Act arose.	Arguments of Respondent
There was no enlargement of the meaning of sale but the proviso only raised a fiction on the strength of the facts, mentioned therein and deemed the sale to have taken place in Bihar.	Arguments of Respondent
Those facts did not by themselves constitute a sale but those facts were used for locating the situs of the sale in Bihar.	Arguments of Respondent
It follows, therefore, that the provisions of S.4(1) read with S.2 (g), second proviso, were well within the legislative competency of the Legislature of the Province of Bihar.	Arguments of Respondent
In Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd. case, (1958) SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 ) the question as to the true content of the expression sale in the Bihar Sales Tax Act did not fall to be determined, and the principle of the case can have no application in deciding the present case.10.	None
It would be fruitless to enter upon a detailed discussion of the two decisions of the Houses of Lords cited at the Bar Commissioner of Inland Revenue v. New Castle Breweries Ltd.(1928) 12 Tax Cas 927 and Kirkness v. John Hudson and Co., Ltd. (1955)	None
AC 696.	None
It may be sufficient to observe that in the first of these cases goods belonging to the assessee were taken over by order of the Admiralty, acting under the relevant regulations, and in compliance with the order of a Compensation Court, the assessee was paid an amount exceeding ?	None
5000/ being the difference between the amount originally paid and the amount settled as due under the order of the Compensation Court.	None
The House of Lords held that the transaction under which the Admiralty took over the goods was a sale in the business, and although no doubt it affected the circulating capital of the assessee it was nonetheless proper to be brought into the profit and loss account arising from the assessees trade for the purpose of computation of liability to pay Excess Profits duty.	None
In (1955)	None
AC 696 it was held by the House of Lords that the vesting of a companys railway wagons in the Transport Commission under S. 29 of the Transport Act, 1947, with compensation fixed in the form of transport stock under the relevant sections of that Act did not constitute a sale for the purpose of S.17 of the Income tax Act, 1945 so as to render the company liable to a balancing charge under that section.	None
The cases turned upon the meaning of sale for the purposes of the Excess Profits Tax legislation and the Incometax Act, 1945 (8 and 9 Geo. 6, c.32) and observations made therein have little relevance in determining the limits of the legislative power of the Provincial Legislature under the Govt.	None
of India Act, 1935 and the interpretation of statutes enacted in exercise of that power.11.	None
The second contention raised by counsel for the assessees requires no elaborate consideration.	None
If it be assumed that the intimation of the requirement by the State of Madras to the Controller amounted to an offer, delivery of sugar by the assessees pursuant to such an order would constitute a sale within the meaning of S. 2 (g) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, by the second proviso which has been held intra vires by this Court in Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltds.	None
case, 1958 SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 )	None
the assessees would be liable to pay sales tax, for it is not in dispute that at the time when the orders were received by the Controller the goods were within the State of Bihar and the condition prescribed by S. 2(g) second proviso for locating the situs of the sale is fulfilled.12.	None
But the intimation by the Province of Madras of its requirements did not amount to an offer, and the supply of goods pursuant thereto could bot amount to a sale consequently liability to pay sales tax under the Bihar Sales Tax Act on the amount received by the assessees from the Government of Madras for sugar supplied did not arise.	None
HIDATATULLAH, J.13.	Reasoning
I regret my inability to agree that Gannon Dunkerleys case, (1959) SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) can be extended to cover the facts here.	Reasoning
I would confirm the decision of the High Court and dismiss these appeals for the reasons I proceed to give.	Reasoning
These reasons are applicable to all the appeals in todays groups.14.	None
This case is concerned with the levy of sales tax under the Bihar Sales Tax Act 1944 (VI of 1944) for a period of three months April 1, 1947 to June 30, 1947, and another of the nine months following, under the Bihar Sales Tax Act 1947 (XIX of 1947).	None
The assessee companies in all these appeals run sugar mills and are admittedly dealers under these Acts and the commodity on the sale of which tax was sought to be levied was sugar.	None
The disputed tax relates to supplies of sugar made by the assessee companies under the orders of the Sugar Controller of India to certain Provincial Governments in the relevant periods.	None
There is only one contention of the assessee companies in these appeals and it is that in the circumstances of the case there was no, sale of sugar, regard being had to the decision of this Court in Gannon Dunkerleys case.	None
(1959)	None
SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) and the amounts received from the Provincial Governments should not be included in the taxable turnover.15.	None
I have already mentioned that the assessment period in this case is one whole year April 1, 1947 to March 31, 1948, and that it is divided into two parts of three months and nine months respectively governed by the two Acts.	None
There was however no difference in the mode of dealing in this case in the two periods.	None
In the other cases the assessment periods were different but there was no other difference.	None
The transactions were stereotyped being under the Sugar and Sugar Products Control Order, 1946, which was passed by the Government of India on February 18, 1946, in the exercise of powers conferred by subr (2) of R. 81 of the Defence of India Rules.	None
The mode, which has been accepted by the parties, as correctly summarised was as follows The admitted course of dealing between the parties was that the Government of various consuming States used to intimate to the Sugar Controller of India from time to time their requirement of Sugar and similarly the factory owners used to send to the Sugar Controller of India statements of stock of Sugar held by them.	None
On a consideration of the requisitions received from the various State Governments and also the statements of stock received from the various factories, the Sugar Controller used to make allotments.	None
The allotment order was addressed by the Sugar Controller to the factory owner, directing him to supply sugar to the State Government in question in accordance with the despatch instructions received from the competent office of the State Government.	None
A copy of the allotment order was simultaneously sent to the State Government concerned, on receipt of which the competent authority of the State Government sent to the factory concerned detailed instructions about the destinations to which the Sugar was to be despatched as also the quantities of Sugar to be despatched to each place.	None
In the case of the Madras Government it is admitted that it also laid down the procedure of payment, and the direction was that the draft should be sent to the State Bank and it should be drawn on Parry and Company or any other party which had been appointed as stockiest importer on behalf of the Madras Government.	None
It should be added that in this case the assessee was called upon to produce necessary documents relating to the transactions in question, but the assessee did not produce the documents.	None
The assessee, however, admitted that general arrangement between the parties was the one set out in this paragraph.16.	None
Two typical documents in this connection may be read and they are the permit by the Controller and the despatch order sent by the Provincial Government.	None
They were not produced in this case but can be seen in the record of C.A. N 633 of 1961 at pages 15,16.First the Permit No. 78 P (1)/46/7132Office of the Sugar Controller for IndiaGOVERNMENT OF INDIADepartment of Food.	None
Dated Simla, the 121156ORDERIn exercise of the power conferred by clause 7 of the Sugar and Sugar Products Control Order, 1946.1.	None
Shashi Kiran, Assistant Sugar Controller for India, having been duly authorised in this regard under clause 2 of the said Order by the Sugar Controller for India hereby direct you to supply 1200 tons maunds of Sugar by 31147 to Bengal in accordance with the despatching instructions of the Director of Civil Supplies Bengal, Calcutta.2.	None
A permit No. 1988 to enable you to despatch sugar in compliance with this order is attached.(Sd.)	None
Shashi KiranAsst.	None
Sugar Controller for India.	None
ToThe Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co., Ltd., Majhawlia, District Champaran.	None
And now the despatch order EXPRESS STATEMOTIPATMAJHOWALIAUNDERSTAND SUGAR CONTROLLER ISSUED PERMIT FOR 600 TONS	None
SUGAR	None
THIS PROVINCE FULLSTOP DESPATCH IMMEDIATELY 300 TONS MANGALORE DRAFTS ON ME THROUGH GENERAL BANK CALICUT 300 TONS COIMBTORE DRAFTS ON ME THROUGH CENTRAL BANK MADRAS FULLSTOP SEND RAIL RECEIPTS FOR EACH WAGON LOAD OR	None
100 BAGS LOAD WAGONS	None
FULL CAPACITY	None
FULLSTOP BOOK AT RAILWAY RISK	None
IF NO SPECIAL RATES IN FORCE.PRICEST.R.L. Narasimham,Assistant Secretary,Post copy in confirmation to Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Ltd., Mojhowlia, Champaran District.	None
Forward By order,(Sd.)	None
Illegible,Supdt.	None
Board of Revenue (Civil Supplies) Chepauk, Madras.	None
Kitta 10547.17.	None
These documents between them disclose that free trading in sugar was not possible.	None
All Provinces intimated their requirements to the Controller who was kept informed by the Mills about the supplies available.	None
The price was controlled and the Controller directed the supply of a certain quantity from a particular Mill to an indenting Province.	None
After giving his permit and sending a copy of this permit to each party, the Controller passed out of the picture and the Mill supplying and the Province receiving the supply (I am avoiding the words seller and buyer since that is the point to decide) arranged the rest of the affair including the issue of despatch instructions regarding the quantity and the quality to be sent to different areas and the payment of price.18.	None
The question is whether there was a sale in the circumstances and the price should be included in the turnover for purposes of Sales Tax under the Bihar Sales Tax Act for the time being in force.	Issue
The definition of sale in the two Bihar Acts at all material Times was 2(g) sale means, with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, any transfer of property in goods for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration, including a transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of contract but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledgeProvided that a transfer of goods on hirepurchase or other instalment system of payment shall, notwithstanding the fact that the seller retains a title to any goods as security for payment of the price, be deemed to be a saleProvided further that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indian Sales of Goods Act, 1930 the sale of any goods which are actually in Bihar at the time when, in respect thereof, the contract of sale as defined in S.4 of that Act is made, shall wherever the said contract of sale is made, be deemed for the purposes of this Act to have taken place in Bihar,19.	None
In the present case, we are required only to decide whether, regard being had to the decisions of this Court expanding the ambit of entry No.48 of List II Seventh Schedule of the Government of India Act 1935, the tax could not be demanded as there was no sale of sugar at all.	None
The entry in question is 48.	None
Taxes on the sale of goods and on advertisement.	None
Goods was defined in S.311 as follows Goods include all materials, commodities and articles.20.	None
The White Paper had the entry taxes on the sale of commodities and on the turnover.	None
It was altered to taxes on the sale of goods and as pointed out by Gwyer, C.J., in In re C.P. and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938, 1939 F.C.R. 18 (AIR 1939 FC 1) it is idle to speculate what the reason was.	None
The expression sale of commodities would not have taken the mind to the Sale of Goods Act as the redrafted entry does.21.	None
There is no provision in the whole of the Government of India Act 1935 which expressly seeks to limit the meaning of the plain words taxes on the sale of goods which include all materials, commodities and articles.	None
Such a limitation could of course arise from a competing entry in List No. 1.	None
Otherwise the entry conferred powers as large and plenary as those of any sovereign legislature.	None
The ambit of the entry, prior to the inauguration of the Constitution, was the subject of three leading decisions by the Federal Court, in one of which there was also an appeal to the Privy Council.	None
The first case was 1939 FCR 18 (AIR 1939 F C I) a reference under S.213 of the Constitution of 1935.	None
In that case the imposition of sales tax on retail sales of motor spirit and lubricants was, questioned on the ground that though described as tax on the sale of motor spirit etc.	None
the tax was, in effect, a duty of excise under entry 45 of List I and there being an overlap between the two entries that in List I must prevail.	None
Legislative practice in respect of Excise.	None
Duty was invoked but as salestax legislation did not exist in India before 1938 there was no legislative practice to consider on the meaning of the expression tax on sale of goods.	None
The Government of India claimed that the entry 48 List II must be limited to a direct tax like a turnover tax which is not identifiable in the price.	None
Taxes on retail sales, it was argued, being indirect and identifiable in the price, were more of the nature of an excise duty and the pith and substance of the Act being this, be impugned Act was bad.22.	None
The main argument on behalf of the Provinces, which was accepted, was that the Constitution Act must not be construed in any narrow and pedantic sense.	None
Gwyer C. J. expressed himself forcefully on this point in the following words I conceive that a broad and liberal spirit should inspire those whose duty it is to interpret it23.	None
The essence of the argument on the part of the Provinces was that if only a turnover tax (which was a species of salestax) was meant why was a wider expression used in the entry ?	None
It was, therefore, contended that the entry should not be truncated and the plain words of the entry should be given their normal and ordinary meaning.	None
The contention of the provinces prevailed.	None
Though the learned judges pointed out that the words were taxes on the sale of goods and not sales tax simpliciter, thereby excluding taxes on services which in some systems are regarded also as salestax, the words were wide enough to include more than a mere turnover tax.	None
It was held that the power included a power to levy a tax or duty on the retail sale of goods and this did not impinge upon the power of the Legislative Assembly to make laws with respect to duties of excise.24.	None
In the next case, the Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons, 1942 FCR 90 (AIR 1942 FC 33) Government of India reversed its stand and contended that the power of the Provincial Legislatures did not extend to levying salestax on first sales but only after the goods were released by the producer or manufacturer.	None
The argument of the Government of India was not accepted and it was declared that the power of a Provincial Legislature to levy a tax on the sale of goods extended to sales of every kind and at all stages between a producer or manufacturer and a consumer.	None
The Central Government had filed a suit and the third case before the Federal Court was an appeal from that decision.	None
The Federal Court followed its own decision in Boddu Paidannas case, 1942 FCR 90 (AIR 1942 FC 33).	None
The Central Government appealed to the Judicial Committee and the judgment is to be found in GovernorGeneral in Council v. Province of Madras, 1945 FCR 179 (AIR 19945 PC 98).	None
The Judicial Committee examined in detail the provisions of the Madras General Sales Tax Act l939 to emphasize its essential character and observed thatIts real nature, its pith and substance, is that it imposes a tax on the sale of goods.	None
No other succinct description could be given of it except that it is a tax on the sale of goods.	None
It is, in fact, a tax which according to the ordinary canons of interpretation appear to fall precisly within entry No. 48 of the Provincial Legislative Lit.25.	None
In repelling the contention that first sales were not included in the entry their Lordships observed that it did violence to the plain language and implied the addition of the words other than first sale of goods manufactured or produced in India.	None
The Judicial Committee expressed itself in complete agreement with the two decisions of the Federal Court.26.	None
The ambit of the entry was thus settled to be that it included all sales of goods though not services from the first sale by the producer or manufacturer to the last sale to the consumer and that the tax could be collected on wholesales or retail sales as well as on the turnover.	None
It was however pointed out that the expressions salestax and faces on the sale of goods were not the same, the first including sales other than those of goods.	None
No definition of what is sale was attempted in these cases either with or without reference to the Sale of Goods Act.27.	None
Thus it was firmly established that the entry taxes on the sale of goods authorised the making of laws for the imposition of tax on all transactions of sale of goods from the manufacturer or producer to consumer.	None
It also could be imposed on the turnover which meant the sum total of prices for which taxable goods were sold in a particular period.	None
The definition of goods was enlarged to.	None
include commodities, materials and articles.	None
The word commodities, indicated articles of trade, The word materials indicated matter from which things are made, (the use of the word being the same as in the expression raw materials and by articles was meant any particular thing.	None
In this way it was clearly indicated that articles sold by way of a trade or otherwise were equally within the expression goods and also finished articles and raw materials from which finished articles are made.28.	None
The entry was framed in 1935 in the form with which we are concerned.	None
Previously it read in the White Paper taxes on sale of commodifies and turnover.	None
The reframed entry was wider in one respect (it included materials and articles in the sense explained) and apparently narrower in another (by omitting turnover) than the original entry.	None
There was no occasion to expound the meaning of goods in the two Federal Court decisions but the decisions laid down that turnover was included even though not expressly mentioned.29.	None
I have already said above that prior to 1938 a tax on the sale of goods was not imposed in India.	None
It is claimed that in ancient times salestax was levied in India but we do not have to delve into these matters.	None
The tax, as it is known today, is of comparatively modern growth though economists have traced it to Ptolemies, Greeks and Romans.	None
Findlay Shirras and other writers give us the history of the tax.	None
It was imposed in recognisable form in Spain in 1342 and was known as the sakabala.	None
This notorious tax continued for five hundred years.	None
In France it was also imposed in the fourteenth century but was soon given up.	None
We are not concerned with these ancient progenitors of the modern tax.	None
They could not have influenced the selection of the tax or its form.	None
The modern tax was the result of the First World War.	Reasoning
Germany imposed in 1916 a turnover tax called die Umasatzsteur and that is the form in which the tax is collected there.	None
France followed a year later	None
but with a transaction tax which was known as L import sur le chiffre daffaires.	None
Soon other countries followed as it was almost as productive as Customs and income tax.	None
By the time the Government of India Act 1935 was passed, no less than thirty countries had imposed this tax in different forms.	None
India, however, was not one of them.30.	None
The period in India following the First World War opened with the Government of India Act with its Devolution Rules and the allocation of taxes by the Scheduledtax Rules, to the Provinces framed in 1920.	None
The latter Rules contained only octroi and taxes on markets and trades, professions and callings which resembled very distantly, the modern salestax.	None
Indeed, salestax was first visualized in the Report of the Taxation Enquiry Committee (1924 25) but only as a modification of the octroi through the intermediate steps of taxing markets and slaughterhouses.	None
It was hoped that price competition would stop inclusion of the tax in the price.	None
It would have been a vain attempt to convert an indirect tax into a direct one The Committee visualiszed it as a composition tax from traders but it was realized that the tax would soon get converted into a tax on sales of goods, or, of services like those of a doctor or goldsmith and that it would be difficult to separate services from goods in case where the two were combined.	None
It was also recognised that turnover imposed on persons in respect of raw materials and finished goods tended to be cumulative, but taxes imposed at one point did not have that vicious tendency.	None
The difficulty of enterport trade in octroi, where goods bore the tax whether or not consumed, sold or used was avoided because the tax under retail sales tax scheme was payable only when the goods were actually sold and bang ad valorem bore lightly on cheap goods.	None
The suggestions were (1) A turnover tax on retail merchants(2) registration of such dealers(3) collection of taxes quarterly,(4) licensing of and charging of fees from petty traders and hawkers whose turnovers were uncertain as no accounts were maintained by them.31.	None
Salestax particularly that imposed on goods assumed by 1935 different forms in different countries.	None
Its incidence was sometimes the turnover, sometimes wholesale and sometimes the retail sale.	None
In Canada and Australia it was producers or manufacturers tax almost of the nature of excise.	None
In France the excise and salestax were interchangeable, the former being a replacement tax on the turnover of the manufacturer.	None
In Germany the tax included both goods and services, in France services were excluded unless there was a commercial element.	None
In England, it took the form of a purchase tax.	None
France also devised a simpler method by imposing a forfeit a lump sum which represented, so to speak, a quit tax.	None
In Belgium it was collected by stamps from both the seller and the buyer according to their respective in voices.	None
In America the position was unique.	None
It can be stated from a passage from Beuhlers Public Finance (3rd Edn.)	None
page 410A salestax is an excise in so far as it is imposed upon domestic transactions of commodities, and it may also have some of the aspects of customs duties because national sales taxes commonly fall upon importing and sometimes upon exporting the popular name for American excises is sales taxes.	None
Not all excises are imposed upon sales or the privilege of selling however, for they may be placed upon the purchase or use of commodities, including services.32.	None
The varieties this elastic tax took in that country is illustrated from the following passage from the same author Here, again, there is no standard usage, for selected sales taxes are often called sales taxes, limited sales taxes, selective sales taxes, and special sales taxes, while general sales taxes may be called sales taxes, turnover taxes, manufacturers salestaxes, retails sales taxes and gross receipts or gross incometaxes.33.	None
It was in the background of these laws of foreign countries and the recommendations of the Taxation Inquiry Committee that the entry in the Government of India Act 1935 was framed.	None
Taxes on the sale of goods being a kind of commodity taxes had to be demarcated from other commodity taxes like excise, octroi, terminal tax, market dues etc.	None
The difficulty was solved by viewing the goods as the subject of taxation in different stages.	None
These stages were production, movement, sale and consumption.	None
Taxes on production of goods which were excise proper were given to the center with certain exceptions (Entry 48 List I and Entry 40 of List II), taxes on sale of goods were given to the Provinces (Entry 48 List of II), while taxes on movement of goods were divided  those carried by railway and air being allotted to the center as terminal taxes (Entry 58 List 1) and those carried by inland Waterways being allotted to the Provinces (Entry 52 List II).	None
Taxes on the entry of goods in a local area for consumption, use or sale (octrois) were allotted to the Provinces (Entry 49 List II).	None
This was the demarcation of commodity taxes in addition to local taxes for local purposes.34.	None
The two cases of the Federal Court too which detailed reference has been made above outlined the scope of competing entries relating to duties of excise and taxes on the sale of goods.	None
It was pointed out that though there was an overlap the taxes were different.	None
In the recent case of Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan, Civil Appeal Nos. 42 to 44 of 1959, D  941962 (AIR 1962 SC 1406 ), I have given the history of the distribution of the heads of revenue on the eve of the Government of India Act 1935 and have there pointed out that the attempt was to give adequate resources to the Provinces to enable Provincial Governments to undertake nationbuilding activities.	None
It was there pointed out by me that experts at that time were in favour of allotting an elastic tax like salestax to the Provinces as the main source of revenue and abolish altogether the category of deficit that land revenue would have too be reduced and incometax could not be increased beyond a point.	None
The only tax that was new and fell imperceptibly upon consumers was the salestax and it was allotted to the Provinces.	None
It was expected to be a very productive tax, an expectation which has been amply fulfilled.	None
In 195455, this tax alone yielded about 60 crores and it has been even more productive since.35.	None
The inroads upon the tax were many but they were resisted in the preConstitution period by the Provinces both in Courts and in administration.	None
Indeed, appeals were made in cases before the Federal Court not to cut down unduly the ambit of the natural words and Jayakar, J. mentioned them in his judgment with sympathy.	None
I feel that what he said will bear repetition here.	None
A powerful appeal was made to us by the AdvocatesGeneral of the Provinces that, consistently with its terminology, we should so interpret entry No. 48 (List II) as to give it a content sufficiently extensive for the growing needs of the Provinces.	None
It was argued that provincial autonomy granted by the new scheme of government would be unmeaning and empty, unless it was fortified by adequate sources of revenue.	None
Whatever value such an appeal may have in a judicial decision, I personally appreciate it, and I feel no doubt that the interpretation that I am placing on entry no. 48 (List II) is sufficiently practical to leave an adequate source of revenue in the hands of the Provinces without making inroads on Central preserves.	None
I may add here that the several authors I have been able to consult on this point agree in their opinion that, since the War, a tax on the sale of goods has proved to be both productive and practicable in many countries, under circumstances not very different from those prevailing in the Provinces of India.	None
The yield naturally varies with the scone and rates of the tax, business conditions and administrative efficiency, but it is stated that the tax itself has become a major source of revenue in a number of countries, yielding mare than the incometax in a few instances and nearly as much as other sources of revenue in others.1939 FCR 18 at p. 119 (AIR 1939 FC 1 at p. 41)36.	None
The two cases of the Federal Court having established the area of operation of entry.	None
No. 48 List II in relation to the competing entry relating to excise, the Provinces attempted to extend the tax to cover all situations.	None
This was done by incorporating definitions of sale which in some respects were inconsistent with the definition in the Indian Sale of Goods Act.	None
The Taxation Enquiry Commission (195354) gave in its report an analysis of how these definitions ran and I find it convenient to quote from the report (Page 10, para 24 Vol.	None
III)In Madras, Mysore, TravancoreCochin and Hyderabad, sale means transfer of property in the course of trade or business.	None
By implication, all other sales are excluded.	None
Casual sales by individuals, sales of food by hostels attached to educational institutions, sales of old furniture for example, by firms not dealing in furniture and so on are, therefore, not liable for the tax in these States.	None
The States of Bengal and Delhi define sate as transfer of property in goods for money consideration which accordingly excludes transfers for other consideration like exchange or barter.	None
According to the Acts of certain states, the sale is deemed to have taken place in the territory of the State, if at the time when the contract of sale or purchase was made, the goods were actually in those States.	None
In certain States, the transfer of property in goods supplied in the execution of contract is also included in the definition of sale.37.	None
The definitions led to a variety of decisions on the meaning of the word sale which were likely to bewilder the common man.	None
The Taxation Enquiry Commission summed up the situation in the following	None
wordsThe layman who asks what is a sale?	None
would not have to go without an answer he would find plenty of replies in the reported judgments of courts of law, and he would not be a layman if, piecing them together, he was able to say when where and how a sale becomes a sale which a sales tax may tax.38.	None
From the earliest times the extension of the word sale was in three recognisable directions.	None
Firstly, the definition by a fiction took in transactions of sale in which the goods were produced in the provinces or were in the Province at the time the contract of sate took place, no matter where the contract could, in law, be said to have taken place.	None
In other words, by a fiction incorporated in the definition of sale, the situs of sale could be established in the Province.	None
Secondly, forward transaction in which the passing of property was postponed to a future date, if at all it took place, property was postponed to a future date, if at all it took place, were included in the definition of sale.	None
Thirdly, materials in a works contract, where the bargain was for a finished thing, were treated as the subject matter of sale.39.	None
Laws in which transactions of sale were sought to be taxed on the ground that goods were in the Province or some part of the component elements of a contract of sale took place in the Province were generally upheld by the High Courts.	None
In these cases the doctrine of nexus was extended to salestax legislation following the analogy of the decision of the Privy Council in Wallace Brothers and Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay, 1948 FCR 1 (AIR 1948 PC 118 ).	None
These cases recognised the sovereignty of Provincial Legislatures which were erected by the British Parliament in its own image and which within the jurisdiction conferred by a legislative entry enjoyed powers as large and ample as those of the British Parliament.	None
It was generally held that in the plenitude of that power it was open to the Provincial Legislatures to tax transactions of sale in which there was a sufficient nexus between the Province and the taxable event namely the sale, and that the Provincial law could by a fiction bring the whole transaction into the Province for purposes of tax.40.	None
The Supreme Court also took substantially the same view in the State of Bombay v. United Motors Ltd., 1953	None
SCR 1069 (AIR 1953 SC 252 ), Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar (1955) 2	None
SCR 603 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 661 ), 1958 SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 ) and Commissioner of Salestax v Husenali Adamji and Co., (1959) Supp (2) SCR 702 (AIR 1959 SC 887 ).41.	None
The meaning of the word sale in the Entry was laid down in several cases but I shall refer to only one of them.	None
In Poppatlal Shah v. State of Madras, AIR 1953 Mad 91 Venkatarama Ayyar, J. (Rajamannar, C. J. concurring observed as followsThe word sale has both a legal and a popular sense.	None
In the legal sense it imports passing of property in the goods.	None
In its popular sense it signifies the transaction which results in the passing of property.	None
To a lawyer the legal sense would appear to be the correct one to be given to the word in the Sales Tax Act.	None
That is the conception which is familiarised in the provisions of Sales of Goods Act.	None
If one leaves out of account salestax legislation which is of comparatively recent origin, questions relating to sale of goods usually come up before the Courts only in connection with disputes between the sellers and purchasers.	None
If the goods perish, on whom is the loss to fall ?	None
If the purchaser becomes insolvent before payment of price can be goods the claimed by the trustee in bankruptcy ?	None
For deciding these and similar questions it is necessary to determine at what point of time the property in goods passed to the purchaser.	None
Sometimes when the point for determination is as to jurisdiction of Courts to entertain suits based on contract, it may be material to consider where property in the goods passed, that being part of the cause of action.	None
These being the questions which are accustomed to be debated in connection with sale of goods, it is natural that a lawyer should, as a matter of first impression approach the question of sale under the Sales Tax Act with the same concept of a sale.	None
But if the matter is further considered it will be seen that considerations which arise under the Sales Tax Act are altogether different from those which arise under the Sale of Goods Act.	None
The object of the Sales Tax Act is to impose a tax on all sales and it is a tax imposed on the occasion of sale So far as The Government is concerned, it would be immaterial at which point of time property in the goods actually passed from the seller to the buyer.	None
Of course, there must be a completed sale before tax can be levied and there would be a completed sale when property passes.	None
That is the scope of the definition of sale in Section 2 (h).	None
But when once there is a completed sale, the question when property passed in the goods would be a matter of no concern or consequence for purposes of the Sales Tax Act.	None
The Government is interested only in collecting tax due in respect of the sale and the only fact about which it has to satisfy itself is whether the sale took place within the Province of Madras.	None
In this context the popular meaning of the word is the more natural and there is good reason for adopting it Our conclusion accordingly is that the word sale in the Madras General Sales Tax Act must be understood in a popular sense and sales tax can be levied under the Act if the transaction substantially takes place within this Province, notwithstanding that the property in the goods does not pass within the State.42.	None
Against the decision of the High Court of Madras an appeal was filed in this Court and the judgment of this Court is reported in Poppatlal Shah v. State of Madras, 1953 SCR 677 (AIR 1953 SC 274 ).	None
The appeal was allowed.	None
On the question of territorial nexus this Court agreed with the Madras High Court but on the question of the meaning of the word sale it expressed itself differently.	None
In an earlier case State of Travancore Cochin v. Bombay Co. Ltd., 1952 SCR 1112 (AIR 1952 SC 366 ) this Court had reserved the question whether the word sale had the same meaning as in the law relating to sale of goods or a wider meaning.	None
In Poppatlal Shahs case, 1953 SCR 677 (AIR 1953 SC 274 ) the Supreme Court, referred to the decision of the Madras High Court that the word was used in a popular sense and without any expression of disapproval held that there was no indication of the popular meaning of sale in the definition in the Madras General Sales Tax Act where unmistakably stress was laid on the element of transfer of property in a sale and no other.	None
The bench held that the presence of goods within the Province at the time of the contract would have made the sale, if subsequently completed, a sale within the province by reason of the Explanation added by Act XXV of 1947 but as the Explanation was not in operation during the relevant period the assessment of sales tax was held to be illegal and unwarranted by the law as it then stood.43.	None
It would appear from this that this Court took the view that the word sale in the entry Taxes on the sale of goods was used in a. sense wider than that commonly accepted in the law relating to sale of goods, and the judgment of Venkatarama Ayyar J. in the Madras High Court on this part was not questioned.	None
Then came a decision of the Allahabad High Court from which an appeal was brought to this Court.	None
The Judgment of this Court is reported in the Sales Tax officer, Pilibhit v. Messrs Budh Prakash Jai Prakash, (1955) 1	None
SCR 243 (AIR 1954 SC 459 ).	None
The definition of the word sale in the U. P. Sales Tax Act (XV of 1948) included forward contracts, and this part of the definition was declared ultra vires entry 48 in List II of the Government of India Act 1935 and Explanation III to Section 2 (h) of that Act which provided that forward contract shall be deemed to have been completed on the date originally agreed upon for delivery and also Section 3B taxing turnover of dealers in respect of transactions of forward contracts were also declared ultra vires.	None
Venkatarama Ayyar J. speaking for this Court held that under the statute law of England and also of India there was a well recognised distinction between sales and agreements to sell though they were grouped under the generic name of contracts of sale.	None
The distinction, it was pointed out, lay in the transfer of property which, if simultaneous with agreement, made for a sale, but if in the future, operated only for an agreement to sell.	None
In the latter case property could only pass as required by Section 23 of the Sale of Goods Act.	None
Relying on the observation of Benjamin on Sale thatIn order to constitute a sale there must be(1) An agreement to sell, by which the property does not pass and(2) an actual sale, by which the property passes.the learned judge observed that though the definition of a contract of sale included a mere agreement to sell as well as an actual sale, there was a distinction between the two which led to different remedies and entry no.	None
48 when it spoke of safe meant a completed sale involving transfer of title, The question whether the legislature in the exercise of its sovereign powers for purposes of taxing the event of sale could treat a sale as complete when there was a final agreement for purchase and sale even though price was not paid was apparently not mooted before this Court.	None
Emphasis was laid on the definition of turnover as the aggregate of the proceeds of sale by a dealer, and it was pointed out that there could be no aggregate of prices unless the stage had been reached when the seller could recover the price under the contract, it being wellsettled in the law under the sale of goods that an action for price is maintainable only when there is a sale involving transfer of the property in the goods to the purchaser and that where there is only an agreement to sell, then the remedy of the seller is to sue for damages for breach of contract and not for the price of the goods.	None
The exceptional circumstance when under an agreement between the parties the price is payable on a day certain irrespective of delivery was considered not material for the purpose of the discussion.44.	None
In these case by the application of the legislative practice relating to sale of goods the meaning of the expression taxes on sale of goods was determined and future contracts in which delivery and payment of price were deferred were held to be outside the purview of the Entry There can hardly be any doubt that the entry is concerned with a completed sale because it is only a sale which can be taxed and not anything which is short of a sale and if a transaction which is sought to be taxed is merely in the region of an agreement de futuro there is no taxable event.	None
The opinion that if there be a completed sale then the law dealing with taxation would be indifferent whether price was paid or not expressed by Venkatarama Ayyar J. in Poppatlal Shahs case, AIR 1953 Mad 91 of the Madras High Court was not accepted.45.	None
Then came the third batch of cases.	None
This batch was concerned with the taxing of materials which were supplied and used as part of building or repair operations, like bricks, timber and fittings in, buildings girders, beams rails etc. in bridges, spare parts in repair of motor vehicles etc.	None
Two distinct views were held by the High Courts.	None
The Madras High Court in Gannon, Dunkerly and Co. v. State of Madras, (1954) 5 STC 216 (AIR 1954 Mad 1130 ) held that such transactions did not involve a sale of goods and there could be no tax.	None
A contrary view was expressed in Pandit Banarsidas v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1955) 6 STC 93 (Nag), where it was held that such contracts involved both labour as well as materials and inasmuch as materials were goods and property in them passed it was within the competence of the Provincial legislatures to separate the sale of goods from the composite and entire transactions and to tax them.	None
It was pointed out the legislative practice in relation to the Sale of Goods Act was not conclusive, and though it could not be doubted that a limited legislature could not create a power for itself which did not flow from an entry, the entry itself must be given the widest amplitude possible and its scope should not be cut down by anything not found in the Constitution Act 1935.	None
It was, therefore, concluded The text being explicit, the text is conclusive alike in what it directs and what it prohibits.	None
The necessary conditions for the impost, however.	None
were that there should be a sale of goods.	None
The selection of the taxable event and the severance of transactions of sale from other transactions in which they might be embedded was a necessary part of the power.	None
The legislature could not say that a contract of service amounted to sale of a services (goods), but it could tax a genuine transaction of sale of goods what ever form it tookIf a building contract was not split up into its component parts, that is to say, material and labour, in legislative practice relating to the ordinary regulation of sale of goods, there is no warrant for holding that it could not be so split up even for purposes of taxation.46.	None
Some High Courts accepted the decision in Ganon Dunkerleys case, (1954) 5 STC 216 (AIR 1954 Mad 1130 ) and some other the decision in Pandit Banarsidass case (1955) 6 STC 93 (Nag).	None
In all these cases there were appeals to this Court.	None
All these appeals were heard together.	None
The leading judgment was delivered in Gannon Dunkerleys case (1954) 5 STC 216 (AIR 1954 Mad 1130 ).	None
The Madras view was accented and the view expressed in Pandit Banarsidass case (1955) 6 STC 93 (Nag) was not accepted.	None
It is contended for the appellants that this view of the Supreme Court controls the present case and it is, therefore, necessary to follow the reasoning in some detail.	None
Before I do so I shall refer to a case of the House of Lords which influenced in no small measure the decision of this Court.	None
That case is 1955 AC 696.47.	None
Under Section 29 of the Transport Act 1947 (10 and 11 Geo. 6 C. 49) the companys railway wagons were vested on January 1, 1948, in the British Transport Commission.	None
These wagons were already under requisition to the Ministry of Transport under the powers contained in Regulation 53 of the Defence (General) Regulations, 1939.	None
Later the company received compensation.	None
This amount was higher than the written down value.	None
A balancing charge of ?	None
29,021 was made under S. 17 of the Incometax Act, 1945 (8 and 9 Geo. 6 C. 32) in an assessment under clause I Schedule D to the Incometax Act, 1918.	None
The company appealed against the balancing charge and succeeded.	None
Section 17(1) of the Incometax Act 1945 (Which in its purport resembled Section 10(2) (vii) of the Indian Income tax Act (1922) ordained that a balancing charge or allowance should be made if certain events occurred, one such event being (a) the machinery or plant is sold, whether still in or not.	None
The question was whether there was such a sale justifying a balancing charge.	None
It was contended for the Revenue that the word sale had a wider meaning than a contract and a conveyance of property and that in its legal meaning it did novolve a contract at all but just the transfer of property in or ownership of something from A to B for a money price, whether voluntary or affected by operation of law or compulsory.	None
Passages were cited from Benjamin on Sale (2nd Edn.	None
p. 1), Halsburys Laws of England (2nd Edn.	None
Vol. xxi.p.5), Blackstones Commentaries (19th Edn.	None
(1836)	None
Vol. II p. 446), and Chalmers Sale of goods (11th Edn.	None
p. 161)	Reasoning
to show that a bargain only shows a mutual assent but it is the transfer of property which is the actual sale.	None
Analogy of Lands Clauses Consolidation Act 1845, Stamp Act and other Acts was invoked and later Finance Acts were also called in aid where such compulsory transactions were described as sale or purchase.	None
The House of Lords by a majority of 4 to 1 overruled these contentions.	None
It was held that the vesting of the wagons in the Transport Commission by operation of S. 29 of the Transport Act and the payment of compensation in the shape of transport stock did not constitute a sale and the analogy of compulsory acquisition of land did not apply, since the procedure there was entirely different.	None
The word sale in S. 17 of the Incometax Act 1945, it was held, imported a consensual relation and the meaning of the section being plain, it was not possible to co to later Acts to construe the section.	None
I shall quote a few passages from the speeches to show how this conclusion was reached so as to be able to show how the same reasoning was used in connection with the building contracts.48.	None
Viscount Simonds pointed out that what was to be construed were the two words is sold in S. 17 (1) (a) of the Incometax Act 1945, that there was nothing in the Act to give a special colour or meaning to the words and that analogous transaction could not help to decide what should be the meaning.	None
Agreeing with Singleton L.J. where he said What would anyone, accustomed to the use of the word sale or sold answer?	None
It seems to me that everyone must say Hudsons did not sell, Viscount Simonds went on to sayWhen Benjamin said in the passage quoted by Singleton and Birkett L. JJ.	None
from his wellknown book on sale, 2nd ed.	None
p. 1, that by the common law a sale of personal property was usually termed a bargain and sale of goods he was by the use of the word bargain perhaps unconsciously emphasizing that the consensual relation which the word bargain imports is a necessary element in the concept.	None
In this there is nothing new, the same principle is exhibited in Roman Law, for the opening words of Title 23 of the third book of the Institutes of Justine De Imptione et venditione are emptio et venditio contrahitur simulatque de pretio convenerit sometimes the contract for sale is itself the sale, as so often in the sale of goods sometimes, and particularly in the sale of land, it is regarded as a part of the sale as, for example, when it is said by a modern writer that the first step in the sale of land is the contract for sale (see Cheshire, Modern Real Property 7th Ed.	None
p. 631).	None
But it is immaterial whether the contract is regarded as the sale itself, or as a part of it, or a step in, the sale or as a prelude to the sale there is for the present purpose no substance in any such distinction.	None
The core of it is that the consensual relation is connoted by the simple word sale.	None
Lord Reid also emphasised the consensual relation in sale as its vital element and observed Sale is, in my opinion, a women juries, it is the name of a particular consensual contract.	None
The law with regard to sale of chattels or corporeal movable is now embodied in the Sale of Goods Act 1893.	None
By S. 1 (1) A contract of sale of goods is a contract whereby the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for money consideration, called the price, and by S. 1(3) Where under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer the contract is called a sale but where the transfer of the property in the goods is to take place at the future time or subject to some condition thereafter to be fulfilled the contract is called an agreement to sell.	None
As a contract of sale, as distinct from an agreement to sell and unlike other contracts.	None
Operates by itself and without delivery to transfer the property in the thing sold, the word sale connotes both a contract and a conveyance or transfer of property.	None
Lord Reid agreed that sale is a word which has become capable in an appropriate context of having a meaning wider than its ordinary and correct meaning.	None
But it is only permissible to give to a word some meaning other than its ordinary meaning if the context so requires.	None
Lord Tucker in agreeing observedI feel that the answers must be that the word is unambiguous and denotes a transfer of property in the chattel in question by one person to another for a price in money as the result of a contract express or implied.	None
This is in substance the definition of sale given in the second edition of Benjamin on sale, but for present purposes it is sufficient to emphasize that natural assent is an essential element in the transaction.	None
It is no doubt true that the contract or agreement to sell may precede the formal instrument or act of delivery under which the property passes, but to describe a transfer of property in a chattel which takes place without the consent of transferor and transfer as sale would seem to me a misuse of language.	None
By express enactment or by necessary implication from the context any word may be given a meaning different from or wider than that which it ordinarily bears, and this may apply to the word sale where it appears in a context relating to the process of compulsory acquisition of land I do not find it necessary to quote from the minority view of Lord Morton of Henryton but he did point out that the word sale for 100 years was being used in connection with transactions by which the property of A had been transferred to B, on payment of compensation to the owner but without the consent of the owner and said of the question posed by Singleton L. J. that if it were put to ten persons unconnected with the company, five of them might say No, the wagons were taken over under the Transport Act and the other five might say, Yes, adding, possibly, but it was a compulsory sale or because they had to do it.49.	None
I have paused long over this case but only because the line of reasoning of this case has been closely followed in Gannon Dunkerleys case 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ).	Reasoning
The decision of the Court of Appeal, later approved by the House of Lords, had also influenced in a large measure the decision of the Madras High Court earlier in the same case.50.	Reasoning
In Gannon Dunkerleys case, 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) Venkatarama Aiyar J. posed the question thusThe sole question for determination in this appeal is whether the provisions of the Madras General Sales Tax Act are ultra vires, in so far as they seek to impose a tax on the supply of materials in execution of works contract, treating it as a sale of goods by the contractor and the answer to it must depend on the meaning to be given to the words sale of goods in Entry 48 in List II of Sch.	Reasoning
VII of the Government of India Act, 1935.His Lordship accepted that building materials were goods in view of the definition and narrowed the inquiry to whether there was a sale of those materials within the meaning of that word in Entry 48.	Reasoning
The learned judge then pointed out that in interpreting a Constitution a liberal spirit should inspire courts and the widest amplitude must be given to the legislative entries and they should not be cut down by resort to legislative practice and that subjects of taxation in particular should be taken in rerum nature irrespective of previous laws on the subject.	Reasoning
The learned judge next asked the question in what sense the words sale of goods were used, whether popular or legal, and what its connotation is either in the one sense or the others.	Reasoning
After noticing meanings of sale as given by diverse authors, it was laid down that it meant transfer of property in thing from one person to another for a money price.	Reasoning
It was next pointed out that in the popular sense a sale is said to take place when the bargain is settled between the parties, though property in the goods may not pass at that stage and the observations of Sankey J. (later Viscount Sankey L. C.) in Nevile Reid and Co. Ltd. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1928) 12 Tax Cases 545 that the word sale in the British Finance Act, 1918, should not be construed in the light of the Sale of Goods Act 1893 but in a commercial and business sense, were rejected as orbiter and opposed to the decisions of this Court in Poppatlal Shahs case 1953	Reasoning
SCR 677 (AIR 1953 SCR 274 and Budh Prakash case (1955) 1 SCR 243 (AIR 1954 SC 459 ) where executory agreements were not held to be sales within the Entry.	Reasoning
It was observed  We must accordingly hold that the expression sale of goods in Entry 48 cannot be construed in its popular sense and that it must be interpreted in its legal sense.	Reasoning
What its connotation in that sense is must now be ascertained.	Reasoning
For a correct determination it is necessary to digress somewhat into the evolution of the law relating to sale of goods.51.	Reasoning
The learned judge next referred to Roman Law of emptio vendiio and pointed out that the consideration of sale could not be anything but only money or something valuable and that it was so recorded in the Institutes of Justinian Title XXIII and that Emptio Venditio was a consensual contract.	None
The learned judge next referred to Benjamin on Sale and observed that according to that learned author to constitute a valid sale there must be a concurrence of the following elements viz (1) Parties competent to contract (2) mutual assent (3) a thing, the absolute or general property in which is transferred from the seller to the buyer and (4) a price in money paid or promised.	None
(Vice 8th edn.	None
p. 2)In 1893 the Sale of Goods Act, 56 and 57 Vict.	None
C. 71 codified the law on the subject, and S. 1 of the Act which embodied the rules of the common law runs as follows1.(1)	None
A contract of sale of goods is a contract whereby the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a money consideration, called the price.	None
There may be a contract of sale between one part owner and another.(2)	None
A contract of sale may be absolute or conditional.(3) Where under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer the contract is called a sale but where the transfer of the property in the goods is to take place at a future time or subject to some condition thereafter to be fulfilled the contract is called an agreement to sell.(4)	None
An agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time elapses or the conditions are fulfilled subject to which the property in the goods is to be transferred.	None
It was then pointed out that in Section 77 of the Indian Contract Act 1872 sale was defined as the exchange of property for a price involving the transfer of ownership of the thing sold from seller to buyer.	None
It was then held that in view of the scheme of the Indian Contract Act Ss. 175 a bargain was an essential element and that even after the Indian Sale of Goods Act the position had not changed.	None
It was next pointed out thatThus, if merely, title to the goods passed but not as a result of any contract between the parties, express or implied, there is no sale.	None
So also if the consideration for the transfer was not money but other valuable consideration, it may then be exchange or barter but not sale.	None
And if under the contract of sale, title to the goods has not passed, then there is an agreement to sell and not a completed sale.	None
The State in the case urged four points to resist the conclusion that the word sale of goods in Entry 48 must be interpreted in the sense which they bear in the Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	None
These contentions were examined seriatim and rejected and it was concluded thus To sum up, the expression sale of goods in Entry 48 is a nomen juries, its essential ingredients being an agreement to sell movable for a price and property passing therein pursuant to that agreement.	None
In a building contract which is, as in the present case one entire and indivisible and that is its norm, there is no sale of goods, and it is not within the competence of the Provincial Legislature under Entry 48 to impose a tax on the supply of the materials used in such a contract treating it as a sale.	None
In so far as building contracts were concerned two reasons why there could not be a sale of goods were mentioned.	None
The first was that there was no agreement express or implied to sell goods.	None
It was observed We are concerned here with a building contract, and in the case of such a contract, the theory that it can be broken up into its component parts and as regards one of them it can be said that there is a sale must fail both on the grounds that there is no agreement to sell materials as such, and that property in them does not pass as movables.52.	None
The second reason was that the property in the building materials does not pass in the materials regarded as goods but as part of immovable property.	None
It was observedWhen the work to be executed is, as in the present case, a house, the construction embedded on the land becomes an accretion to it one the principle quicquid plantatur solo, solo credit and it vests in the diner party not as a result of the contract but as the owner of the land.	None
I shall refer to two other cases which were decided with Gannon Dunkerleys case, 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ).	None
In P. Banarsi Das v. State of Madhya Pradesh, 1959 SCR 427 (AIR 1958 SC 909 )	None
it was observed at p. 437 (of SCR) (at pp. 913914 of AIR)It should be made clear however, in accordance with what we have already stated, that the prohibition against imposition of tax is only in respect of contracts which are single and indivisible and not of contracts which are a combination of distinct contracts for sale of materials and for work, and that nothing that we have said in this judgment shall bar the sales tax authorities from deciding whether a particular contract falls within one category or the other and imposing a tax on the agreement of sale of materials, where the contract belongs to the latter category.53.	None
In Mithanlal v. State of Delhi, (1959)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 445 (AIR 1958 SC 682 ) from a composite transaction involving work and materials, the materials were held liable to sales tax under a law made by parliament for a Part C State.	None
This was held to fall within the residuary powers of Parliament without any specific reference to any particular entry or entries in legislative Lists.	None
I shall now proceed to discuss the facts of the present case in relation to the decisions on Entry 48 of List II, seventh schedule of the Government of India Act, 1935.54.	None
Before considering the facts of this case in the light of the Sugar and Sugar Products Control Order 1946, I shall summaries what I have said so far.	Reasoning
Sales tax is a tax which may be laid on goods or services.	Reasoning
It assumes numerous shapes and forms.	Reasoning
It is a modern tax being the product of the First World War.	Reasoning
The concept of sale is of course much older and even the English Sale of Goods Act, 1893 on which our own statute is based, was prior to the first imposition of tax in modern times.	Reasoning
In India, the tax was first levied in 1937 under laws made under entry No. 48 which read  Taxes on the sale of goods.	Reasoning
It was introduced as the main source of revenue to the Provinces under a scheme of Provincial Autonomy.	Reasoning
Being a commodity tax it came into competition with other commodity taxes like excise but it was held that the entry comprised, wholesale, retail and turnover taxes from the stage of manufacture or production to consumption.	Reasoning
Later textual interpretation based on statutes relating to sale of goods and books on the subject of sale, pointed out intrinsic limitations.	Reasoning
one such limitation was that the terms sale was used in the limited sense it bears in that part of the law of contract which is now incorporated in the Sale of Goods Act.	Reasoning
As a result of this fundamental consideration forward contracts were held to be outside the scope of the Entry.	Reasoning
The sale, it was held, had to be a completed sale with passing of property before the tax could become payable.	Reasoning
A further limitation was pointed out in certain cases relating to building contracts in which it was held that though property in material passed, it did so without an agreement, express or implied, in that behalf, and only when the materials ceased to be goods and became immovable property.	Reasoning
It was held that the supremacy of the Provincial Legislatures did not extend to levying a tax on sales in these circumstances by modifying the definition of sale.	Reasoning
It was however held that if the parties agreed to divide a works contract into labour plus materials, the tax might be leviable.	Reasoning
It was also held that a tax on building materials was leviable by the legislature having power to levy a tax not expressly mentioned.	Reasoning
It was, however held that if the taxing Province had the goods at the time of the contract or there was other substantial connection with the contract by reason of some element having taken place there, the Legislature could validly make a law which treated the whole transaction as having taken place in the Province.55.	Reasoning
The argument in this case is that the tax can only be placed upon a transaction of sale which is the result of mutual assent between the buyer and seller and observations in Gannon Dunkerleys case, 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) where stress is laid upon the consensual aspect of sale are relied upon.	Reasoning
It is true that consent makes a contract of sale because sale is one of the four consensual contracts recognised from early times.	Reasoning
Consensu fiunt obligations in emptionibus venditionibus and Ideo autem istis modis consensu dicimus obligationes contrahi.	Reasoning
But consent may be express or implied and it cannot be said that unless the offer and acceptance are there in an elementary form there can be no taxable sale.	Reasoning
The observations in Gannon Dunkerleys case 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) were made in connection with materials utilised in the construction of buildings, roads, bridges etc.	Reasoning
It was there pointed out that there must at least be an agreement between the parties, express or implied, in respect of some goods as goods and the levy of the tax on building materials was struck down because there is no agreement to sell materials as much, and that property in them does not pass as movables.56.	Reasoning
The commodity with which we are concerned is sugar and it is delivered as sugar.	Reasoning
Thus one part of the reasoning from Gannon Dunkerleys case, 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) which rested on the passing of property in building materials as a part of realty does not apply.	Reasoning
It is also quite clear that the tax is being demanded after the sugar has changed hands or expressing it in legal phrase when property in it has passed.	Reasoning
It is argued that by reason of the Control Order here was no bargaining.	Reasoning
It is pointed out that the control of sugar operated to fix axfactory price, to determine who should be the supplier and who should receive the supply to fix the quantity, quality, and the time of delivery.	Reasoning
The question which we are deciding is not a question arising under the Sale of Goods Act but under a taxing entry in a Constitution.	Reasoning
The entry described a source of revenue to the Provinces.	Reasoning
The provincial Legislature made its laws taxing sales of commodities like sugar.	Reasoning
In a period of emergency the Federal Government imposed certain controls to regulate prices and supplies.	Reasoning
This control involved a permit system under which every Province had to indent its requirements to the Controller and every sugar mill had to inform the Controller of the existing and future stocks.	Reasoning
What the Controller did was to permit a particular mill to supply sugar of a stated quality and quantity to a named Province.	Reasoning
The mill then had to send the sugar on pain of prosecution and forfeiture and receive price according to the fixed rates.	Reasoning
Bargaining, it is said, was not possible but bargaining in the sense of offer and acceptance may be express or implied.	Reasoning
That after the permit was obtained the two parties agreed to sell and purchase sugar admits of no doubt.57.	Reasoning
I shall now analyse the whole transaction and see how the element of compulsion and control affects the existence of a sale.	Reasoning
First there is the fixation of price by the Controller.	Reasoning
Can it be said that there is no sale because the price is fixed by a third person and not by the buyer and seller ?	Reasoning
This is the old controversy between Labeo and Proculus that if price is fixed by a third person a contract of sale results or not.	Reasoning
Labeo with whom Cassius agreed, held that there was not, while Proculus was of the contrary opinionPertium autem certum esse debut.	Reasoning
Nam alioquin si ita inter nos convenerit.	Reasoning
ut guanti Titius rem aestemauerit, tanti sit empta, Labeo negavit ullam uim hoc negotium habere, cuius optnionem Cassius probat.	Reasoning
Ofilius et eam emptionem et uenditionem cuius opinionem Proculus secutus est.(Gaius III, 140).This was solved by Justinian holding that there wasSea nostra decisio ita hoc constituit.(Inst.	Reasoning
III, 23,1).58.	Reasoning
I do not think the modern law is any different.	Reasoning
So long as the parties trade under controls at fixed price and accept these as any other law of the realm because they must, the contract is at the fixed price both sides having or deemed to have agreed to such a price.	Reasoning
Consent under the law of contract need not be express, it can be implied.	Reasoning
There are cases in which a sale takes place by the operation of law rather than by mutual agreement express or implied.	Reasoning
See Benjamin on sale (8th Edn.	Reasoning
p. 91).	Reasoning
The present is just another example of an implied contract with an implied offer and implied acceptance by the parties.	Reasoning
What I have said about price applies also to quantity and quality.	Reasoning
The entry in No. 48 of List II Seventh Schedule dealt with sale of goods in all its forms.	Reasoning
We have seen above how numerous are these forms.	Reasoning
The entry was expressed in six simple words but was meant to include a power to tax sale of goods in all its forms.	Reasoning
It was not meant to operate only in those elementary cases where there is an offer by A and an acceptance by B with the price as consideration.	Reasoning
The concept of taxes on sale of goods is more complicated and the relations of people do not always take elementary forms.	Reasoning
When the Province after receiving the permit telegraphed instructions to dispatch sugar and the mill dispatched it, a contract emerged and consent must be implied on both sides though not expressed antecedently to the permit.	Reasoning
The indent of the Province was the offer to purchase sugar of such and such quality and quantity.	Reasoning
The mills by quoting their stocks offer to sell sugar.	Reasoning
The Controller brought the seller and purchaser together and gave them his permission with respect to a particular quantity and quality.	Reasoning
There was thus an implied contract of sale in the words of the Digest (XL 1,1, IX, 4)Si cui libera universorum negotiorum administratio a domino permissa fuerit, isque ec hic negotris rem vendiderit et tradiderit facit eam accipientis.59.	Reasoning
No doubt, there is compulsion in both selling and buying, perhaps more for the mills than for the Provinces.	Reasoning
But a compelled sale is nevertheless a sale as was held by the House of Lords in New Castle Breweries v. Inland Revenue Commissioner, (1927) 97 LJ KB 735.	Reasoning
The case in 1955 AC 696 was different because the section there interpreted required a sale and there was no sale express or implied when the wagons were taken away and compensation was paid in the shape of transport stock.	Reasoning
There a sale in its ordinary forms was obviously meant though it was recognised that sale in other context has other meanings.60.	Reasoning
It was argued that there must be mutuality.	Reasoning
The one party must be free to offer and must offer and the other side must be free to accept and must accept the offer before a sale can be said to arise.	Reasoning
But sales often take place without volition of a party.	Reasoning
A sick man is given medicines under the orders of his doctor and pays for them to the chemist with tax on the price.	Reasoning
He does not even know the names of the medicines.	Reasoning
Did he make an offer to the chemist from his sick bed ?	Reasoning
The affairs of the world are very complicated and sales are not always in their elementary forms.	Reasoning
Due to short supply or misdistribution of goods, controls have to be imposed.	Reasoning
There are permits price controls, rationing and shops which are licensed.	Reasoning
Can it be said that there is no sale because mutuality is lost on one account or another?	Reasoning
It was not said in the Tata Iron and Steel case, (1958)	Reasoning
SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 ) which was a case of control, that there was no sale.	Reasoning
The entry should be interpreted in a liberal spirit and not cut down by narrow technical considerations.	Reasoning
The entry in other words should not be shorn of all its consent to leave a mere husk of legislative power.	Reasoning
For the purposes of legislation such as on sales tax it is only necessary to see whether there is a sale express or implied.	Reasoning
Such a sale was not found in forward contracts and in respect of materials used in building contracts.	Reasoning
But the same cannot be said of all situations.	Reasoning
I for one would not curtail the entry any further.	Reasoning
The entry has its meaning and within its meaning there is a plenary power.	Reasoning
If a sale express or implied is found to exist then the tax must follow.	Reasoning
I am of the opinion that in these transactions there was a sale of sugar for a price and the tax was payable.	Reasoning
I would therefore, dismiss these appeals with costs.ORDER61.	Reasoning
Having regard to the judgment of the majority, all these appeals (Nos. 237 and 633 to 636 of 1961) would be allowed with costs  one hearing fee.62.	Decision
Appeals allowed.	Decision
