 B. Sinha, J Leave granted.	None
These appeals are directed against judgments and orders dated 2262005 and 1972006 passed by a Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court whereby and where under the judgment and order dated 722005 passed by a Learned Single Judge of the said High Court dismissing writ petition Nos. 16511685 of 2005 filed by the respondents herein claiming their absorption in the appellantCorporation.	Issue
Indisputably the privaterespondents herein were the workmen of Karnataka Pulpwood Limited.	None
(The company).	Facts
It was a Government Company It was running at a loss.	Facts
Karnataka Pulpwood Limited is joint sector company of Karnataka Forest Development Corporation Limited and Karnataka Harihar Poly fibres Limited the share capital was fixed in the ratio of 5149.4.	Facts
The Government stood as a guarantor in respect of the loans to be raised by the joint sector company from the commercial Banks.	Facts
A lease was granted in favour of the said company.	Facts
Karnataka Pulpwood Limited which is said to be a subsidiary of the appellant  corporation faced hostility from the local people for various reasons.	Facts
Public interest litigation was also filed before this Court against lease of forestlands, inter alia, on the ground that the same was violative of the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980.	Facts
This Court granted an order of stay regarding possession of the said leasehold property.	Facts
Protracted legal battle adversely affected the commercial viability of KPL Project.	Facts
Great difficulty was also experienced in the matter to of obtaining loans from banks for rising of maintenance of plantations.	Facts
A question, therefore, arose as to whether the said company should be would up.	Facts
By reason of a decision taken by the State of Karnataka on or about 24101991, it was, inter alia, directed To windup Karnataka Pulpwood Limited a Joint Sector Company.	None
The company is directed to take steps in this connection following, prescribed procedure under Companies Act, 1956.(b)	Facts
That all the Assets and Liabilities of the Karnataka Pulpwood Limited and any guarantee given by the Government to Karnataka Pulpwood Limited for raising loans are transferred to Karnataka Forest Development Corporation Limited.(c) Karnataka Forest Development Corporation is directed to settle obligations contained in promoters an agreement amicably through the dialogue between the promoters or in terms of arbitration clause incase of any dispute between the parties.(d) Karnataka Forest Development Corporation is directed to absorb the staff of Karnataka Pulpwood Limited in Karnataka Forest Development Corporation.(e) To return the enquiry to M s Harihar Polyfibres Limited.	Facts
The question regarding payment of interest on equity has to be negotiated and settled between the promoters viz., Karnataka Forest Development Corporation and M s Harihar Polyfibres An attempt was made to wind up the said industrial undertaking in terms of the provisions of the Companies Act.	Facts
On or about 16111993, the State accorded its approval for merger of the said company with the appellant herein in place of closure of the former.	None
It is however, not known as to whether formalities required to be complied with for merger of the said companies under the Companies Act were undertaken or not.	Facts
Apparently, such an exercise was undertaken.	Facts
Apropos was also mooted that a voluntary retirement scheme be floated in regard to the employees of the company and in its mating held on 2712003, it was resolved The matter was also discussed in the meeting of the High Power Committee on Public Sector Undertakings under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary on 2011993.	None
It was pointed out that in the HPC a decision has been taken to close the KPL revising the earlier decision of merger with KFDC.	None
Yet again, a Government order was issued on 212004 directing Close down KPL.2.	None
Extend financial help to KPL in order to extend VRS to all its employees.	Facts
Those employees who do not opt for VRS should be terminated as per Industrial Disputes Act.3.	Facts
KPL should obtain necessary permission from the Governments Labour Department for closure under Section 25o of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Facts
Pursuant thereto and in furtherance thereof an application was filed for closure of Karnataka Pulpwood Limited before the State Government.	Facts
RespondentUnion was also given an opportunity of hearing in the proceedings initiated therefore.	None
It was, inter alia, observed All the employees of KPL are ready and willing to accept the VRS as proposed by the Management of KPL in its letter dated 1422003 and the VRS scheme revised upto 3132003 as per G.O. of DPAR (RPE) dated 1082001 provided other conditions are fulfilled It was opined Therefore, the union pleads to either to reject dismiss the application of the KPL or to defer its consideration till after the absorption of the KPL staff in the KFDC or at least after the judgment of the Honble High Court in WP No.39406455/2003.	Facts
In the alternative, refer the application to the Tribunal for adjudication in the interest of justice.	Facts
As against the above, objections of the unions, the advocate appearing for the management has stated that the majority of the objections raised by the union are regarding absorption of the KPL staff to that of KFDC.	Facts
These points are not relevant in the matter of closure and the union can raise all these points before the appropriate authority, as this authority is not concerned to the absorption of KPL employees.	Facts
Therefore, the management has requested to over rule the objections and to accord sanction for closure as requested by the management as unless the closure is decided the absorption of KPL employees cannot be decided.	Facts
The reasons advanced by the management for closure of their company the objections of the union and the Government has examined counter objections of the management.	Facts
As could be seen from the various objections raised by the union, which are all relating to the absorption of workers in the KFDC, voluntary retirement etc., the Government considers that these issues or objections of the union are not relevant to the request of the closure or nonclosure of the company.	Facts
The union has not refuted, anywhere in their objection about the losses incurred nonfunctionality of the company for the purpose, which was established.	Facts
The union has also not questioned the genuineness and. adequacy of the reasons advanced by the management.	Facts
Though the union has pointed out that the closure is not justified and there is no adequacy and genuineness in their reasons, but it has not substantiated as to how the closure is not justified and how the reasons are not adequate and genuine.	Facts
The issues to be considered for closure of the company are status of the company its viability to pursue its objective etc.	Facts
The union has not made out its strong case on these issues.	Facts
Therefore, Government after taking into consideration all aspects of the matter has decided to allow the application of the management and to grant permission for closure as required under Section 250 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
Accordingly the following orders.	Facts
G.O. No.LD 559 IDG 2004, Bangalore, dated 23112004.In the circumstances explained in the preamble, the permission of the Government is hereby accorded as required under Section 25o of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to the management of Mts.	Facts
Karnataka Pulpwood Limited Bangalore to closedown the above industrial undertaking as proposed by them.	Facts
Aggrieved by and dissatisfied therewith, the respondents filed a writ petition before the High Court of Karnataka, which was marked as Writ Petition Nos. 16511685 of 2005.	Facts
In the said writ petitions, the following prayers were made Issue a writ of certiorari or any other appropriate writ, order of direction quashing the order bearing reference LD 559, IDG 2004, Bangalore, dated 23112004 issued by the 2nd respondents, a true copy of which is produced and marked as AnnexureJ since the same is unjust, arbitrary and opposed to the scheme of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.b) Issue a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ, order of direction, directing the respondents 1, 3 and 4 to immediately absorb the services of the petitioners 2 to 35 in KFDC pursuant to Government Order dated 24101991 vide AnnexureB and also representations submitted by the 1st Petitioner Union vide AnnexureE to H since nonconsideration of the same by the respondents 1, 3 and 4 is unjust, arbitrary and violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
It appears that another writ petition was filed by another union, i.e., Karnataka Pulpwood Limited Employees Union (Regd) that was marked as Writ Petition Nos.35203533 of 2005.	Facts
A learned Single Judge of the High Court of Karnataka by a judgment and order dated 2812005 held as under The Learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that all the employees are not interested in VRS scheme, some of them are interested in taking closure compensation and absorption in the services of the third respondent and further submits that the petitioners have no objection for the closure, but their rights have to be properly protected and the benefits available under law have to be properly ensured.	Facts
In view of the submission made at the Bar, it is directed that the second respondent be permitted to close the undertaking by 722005.	None
The first respondent shall act upon the proposal of VRS scheme within three months from the date of closure.	None
The petitioners those who are willing to opt VRS can apply for VRS otherwise they can place the request for absorption in the services of the third respondent and closure compensation to be payable to the petitioners who are eligible for closure compensation in accordance with law and to be payable as on the date of closure.	Facts
Accordingly, the writ petition is disposed of.	Facts
When the writ petition filed by the respondents herein came up for consideration before another Bench, it by a judgment and order dated 722005 held I respectfully agree with the conclusion reached by this Court in the aforesaid writ petitions.	Facts
Hence, these writ petitions are disposed of in terms of the order dated 28th January 2005 in WP Nos.35203533/2005 (SR).	Facts
The petitioners herein are at liberty to opt either for VRS scheme or for closure compensation with request for absorption in Karnataka Forest Development Corporation Limited on or before 28th February, 2005.	Facts
Both, the Management as also the workmen, preferred intra court appeals there against.	None
A Division Bench by an order dated 2262005 directed the Principal Secretary of the Government to inform the Court as to whether the Government order dated 24101991 on which reliance had been placed by the respondentworkmen was subsisting or not.	Facts
It, however, does not appear from the records that any response thereto was made.	Facts
When the writ appeals preferred by the parties hereto came up for consideration before the Division Bench, it allowed the appeals filed by the workmen and dismissed the appeals preferred by the Management stating What is contended by the learned Counsel appearing for the Corporation is that the Government Order dated 24101991 stands superseded by the subsequent decision taken by the State Government.	Facts
He referred to the averments made in the written statement filed by the Corporation before the learned Single Judge and we find that the Corporation has nowhere stated that the said order stands superseded.	Facts
Be that as it may, no such order of the State Government was produced before the learned Single Judge which could show that the earlier order dated 24101991 stood withdrawn or superseded.	Facts
The learned State Counsel, on the other hand, on receipt of instructions from the Secretary of the Government who is present in Court, informs us that the Government orders dated 24101991 has not been superseded.	Facts
This obviously puts an end to the controversy.	Facts
This being so, we are clearly of the view that the appellants are entitled to be absorbed in the service of the Corporation and that the learned Single Judge was in error in not issuing such a direction.	Facts
It was, however, noticedWe may, however, make it clear that the prayer made in the writ petition for quashing the order of the Government granting permission to close down the company was not pressed before us and the same stands rejected.	Facts
Mr. Kailash Vasdev, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, would submit that the matter in regard to closure of the company being no longer in dispute, the High Court committed a serious error in directing absorption of the workmen of the company by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Vasdev, the financial implication of the said order comes to about Rs.60 lac per year and the losses suffered by it would not be borne by the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
We may, however, place on record that during the pendency of this SLP, a meeting was held on 2162006 in regard to the claim of absorption of the workmen concerned wherein it was resolved Agreeing with the views of Sri. Sogadu Shivanna MLA and others, the Honble Minister instructed that the following action be taken immediately1) Necessary action to be initiated to withdrawn the SLOP filed before the Hobble Supreme Court on the High Court order dated 2262005 by following necessary procedure without taking much time for the same and after this action to be initiated to absorb these 81 employees.	None
Action Managing Director, AFDC Limited and Principal Secretary, FEE2) Arrears of differential salary on account of release of increments and D.A. be released to the employees at an early date.	None
Action Managing Director KFDC Limited and Principal Secretary, FEE3)	None
Any dues to be settled to VRS opted such as difference in exgratia etc. be settled without giving scope for the APL employees to approach Court of law again.	None
Action Managing Director, AFDC Limited and Principal Secretary, FEEAll the officers present in the meeting assured their full Cooperation in solving these issues in a time bound manner.	None
We are informed by Mr. Sanjay Hegde, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Government of Karnataka that the question of absorption of the retrenched employees in the applicantCorporation is pending before the Cabinet.	None
We do not intend to make any observation as regards consequence arising there from.	None
Mr. Naveen R. Nath, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents would submit that the State of Karnataka as also the appellant Corporation had all along been representing to the workman that services of those employees who have been working under the company would be absorbed by the Corporation and in that view of the matter, this Court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
It was furthermore contended that the State as also the Corporation had allowed the order of the learned Single Judge dated 2812005 passed in Writ Petition No.35303533 of 2005 to attain finality and in that view of the matter, there is absolutely no reason as to why the other workmen would not be treated at par with them.	Arguments of Respondent
It is unfortunate that the State of Karnataka as also AppellantCorporation did not specifically take one stand or the other.	Reasoning
It has been prevaricating its stand from state to stage.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, govern the relationship between the company and the respondents being employer and workmen.	Reasoning
The Management of an industrial undertaking is entitled to take recourse to closure of its undertaking in terms of the provisions of the said Act itself.	Reasoning
Section 25o of the said Act lays down the procedure for closing down an undertaking.	None
Once the State Government had given the permission, all consequences would ensue.	None
In terms of subSection (8) of Section 25o, all the workmen would be entitled to receive compensation, which shall be equivalent to 15 days average, pay for every completed year of continuous service or any part thereof in excess of six months.	None
Section 25S provides that in relation to a closure of an undertaking governed by Chapter VB, the provisions of Sections 25B, 25D, 25E, 25F, 25G, 25H and 25 would also apply.	None
Section 25J provides that the provisions of Chapter VA shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.	None
Indisputably in the event an undertaking is closed down, the only right, which accrues in favour of the workmen, is to obtain compensation as provided for.	None
We may notice that subSection (4) of Section 25o provides that an order of the appropriate Government is final and binding on the parties.	None
Before the Division Bench of the High Court as we have noticed here in before, the order of the State Government directing prior permission for effecting closure of the industrial undertaking has not been questioned.	None
In fact even the learned Single Judge had made observations to the effect that the closure may be affected.	None
Having regard to the fact those rights of the workmen flow from the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, a writ Court could not have issued any other direction.	None
One of the questions, which had arisen for consideration before the Division Bench was as to whether the order of the State Government dated 24101991, subsists.	None
For considering the said question, it was not necessary for the High Court to ascertain the viewpoint of the State.	None
In the year 1991, a decision was taken not to close down the undertaking of the company.	None
The 1991 decision was modified by a subsequent order that the undertakings also as that of the company are merging with each other.	Reasoning
No order of merger has been passed.	Reasoning
No decision by a competent authority under the Companies Act had been taken Indisputably, the appellant and the company has not merged.	Reasoning
In absence of any valid order of merger of two different entities, evidently the relationship of employer and employee between the respondents and the said company, as had been obtaining, continued.	Reasoning
Furthermore, as soon as the closure of an undertaking became effective, it is trite that the said relationship ceased to exist.18.	Reasoning
The right of the workmen therefore, was only to receive the amount of compensation.	Reasoning
If the State is not in a position to take upon itself the financial burden of the appellantCorporation for appointing the concerned workmen direction to continue their services could not be issued.	Reasoning
There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that the said order dated 24101991 has been superseded by necessary implication.	Reasoning
Both merger of two undertakings and the closure of one undertaking do not stand, together.	Reasoning
If the workmen, therefore, think that any other or further right has accrued to them in terms of the purported assurance given by the State, it may take recourse thereto before an appropriate forum but a writ petition was not maintainable.	Reasoning
For the foregoing masons, we are of the opinion that impugned judgment cannot be sustained.	Decision
It is set aside accordingly.	Decision
The appeals are allowed.	Decision
No costs.	None
