 Leave granted.	None
The appeals have been preferred by Chhattisgarh State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (in short, the CSIDC) and	Issue
M s. Raipur Construction Pvt. Ltd. being aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 14.02.2007 passed by the High Court of Chhattisgarh in Writ Petition (C) No.1053 of 2016 thereby allowing the same and quashing the contract given to M s. Raipur Construction Pvt.	Issue
Ltd. by the CSIDC with respect to the work of upgradation of infrastructure i.e. roads, drainage system and water supply in Sirgitti under Modified Industrial Infrastructure Upgradation Scheme (MIIUS) at Sirgitti, Bilaspur.	Issue
Tender was floated by the CSIDC on 3.11.2015 for the aforesaid work within the stipulated time period of 18 months and tenders were invited online, to be submitted by 12.01.2016.4.	Facts
A writ petition bearing WP(C) No.227 of 2016, was filed challenging the notice inviting tenders issued by the CSIDC and the same was dismissed vide order dated 2.2.2016 by the High Court of Chhattisgarh, Bilaspur.	Facts
The online bids were submitted.	Facts
The CSIDC opened the tenders for determining whether the bidders satisfied the prequalification criteria.	Facts
Based upon the information supplied by the bidders, the CSIDC prepared charts of technical evaluation documents in the form of Annexures A B C and D which were signed by the Chief Executive Engineer and placed before the Tender Evaluation Committee in its meeting held on 03.03.2016.	Facts
The CSIDC filed a Technical Evaluation Sheet as Annexures R4/3 and 5/3 which was placed before the Technical Evaluation Committee whereas the petitioner in the High Court i.e. M s. Amar Infrastructure Ltd. filed the document Annexure P4 as technical evaluation document.5.	Facts
It is pertinent to mention here that the documents of technical evaluation filed by CSIDC were signed by the Executive Engineer and the document filed by M s. Amar Infrastructure Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. as Annexure P4 does not bear signatures of any official.6.	Facts
On 3.3.2016, Tender Evaluation Committee considered the matter and had drawn the minutes which is signed by Mr. S. Rajgire, Executive Engineer DivisionIV, Mr. G.V.S.P. Rao, Deputy Manager (Accounts) and Mr. Abdul Shakil, Chief Engineer.	Facts
Two bidders namely M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., Chhindwara and M s. Raipur Construction Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. were found qualified.	Facts
It has been opined by the Evaluation Committee that they fulfill all the requisite qualifications.	Facts
Hence, it was resolved unanimously to open the financial bids of the aforesaid two bidders.	Facts
The financial bids were ultimately opened on 5.3.2016.	Facts
The bid submitted by M s. Raipur Construction Pvt. Ltd. was ranked as L1 as compared to that of M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Reasoning
Chhindwara whose bid was ranked as L2.	Facts
Ultimately the bid L1 of M s. Raipur Construction Pvt. Ltd. had been accepted on 8.7.2016 and work order had been issued by the CSIDC to M s. Raipur Construction Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.7.	Facts
The petitioner respondent herein, namely, M s. Amar Infrastructure Ltd. was disqualified on the ground that its construction experience was not found as per the requisite criteria indicated in experience certificate, quantity of DLC (M10) i.e. 3194 cum submitted under the key activities of construction experience of requisite quantity of work done was not in accordance with the nomenclature of PWD SOR.	Facts
In the nomenclature of DLC in SOR there was no M20 type of concrete, as such the amount of DLC as presented in the certificate had been rejected.8.	Facts
It is pertinent to mention that Writ Petition No.664 of 2016 was filed before the High Court of Chhatisgarh at Bilaspur by M s. B.B. Verma, who was also one of the unsuccessful bidders, against the CSIDC and others.	Facts
In the said writ petition, the CSIDC had filed its reply dated 14.3.2016 and had submitted the document dated 3.3.2016 i.e. the chart containing technical evaluation in which the aforesaid facts were mentioned.	Facts
The writ petition preferred by M s. B.B. Verma was ultimately dismissed by the High Court of Chhatisgarh vide order dated 15.03.2016.9.	Facts
However, M s. Amar Infrastructure Ltd. filed a representation on 1.4.2016 not against the successful bidder but against M s. Arcons Construction Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. to the effect that it had been found eligible for opening financial bid despite not having a Hot Mix Plant.	Facts
After the writ petition in question was filed on 8.4.2016 in the High Court, reply was filed by the CSIDC on 7.7.2016.10.	Facts
The High Court, considering the discrepancy in the document of technical evaluation which was filed by the M s. Amar Infrastructure Limited and the one filed by the CSIDC, had vide order dated 28.07.2016 directed the Superintendent of Police, Raipur to depute an independent and competent officer from the Cyber Crime Cell of the State Police to inspect, examine and analyse the data available on the computer of the CSIDC and to determine the following points What was the initial bid document efiled by Respondent No.6.2.	Facts
Whether in the tender document submitted by respondent no.6, the list of plant and machinery contained hot mix plant or not?	Facts
Whether said list was certified by the authorised signatory or not?3.	Facts
The concerned Officer will after examining the documents also determine whether the document AnnexureP/4 has been prepared on the computer of the CSIDC or not?4.	Facts
The officer shall also intimate the date of preparation of the document Annexure R4,5/3 filed by the CSIDC and clearly intimate when the document was initially prepared and if any changes were made to this document then on what date.	Facts
Report be submitted to this Court within a period of 6 weeks from today.	Facts
Pursuant to the order, the report was filed in the High Court on 9.11.2016.	Facts
The report submitted by the Cyber Crime Cell is extracted hereunder In the compliance of above command, three hard disks were confiscated and tested from the computers of CSIDC by the Cyber Specialist Police headquarters, Raipur and a document was received by the help of chips.	Facts
After testing following results were obtained1.	Facts
Information related to point no.01 is attached in page 115.2.	Facts
Information related to point no.02 is attached on 115 page and on page no.	Facts
57 a list of all documents in etender created through respondent no.6 are present which does not contain any mentioning of hot mix plant and in this list a seal of company and signature is used in the place of authorised signatory.3.	Facts
According to the compliance of information on point no.3 and no.4 a hard disk was confiscated from computer no.3 which has a description as follows(A) of Hitachi Company S R no. 0138264JPT3MAOCOA, 30 G.B.(B) of HC Company S R No. 0A33535BS19570C7A, 164G.B.(C) of Western Digital Company S R No.	Facts
WCAYUA915673, 164 G.B.Confiscated Hard disk was tested by Cyber Crime Expert.	Facts
The information of point no. 03 and 04 of the Test report is as followsPoint No.	Facts
(3)  Document Annexure P/4 is created on the computer of CSIDC, which is located in the Computers Hitachi Company hard disk whos S R No. is OA 39264JPT3MAOCOA, 320 G.B. in the file named Annexure Bb, Last modified Date 06.03.2016.	Facts
Time 4.46 P.M. the found file is of 80 K.B. which contain 08 pages.	Facts
The information related to annexure P/4 was found in the page nos.6,7,8.The information related to point no.	Facts
(4) is found in the file Annexure A Last modified Date 14.01.2016 Time 12.33 P.M. which was located in the CSIDC hard disk of Hitachi Company whos serial no.	Facts
is 0A39264JPT3MAOCOA, 320 G.B.	Facts
According to which document Annexure R4, 5/3 is presented in respected court which is a Technical Evaluation chart and in the column of tender form price in the column no.2 of the tender form, the D.D. number deposited by the companies taking place in tender is clearly mentioned as well the name of the banks are clearly mentioned.	Facts
But the file obtained from the hard disk technical evaluation chart who is named as Annexure R4, 5/3 contains only the D.D.	Facts
No and does not contain any bank name, in this way, both files have differences in them.	Facts
The information related to Technical Evaluation Chart Annexure B is located in the file named Annexure B, Last modified Date 04072016 time02.08 P.M. which is situated in the Hitachi Company Hard disk whos S R No. is 0A39264JPT3MAOCOA, 320 G.B. the sixe of the file is 24 K.B. and contains 02k pages.	Facts
The attachment for Supreme Court and file found in Hard disk have no differences.	Facts
The information related to Technical Evaluation Chart Annexure C is located in the file named Annexure C, Last modified Date 04.07.2016 time  02.09 P.M. which is situated in the Hitachi Company Hard disk whos S R no.	Facts
is 0A39264JPT3MAOCOA, 320 G.B. the size of the file is 29.7 K.B. and contains 02 pages.	Facts
The attachment for Supreme Court and file found in Hard disk have no differences.	Facts
The perusal of Document Test reports (I pages) and C.D.s as well as chips concluded by the Cyber Celll Specialist is submitted.	Facts
Attachment As per above points.	Facts
The report was filed on 11.11.2016 and the High Court has found that the document which were placed on record one filed by the CSIDC and other filed by the appellant were substantially different with respect to the fact whether Hot Mix Plant was owned by	Facts
M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. and also that modification had been made in the document on 4.7.2016.	Facts
Thus, the High Court had opined that L2 tenderer basically was not qualified to participate and had been made to qualify for opening of its financial bid in order to give the contract anyhow or somehow to M s. Raipur Construction Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Reasoning
It concluded that M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. was illegally included in the qualified list of bidders by the Technical Evaluation Committee in its meeting dated 3.3.2016, and thus, the contract granted to	Facts
M s. Raipur Construction Pvt. Ltd. has been quashed and at the same time further police investigation has been ordered so as to fix the responsibility for the manipulations made in the document filed by the CSIDC and or by M s. Amar Infrastructure Ltd.13.	Facts
Aggrieved thereby the appeals have been preferred in this Court.	Facts
Mr. Mukul Rohatagi, learned Attorney General alongwith Mr. Apoorv Kurup, Mr. A.C. Boxipatro and Mr. Ashish Kumar Sinha, appearing on behalf of the appellants submitted that there is no manipulation in the Technical Evaluation Bid Sheet and prequalification criteria was fulfilled by both the tenderers whose financial bids were opened.	Arguments of Petitioner
Owning Hot Mix Plant was not a mandatory condition and thus it could not be said that the technical evaluation was illegal in any manner whatsoever.	Arguments of Petitioner
The financial bids of the qualified tenderers were required to be opened and Hot Mix Plant was not in the list of plant and equipments which were necessary to be possessed to qualify at the prequalification stage.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted by the learned Attorney General that the High Court has unnecessarily doubted the documents of Technical Evaluation Sheet placed on record by the CSIDC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It had been filed within seven days of the finalisation of the financial bid in the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur in the writ application which was preferred by M s. B.B. Verma which was dismissed on 15.3.2016 relying upon the very same documents which have been filed by the CSIDC in the instant writ application also.	Arguments of Petitioner
The document which has been filed by	Arguments of Petitioner
M s. Amar Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. is not signed by anybody and even if taken to be an assessment made with respect to the entire tender documents by CSIDC, hot mix plant being not a prerequisite and essential to be possessed for opening of the financial bid, the reasoning employed by the High Court that L2 was got qualified only in order to ensure that financial bid of L1 could be opened so that it would not be left as the only tenderer, whose financial bid then could not have been opened being only bidder in the fray and retendering would have been necessitated, falls down.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Garvesh Kabra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent ingeniously submitted that other tenderer had been disqualified namely M s. Anil Buildcon (I) Pvt.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. on the basis of not possessing the requisite concrete paver	Arguments of Respondent
and it is apparent from the Technical Evaluation Sheet filed by the respondent as P4 that the L2 tenderer M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. did not possess Hot Mix Plant at the time of submitting the tender which fact was noted in the requisite column of the evaluation sheet (P4).	Arguments of Respondent
He has also submitted that it was necessary to submit all the documents alongwith the tender forms including what were mentioned in Schedule D Section	Arguments of Respondent
V. Thus, it was submitted by the learned counsel that there had been manipulation made at the instance of the CSIDC as Technical Evaluation Sheet filed by CSIDC does not tally with the technical evaluation document filed by the petitioner before the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It appears that manipulation had been done in the document as observed by the High Court on 4th July, 2016.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has rightly disqualified L2, and thus it became necessary to invite the fresh bids as per the prevailing norms.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, the order had been passed by the High Court, keeping in view the report of the Cyber Crime Cell.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence no case for interference is made out in the appeals.	Arguments of Respondent
The order passed by the High Court is on proper consideration.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate the rival submissions, it is necessary to consider the tender document itself and the requirements for prequalification.	None
Whether having Hot Mix Plant was necessary qualification?	None
In the tender document, list is given, the same is extracted as under Only Schedule A and Section 1 of Schedule D are to be filled signed by the tenderer(b) All the certificates as per pre qualification criteria shall be appended with relevant forms of schedule D.1.	None
PART ONE (CSIDC FI)(Attached herewith, to be submit along the tender)(a)	None
Press notice corrigendum(b) Detailed NITPart(b)(a) Schedule A(i)	None
Cost Abstract(ii)	None
Bill of Quantities(b) Schedule B NIL(c) Schedule CNIL(d) Schedule DSection 1Technical tender forms(i) Letter of Technical Tender(ii) Tenderers Information Sheet(iii)	None
Annual Turnover(iv)	None
Specific Construction Experiences(v) Declaration(vi)	None
Check list for Technical tender evaluationSection II.	None
Scope of workSection III.	None
Technical specifications of workSection IV.	None
Special conditions of contractSection V. List of approved makes.	None
(emphasis added by us)	None
The tender inviting notice requires certain documents to be mandatorily submitted online.	None
The list of the documents as contained in para 1 of the tender notice is extracted hereinbelow	None
It is mandatory to submit the following online(A)	None
Details of Earnest money in FD (in favour of M.D.C.S.I.D.C. Raipur) from any nationalised bank.(B) Valid registration of CT VAT and VAT clearance certificate it return acknowledgment.(C) Letter of technical tender.(d) Tenders information sheet.(E)	None
Specific Construction Experience.(F) Construction Experience in key activities.(G) List of key plants equipment certificate, available with the bidder lease or rented.	None
(List enclosed).(H)	None
Declaration check list for technical tender evaluation.(I) All desired document should be attested by Notary.(J)	None
All desired document scan copy submitted to Online should also to be submitted physically by post in separate envelope.	None
Any additional documents which are not submitted online but submitted physically will not be accepted.(K) PAN No. details.(L)	None
Copy of valid registration in CGPWD Central State Semi Govt.	None
Of India or PSU of appropriate clause.(M)	None
Tenderer has to submit audited balance sheets of their financial turn over accounts along with profit Loss account for the any three (3) year out of last five (5) years.(N)	None
The contractor shall submit list of works which are in hand.(O) Affidavit in Original should be in prescribed format regarding that given all the informations are true must be attached on Rs.	None
100/ Non judicial stamp paper.	None
(emphasis added by us)	None
It is apparent that list of plant and machinery as available with the bidder, on lease or rented, was to be enclosed.	None
It is apparent that L2 did not mention that Hot Mix Plant was available with it.	None
It has to be considered whether Hot Mix Plant was necessary for opening of the financial bid.	None
The detailed notice inviting tenders required a tender to be submitted in three envelopes in the following manner SUBMISSION OF TENDER DOCUMENTS1.	None
Tender documents to be submitted in three envelopes marked A,B C on line as per mentioned key dates on portal of https csidc.cgeprocurenment.g ov.in Envelope A will contain earnest money Envelope B technical qualification details required for qualification as per NIT and other details Envelope C shall have financial offer.2.	None
For technical qualification, eligibility criteria an earnest money the document submitted on line shall only be treated as final submission of document.	None
Any physical submission of extra paper document shall not be taken for consideration for Technical qualification eligibility criteria.	None
PLACE AND DATE OF OPENING OF TENDERThe tenders shall be opened at the office of Managing Director, CSIDC, First Floor, Udyog Bhawan, Ring Road no. 1, Telibandha, Raipur 9C.G.) as mentioned in key dates.	None
After that Envelop (C) of only eligible applicants will be opened on the same day or any suitable date of the qualified tenderers only.	None
In tabular form the originally scheduled dates were given for opening the envelopes which is extracted hereinbelow Seq.	None
No.CSIDC StageSupplier StageStart Date TimeExpiry Date TimeEnvelops Open Envelope A (PQ Technical Commercial Detail)	None
01/01/2016 from 10.00 A.M.02/01/2016 from 17.00 P.M.Technical Envelope8.Evaluation and Shortlisting of EnvelopeA 01/01/2016 from 10.00 A.M.02/01/2016 from 17.00 P.M.Technical Envelope9.Open EnvelopeC (Price Bid) 04/01/2016 from 10.00 A.M.04/01/2016 from 17.00 P.M.Price Bid Envelope10.	None
Fill NegotiatedRates 04/01/2016 from 17.01 A.M.04/01/2016 from 17.02 P.M.Price Bid Envelope11.Evaluation and Shortlisting of EnvelopeC 04/01/2016 from 17.03 A.M.08/01/2016 from 17.04 P.M.Price Bid Envelope12.Tender Award 08/01/2016 from 17.05 A.M.12/01/2016 from 17.06 P.M.Technical Envelope Price Bid Envelope Tender was to be submitted in three envelopes A,B C. Envelope A to contain earnest money.	None
Envelope B to contain technical qualifications details required for qualification as per NIT and other details.	None
Envelope C to contain financial offer.	None
Prequalification criteria has been dealt with in Clause 2 of the detailed NIT.	None
The same is extracted as below PreQualification criteria To be eligible under the contract, the intending tenderer should meet the following mandatory criteria2.1 Financial CriteriaAverage Annual Turnover As per C.G. Govt.	Reasoning
PWD Circular No. F217/T/2017 dated 02/03/2015 achieved in any one financial yeara financial turnover in mentioned clauses of civil engineering construction works) of construction work of at least 60(Sixty percent)of the probable amount of contract for which bid has been invited i.e. INR 26.64 Crores(Audited balance sheet duly signed by CA should be enclosed).(b) satisfactory completed at least one similar work equal in value of 50 (Fifty per cent)of the portable amount i.e. INR 22.20 Crores of contract as one date of submission of financial offer (Audited balance sheet duly signed by CA should be enclosed).2.	None
2 Technical CriteriaAIntending tenderer shall be registered contractor with any Central State Semi Government of India or PSU in Class AUnlimited or registered contractor in single registration system of C.G.P.W.D. in appropriate classANDBIntending tenderer should have completed satisfactorily following works during last five years i.e. after 06.10.2010 in any Government Semi Government or public Sector undertaking as below(a) One similar work costing nor less than INR 35.52 Crore eachOR(b) two similar work costing not less than INR 22.20 Crore eachCConstruction	None
experiencein Key activities (May be complied by specialist Subcontractors Employer shall require evidence of subcontracting agreement from the Bidder.	None
Specialist Sub contractor is a specialist enterprise engaged for highly specialised processes which cannot be provided by the main contractor)RequirementSubmission RequirementsFor the above or other contracts executed during the period stipulated in 2.1 above a minimum construction experience in the following key activitiesIn form, ScheduleD(v)	None
Construction Experience in key activitiesEarth work33400 CumGranular Sub Base Grading20300 cumDry	None
Lean Cement Concrete5100 cumCement Concrete Pavement (M30 above grades)10200 cumWet mix mecadam2500 cumDense graded bituminous amacadam and by Bituminous concrete3000 cumR.C.C. open drain (M20 grade)7500 RMD.I.pipeli ne various dia of class K94265 RMOctagonal pole with LED light fitting 120 watt75 Nos.a.	None
For the purpose value of executed works and financial turnover shall be bought to current costing level by enhancing the actual value of work at the rate of 10 per annum (compounded annually), calculated from the date of completion to last date of receipt of applications for tenders.b.	None
Ongoing project part project experience shall not be considered for evaluation.c.	None
For the benefit of the intending tenderers a check list is enclosed at schedule D (Section 1) for the documents to be submitted alongwith tender.d.	None
If tenderer qualifies on the basis of experience of one more components of scope of work, in such circumstance, a tenderer shall have to employ sub vendor who has experience in execution of that component, for which tenderer does not have experience.	None
That sub vendor should have successfully completed work in any central State Government PSU in respect of particular component as below(i) One completed work of 80 of the value of that component OR(ii)Two completed work of 50 of the value of that component in the central State Government Department PSU Certificate.(a)	None
All tenderers should submit the valid registration certificate.	None
Comercial tax certificate, balance sheet with profit and loss statement for at least three years.(b)	None
The tenderer shall also submit satisfactory completion certificates in support of each quoted experience alongwith work order.	None
The satisfactory completion certificate should be signed by an officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer concerned in case of Government department or the rank of General Manager in case of Public Sector as the case may be.(c) all the documents to be submitted shall be duly notarized.	None
It is apparent from the prequalification criteria that for acquiring eligibility the intended tenderer has to meet the financial criteria as specified in Clause 2.1, technical criteria as per Clause 2.2(A) and the construction experience in key activities as provided in Clause 2.2 of doing a contract of requisite nature.	Reasoning
Clause 2.2(B) required similar construction work should have been completed satisfactorily within five years, costing not less than INR 32.52 crores or two similar works of INR 22.20 crores each and Clause 2.2(C) provided with respect to the construction experience in key activities requirement for the above or other contracts executed during the period stipulated in clause 2.1 above, a minimum construction experience in the key activities as provided in form Schedule D Section I(v) relating to construction experience.	Reasoning
Schedule D Section I(v) referred to in the prequalification criteria is also extracted below D(v)	None
Construction Experience in key Activities.	None
Fill up one (1) form per contract.	None
ContractNoofName of workAward DateAward Date Completion dateRole in contractContractorSub contractorTotal contract amountEmployers name Address Telephone fax no.	None
EmailDescription of the work executedNote Attach copies of the work order and satisfied completion certificates in support of each quoted experience.	None
The completion certificate should be signed by the officer not below the rank of concerned Executive Engineer in case of Government Department or in the rank of General manager in case of Public Sector private sector as the cases may be.	None
Signature of tendererDate Check list was given in Schedule D Section 1(v) for the documents to be submitted along with tender.	None
The same is extracted hereunder Name of the AgencyS.No.	None
DocumentDetailsEnclosed as annexure page No. from toBar cutting machine upto 40 MM dia1 No.	None
Cutting pumps Pan Mixer of not less than 0.5 cum3 Nos. 2Nos.	None
Plate vibrators of one ton capacity2Nos.	None
Minimum shuttering material to provided by the contractor (good quality steel plates inc steel propose etc.)L 200 mt	None
Ht 0.30m L 200mt	None
Ht 1.00 mFixed from or slip from paver1 No.Water Tankers (1012KL)1 No.	None
Tipper trucks6 Nos.	None
Soil compactor 810 tones)1	None
No.Concrete saw1 No.Generator(250 KVA)1 No.Vibratory roller (810 Tones)1 NoMotor Grader (Clearing Spreading GSB/100	None
Cum hour)1 NoMechanical paver for CC Road fixed form1 NoMechanical paver for BT Road1 NoNote	None
the above check list only provides for those documents which are mandatory for the tender pre qualification criteria.	None
Tenderers are required to append, other documents also with the technical tender as required in the detailed NIT or elsewhere in the Part One (CSIDC F1)	None
(Emphasis supplied by us)	None
It is pertinent to mention here that in said list of mandatory plant etc. necessary for prequalification criteria, the Hot Mix Plant is not mentioned.	None
Thus, it was not a prerequisite to qualify for opening financial bid.	None
Apart from that, when we peruse the list of minimum plant, equipments and shuttering provided in clause 51 of the contract document, 18 items have been mentioned in which again the Hot Mix Plant is not mentioned in the list of Minimum plant equipment and Shuttering.	None
The list contained in Clause 51 of tender documents is extracted hereunder Sr.No.	None
ParticularsQuantity (As required)1.Computerised and Fully Automatic Concrete batching plant of minimum 30 Cum hr capacity.1 No.	None
MinimumCement Silos for 2 (two) days capacity with direct feeding and batching facility.	None
Hoopers for fine and course aggregate.	None
Approved Plasticizer dozing facility.	None
Software programme compatible to make corrections to batching mix design.	None
Concrete Pump of required capacity.1	None
No.Transit Mixer of 6 Cum capacity.4 Nos.MS concrete Piping system for pumping1 Sets per Pump set2.JCB2 Nos.3.VibratorsaElectric with low noise3 Nos.BPetrol (Stand by)2 Nos.cNeedle Vibrator  402 Nos.dNeedle	None
Vibrator 652 Nos.4Bar	None
Bending Machine up to 40 mm dia.1 No.5Bar cutting Machine up to 40 mm dia.1 No.6Curing Pumps3 Nos.7Pan mixer of not less than 0.5 Cum2 Nos.8Plane Vibrators of 1 ton capacity2 Nos.9Minimum shuttering material to be provided by the contractor (Good quality steel plates inc steel propos etc.)L200 mtHt 0.30 m	None
L200 mtHt 1.00 m10Fixed from or slip from paver1 No.11Water Tankers (1012 KL)1 No.12Tipper Trucks6	None
Nos.13Soil Compactor (810 Tones)1 No.14Concrete Saw1 No.15Generator (250 KVA)1 No.16Vibratory roller (810 Tones)1 No.17Motor Grader (Clearing Spreading GSB (100 Cum hour)1 No.18Mechanical paver for concrete road Mechanical paver for B.T. road1 No.	None
HINDINote The details referred to herein above are only for the purpose of quantitive assessment.	None
The specification qualitative aspect of the shuttering material shall be in accordance with the BOQ Technical specification.	None
The details are to be provided within 30 days after award of contract.	None
In case, any of the aforesaid minimum equipment is not available and certificate is not appended to the bid, the financial bid was not to be opened.	None
The Hot Mix Plant finds place in different Section V of Schedule D. A bare reading of Schedule D Section V makes it clear that though it was part of tender form and was in the list of approved tools and machinery to be used for road work, it was not necessary for the purpose of technical evaluation at the stage of prequalification for opening of financial bid.	None
Considering the aforesaid various clauses, we are of the considered opinion that both the bidders L1 and L2 i.e. M s. Raipur Construction Pvt. Ltd. and	Reasoning
M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. were technically qualified for opening of their financial bids.	Reasoning
The opinion expressed by the High Court that L2 was made to be qualified in spite of the fact that it was not having Hot Mix Plant, thus, cannot be accepted as available ground to disqualify L2 tenderer.	Reasoning
The relevant clauses of the tender document were not placed for consideration before the High Court as mentioned by the High Court and at last moment the Hot Mix Plant inclusion in Schedule D Section V was indicated to it by the disqualified contractor.	Reasoning
In our opinion, Hot Mix Plant was not a mandatory requirement so as to open the financial bid.	Reasoning
Thus, the financial bids of the two tenderers who succeeded at the prequalification stage had been rightly opened and considered.	Reasoning
In our opinion, M s. Raipur Construction was not favoured by qualifying the disqualified tenderer  M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt Ltd to give the contract to it in surreptitious method and manner as observed by the High Court.	Reasoning
M s. Arcons Infrastructure was, in fact, rightly qualified.32.	Reasoning
This Court in Tejas Constructions and Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. v. Municipal Council, Sendhwa and Anr.	Reasoning
(2012) 6 SCC 464 has laid down that when the work is 60 per cent complete, Court should be slow to interfere as retendering would delay the project.	Reasoning
In the absence of malafide or arbitrariness which is not made out in the instant case as 50 per cent of the work had been completed when the order was passed by the High Court, hence, no interference was warranted in the present case.33.	Reasoning
Now, we advert to the question of manipulation in the technical evaluation sheet which has been placed on record by the CSIDC in the form of document R4/3 and 5/3 and by M s. Amar Infrastructure Ltd. as Annexure P4 in the High Court.34.	Reasoning
The Cyber Crime Cell has observed that some modification was made on 4th July, 2016, in the technical evaluation bid document P4, a copy of which was filed by the respondent i.e. M s. Amar Infrastructure Limited in the month of April.	Reasoning
It was also not reported what change was made in P4.	Reasoning
There was no such manipulation reported in the document of technical evaluation filed by the CSIDC in the High Court.	Reasoning
We have seen the stand of CSIDC in its reply to the Writ Application preferred by M s B.B. Verma which was dismissed by the High Court after looking into same technical evaluation report.	Reasoning
The similar stand had been taken by the CSIDC and the very same document of technical evaluation had been placed on record in the aforesaid case as is apparent from the pleadings to which our attention has been drawn by the learned Attorney General.	Reasoning
The document relied upon by the CSIDC had been placed on record of said case within a week of finalisation of the financial bid.	Reasoning
Immediate filing of the same and taking the stand to the similar effect as has been taken in this matter also vouch for the correctness of document which has been filed by the CSIDC and there is no manipulation in it.	Reasoning
As per report of the cyber crime cell also there is no manipulation in the document which has been relied upon by the CSIDC.	Reasoning
The question of manipulation as to Hot Mix Plant is of no consequence as it was not a mandatory criteria for opening of financial bid.	Reasoning
The ownership or otherwise of the hot mix plant was not at all necessary and the plant was not required as mandatory one for the purpose of prequalification stage for opening of financial bid.	Reasoning
It was only in the list of approved plant and equipments to be used under the certification of the Engineerincharge.	Reasoning
It appears that the document P4 which had been filed by M s. Amar Infrastructure Ltd. contained the evaluation sheet but it was not as per requirement of aforesaid various clauses necessary for prequalification stage and nonsubmission of the information as contended by M s. Amar Infrastructure Ltd. could not have disqualified M s. Arcons Infrastructure and Constructions Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd.	Reasoning
Thus, what was the necessary requirement as per criteria for opening of the financial evaluation had been rightly placed before the Technical Evaluation Committee on 3.3.2016.	Reasoning
We have perused the original Minutes and the technical evaluation document filed by CSIDC which were placed before Technical Evaluation Committee, and was signed by the Executive Engineer and had been considered by the Technical Evaluation Committee.	Reasoning
The minutes of the Technical Evaluation Committee had also been signed by the aforesaid three officers.	Reasoning
Apart from that in the minutes of Technical Evaluation Committee meeting dated 3.3.2016, details of qualifications have been mentioned and that accords with the document of evaluation sheet which has been relied upon by the CSIDC.35.	Reasoning
In our opinion, as the hot mix plant was not a mandatory requirement so as to open the financial bid, we decline to go into the submission raised on behalf of the appellants that M s. Amar Infrastructure Limited has not disclosed how and when and from whom and by which process it obtained the document P4 which is not signed by anybody as the fact remains that the document which is filed by the respondent also existed in the computer of the CSIDC.	Reasoning
However, it looms in insignificance owing to the conclusions to which we have reached with respect to the Hot Mix Plant.	Reasoning
May be that this document P4 was also prepared by somebody in the CSIDC but it was not initialed or signed by anybody.	Reasoning
It depicted the position of entire tender of L2 but what was mandatory requirement for prequalification stage and technical evaluation was correctly placed before the Technical Evaluation Committee in the form of document R4/3 and R5/3.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid, we are of the opinion that the report of the Cyber Crime Cell is of no consequence with respect to prequalification criteria and opening of financial bids, since it is not disputed that successful tenderer L1 fulfilled all conditions and had Hot Mix Plant also.36.	Reasoning
There was no manipulation in the mandatory requirements and may be that P4 was prepared but that was of no consequence as deficiency of Hot Mix Plant, even if placed before Committee, would not have tilted the balance in favour of the respondent M s. Amar Infrastructure Limited.	Reasoning
The Committee on that basis could not have disqualified the L2 tenderer.37.	Reasoning
Coming to the submission raised by the learned counsel for the respondent that M s. Anil Buildcon (I) Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. was disqualified for not possessing concrete paver as such L2 tenderer M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt	Reasoning
. Ltd. also ought to have been disqualified for deficiency of Hot Mix Plant, we are unable to accept the submission as concrete paver was mentioned in the list of mandatory plant and equipment for prequalification stage so as to open financial bid.	Reasoning
Thus, this submission is found to be baseless.	Reasoning
M s Anil Buildcon (I) Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. was rightly disqualified.38.	Reasoning
We also find that M s. Amar Infrastructure Ltd. itself was disqualified and it had not questioned the qualification of the successful bidder but that of L2 bidder  M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. on ground that it was not qualified and its financial bid had been illegally opened.	Reasoning
It was purely a fight between the rival tenderers involving no element of public interest.	Reasoning
It was the respondent who was trying to cater to its business interest to ensure retendering by seeking disqualification of L2 tenderer M s. Arcons Infrastructure Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. to whom contract had not been given.	Reasoning
The Court has to be loath in such matter to make interference.39.	Reasoning
Resultantly, we find that there was no merit in the writ petition filed by the respondent in the High Court.	Decision
Thus, we have no hesitation in setting aside the impugned judgment, order and directions passed by the High Court.	Decision
The appeals are allowed.	Decision
Parties to bear their own costs as incurred.	Decision
