 Hidayatuallah, J.1.	None
The appellant firm, L. Hazarimal Kuthiala of Kapurthala, moved the High Court of Punjab under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution for writs of prohibition, certiorari, quo warranto etc., against the Incometax Officer, Special Circle, Ambala and the Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab (I), Himachal Pradesh, Bilaspur and Simla in respect of reassessment of the income of the firm for the account year, 194546.	Issue
The High Court dismissed the petition, but granted a certificate under Arts.	Issue
132 and 133 of the Constitution, and this appeal has been filed on that certificate.2.	Issue
The firm carried on business as forest lessees and timber merchants at Dhilwan in the former Kapurthala State.	Facts
In that State, an Incometax law was in force, and prior to the integration of the State, on April 10, 1947, the income of the firm for the account year 194546 (Samvat 2002) was duly assessed, and the tax was also paid.	Facts
Subsequently, political changes took place, Kapurthala integrated into what was known as Pepsu, and the Rajpramukh issued two Ordinances in Samvat.	Facts
2005, by which all laws in force in Kapuurthala including the Incometax law ceased to be operative from August 20, 1948.	Facts
The two Ordinances instead applied laws in force in the Patiala State to the area of the new State which included Kapurthala, and the Patiala Incometax Act. 2001, came into force.	Facts
Later still, the Indian Finance Act, 1950 (26 of 1950) applied the Indian Incometax Act to the Part B States, which had emerged as a result of political changes.	Facts
Section 13 of the Indian Finance Act, 1950, repealed the Incometax laws obtaining in the area of the Part B States except for the purpose of levy, assessment and collection of incometax and supertax in respect of the period defined therein.3.	Facts
On March 12, 1955, the Incometax Officer, Special Circle, Ambala, issued a notice purporting to be under S. 34 of the Patiala Incometax Act of Samvat 2001 to the appellant firm calling upon it to file a return of its income and total world income, because he had reason to believe that the income had been underassessed.	Facts
Previous to this, on November 4, 1953, the Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab (I), Himachal Pradesh, Bilaspur and Simla, purporting to act under S. 5, subsecs.	Facts
(5) and (7A) of the Indian Incometax Act, ordered that the assessment of the appellant firm would be done by the Incometax Officer, Special Circle, Ambala and not by the Incometax Officer, BWard, Patiala, who ordinarily would be the competent authority under S. 64 of the Indian Incometax Act to assess the appellant firm.	Facts
The appellant firm raised objections, but failed, and then filed the petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution, out of which the present appeal arises.4.	Facts
Numerous objections were taken in respect of the competency of the proceedings before the taxing authorities, but some of them are no longer pressed.	None
An argument under Art. 14 of the Constitution has now been abandoned, though it figured at earlier stages of the present case.	None
A second point that the reassessment cannot be made under the Patiala Incometax Act is not in dispute, because the respondents before us stated that the reassessment, if any, would have to be done in accordance with the Kapurthala law, as it existed in the assessment year (Samvat 2002).	None
A third argument, namely, that the words of S. 13 of the Indian Finance Act, 1950, did not include reassessment, has also been abandoned, in view of the decisions of this Court in Lakshmana Sheonoy v. Incometax Officer, Ernakulam 1959 SCR 751 (AIR 1958 SC 795 ) and Incometax Officer, Bangalore v. K. N. Guruswamy 1959	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 785 (AIR 1958 SC 808 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
Only one point has been pressed before us, and it is that the Incometax Officer, Special Circle, Ambala had no jurisdiction to issue a notice under S. 34 and that only the Incometax Officer, BWard, Patiala, was the competent authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed in this connection upon the provisions of S. 64(1) of the Indian Incometax Act, under which the locally situated Incometax Officer would have had jurisdiction in this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The transfer of the case by the Commissioner of Incometax by his order dated November 4, 1953, is characterised as ultra vires and incompetent, and it is this argument alone to which we need address ourselves in this appeal.5.	None
The Patiala Incometax Act contained provisions almost similar to Ss. 5 (5) and 5(7A) of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
Subsection (5) differed in this that the Commissioner of Incometax was required to consult the Ministerincharge before taking action under that subsection.	None
The only substantial difference in the latter subsection was that the Explanation which was added to S. 5 (7A) of the Indian Incometax Act as a result of the decision of this Court in Bidi Supply Co. v. Union of India 1956	None
SCR 267 ( (S) AIR 1956 SC 479 ) did not find place in Patiala Act.	None
The Commissioner, when he transferred this case, referred not to the Patiala Incometax Act, but to the Indian Incometax Act, and it is contended that if the Patiala Incometax Act was in force for purposes of reassessment, action should have been taken under that Act and not the Indian Incometax.	None
This argument, however, loses point, because the exercise of a power will, be referable to a jurisdiction which confers validity upon it and not to a jurisdiction under which it will be nugatory.	Reasoning
This principle is wellsettled.	Reasoning
See Petamber Vajirshet v. Dhondu Navlapa ILR 12 Bom 486 at p. 489.6.	Reasoning
The difficulty, however does not end there.	None
The Commissioner, in acting under S. 5(5) of the Patiala Incometax Act, was required to consult the Ministerincharge.	None
It is contended that the Central Board of Revenue which, under the Indian Finance Act, 1950, takes the place of the Ministerincharge was not consulted, and proof against the presumption of regularity of official acts is said to be furnished by the fact that under the Indian law no such consultation was necessary, and the Commissioner, having purported to act under the Indian law, could not have felt the need of consultation with any higher authority.	None
This, perhaps, is correct.	None
If the Commissioner did not act under the Patiala law at all, which enjoined consultation with the Ministerincharge and purported to act only under the Indian law, his mind would not be drawn to the need for consultation with the Central Board of Revenue.	Reasoning
Even so, we do not think that the failure to consult the Central Board of Revenue renders the order of the Commissioner ineffective.	Reasoning
The provision about consultation must be treated as directory, on the principles accepted by this Court in State of U.P. v. Manbodhan Lal Srivastava, 1958 SCR 533 ( (S) AIR 1957 SC 912 ) and K. S. Srinivasan v. Union of India 1958	Reasoning
SCR 1295 at p. 1321 (AIR 1958 SC 419 at p. 430).In the former case, this Court dealt with the provisions of Art. 320 (3)(c) of the Constitution, under which consultation with the Union Public Service Commission was necessary.	Reasoning
This Court relied upon the decision of the Privy Council in Montreal Street Railway Co. v. Normandin 1917 AC 170 where it was observed as follows . . . . . . .	Reasoning
The question whether provisions in a statute are directory or imperative has very frequently arisen in this country, but it has been said that no general rule can be laid down, and that in every case the object of the statute must be looked at.	None
The cases on the subject will be found collected in Maxwell on Statutes, 5th edn., p. 596 and the following pages.	None
When the provisions of a statute relate to the performance of a public duty and the case is such that to hold null and void acts done in neglect of this duty would work serious general inconvenience, or injustice to persons who have no control over those entrusted with the duty, and at the same time would not promote to main object of the Legislature, it has been the practice to hold such provisions to be directory only, the neglect of them, though punishable, not affecting the validity of the acts done.	None
The principle of the Privy Council case was also applied by the Federal Court in Biswanath Khemka v. Emperor 1945 FCR 99 (AIR 1945 FC 67) and there, as pointed out by this Court the words of the provision were even more emphatic and of a prohibitory character.	None
The essence of the rule is that where consultation has to be made during the performance of a public duty and an omission to do so occurs, the action cannot be regarded as altogether void, and the direction for consultation may be treated as directory and its neglect, as of no consequence to the result.	None
In view of what has been said in these cases the failure to consult the Central Board of Revenue does not destroy the effectiveness of the order passed by the Commissioner, however wrong it might be from the administrative point of view.	None
The power which the Commissioner had, was entrusted to him, and there was only a duty to consult the Central Board of Revenue.	Reasoning
The failure to conform to the duty did not rob the Commissioner of the power which he exercised, and the exercise of the power cannot, therefore, be questioned by the assessee on the ground of failure to consult the Central Board of Revenue, provision regarding which must be regarded as laying down administrative control and as being directory.7.	Reasoning
Learned counsel, however, contends that even if all this be decided against him, he is still entitled to show that the transfer of the case can only take place under subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7A) of S. 5 and not under subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5).	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the former subsection deals with the transfer of individual cases, and that inasmuch as there was no pending case at the time, then, as was ruled by this Court in the Bidi Supply case 1956 SCR 267 ( (S) AIR 1956 SC 479 ) the transfer could not be valid.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the absence of an Explanation similar to the one added to the Indian Incometax Act he contends that a case which was not pending could not be transferred under subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7A).	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends also that subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) deals not with the transfer of individual cases but with the distribution of work.8.	None
The two subsections of S. 5 of the Patiala Incometax Act read as follows (5) Incometax Officer shall perform their function in respect of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of income or in respect of such areas as the Commissioner of Incometax may in consultation with the Minister Incharge direct, and, where such directions have assigned to two or more Incometax Officers, the same persons or classes of persons or the same income or classes of income or the same area, in accordance with any orders which the Commissioner of Incometax may in consultation with the Minister Incharge make for the distribution and allocation of work to be performed.	None
The Minister Incharge may, with the previous approval of the IjlasiKhas, by general or special order in writing direct that the power conferred on the Incometax Officer by or under this Act shall, in respect of any specified case or class of cases, be exercised by the Commissioner, and, for the purposes of any case in respect of which such order applies, references in this Act or in any rules made hereunder to the Incometax Officer shall be deemed to be references to the Commissioner.(7A)	None
The Commissioner of Incometax may transfer any case from one Incometax Officer subordinate to him to another, and the Minister Incharge may transfer any case from any one Incometax Officer to another.	None
Such transfer may be made at any stage of the proceedings, and shall not render necessary the reissue of any notice already issued by the Incometax Officer from whom the cases in transferred.9.	None
There can be no doubt that subsec.	None
(7A) authorities the Commissioner to transfer individual cases.	None
The words any case from one Incometax Officer subordinate to him to another such transfer may be made at any stage of the proceedings etc., clearly indicate this.	None
Subsection (7A) is, however, not applicable here, because in respect of the cognate subsection of the Indian Incometax Act it was ruled by this Court that it could apply to a pending case only.	None
It was to overcome this lacuna that the Explanation was added by the Indian Parliament.	None
This amendment came in 1956, and the Patiala Act did not include a similar Explanation, because prior to 1956 the question had not arisen.	None
There is one other difference between the Patiala Act and the Indian Act.	None
Whereas subsec, (7A) was introduced in the Indian Act by an amendment, the corresponding subsection was enacted at the same time as the rest of the Patiala Act.10.	None
Now, it is quite clear that a case which was not pending at the time of transfer could not be transferred under subsec.	Reasoning
(7A) of S. 5 of the Patiala Act.	Reasoning
The same reasoning must be applied to that subsection, as it was applied to the Indian Act.	None
Learned counsel referred us to an affidavit by the Under Secretary, Central Board of Revenue reproduced in Pannalal Binjraj v. Union of India 1957	None
SCR 233 at p. 246 ( (S) AIR 1957 SC 397 at p. 404) which stated the reason for the introduction of subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7A).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is a little difficult to accept the affidavit as an aid to find out the intention why a particular law or amendment was enacted, more so where the affidavit concerns quite another Act of a different legislature.	None
It is however, pertinent to remember that subsec.	Reasoning
(7A) expressly gave the power to transfer pending cases, but said nothing about cases which were not pending.	Reasoning
The power to transfer such cases before they came into being must, therefore, be found in some other enactment.	None
The Department contends that it would fall within subsec.	Arguments of Respondent
(5) of S. 5, and points out that this Court was not required to consider that subsection because the transfer of the cases dealt with in the Bidi Supply cases 1956 SCR 267 ( (S) AIR 1956 SC 479 ) was by an authority not named in subsec.	Arguments of Respondent
(5) and therefore the transfer in those instances could not be held to be under that subsection.	Arguments of Respondent
The Department contends that the Commissioner of Incometax is mentioned both in subsec.	Arguments of Respondent
(5) and subsec.	Arguments of Respondent
(7A) and could derive his power from one or the other or both.11.	Arguments of Respondent
The short question thus in whether an individual case which was not a pending case could be transferred from one incometax Officer to another under subsec.	Issue
(5) of S. 5 of the Patiala Act, which was kept alive for assessment and reassessments relating to previous assessment years.	Issue
Mr. Palkhiwala argues that the words of the subsection such persons or classes of persons or of such income of classes of income or in respect of such areas denote, by the plural employed, a dealing with a group rather than an individual case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further contends that if individual cases were held to be included in subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5), then subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7A) would be unnecessary an otiose.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argues that harmonious construction thus requires that the two subsections must be taken to cover different situations.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
The last argument is hardly open after the decision of this Court adverted to already.	None
If pending cases along were within subsec.	None
(7A), those cases which were not pending could not be said to have been provided for, there.	Reasoning
There is thus no overlapping at least in so far as cases not pending were concerned.	Reasoning
An arrangement for their disposal would be a subject of distribution of work and nothing much turns upon the employment of the plural number, because the plural includes the singular.	Reasoning
Indeed, a single case might well be in a class separate from others.	Reasoning
Duplication of powers is sometimes noticeable in statutes, and does not destroy the effectiveness of the power conferred.	Reasoning
Section 24 of the Civil Procedure Code dealing with transfers of cases and the provisions of the Letters Patent of the High Court are instances in point.	Reasoning
If a particular action is valid under one section, it cannot be rendered invalid because the identical action can also be taken under another section, and it makes no difference if the two empowering provisions are in the same statute.	Reasoning
In any event, subsec.	Reasoning
(7A) would cut down subsec.	Reasoning
(5) only to the extent the former provides, and it has been held that it was confined to pending cases only.	Reasoning
Subsection (5) was thus available for cases which were not pending and the case which was the subjectmatter of the Commissioners order was not a pending case.13.	Reasoning
Mr. Palkhivala contends that subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) merely enables distribution of work, and does not deal with transfers.	Arguments of Petitioner
But where a case is not pending, an order relating to it may take the form of transfer or an arrangement for its disposal.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is nothing to prevent the Commissioner, acting under subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5), to arrange that the case of an assessee shall be disposed of by a particular Incometax Officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words of subsec, (5) that Incometax Officers shall perform their functions in respect of such persons . . .	Arguments of Petitioner
as the Commissioner . . .	Arguments of Petitioner
may . . .	Arguments of Petitioner
direct only show that the Commissioner may direct that one Incometax Officer shall not, and another Incometax Officer shall, perform the functions in respect of such and such person or persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plural including the singular, the order of the Commissioner was valid, because he arranged and distributed work, and did not seek to transfer any case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is however contended that this renders subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7A) otiose.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, it does not, Special provision for transfer of pending cases is all that is provided there, and if such a transfer takes place the provisions of subsec.	None
(7A) will be invoked.	Reasoning
Those provisions are to be read as not prejudicing the general powers granted by subsec.	Reasoning
(5) and vice versa.13.	None
For these reasons, the appeal fails, and will be dismissed with costs.14.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
