 Venkatarama Ayyar, J.1.	None
These are appeals by special leave against judgments of High Court of Calcutta setting aside awards which directed the respondents to pay compensation to the appellants for breach of contracts, on the ground that they were in contravention of a notification of the Central Government dated October 29 , 1953, and were in consequence illegal and void.	Issue
These appeals were heard along with Civil Appeals Nos. 98 and 99 of 1960 as there were common questions of law to be decided in all.2.	None
In Civil Appeals Nos. 389 and 390 of 1960 the facts are that on September 7, 1955, the appellants who are a company owning a Jute Mill at Calcutta entered into an agreement with the respondents who are also a Company doing business as dealers in jute, for the purchase of 2,250 bales of jute cuttings at Rs. 80 per bale of 400 Ibs. to be delivered 750 bales every month in October, November and December 1955.	Facts
Clause 14 of the agreement provides that all disputes arising out of or concerning the contract should be referred to the arbitration of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce.	Facts
The respondents delivered, pursuant, to the contract, in all 2000 bales and made default in the delivery of the balance.	Facts
The appellants then applied to the Bengal Chamber of Commerce for arbitration in accordance with Cl. 14 of the agreement.	Facts
The respondents appeared before the arbitrators and contested the claims on the merits.	Facts
The arbitrators made an award in favour of the appellants for Rs. 10,525, and that was filed under S. 14(2) of the Indian Arbitration Act in the High Court of Calcutta on its original side and notice was issued to the respondents.	Facts
Thereupon they filed an application presumably under S. 33 of the Arbitration Act for a declaration that the contract dated September 7, 1955 was illegal as it was in contravention of the notification of the Central Government dated October 29, 1953, and that the award based thereon was a nullity.	Facts
The learned Judge on the original side before whom the application came up for hearing dismissed it and passed a decree in terms of the award.	Facts
Against both the judgment and the order, the respondents preferred appeals to a Division Bench of the High Court, Appeals Nos. 140 and 141 of 1957.	Facts
They were heard by Chakravartti C.J., and Lahiri, J., who held that the contract dated September 7, 1955 was illegal, as it fell within the prohibition contained in notification of the Central Government dated October 29,1953 and accordingly allowed the appeals and set aside the award.	Facts
The appellants then applied for a certificate under Art.133(1)of the Constitution but the same was refused.	Facts
Thereafter they applied to this Court for leave under Art.136 of the Constitution and that was granted.	Facts
This is how these appeals come before us.3.	Facts
In Civil Appeals Nos. 391 and 392 of 1960 the facts are similar.	Facts
The appellants who are a company carrying on business in the manufacture of jute entered into a contract with the respondents on October 17, 1955, for the purchase of 500 bales of jute cuttings at Rs. 8780 per bale of 400 lbs., to be delivered in equal installments of 250 bales in November and in December 1955.	Facts
Clause 14 of the agreement provides that all differences arising out of or concerning the contract should be referred to the Bengal Chamber of Commerce for arbitration.	Facts
The respondents made default in the delivery of the goods and thereupon the appellants moved the Chamber of Commerce for arbitration under Cl. 14 of the agreement.	Facts
The respondents appeared before the arbitrators and contested the claim on the merits.	Facts
The arbitrators made an award in favour of the appellants for Rs. 17,500, and that was filed in the High Court of Calcutta on its original side and notice under S.14(2) of the Arbitration Act was served on the respondents.	Facts
Thereupon they filed an application in the High Court of Calcutta, presumably under S.33 of the Arbitration Act, for a declaration that the contract dated October 29,1953 and was therefore illegal and that the arbitration proceedings pursuant thereto and the award passed therein were all void.	Facts
The learned single Judge on the original side before whom the application came up for hearing dismissed it and passed a decree in terms of the award.	Facts
Against the above judgment and order the respondents preferred appeals to a Division Bench of the High Court, Appeals Nos. 142 and 143 of 1957.	Facts
They were heard by Chakravartti, C. J. and Lahiri, J., who held that the contract dated October 17, 1955 was illegal, as it fell within the prohibition contained in the notification of the Central Government dated October 29, 1953, and accordingly allowed the appeals and set aside the awards.	Facts
The appellants thereafter applied under Art.	Facts
133 (1) (c) for a certificate and that having been refused they obtained from this Court leave under Art.	Facts
136 of the Constitution and that is how these appeals come before us.	Facts
The point how these appeals are the same and this Judgment will govern all of them.4.	Facts
The following contentions have been urged in support of these appeals (1)The Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 is ultra vires and the notification dated October 29, 1953 is in consequence null and void.(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
On the terms of the arbitration clause the question whether the contracts dated September 7, 1955 and October 17, 1955 are illegal is one for the arbitrators to decide and that it was not open to respondents to raise the same in application under S. 33 of the Act.(3)	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents submitted to the jurisdiction of the arbitrators and that amounts to fresh agreement for arbitration and award is accordingly valid and binding on them.(4)	Arguments of Petitioner
The contracts dated September 7. 1955 and October 17, 1955, are nontransferable specific delivery contracts and they are not hit by the notification dated October 29, 1953.5 (1)The first question relates to the vires of Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (Act 74 of 1952) hereinafter referred to as the Act.	None
This statute was enacted by Parliament and received the assent of the President on December 26, 1952.	Reasoning
Its validity is attacked on two grounds, that Parliament had no competence to enact it, and that the provisions of the Act are repugnant to Art. 14 and Art. 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution and therefore void.	Reasoning
If this contention is well founded, then the notification dated October 29, 1953 which was issued by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by S. 17 of the Act would be null and void.6.	Reasoning
Dealing first with the question as to the competence of Parliament to enact the impugned law, it will be convenient to set out the entries in the Legislative Lists in Seventh Schedule of the Constitution bearing on this question.	Reasoning
List IEntry 48Stock Exchanges and Futures Markets.	Reasoning
List II	Reasoning
Entry 26  Trade and commerce within the State subject to the provision of entry 33 of List III.Entry 27Production, supply and distribution of goods subject to the provision of entry 33 of List III.List III  Entry 7Contracts, including partnership, agency, contracts of carriage, and other special forms of contracts, but not including contracts, but not including contracts relating to agricultural land.7.	Reasoning
Now the contention of the appellants is that the subject  matter of the impugned legislation is either Trade and commerce or Production, supply and distribution of goods, within entries 26 or 27 in List II or the Seventh Schedule, and that it is within the exclusive domain of the State Legislature.	None
The contention of the respondents, and of the Union which has intervened, is that the impugned Act is legislation of Futures Markets falling under entry 48 in List 1 and that it is Parliament which has the exclusive competence over it, and in the alternative it is one on contracts, and that is covered by entry 7 in List III in the Seventh Schedule and is intra vires.	Arguments of Respondent
To decide this question it is necessary to ascertain the true nature and scope of the legislation, its pith and substance.	None
The object of the Act as stated in the preamble is to provide for the regulation of certain matters relating to forward contracts, the prohibition of options in goods and for matters connected therewith.	None
The statute makes a distinction between ready delivery contracts and forward contracts.	None
When a contract provides for the delivery of goods and payment of price there for either immediately or within a period not exceeding eleven days it is a ready delivery contract.	Reasoning
All other contracts are forward contracts.	Reasoning
Forward contracts are again divided into two categories specific delivery contracts and nontransferable specific delivery contracts.	Reasoning
Specific delivery contracts mean forward contracts which provide for actual delivery of specific goods at the price fixed during a specified future period.	Reasoning
Nontransferable specific delivery contracts are specific delivery contracts the rights or liabilities under which are not transferable.	Reasoning
Section 15 confers power on the Government to issue notifications declaring illegal forward contracts with reference to such goods or class of goods and in such areas as may be specified.	Reasoning
Section 17 authorises the Government to prohibit by notification any forward contract for the sale or purchase of any goods or class of goods to which the provisions of S. 15 have not been made applicable.	Reasoning
Section 18 exempts nontransferable specific delivery contracts from the operation of these sections.	Reasoning
Thus the law is what it purports to be a law regulating Forward Contracts.8.	None
That being the scope of the enactment, the point debated before us is whether it is a law on Trade and commerce or Production, supply and distribution of goods within entries 26 or 27 in List II or on Futures Markets within entry 48 in List l.	None
It would be noticed that both the entries 26 and 27 in List II are subject to entry 33 in List III.	None
Entry 33 as it now stands is Trade and commerce in, and the Production, supply and distribution of (e) raw jute.	Reasoning
The impugned Act in so far as it relates to raw jute and that is what we are concerned with in these appeals  will clearly be intra vires if it fell under this entry.	Reasoning
But it should be mentioned that cl.	Reasoning
(e) in entry 33 was inserted by the Constitution (Third Amendment) Act, 1959 and as the impugned Act. was passed in 1952, its validity must be determined on the provisions of the Constitution as they stood prior to the Amendment Act in 1954 and entry 33 in List III therefore must be excluded from consideration.9.	Reasoning
Now turning to the question whether the impugned Act is legislation on Futures Markets or on Trade and commerce, the contention of the appellants is that a law with respect to Forward Contracts, is not a law with respect to Futures Markets, because the ordinary and accepted meaning of Market is that it is a place where business in the sale and purchase of goods is carried on.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention we are referred to the Dictionary meaning of the word Market and the decisions of the Madras High Court reported in Public Prosecutor v. Cheru Kutti, AIR 1925 Mad 1095 and Commissioner, Coimbatore Municipality v. Chettimar Vinayagar Temple Committee, 19562 Mad 563 .	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Oxford Dictionary the word market means gathering of people for purchase and sale of provisions, livestock, etc. open space or covered building in which cattle etc. are exposed for sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
In AIR 1925 Mad 1095 the facts were that the accused was charged under S. 170 of the Madras Local Boards Act, 1920 for keeping open a new private market without a licence.	Arguments of Petitioner
His defence was that the place where the sale were held was not truly a market, and that was accepted.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that context, discussing the meaning of the word market, the Court observed that it meant a place set apart for the meeting of the general public of buyers and sellers, freely open to any such to assemble to gather, where any seller may expose his goods for sale and any buyer may purchase.	Arguments of Petitioner
In 19562 Mad LJ 563 the question arose this time withreference to the provision in Madras District Municipalities Act, 1920, requiring a place used as an open market under the Act to be licensed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court held that the ordinary meaning of market was a place where the public could go during particular times for purpose of buying and selling and that on the facts the place in question was a market.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended on the strength of the above rulings that as the impugned Act is not one with reference to building where business is being transacted it is not a law with reference to markets.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to agree with this contention.	Reasoning
Market no doubt ordinarily means a place where business is being transacted.	Reasoning
That was probably all that meant at a time when trade was not developed and when transactions took place at specified places.	Reasoning
But with the development of commerce, bargains came to be concluded more often than not through correspondence and the connotation of the word Market underwent a corresponding expansion.	Reasoning
In modern parlance the word market has come to mean business as well as the place where business is carried on.	Reasoning
Labour Market for example, is not a place where labourers are recruited but the conditions of the business of labour.	Reasoning
The word market being thus capable of signifying both business and the place where the business is carried on, the question in what sense it is used in a particular statute must be decided on a consideration of the context of that statute.	Reasoning
Thus in AIR 1925 Mad 1095 and 19562 Mad LJ 563 the question arose with reference to provisions as to licensing by local authorities, and for that purpose market was interpreted as meaning a place.	Reasoning
So we must examine what the word market means in entry 48 futures Markets in List I.	Reasoning
The word Futures is thus defined in Encyclopaedia Britannica contracts which consist of a promise to deliver specified qualities of some commodity at a specified future time.	Reasoning
The obligation is for a single quantity in a given month Futures are thus.	Reasoning
a form of security analogous to a bond or promissory note.	Reasoning
In this sense a market can have reference only to business and not to any location.	Reasoning
In our opinion a legislation on Forward Contracts would be a legislation on Futures Markets.11.	Reasoning
It is next argued for the appellants that even if a law on Forward Contracts can be said to be a law on Futures Markets, it must be held to be legislation falling under entry 26 in List II.	Arguments of Petitioner
and not entry 48 in List 1, because Forward Contracts form a major sector of modern trade, and constitute its very core, and to exclude them from the ambit of entry 26 in List II, would be to rob it of much of its contents.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed in support of this contention, on the rule of construction that the entries in the Lists should be construed liberally and on the decision in Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd. v. Dunichand.	Arguments of Petitioner
AIR 1952 Cal 740 (SB) which on this point was affirmed by this Court in Duni Chand v. Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd., 19551 SCR 1071 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 182 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
The rule of construction is undoubtedly well established that the entries in the Lists should be construed broadly and not in a narrow or pedantic sense.	None
But there is no need for the appellants to call this rule in aid of their contention, as trade and commerce would, in their ordinary and accepted sense, include forward contracts.	None
That was the view which was adopted in Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd. case AIR 1952 Cal 740 (SB) and which commended itself to this Court in Duni Chand Raterias Case 19551 SCR 1071 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 182 )	None
.Therefore, if the question were simply whether a law on Forward Contracts would be a law with respect to Trade and commerce ,there should be no difficulty in answering it in the affirmative.	None
But the point which we have got to decide is as to the scope of the entry Trade and commerce read in juxipostion with entry 48, of List I.	None
As the two entries relate to the powers mutually exclusive of two different legislatures, the question is how these two are to be reconciled.	None
Now it is a rule of construction as well established as that on which the appellants rely, that the entries in the Lists should be so construed as to give effect to all of them and that a construction which will result in any of them being rendered futile or otiose must be avoided.	Reasoning
It follows from this that where there are two entries, one general in its character and the other specific, the former must be construed as excluding the latter.	Reasoning
This is only an application of the general maxim that Generalia specialibus non derogant.	Reasoning
It is obvious that if entry 26 is to be construed as comprehending Forward Contracts, then Futures Markets in entry 48 will be rendered useless.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that legislation on Forward Contracts must be held to fall within the exclusive competence of the Union under entry 48 in List I.12.	None
It now remains to deal with the decisions on which the appellants rely in support of their contention that the legislation is really one on Trade and commerce falling within entry 26.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd. case AIR 1952 Cal 740 (SB) the question was with reference to the validity of the West Bengal Jute Goods Futures Ordinance, 1949.	Arguments of Petitioner
That Ordinance had been promulgated by the Governor without obtaining the consent of the GovernorGeneral and the contention was that the legislation fell within entry 7 Contracts in List III and as the consent of the Governor General had not been obtained it was invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this it was contended that the legislation was with respect to Trade and commerce which fell within List II and that therefore the consent of the Governor General was not necessary.	Arguments of Petitioner
In accepting the latter contention the Court observed In pith and substance the legislation was one on trade and commerce and not on contracts and that therefore it was within the powers of the provincial legislature.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was an appeal taken against this decision to this Court and there the correctness of this view was accepted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vide Duni Chand Raterias case,.	Arguments of Petitioner
19551	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 1071 (S)AIR 1555 SC 182).	Arguments of Petitioner
Now the contention before us is that on this authority it should be held that the legislation was one on Trade and commerce falling within entry 26.13.	None
We are unable to accept this contention.	None
The validity of the West Bengal Jute Goods Futures Ordinance. 1949, had to be judged in accordance with the provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935, which was the Constitution Act then in force.	Reasoning
In that Act there was no specific entry relating to Futures Markets.	Reasoning
Such an entry was introduced for the first time in the present Constitution in 1950.The contest in Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd. case AIR 1952 SC 740 therefore was not between a general entry on trade and commerce and a specific entry on the futures markets, as in the present case, but between Trade and commerce in List II and Contracts in List III.	Reasoning
In the absence of a specific entry like the one contained in entry 48 in List I, the decision in Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd. case AIR 1952 Cal 740 (SB) would be correct but it is no longer law in view of the change in the Constitution.14.	Reasoning
In the present case the question was also raised whether the impugned legislation would fall under entry 7 of List III.	Reasoning
While the respondents insisted that it fell under entry 48 in List I, they were also prepared, in case that contention failed, to fall back on entry 7 in List III as a second line of defence.	Reasoning
Entry 7 is general in its terms and cannot prevail as against specific entry such as entry 48 in List 1 or 26 in List II.	Reasoning
On this point, we are in agreement with the decision in Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd. case AIR 1952 Cal 740 (SB).	Reasoning
In the result we must hold that the attack on the impugned Act on the ground of legislative incompetence must fail.15.	Reasoning
The second ground of attack on the vires of the Act is that it is repugnant to Art.	None
14 and to Art.	Issue
19(1)(g) of the Constitution and is, therefore, void.	Issue
So far as Art. 14 is concerned, the question is now concluded by the decision of this Court in Raghubar Dayal Jai Prakash v. Union of India, W. P. Nos. 22 to 26 and 42 of 1959 D  12961 (AIR 1962 SC 263 )where it has been held that impugned Act does not infringe that Article and is valid.	Reasoning
This point is therefore no longer open to debate and indeed the appellants addressed no arguments on it.16.	Reasoning
Then as regards the attack based on Art. 19 (1) (g) the position is that though the appellants raised this contention in the pleadings they did not press it before the learned Judges in the Court below because there was a decision of the Bench of the Calcutta High Court which had decided the point against the appellants.	Reasoning
The point, however, was taken on the grounds of appeal to this Court, and has been sought to be pressed before us.	None
The respondents complain and rightly that a point like this should not be allowed to be taken at this stage as a decision thereon will turn on investigation of facts which had not been made.	None
It is also contended that there being a strong presumption in favour of the constitutionality of a legislation, the appellants must fail as they have not placed any materials before the Court to rebut that presumption The answer of the appellants to this contention is that as the Act is on the face of it violative of the fundamental rights under Art. 19 (1) (g), it was for the other side to place materials for showing that it was protected by Art.	None
19	None
(6) as one which is reasonable and made in the interests of the general public, and not for them to show negatively that it was not and reliance was placed on the observations of this Court in Saghir Ahmed v. State of Uttar Pradesh, 19551	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 707 at p. 726 (AIR 1954 SC 728 at p.	Arguments of Petitioner
738).We are of opinion that those observations cannot be read as negativing the presumption as to the constitutionality of a statute.	None
But it is unnecessary to say more about it, as the appellants abandoned this point after some argument.	Reasoning
This contention also must therefore be found against the appellants.17.(2) It is next contended for the appellants that the question as to the validity of the contracts between the parties was one for the arbitrators to decide and that in consequence it was not open to the respondents to raise it in an independent application under S. 33 of the Arbitration Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This question has been considered by us in Khardah Co. Ltd. v.	None
Raymon and Co. (India) (P) Ltd.	Reasoning
CA Nos. 98 and 99 of 1960 D 451962 (AIR 1962 SC 1810 ) with which these appeals were heard and therein we have held that if a contract is illegal and void, an arbitration clause which is one of the terms thereof, must also perish along with it and that a dispute relating to the validity of a contract is in such cases for the Court and not for the arbitrators to decide.	Reasoning
Following that decision we must overrule this contention.18.	Reasoning
(3) The appellants next contend that even if the arbitration clause in the original agreement between the parties should be held to be inoperative by reason of validity of contract itself being in question, when the respondent subsequently appeared before the arbitrators and filed statements in support of their defence that must be held to amount to a new agreement by them for arbitration, on which the arbitrators would be entitled to act and that in consequence the award could not be attacked on the ground of want of jurisdiction.	None
This the respondents dispute.	None
They contend that mere participation in the arbitration proceeding cannot be held to be a new agreement for arbitration, and that the jurisdiction of the arbitrators must be decided solely with reference to cl.	Arguments of Respondent
14 of the agreement.	Arguments of Respondent
The point for decision is as to the true effect of what happened before the arbitrators on their jurisdiction to hear the dispute.	Reasoning
The principles applicable in the determination of this question are well settled.	Reasoning
A dispute as to the validity of a contract could be the subjectmatter of an agreement of arbitration in the same manner as a dispute relating to a claim made under the contract.	Reasoning
But such an agreement would be effective and operative only when it is separate from and independent of the contract which is impugned as illegal.	Reasoning
Where, however, it is a term of the very contract whose validity is in question, it has, as held by us in Khardah Co. Ltd. case, C. A Nos. 98 and 99 of 1960 D  451962 (AIR 1962 SC 1810 ), no existence apart from the impugned contract and must perish with it.19.	Reasoning
We shall now refer to the decisions cited before us, bearing on this distinction between the two categories of agreements.	None
In Shiva Jute Baling Ltd. v. Hindley and Co. Ltd., 19611 SCR 569 (AIR 1959 SC 1357 ), the difference between these two classes of agreements was noticed, though in a somewhat different context.	None
A decision directly bearing on this distinction is the one in	None
East India Trading Co.	Reasoning
New York v. Badat and Co. ILR (1959) Bom. 1004 (AIR 1959 Bom. 414 ).	Reasoning
There the facts were that there was a general agreement between the parties as to the terms on which they should do business and it was provided therein that all disputes arising out of the contract should be settled by arbitration.	Reasoning
Subsequent thereto the parties entered into several contracts and then a dispute arose with reference to one of them.	Reasoning
One of the parties denied the contracts and the question was whether an award passed by the arbitrators with reference to that dispute was without jurisdiction.	Reasoning
In holding that the arbitrators had jurisdiction to decide the matter by virtue of the agreement antecedent to the disputed one, the Court observed Now, the principle of the matter is this that when a party denies the arbitration agreement, the very basis on which the arbitrator can act is challenged and therefore the Court have taken the view that in such a case the arbitrator has no jurisdiction to decide whether he himself has jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute     If the arbitration agreement is part and parcel of the contract itself, by denying the factum of the contract the party is denying the submission clause and denying the jurisdiction of the arbitrators.	Reasoning
But in this case the position is different.	Reasoning
We have an independent agreement by which the parties agreed to refer the disputes to arbitration.	Reasoning
Pursuant to this agreement, contracts were entered into and when the plaintiffs made a claim against the defendants, the defendants denied their liability.	Reasoning
Therefore, what was denied was not the jurisdiction of the arbitrators, not the submission clause, but business done pursuant to the submission clause and to which the submission clause applied.	Reasoning
That in our judgment is a correct statement of the true legal position.20.	None
The point then for decision is whether there is in this case an agreement for reference to arbitration apart from cl.	Issue
14 of the contract.	Issue
It is not contended for the appellants that there was any express agreement between the parties for referring the disputes under the contract dated September 7, 1955 to arbitrators.	None
All that is said is that the respondents filed statements before the arbitrators setting out their defence on the merits, and that must be construed as an independent agreement for arbitration and the decisions in National Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Union of India AIR 1956 Cal 11 , and Pratabmull Rameswar v. K C. Sethia Ltd. 64 Cal WN 616 (AIR 1960 Cal 702 ), are cited as authorities in support of this contention.21.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now an agreement for arbitration is the very foundation on which the jurisdiction of the arbitrators to act rests, and where that is not in existence, at the time when they enter on their duties, the proceedings must be held to be wholly without jurisdiction.	None
And this defect is not cured by the appearance of the parties in those proceedings, if that is without protest, because it is well settled that consent cannot confer jurisdiction.	None
But in such a case there is nothing to prevent the parties from entering into a fresh agreement to refer the dispute to arbitration while it is pending adjudication before the arbitrators, and in that event the proceedings thereafter before them might be upheld as referable to that agreement, and the award will not be open to attack as without jurisdiction.	None
But it will make all the difference in the result whether the parties have entered into an arbitration agreement as defined in S. 2 (a) of the Arbitration Act or have merely taken steps in the conduct of proceedings assumed or believed to be valid.	None
In the former case the award will be valid in the latter, a nullity.22.	None
Now what are the facts in the present case?	None
We have gone through the statements filed by the respondents before the arbitrators, and we do not find anything therein out of which a new agreement to refer the dispute to arbitration could be spelt.	Reasoning
The respondents merely contested the claim on the merits, and then added.	Reasoning
The sellers submit that this reference is improper, unwarranted, frivolous and vexatious and should be dismissed with costs.	Reasoning
It is impossible to read this statement as meaning an agreement to refer to arbitration.23.	Reasoning
The decisions in National Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd.s case, AIR1956 Cal 11 and Pratabmull Rameswars case, 64 Cal WN 616 (AIR 1960 Cal 702 ), relied on for the appellants are not really in point.	Reasoning
In both these cases there was a valid submission on which the arbitrators proceeded to act.	Reasoning
Before them the parties filed statements and therein they put forward a claim which was not actually covered by the reference, and invited them to give their decision thereon.	Reasoning
The party against whom the award had gone contended that the arbitrators had acted without jurisdiction in deciding that claim.	Reasoning
In overruling this contention the Court held that it was open to the parties to enlarge the scope of a reference by inclusion of a fresh dispute, that they must be held to have done that when they filed their statements, putting forward claims not covered by the original agreement, that these statements satisfied the requirements of S.2(a) of the Arbitration Act, and that it was competent to the arbitrators to decide the dispute.	Reasoning
The point to be noticed is that in both these cases there was no want of initial jurisdiction, but a feeding of existing jurisdiction by an enlargement of the scope of the reference.	Reasoning
That this does not involve any question of jurisdiction in the arbitrators will be clear from the scheme of the Act.	Reasoning
If an award deals with a matter not covered by the agreement it could either be modified under S. 15 (a) or remitted under S. 16 (1) (a).	Reasoning
And where such matter is dealt with on the invitation of the parties contained in the statements, there can be no difficulty in holding that the arbitrators acted within jurisdiction.	Reasoning
In the present case the arbitrators had no jurisdiction when they entered on their duties, nor is it established that there was any subsequent agreement which could be held to be a submission of the question as to the validity of the contracts.	Reasoning
We are accordingly of the opinion that the respondents are not precluded by what they did before the arbitrators from agitating the question of the validity of the contracts in the present proceedings.24.	None
(4) The last contention of the appellants is that the contracts dated September 7, 1955 and October 17, 1955, are nontransferable specific delivery contracts, as defined in S. 2(f) of the Act and under S. 18 they are exempt from the operation of S. 17, and that they are therefore not hit by the notification dated October 29, 1953.	Arguments of Petitioner
The facts are similar to those considered by this Court in Khardah Co. Ltd. case C. A. Nos. 98 and 99 of 1960 D  451962 (AIR 1962 SC 1810 ), with which these appeals were heard, and for the reasons given by us in our judgment in those appeals delivered today, we accept the contention of the appellants, and hold that the contracts in question are not hit by the notification dated October 29, 1953.25.	Reasoning
In the result the appeals are allowed, with costs throughout, one set in Civil Appeals Nos. 389 and 390 of 1960 and one in Appeals Nos. 391 and 392 of 1960, and one hearing fee.26.	Decision
Appeals allowed.	Decision
