 Surinder Singh Nijjar, J. Leave granted.	None
These four appeals arising out of SLP (C) No.31690 of 2011, SLP (C) No.31695 of 2011, SLP (C) No.33184 of 2011 and SLP (C) No.33319 of 2011, impugn the judgment of a Division Bench of Karnataka High Court rendered in Writ Petition No. 5428 of 2006 (BDAPIL), and Writ Petition No. 5173 of 2006 (GMRES PIL), whereby the High Court has declared the allotment of civic amenity site no. 2 to Bharat Petroleum Corporation (respondent No. 3) for establishment of a petrol pump, null and void.	Issue
The writ petitions have been allowed.	Issue
The allotment dated 4th August, 2005 made in favour of respondent No. 3 has been set aside.	Issue
The facts as narrated in C.A. No. 10747 of 2013 arising out of SLP (C) No. 31690 of 2011 are as under On 29th August, 1990 a Notification was issued by the State of Karnataka Government under Section 2bb(vi) of the Bangalore Development Authority Act, 1976 (hereinafter referred to as BDA Act, 1976) to the effect that the amenities such as liquefied petroleum gas godowns, retail domestic fuel depots, petrol retail outlets are the civic amenities for the purposes of the aforesaid Act.	Facts
Thereafter, the State Government issued another Notification on 29th April, 1994, inviting objections or suggestions to the Revised Comprehensive Development Plan of Bangalore City Planning Area, prepared under Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961, (Karnataka Act 11 of 1963), which had been provisionally approved by the Government.	Facts
On 5th January, 1995, Site No.2 is reserved for civic amenities (hereinafter referred to as CA Site No.2)bull On 31st January, 2000, Bangalore Development Authority (hereinafter referred to as BDA) passed Resolution No. 28 of 2000 empowering the Chairman or the Commissioner to allot Civil Amenity Site to any Government Body, State or Central Government undertaking.	Facts
On 1st January, 2001, BDA allotted CA Site No.2 and 3 in HRBR Layout III Block each measuring 2195.35 sq. mtrs.	Facts
and 629.18 sq. mtrs.	Facts
in favour of Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (hereinafter referred to as BWSSB) on lease for a period of 30 years for the purpose of service station and pump house.	Facts
On 28th March, 2002, a detailed representation was submitted by one Mr. Padmanabha Reddy on the subject Requisition for Allotment of Civic Amenity Site No.2 3 in HRBR UI Block, Bangalore 43 as park.	Facts
It was pointed out in this representation that the III Block of the HRBR Layout is a residential layout, with homes situated, chockablock, with absolutely no ventilation space.	Facts
It was pointed out that in these circumstances, the provision for a park ventilation space is a cryingneed of the locality.	Facts
The representation also mentions that the objectors had an opportunity to go through the Revised Comprehensive Development Plan 2011 (RCDP) pertaining to District No.7, which clearly showed that, a squarish block of land, situated on the western side of Civic Amenity site wherein the BWSSB has already housed the Twin Ground Level reservoirs had been earmarked for a park.	Facts
The other surprise in store in the RCDP was the earmarking of CA Site No.2, which was the bone of contention, as Commercial Area Zone.	Facts
It is pointed out that in reality, much before 1995, when the RCDP had allegedly been finalized, the BDA had already accomplished the task of converting this squarish block of land into residential sites and either allotted or auctioned such sites.	Facts
The land had been clearly shown as earmarked for a park or a playground.	Facts
Another similar block of land, which was also earmarked to be developed as a park has continued to be used as a burial ground.	Facts
The representationist also brought to the notice of the BDA sentiments expressed by this Court in the case of Bangalore Medical Trust Vs.	Facts
B.S. Muddappa Ors.	Facts
(1991) 4 SCC 54 Particular attention of the authorities was drawn to Paragraphs 18, 19, 24, 25, 27, 37 and 48 with the comment that the observations made in the aforesaid paragraphs reflect the aspirations of the respondent Nos. 4 to 14 (petitioners in the High Court).	Facts
Legally it was stated that the action of the BDA is contrary to Section 38A(2) of the BDA Act, 1976.	Facts
It was ultimately stated that the land on which, now, reservoirs had been developed was beyond redemption and resumption.	None
The other area earmarked for the park can not be used as a park since it has already been used as a graveyard.	None
Their only intention was to save the remaining part which has now been allotted for the use as the petrol pump.	Facts
On 9th February, 2005, the State Government passed an order for continuation of revised CDP 1995 till 2015.	Facts
On 30th June, 2005, Bharat Petroleum Corporation (respondent No.3) requested BDA to allot land for development of a retail outlet.	Facts
On 4th August, 2005, BDA allotted CA Site No.2 in favour of respondent No.3.	Facts
Thereafter, on 7th October, 2005, the lease deed was duly executed between BDA and respondent No.3 for a period of 30 years.	Facts
Dealership licence was granted in favour of wife of the appellant by respondent No.3 on 4th February, 2006.	Facts
Thereafter on 21st February, 2006, BDA has approved the plan for establishment of petrol pump in favour of respondent No.3.	Facts
Aggrieved by the aforesaid action, Writ Petition No. 5428 of 2006 and others were filed in public interest to challenge the decision of BDA dated 21st February, 2006 with a prayer to quash the allotment of CA Site No.2 in favour of respondent No.3 for establishing a petrol pump and to convert the same to a park for the elderly and a playground for the young.	Facts
By the impugned judgment, the Division Bench of Karnataka High Court on interpretation of Section 38A concluded that the allotment was in violation of Section 38A subsection (2).	Facts
The High Court has concluded that CA Site No.2 at the time of its allotment to respondent No.3 was expressly earmarked for use as bank.	None
Therefore, in terms of Section 38A of the BDA Act, 1976 could not have been leased, sold or otherwise transferred for a purpose other than the one for which such area is reserved.	None
Since the site in question was earmarked reserved for bank, it could not have been allotted for use as a petrol pump.	Facts
The High Court also held that the allotment of the site was null and void as it was not in consonance of Section 38A subsection (2).	Facts
The High Court further observed that even though both bank and petrol pump are civic amenities within the meaning of Section 2(bb) of the BDA Act, 1976, yet the mandate of Section 38A is clear and unambiguous.	Facts
It is for the very civic amenity, for which the area is reserved, for which it has to be put to use.	Facts
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
It is submitted by the learned counsel that the High Court has erred in holding that any area of particular civic amenity cannot be subsequently changed to another user which also falls within the definition of a civic amenity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing for all the appellants that the High Court has failed to appreciate that the sites still remain allotted to a civic amenity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Merely, because the user has been changed from public park to bank and now to petrol pump would not violate the provisions contained in Section 38A(1) and (2).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that since the Notification was duly issued that petrol pump would be a civic amenity as provided under Section 2(bb)(vi) of the Act, there was no violation of Section 38A(2).	None
Learned counsel for the appellants have submitted that in fact there is no resolution passed by the BDA to show that the site in question has been earmarked for a bank.	None
It is further submitted that the change of purpose or user for a particular piece of land as a civic amenity is permissible under Rule 3(1) of the Bangalore Development Authority (Civic Amenity Site) Allotment Rules, 1989 (hereinafter referred to as BDAA Rules, 1989) as amended.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned senior counsel, once the land is reserved as a civic amenity and allotted in favour of a Government department or statutory authority of the Central Government, the BDA Rules, 1989 has no application.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the Division Bench has erred in distinguishing the earlier judgment of the Division Bench of the same Court Aicoboo Nagar Residents Welfare Association Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs. Bangalore Development Authority, Bangalore Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
ILR 2002 Kar. 4705 in which it has been clearly laid down that the use of site as a civic amenity for the distribution of petroleum products also would come within the scope of civic amenity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel appearing for the BDA and the State of Karnataka have supported the case pleaded by the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel appearing for respondent Nos. 4 to 14, however, submitted that the High Court has correctly interpreted Section 38A(1) and (2) that any area reserved for a particular civic amenity cannot be diverted to any other civic amenity on the ground that civic amenity is a general term.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, the judgment of the High Court is in consonance with the law laid down by this Court in the case of B.S. Muddappa (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
The aforesaid judgment has been subsequently followed by this Court in R.K. Mittal Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Uttar Pradesh Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(2012) 2 SCC 232	Arguments of Respondent
It has been submitted that in view of the law declared by this Court, the impugned judgment of the High Court does not call for any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties.	None
In our opinion, it is no longer necessary for us to consider the issues raised by the appellants on first principle, as the issue is no longer res integra.	Reasoning
In the case of B.S. Muddappa (supra), this Court examined the entire issue wherein, it has been held that the legislative intent of the Bangalore Development Authority (Amendment) Act, 1991 (hereinafter referred to as BDA (Amendment) Act, 1991), which came into force w.e.f.	Reasoning
16th January, 1991 is to prevent the diversion of the user of an area reserved for a public park or playground or civic amenity to another user.	None
Original Section 38A of the BDA Act, 1976 has been substituted with the present Section 38A w.e.f.	None
21st April, 1984, which reads as under 38A. Grant of area reserved for civic amenities etc.(1)	None
The Authority shall have the power to lease, sell or otherwise transfer any area reserved for civic amenities for the purpose for which such area is reserved.(2)	None
The Authority shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any area reserved for public parks and playgrounds and civic amenities, for any other purpose and any disposition so made shall be null and voidProvided that where the allottee commits breach of any of the conditions of allotment, the Authority shall have right to resume such site after affording an opportunity of being heard to such allottee.	None
Interpreting the aforesaid provision, this Court has held as under This new Section 38A, as clarified in the Statement of Objects and Reasons and in the Explanatory Statement attached to L.A. Bill 6 of 1991, removed the prohibition against lease or sale or any other transfer of any area reserved for a civic amenity, provided the transfer is for the same purpose for which the area has been reserved.	None
This means that once an area has been stamped with the character of a particular civic amenity by reservation of that area for purpose, it cannot be diverted to any other use even when it is transferred to another party.	None
The rationale of this restriction is that the scheme once sanctioned by the government must operate universally and the areas allocated for particular objects must not be diverted to other objects.	None
This means that a site for a school or hospital or any other civic amenity must remain reserved for that purpose, although the site itself may change hands.	None
This is the purpose of subsection (1) of Section 38A as now substituted.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 38A, on the other hand, emphasises the conceptual distinction between public parks and playgrounds forming one category of space and civic amenities forming another category of sites.	None
While public parks and playgrounds cannot be parted with by the BDA for transfer to private hands by reason of their statutory dedication to the general public, other areas reserved for civic amenities may be transferred to private parties for the specific purposes for which those areas are reserved.	Reasoning
There is no prohibition, as such, against transfer of open spaces reserved for public parks or playgrounds, whether or not for consideration, but the transfer is limited to public authorities and their user is limited to the purposes for which they are reserved under the scheme.	None
The distinction is that while public parks and playgrounds are dedicated to the public at large for common use, and must therefore remain with the State or its instrumentalities, such as the BDA or a Municipal Corporation or any other authority, the civic amenities are not so dedicated, but only reserved for particular or special purposes24.	None
Protection of the environment, open spaces for recreation and fresh air, playgrounds for children, promenade for the residents, and other conveniences or amenities are matters of great public concern and of vital interest to be taken care of in a development scheme.	None
It is that public interest which is sought to be promoted by the Act by establishing the BDA.	None
The public interest in the reservation and preservation of open spaces for parks and playgrounds cannot be sacrificed by leasing or selling such sites to private persons for conversion to some other user.	None
Any such act would be contrary to the legislative intent and inconsistent with the statutory requirements.	None
Furthermore, it would be in direct conflict with the constitutional mandate to ensure that any State action is inspired by the basic values of individual freedom and dignity and addressed to the attainment of a quality of life which makes the guaranteed rights a reality for all the citizens.25.	None
Reservation of open spaces for parks and playgrounds is universally recognised as a legitimate exercise of statutory power rationally related to the protection of the residents of the locality from the illeffects of urbanisation.27.	None
The statutes in force in India and abroad reserving open spaces for parks and playgrounds are the legislative attempt to eliminate the misery of disreputable housing condition caused by urbanisation.	None
Crowded urban areas tend to spread disease, crime and immorality.	None
As stated by the U.S. Supreme Court in Samuel Berman v. Andrew Parker (L Ed pp. 3738	None
US pp. 3233)	None
They may also suffocate the spirit by reducing the people who live there to the status of cattle.	None
They may indeed make living an almost insufferable burden.	None
They may also be an ugly sore, a blight on the community which robs it of charm, which makes it a place from which men turn.	None
The misery of housing may despoil a community as an open sewer may ruin a river.	None
The concept of the public welfare is broad and inclusive .	None
The values it represents are spiritual as well as physical, aesthetic as well as monetary.	None
It is within the power of the legislature to determine that the community should be beautiful as well as healthy, spacious as well as clean, wellbalanced as well as carefully patrolled.	None
In the present case, the Congress and its authorized agencies have made determinations that take into account a wide variety of values .	None
(Per Douglas, J.).	None
In our opinion, the aforesaid observations are a complete answer to all the submissions made by the learned counsel for the appellants.	None
This apart on the interpretation of Section 38A(1) and (2), the inescapable conclusion is that under Section 38A (1), BDA would have the authority to lease, sell or otherwise transfer any area reserved for the purpose for which such area is reserved, and no other.	Reasoning
This clearly means that the Government can pass on the responsibility to another concern, be it individual, company or corporation for the purposes of carrying on the activity for which the plot has been reserved as a civic amenity.	Reasoning
It does not give a licence to the BDA to convert the area reserved for civic amenities for activities which do not fall within the definition of civic amenities.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of Section 38 is an embargo that even such sale or disposal otherwise of an area reserved for public parks, playground would not be permitted to private parties.	Reasoning
Though such spaces, playgrounds and parks can be transferred to public authorities, but their user would be limited to the purposes for which they are reserved under the scheme.	Reasoning
In case, a disposition is made for a purpose other than the one for which it is reserved, the Act has declared that, it shall be null and void.	Reasoning
In our opinion, Rule 3 of which the support is sought by the appellants can not be permitted to override the statutory provision contained in Section 38A(1) and (2).	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the rule only reiterates the statutory provision in Section 38A(1) and (2).	Reasoning
We also do not find any substance in the submission that the site was never allotted as a bank, and, therefore, it could be allotted as a petrol pump.	Reasoning
The High Court upon perusal of the pleadings as well as annexure c appended to the writ petition has recorded the following facts In so far as the factual matrix is concerned, it is necessary to record that the site in question was originally earmarked as park playground in 1984.	Reasoning
This factual position stands acknowledged at the hands of the Bangalore Development Authority in paragraph 5 of its counter affidavit.	Reasoning
Subsequently, three civic amenity sites came to be carved out, in the area earlier earmarked for park play ground.	Reasoning
The first of these is presently being used by the Bangalore Water supply and Sewerage Board.	Reasoning
The second site, which is the one in question was earmarked for use as a bank.	None
So far as the instant aspect of the matter is concerned, our attention has been invited to AnnexureC appended to the writ petition, wherein civic amenity site no.2 has been shown as earmarked for bank.	None
The aforesaid AnnexureC came to be executed on 06.01.1996.	None
Civil amenity site no.2 is indicted therein, as measuring 2195.35 sq. meters.	Reasoning
In the column titled purpose for which earmarked, AnnexureC specifies bank.	None
It is the contention of the petitioners that, civic amenity site no.2 which was earmarked exclusively for use as bank has never undergone any change at the hands of the Bangalore Development Authority.	Reasoning
Civic amenity site no. 3 is not relevant for the instant case, and as such we refrain, for reasons of brevity, from recording any details in connection therewith.	None
Upon consideration of the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties, the High Court has concluded We are satisfied that civil amenity site no. 2, at the time of its allotment to respondent no.3 was expressly earmarked for use as bank.	None
The aforesaid position has remained unaltered to this day.	None
In terms of the mandate contained in Section 38A of the Bangalore Development Authority Act, 19776 it could not have been leased, sold or otherwise, transferred for purpose other than the one .for which such area is reserved.	None
Since the civil amenity site in question was earmarked reserved for bank, we are satisfied that it could not have been allotted for use as a petrol station.	None
From the above, it is evident that in fact, the site had been originally earmarked to be developed as a public park playground in 1984.	None
However, since the same has been converted to a residential area, respondents Nos. 4 to 14 have very fairly stated that it could not at this stage be restored to its original purpose without causing havoc in the lives of the residents.	Reasoning
They have, therefore, not insisted that the site be restored to its original purpose.17.	Reasoning
We also do not find any merit in the submission that the term civic amenities would permit BDA to change the reservation from one particular user to another without the necessary amendment in the development plan.	Reasoning
This would be contrary to the law laid down by this Court in the case of B.S. Muddappa (supra).18.	Reasoning
We also do not find any substance in the submissions that the High Court has wrongly distinguished the judgment of the earlier Division Bench of the High Court in Aicoboo Nagar Residents Welfare Association (supra).	Reasoning
A perusal of the paragraph 10 of the aforesaid judgment clearly shows that in that case, the High Court considered the legality of allotment of civic amenity site no.3.	Reasoning
There was, in fact, no change in the activity purpose, as the site had not been reserved for any specific purpose.	Reasoning
The other question was whether the lease in favour of the government company for opening of petrol and diesel outlet would fall within the definition of civic amenity.	Reasoning
In the present case, it was not the case of the respondent nos.	Reasoning
4 to 14 that petrol pump is not a civic amenity, therefore, the site could not have been allotted to open a petrol pump.	Reasoning
The grievance of the respondents (writ petitioners in the High Court) was that civic amenity site no.2 had been earmarked for a bank and could not be allotted for a petrol pump without making necessary amendment in the site.	Reasoning
Therefore, the High Court has rightly distinguished the aforesaid judgment and not relied upon the same.	Reasoning
We, therefore, find no merit in the appeals and the same are hereby dismissed.	Decision
