 Leave granted.	None
These appeals are directed against the judgment and order dated 13.6.2008 passed by the Madras High Court in C.R.P. No.1137/2008 and CRP No. 1471/2008.	Issue
The basic fact of the matter is not in dispute.	None
The respondent herein took advance from the appellantBank.	Issue
On its failure to pay back the amount, a proceeding was initiated before the Debt Recovery Tribunal at Chennai.	Issue
It was later on transferred to Coimbatore.	Facts
A proposal was mooted between the parties as to whether they should enter into a One Time Settlement in terms of the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India wherefor an application was filed before the Debt Recovery Tribunal, praying inter alia	Issue
It is therefore prayed that this Honble Tribunal may be pleased to direct that respondent bank to comply with the RBI guidelines and accept the sum of Rs.	None
70,00,000/ in full and final satisfaction of all their claims and settle the account and on failure of the respondent bank to comply with the said direction, dispose the main application T.A. 937 of 2002 by passing a decree for only the agreed sum of Rs.	Facts
70,00,000/ and thus render justice.	None
The said application was dismissed by the Debt Recovery Tribunal opining that the offer made by the respondent was on the lower side.	Facts
An appeal was preferred thereagainst before the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal by reason of its order dated 9th October, 2007 directed Interim stay on condition of deposit of Rs.	Facts
25,00,000/ (Rupees Twenty Five Lakhs Only) with the respondent bank on or before 12.11.2007.	Facts
On such deposit, the respondent Bank is directed to keep the said amount in interest earning nolien account until further orders.	None
Pursuant thereto and in furtherance thereof the said sum of Rs. 25 lakh was deposited.	None
The matter came up before the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal again on 29.11.2007 on which date the following order was passed The amount of Rs. 25 lakhs deposited as per the conditional order dated 9.10.2007 is ordered to be adjusted towards the loan account due by the appellant to the respondent bank.	Facts
Adjourned to 19.12.2007 for reporting settlement or arguments.	Facts
Interim stay extended till then.	None
A civil revision application was filed thereagainst by the respondent was disposed of with the following direction Admittedly, certain amount is payable by the petitionerCompany to the respondentBank, which is more than Rs. 25 lakhs.	None
In this background, the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunals order adjusting the amount of Rs. 25 lakhs towards the loan amount due by the petitionerCompany to the respondentBank, requires no interference.	Facts
However, we make it clear that the amount of Rs. 25 lakhs so deposited by the petitionerCompany shall be subject to the decision in the appeals preferred by the petitionerCompany and that will not stand in the way of the respondentBank to make onetime settlement with the petitionerCompany, taking into account the adjustment of Rs. 25 lakhs as made pursuant to the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunals order.	Facts
When the matter went back to the Appellate Tribunal, the appeal preferred by the respondent was dismissed opining On a careful consideration of the entire factual aspects of the matter, in the light of the above principles of law laid in the decisions referred to above, this Tribunal has no other option except to conclude that since the OTS offer made by the Appellate had not been accepted by the RespondentBank, it is no longer necessary to call either the Branch Manager of the Bank as a witness for the crossexamination.	Facts
In any view of the matter, I am unable to find any irregularity or illegality in the impugned orders so as to interfere with the same and it follows that the Appeals have to be dismissed by confirming the orders passed by the DRT.	Facts
Respondent preferred a civil revision application before the High Court once again.	None
The High Court passed an interim order on or about 30th April, 2008, wherein referring to an earlier order dated 16th April, 2008 it directed as under From the earlier order it will be evident that this Court, with a view to put an end to the dispute, wanted the bank to reach one time settlement for Rs. 1 crore, inclusive of Rs. 25 lakhs already deposited by the petitioner pursuant to the Courts order.	Facts
The bank was allowed time to inform the Court in this matter vide order dated 16th April, 2008 and it was observed that the rest of the amount of Rs. 75 lakhs may be ordered to be paid by the Court in favour of the bank.	Facts
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the bank submitted that for one or other reason the Board of Directors of the bank could not deliberate on the issue and will take a decision.in the circumstances, while we grant further time to the respondentBank, allow the petitioner to deposit the rest of the amount of Rs. 75 lakhs by 30th May, 2008 with the bank with further direction to the bank to accept the same and keep it in an interest bearing nolien account subject to the decision of this case.	Facts
It is also made clear that if the bank do not accept the offer of the one time settlement, then this Court may direct the Bank to refund the entire amount, i.e. the amount of (Rs. 25 lakhs and Rs. 75 lakhs) paid by the petitioner in view of courts order along with the accrued interest and, therefore, may remit the matter back to the Tribunal Appellate Tribunal to decide the case on merits.	Facts
It is now accepted at the Bar that the respondent did not agree to the aforementioned proposal of the High Court that the One Time Settlement should be confined to Rs.1 crore.	None
When the matter came up before the High Court again on 13.6.2008, by reason of the impugned judgment the appellantBank was directed to refund the entire amount of Rs.1 crore with interest at the same rate to which the respondent was liable to pay i.e. the contractual rate of interest, in favour of the respondent within 7 days.	Facts
The appellant is, thus, before us.	Facts
Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would raise two contentions in support of these appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
Firstly, that the sum of Rs. 25 lakhs having been adjusted against the amount of loan payable by the respondent, no direction could have been issued for refund in relation thereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, it was contended that having regard to the fact that the amount of Rs. 75 lakhs was deposited on nolien account which carries a low rate of interest, the direction by the High Court to refund the said sum with contractual rate of interest must be held to be illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gurukrishna Kumar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, contended that the impugned judgment has been passed in continuation of the High Courts order dated 30th April, 2008 and in view of the fact that the correctness of the said order has not been questioned, the appellant should not be permitted to raise the aforementioned contentions before us.	Arguments of Respondent
It is accepted at the Bar that the matter is likely to be taken up by the High Court on 21.7.2008.	Reasoning
Indisputably, when the High Court enters into the merit of the revision application, it shall take into consideration all aspects involved therein, including the offer of the respondent visavis the orders passed by the Debt Recovery Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal.	None
Be that as it may, having regard to the fact that the Appellate Tribunal in its order directed adjustment of the aforementioned amount of Rs. 25 lakhs, which in view of the dismissal of the civil revision application has attained finality, in our opinion, at this interlocutory stage the High Court was not correct in issuing a direction in that behalf.	None
So far as the rest of the amount of Rs. 75 lakhs is concerned, it stands accepted that the amount was deposited in a nolien account.	None
The High Court, therefore, should have directed refund of the said amount with interest only accruing thereupon having regard to the fact that the same was deposited in a nolien account.	None
The High Court, therefore, in our opinion, was not correct in directing that the interest payable on the sum of Rs. 75 lakhs would be the contractual rate.	Reasoning
We, therefore, set aside only that part of the impugned order by which the Bank was directed to refund the entire amount with the contractual rate of interest.	None
The High Court while hearing the matter shall consider the same on its own merit.18.	Reasoning
The appeals are allowed accordingly.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
