 VENKATASWAMI, J. The common question that arises for consideration in all these appeals is whether a pawnbroker is a dealer and carries on business within the meaning of the State General Sales Tax Act read with the State Pawnbrokers Act and Rules when he causes the sales of unredeemed articles goods, occasioned by the default of the pawnor through (statutory) auctioneer.	Issue
The above question has to be considered with reference to the provisions of the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959 read with the Tamil Nadu Pawnbrokers Act, 1943 and Rules as well as the Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957 read with the Karnataka Pawnbrokers Act, 1961 and Rules.	Facts
We may point out that the relevant provisions of both the Sales Tax Acts and the Pawnbrokers Act are substantially the same and for the sake of convenience, the provisions mentioned hereinafter are the provisions of the Karnataka Acts.	Facts
Before going into the submissions advanced at the Bar, certain basic background facts need to be stated.	None
Pawnbroker is a person who carries on the business of taking goods and chattels in pawn for a loan.	Reasoning
On Payment of the money lent with interest and other admissible incidental expenses, the pawnbroker is liable to return the articles pledged.	Facts
Under the Act and Rules framed thereunder, the pawnbroker has to take out a licence to carry on the business of pawnbroker.	Facts
In addition to that, he has to maintain various account books, register and records as prescribed under the Rules.	Facts
In the event of the pawnors failure to redeem the pledged articles within the stipulated time and the grace period statutorily allowed, the pawnbroker is at liberty to bring the articles pawned for sale at a public auction conducted in accordance with the Rules prescribed under the Act.	Facts
Such sale by public auction must be conducted only through an approved auction and in the manner specified in the Rules.	Facts
The pawnbroker is given liberty to bid at such public auction.	None
The relevant statutory provisions may now be noted.	None
Before the enactment of the Pawnbrokers Act by the States, the transactions of pledge pawn were governed by the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.	Facts
Chapter IX of the Contract Act, deals with the bailments of pledges.	Facts
Section 172 defines pledge, pawnor and pawnee as under The bailment of goods as security for payment of a debt or performance of a promise is called pledge.	Facts
The bailor is in this case called the pawnor.	Facts
The bailee is called the pawnee.	Facts
Sections 173 to 176 deal with the various rights of the pawnee.	Facts
Section 177 deals with the defaulting pawnors right to redeem.	None
In addition to the provisions in the Contract Act dealing with pledge, it was felt necessary by the States to bring in a separate legislation concerning the business of pawnbrokers in order to regulate and control that business of pawnbrokers.	None
Accordingly, the Pawnbrokers Act came to be enacted.	Facts
The Pawbrokers Act provides details of the manner in which the business of a pawnbroker should be carried on and how the rights and liabilities of the pawnor and the pawnee should be adjusted and settled.	Facts
A pawnbroker in the Karnataka Pawnbrokers Act (hereinafter of taking the Act) is defined in Section 2(7) as follows.	None
Pawnbroker means a person who carries on the business of taking goods and chattels in pawn for a loanExplanation.  	Reasoning
Every person who keeps a shop for the purchase or sale of goods or chattels and who purchases goods or chattels and pays or advances thereon any sum of money, with or under an agreement or understanding expressed or implied that the goods or chattels may be afterwards repurchased on any terms, is a pawnbroker within the meaning of this clause.	Facts
Section 3 compels the pawnbroker to obtain a licence.	Facts
Section 7 directs the pawnbroker to give a ticket to the pawnor on taking pledge in pawn.	Facts
Section 11, an important section, deals with the redemption of pledge, which reads as follows Redemption of pledge.  	Facts
(1) Every pledge shall be redeemable within one year from the day of pawning exclusive of that day and there shall be added to that year of redemption, fifteen days of grade within which every pledge (if not redeemed within the period of redemption) shall continue to be redeemable(2)	Facts
A pledge pawned for a sum not exceeding ten rupees, if not redeemed within the period of redemption and days of grace, shall at the end of the days of grace become the pawnbrokers absolute property(3)	Facts
A pledge pawned for a sum exceeding ten rupees shall further continue to be redeemable until it is disposed of as provided in this Act, although the period of redemption and days of grace have expiredExplanation.  	Facts
Where the contract between the parties provides a longer period for redemption than one year, the provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall be read and construed as if references to such longer period had been substituted for the references to the period of one year therein.	Facts
Section 12 of the Act deals with the sale of pledge and inspection of sale book, which reads as follows Sale of pledge and inspection of sale book.  	Facts
(1) A pledge pawned for a sum exceeding ten rupees shall, when disposed of by the pawnbroker, be disposed of by sale by auction and not otherwise, and the sale shall be conducted in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed(2)	Facts
A pawnbroker may bid for and purchase at a sale by public auction conducted under subsection (1), a pledge pawned with him and on such purchase he shall become the absolute owner of the pledge(3)	Facts
At any time within three years after the public auction, the holder the pawnticket may inspect the entry relating to the sale either in the pawnbrokers book or in such catalogue of the auction as may be prescribed(4)(a) Where on such inspection or otherwise, the pledge appears, to have been sold for more than the amount of the loan and interest and charges due at the time of the sale, of the pawnbroker shall pay to the holder of the pawnticket, on demand made within three years after the sale, the surplus after deducting therefore, the necessary costs and charges of the sale(b) If on such demand it appears that the sale of the pledge has resulted in a surplus but that within twelve months before or after such sale, the sale of another pledge or pledges of the same person has resulted in a deficit, the pawnbroker may set off the deficit against the surplus and shall be liable to pay only the balance, if any, after such set off.	Facts
The next relevant provision will be Rule 20 of the Karnataka Pawnbrokers Rules, which reads as under Procedure in auction of pledges.  	Facts
The procedure for sale by public auction of pledges shall be as follows(1)	Facts
The sale shall be conducted by an auctioneer approved by the licensing authority or from the Inspector of Moneylenders and Pawnbrokers(2)	Facts
The auctioneer shall (i) cause all pledges to be exposed to public view(ii) get a catalogue of the pledges to be sold in auction containing the following particulars printed(a) the name, place of business and licence number of the pawnbroker concerned(b) date of loan(c) number of the pledge in the pledge book(d) full and detailed description of the article (weight to be noted in case of jewels)(e) name and address of pawnor and(f) date, hour and place of sale(iii) publish the printed catalogue by getting a copy thereof posted at the place of business of the pawnbroker and by distributing copies among intending bidders(iv) send at least week before the date fixed for the sale(a) two copies of the printed catalogue to the police station having jurisdiction over the premises where the auction is to be held, one copy for being pasted on the notice board of the police station and another copy for record at the police station(aa) two copies of the printed catalogue to the licensing authority having jurisdiction over the premises where the auction is to be held, one copy for being pasted on the notice board of his office and another copy for record(b) one copy of the printed catalogue to the police station or each of the police stations having jurisdiction over the place of the business of the pawnbroker concerned for record at such police station and(c) in any case, shall notify each of the police stations having jurisdiction over the places of business of the pawnbroker concerned and the place or places of sale, and postponement of such auction and all the subsequent dates of auction(v) send a copy of the printed catalogue by registered post of the pawnor at least a week before the date fixed for sale(3)	Facts
The pledges of each pawnbroker in the catalogue shall be separate from the pledges of any other pawnbroker notifying the sale in a newspaper approved by the licensing authority or the Inspector of Money lenders and Pawnbrokers furnishing the following details also(a) the pawnbrokers name and place of business and(b) the months in which the pledges were pawned(4) Where the pawnbroker himself bids at the sale, the auctioneer shall not take the bidding in any form other than that in which he takes the bidding of other persons at the same scale, and the auctioneer on knocking down any article to a pawnbroker shall forthwith declare audibly the name of the pawnbroker as purchaser(5)	Facts
The auctioneer shall, within fourteen days after the sale, deliver to the pawnbroker an authenticated copy of the catalogue, or of so much thereof as a relates to the pledges of that pawnbroker indicating also the charges for the sale of each article(6)	Facts
The pawnbroker shall preserve every such catalogue for at least three years after the auction.	Facts
Section 2(f2) of the Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957 defines business as follows Business includes, (i) any trade, commerce or manufacture or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture, whether or not such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern is carried on with a motive to make gain or profit and whether or not any profit accrues from such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern and(ii) any transaction in connection with, or incidental or ancillary to such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern.	Facts
Section 2(k) defines dealer.	Facts
The relevant portion is as follows2.	Facts
(k) Dealer means any person who carries on the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods, directly or otherwise, whether for cash or for deferred payment, or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration, and includes 15.	Facts
The definition of sale is found in Section 2(t).	Facts
The relevant portion is as follows 2.	Facts
(t) Sale with all its grammatical variation and cognate expressions means every transfer of the property in goods (other than by way of a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge) by one person to another in the course of trade or business for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration, (and includes,  A careful reading of the above extracted provisions will show that the pawnor can redeem the pledged article within the period stipulated or within the grace period provided or before the sale of the pawned article takes place through the auctioneer.	Facts
However, once the article is brought for sale and sold, the pawnor would lose his right in the pawned article as the general property right in the said article passes on to the purchaser17.	Facts
On the basis of the general facts broadly stated as above, the contentions of the learned counsel were advanced18.	Facts
S Shri K. Parasaran and D. A. Dave, learned Senior Counsel, advanced leading arguments on behalf of the appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contentions raised by the counsel are as followsThe pawnbrokers as moneylenders lend money on the pledge of articles.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is incorrect to state that they are engaged in the business of buying and or selling of goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the pledge of the articles, a relationship of bailor and bailee comes into existence and as such, the bailee has no right to sell the property contrary to the contract or other statutory provisions regulating their relationship.	Facts
If at all there is a sale occasioned by the default of the pawnor in redeeming the article, the auctioneer must be treated as the seller and the liability to pay the sales tax will be only on the auctioneer.	Arguments of Petitioner
As the pawnbroker himself is given the right to bid at the sale under the Rules, the cannot be treated as the seller.	Facts
Consequently, the pawnbroker cannot be considered as a dealer effecting a sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accordingly to the learned Senior Counsel, on a harmonious reading of the relevant provisions of the Sales Tax Act and the Pawnbrokers Act, the only conclusion possible is that the pawnbroker is not a dealer effecting a sale of property and, therefore, he is not liable for sales tax on such sales.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the most, it is contended that the sale of pledged articles, in the circumstances, must be deemed to be incidental to the main business of the pawnbroker not attracting the provisions of the State General Sales Tax Act.	Facts
It is also contended that the fact that the Pawnbrokers Act and the Rules framed therein enabled the pawnbrokers to dispose of the pawned articles by way of sale through an auctioneer, it does not in any way amount to transferring the general property right in goods by the pawnbroker to the purchaser.	Arguments of Petitioner
Next it was contended that if it were to be held that the sale of pawned articles conducted at the instance of the pawnbroker resulting in passing on of the property to the purchaser, it would be contrary to the concept of sale as contained in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 as the law does not recognise such a transaction as sale19.	Facts
Mr. T. L. Vishwanatha Iyer, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Karnataka, and Mr. V. Krishnamurthi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu, answering the contentions of learned counsel for the appellants, submitted that factually there is a sale in disposing of the pledged articles through public auction, cannot be disputed.	Arguments of Respondent
The right to bring the articles for sale through public auction in the event of default on the part of the pawnor to redeem, vests with the pawnbroker and the same is incidental to the business of pawnbroker.	Arguments of Respondent
The concept of business includes the business of a pawnbroker with the incidental right to sell the unredeemed goods.	Arguments of Respondent
On the facts of the case, the auctioneer cannot be treated as the seller for imposing tax on him.	Facts
The appellants have admitted that the sale of unredeemed articles is incidental to the business of pawnbroker.	Arguments of Respondent
If that be so, the liability to pay sales tax on such sales cannot be avoided in view of the definition of business, dealer and sale in the Sales Tax Acts.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel submitted that the reasonings given by the High Court are well founded and the conclusions thereon do not call for interference in these appeals	Arguments of Respondent
The caselaw cited by the learned counsel on both the sides will be referred to at the appropriate place21.	None
All the contentions now raised by the learned counsel for the appellants were raised before the High Courts of Karnataka and Madras, but without success.	Facts
Both the High Courts rejected similar contentions and found that the pawnbrokers are liable to pay sales tax on the sales of articles through public auction on account of default committee by the pawnor22.	Facts
The learned Judges of the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court after referring to a judgment of this Court in Bank of Bihar v. State of Bihar held that the pawnbroker has a special property right in the pledge and that special property right is to be distinguished from the mere right of detention which the holder of a lien possesses.	Facts
The Division Bench also held that the sale of unredeemed goods takes place at the instance of the pawnbroker and such sale held through the approved auctioneer results in passing on the general property right in the goods to the purchaser.	Facts
According to the learned Judges, the pawnbroker squarely falls in the main definition of dealer under the Karnataka General Sales Tax Act.	Facts
To come to the above conclusion, the learned Judges invoked the aid of the definition of pawnbroker in Section 2(7) of the Pawnbrokers Act.	Facts
After referring to a judgment of this Court in Lallan Prasad v. RahmAt	Facts
Ali the learned Judges held that a pawnbroker has an implied authority to sell and such activity of sale which is incidental ancillary to the business of pawnbroker falls within the definition of business under the Karnataka Sales Tax Act.	Facts
The learned Judges rejected the contention of the assessees that, if at all, for the sale of pawned articles the auctioneer is liable for sales tax and not the pawnbroker.	Facts
The reason for rejecting the above contention was that the auctioneer was not the agent of the pawnbroker but appointed as auctioneer under the relevant Rule.	Facts
According to the learned Judges, the pawnbroker has authority under the statute to bring the pawned articles for sale and the pawnor loses all his rights in the article sold through the auctioneer at the instance of the pawnbroker23.	Facts
The learned Judges of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court also took the view as that of the Karnataka High Court and gave additional reasons as well.	Facts
After referring to a Full Bench judgment of the Madras High Court in Kandula Radhakrishna Rao v. Province of Madras (Mad))	Facts
the learned Judges held that the pawnor, who pledges the article with the licensed pawnbroker, not only parts with the possession of the pledged article in favour of the pawnbroker, but by virtue of such pledge, parts with the rights he held to sell the pledged article in case of default of payment and discharge of loan or redemption of the article pledged within the time stipulated therefore by the contract or by the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.	Facts
The learned Judges further held that the sale of the pawned article can be safely and legitimately be said to be occasioned or brought about by the action of the pawnbroker only and consequently, he alone has to be treated in law as the person responsible and also as the person who has sold the pledged articles.	Facts
The intervention of an approved auctioneer is only to prevent abuse by the pawnbroker of his right to auction the unredeemed pledged articles to the detriment of the pawnor and to prevent exploitation of his innocence or indigent circumstances.	Facts
The position of the auctioneer was that of a mere crier or broker, who brings about sale.	Facts
Therefore, the auctioneer can, by no stretch of imagination, be characterised as a seller inasmuch as he cannot be said to have any personal or propriety (sic proprietary) interest either in the pledged articles or in the amount realised by virtue of the sale.	Facts
The pawnor plays no role whatever in the actual sale of the articles, though it is his default in redemption of the pledged articles that results in the auctionsale of the pledged articles.	Facts
It was the view of the learned Judges that the pawnbroker, whose action and decision brings about the sale and who alone having possession hands over the pledged articles to the successful bidder subsequently, is to be considered as a seller under the sales tax law.	Facts
The learned Judges held that the pawnbroker satisfies the definitions of dealer as well as business under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, which are substantially the same as that of the corresponding definitions in the Karnataka Sales Tax Act24.	Facts
Aggrieved by the above conclusions, the present appeals by special leave are filed The learned Judges of the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court as well as the learned Judges of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court have written elaborately on the subject citing numerous authorities of this Court and of the High Courts to support their conclusions.	None
We are, with respect, in agreement with the conclusions and the reasonings given for such conclusions in the judgments under appeal.	Reasoning
We do not, therefore, propose to give elaborate reasonings, except to point out the principal reasonings to sustain the conclusions reached in judgments under appeal26.	Reasoning
It cannot be and it is not disputed that the pawnbroker has special property rights in the goods pledged, a right higher than a mere right of detention of goods but a right lesser than general property right in the goods.	Reasoning
To put in differently, the pawnor at the time of the pledge not only transfers to the pawnee, the special right in the pledge but also passes on his right to transfer the general property right in the pledge in the event of the pledge remaining unredeemed resulting in the sale of the pledge by public auction through an approved auctioneer.	Reasoning
The position being what is stated above, the natural consequence will be that it is the pawnee who holds not only the absolute special property right in the pledge but also the conditional general property interest in the pledge, the condition being that he can pass on that general property only in the event of the pledge being brought to sale by public auction in accordance with the Act and the Rules framed thereunder27.	Reasoning
In this connection, we can usefully quote a passage from Kandula Radhakrishna Rao which has been approved by this Court in Bagal Kot Cement Co. v. State of Mysore The Madras High Court in Kandula Radhakrishna Rao case (Mad)) (a Full Bench judgment) speaking through Rajamannar, C.J., an eminent Judge, had an occasion to consider the position of a broker and commission agent under the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 and the Rules made thereunder.	None
The question that was considered in the said judgment was as to whether a commission agent is a dealer or not under the taxing enactment.	None
The learned Chief Justice observed as follows As no written conveyance, still less a registered deed, is necessary for the sale of goods, unlike in the case of sale of immovable property, the contract of sale is performed when the goods are actually delivered.	None
It is because that there can be a sale by a person who has no title to the goods that Section 27 enunciates the rule that the buyer acquires to better title to the goods than the seller had.	None
In the case of commission agent, the accepted mercantile practice is that he has control over or possession of the goods and he has the authority from the owner of the goods to pass the property in and title to the goods.	None
If this is so, undoubtedly when a commission agent sells goods belonging to his principal with his authority and consent and without disclosing to the buyer the name of the owner, there is certainly a transfer of property in the goods from the commission agent to the buyer.	None
A business which consist in such transactions can properly be described as a business of selling goods.	None
A similar position would arise even in the case of a commission agent buying for an undisclosed principal.	None
A commission agent doing this kind of business would, in my opinion, fall within the definition of dealer in the Sales Tax Act.	None
Neither the definition of dealer nor of the contemplates as a necessary condition, that the goods sold should belong to the person selling or buying.	None
There can be a sale or purchase on behalf of another.	None
We have already pointed out that this view of the Full Bench of the Madras High Court had the approval of this Court in Bagal Kot Cement Co. In Member, Board of Revenue, W.B. v. Controller of Stores, E. Rly.	None
this Court had an occasion to consider whether the SouthEastern Railway as a carrier of goods when selling the unclaimed goods was carrying on an activity incidental or ancillary to its business as carrier of goods and, therefore, was a dealer for the purpose of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 and liable to pay sales tax on the sale of unclaimed goods.	None
While answering the question in the affirmative, the learned Judges held as follows (SCC pp. 23839, para 7)	None
In these appeals the question is whether the assesseeRailway in each case is a dealer for the purpose of assessment under the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941.	None
In the case of the assessee, SouthEastern Railway, what were sold were unclaimed goods.	None
The Railway was a carrier of the goods and if at the stage of delivery, goods remained unclaimed for a period the Railway was entitled to dispose of them.	None
There can be no doubt that the activity of so disposing of the goods was adjunctive to the principal activity of the carriage of goods by the Railway.	None
It is an activity which may be regarded as necessarily incidental or ancillary to its business as carrier of the goods.	None
It seems to us that the assessee, SouthEastern Railway, was a dealer for the purposes of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941.	None
Applying the above principle to the facts of these cases, we are clearly of the opinion that in the sales of unredeemed goods through public auction by an approved auctioneer, the pawnee who has control or possession over the goods and who was given statutory authority to pass the general property in and title to the goods, is the seller and as such, satisfies the definition of dealer under the General Sales Tax Act of both the States.	Reasoning
This conclusion is further strengthened by the definition of pawnbroker (supra).	Reasoning
The Explanation to the definition of pawnbroker contemplates that every person who keeps a shop for the purchase or sale of goods or chattels and who purchases goods or chattles and pays or advances thereon any sum of money, with or under an agreement or understanding expressed or implied that the goods or chattles may be afterwards repurchased on any terms, is a pawnbroker within the meaning of the main clause.	Reasoning
The activities of a pawnbroker as detailed above will satisfy the definition of business as well.	Reasoning
We have also noticed that the pawnor has no role at all in the sale of the goods pledged except to redeem the same before the sale is concluded.	Reasoning
Therefore, he cannot be treated as a seller in the context of the transaction Likewise, the auctioneer cannot be treated as a seller liable to pay sales tax on the turnover as the role of the auctioneer in the facts of these cases is very limited and he is not under the control of the pawnbroker.	None
Instead, the auctioneer is under the control of the authorities concerned who granted approval for being an auctioneer.	None
In this connection, we can usefully cite a Division Bench judgment of the Madras High Court in Dy. Commr. of Commercial Taxes v. Sri Dayanand Corpn.	None
(Mad)).	None
The issue for decision in that case was whether the auctioneer can be considered as a dealer for the purpose of levy of sales tax.	None
The auctioneer in that case was also an approved auctioneer under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Pawnbrokers Act.	None
While holding that the auctioneer was not a dealer liable to pay tax, the learned Judges observed as follows We have carefully gone through the formalities which the above rules have laid down for the procedure at the auction of pledged goods by the auctioneer.	None
But nowhere has it been stated that the auctioneer should take over possession of the goods from the pawnbroker and sell them.	None
Even the specific provision in Rule 15(2) extracted above, only directs the auctioneer to cause all pledges to be exposed to public view.	None
He could perform this obligation by directing the pawnbroker to be present at the time of the sale with the articles proposed to be sold and keep them ready for inspection.	None
But this obligation will not make it necessary for the pawnbroker to part with possession of the goods in favour of the auctioneer With a little reflection, one also realises that a careful pawnbroker would like to keep the goods in his own custody until they are sold, and would not like to hand over possession to the auctioneer without any security for their safe custody.	None
The provisions in the Pawnbrokers Act and, in particular, the obligation that auctionsales of unredeemed goods shall be effected according to certain prescribed rules through approved auctioneers are intended to safeguard the pledges of goods from the effect of nonredemption, which will otherwise have the effect of preventing poor persons, who resort to the pawnbrokers for loans, from getting a proper value of the pledged goods when they remain unredeemed.	None
The intervention of the auctioneer is therefore, intended for safeguarding the interest of the pledgers of goods, but at the same time, the rules are careful to see that the interest of pawnbrokers are not also affected and they do not require them to part with the possession of the goods to the auctioneer before the sale.	Facts
In fact the rules are silent about the mode of delivery of the goods.	None
They have meticulously provided for the manner in which the sales are to be published and conducted.	None
The auctioneer will be carrying out the obligations under the rules, even without taking possession of the pledged goods and delivering them to the highest bidder on the fall of the hammer.	None
The pawnbroker can still be a person who retains the possession of the goods, and he can deliver them to the successful bidder at the auction by the auctioneer.	None
It is from this point of view that we are impressed by the circumstances mentioned by the Tribunal in its order, including clause 5 of the conditions of the auctionsale which allows the bidder to take delivery of the goods from the pawnbroker, and the bill of the sale which mention of the fact that the buyer will take delivery of the goods from the pawnbroker on payment of the price to the auctioneerIt is no doubt a fact that Section 2(g) of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1959, which defines dealer includes as auctioneer.	None
The auctioneer is however included therein only as an instance of other types of dealers who are also referred to in the definition.	None
But the main part of the definition at the beginning of Section 2(g) refers to a person who carries on the business of buying, selling supplying or distributing goods.	None
Before these requirements can apply to a dealer, for the purpose of levy of sales tax the transaction must amount to sale as defined in Section 2(n) of the Act.	None
That definition makes it necessary that there should be a transfer of property in the goods by one person to another in the course of business for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration.	None
In the present case, there is a clear finding that the auctioneer merely served the purpose of bringing the bidders and the pawnbrokers into contact with each other and also arranged for the holding of a sale in an open and fair manner, giving the widest publicity to the sales so that the pledgers might get the most advantageous price at the open sale of their pledged articles But it is the pawnbroker who ultimately delivers possession of the goods to the bidder.	None
On this finding of fact by the Tribunal, it has to be concluded that the respondent discharged only the duty of a crier or a broker who brought the parties together, but he was not a dealer who transferred the property in the goods to the highest bidder We are in agreement with the above observations and the conclusions reached thereon.	None
This answers, in the negative, the contention advanced on behalf of the appellants that if at all in the transactions in question, the auctioneer must be held liable for payment of tax34.	Reasoning
Now coming to the contention that inasmuch as the pawnbroker is given liberty to bid and purchase at the sale of unredeemed goods, he cannot be deemed as a seller as he cannot sell the goods to himself.	Reasoning
This contention is misconceived as the pawnbroker in such a circumstances plays a dual role  one as a pawnbroker and the other as the individual self.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, a similar question arose before the Madras High Court in L.S. Chandramouli Co. v. State of Madras (Mad)).	Reasoning
In that case, the question for consideration was whether a local agent of a nonresident principal who carried on business of his own also transfers the goods of the nonresident principal to his own business can be considered as a transaction of sale chargeable to tax.	Reasoning
The learned Judges overruling a similar contention held that the agent concerned held two different capacities  one as an agent of a nonresident principal  and the other as the proprietor of his own business, two different identities altogether.	Reasoning
While transferring the goods of the nonresident principal to himself, he not only acted as an agent of his nonresident principal but also as a purchaser and there is nothing in law which militates against the said conclusions and consequent tax liability on such person.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation to reject the contention of the learned counsel for the appellants that the pawnbroker cannot be treated as a seller of goods in the first and circumstances of these cases and, therefore, not a dealer under the Sales Tax Act35.	Reasoning
It is now well settled that any activity incidental or ancillary to the main business will also come within the definition of business under the Sales Tax Act and, therefore, the contention that the sale of unredeemed goods, being incidental to the business of pawnbroker was not liable to sales tax, cannot be accepted36.	Reasoning
Let us now consider the decisions cited on behalf of the learned counsel for the appellants Mr. K. Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel for the appellants, cited a Single Bench judgment of the Madras High Court in Provincial Govt.	Arguments of Petitioner
of Madras v. Mudukuru Munirathnam Chetti.	Arguments of Petitioner
This judgment, apart from the fact that it was rendered under the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939, is not directly on the point and the context in which the judgment was rendered, was entirely different.	Reasoning
That judgment considered a transaction treated by both the parties as loan and entrustment of goods for sale to others to discharge the loan.	Reasoning
It was held that that transaction cannot be treated as a sale at the hands of the person who advanced the money for the purpose of levy of sales tax.	Reasoning
The nature and character of the transaction in the case on hand are totally different.	Reasoning
Therefore, the case cited has no application to the facts of this case38.	Reasoning
Likewise, the decision cited by Mr. Dave learned Senior Counsel for the appellants, namely, Dy. Commr.	Reasoning
of Commercial Taxes v. A.R.S. Thirumeninatha Nadar (Mad))	Reasoning
Lallan Prasad v. Rahmat Ali Balkrishan Gupta v. Swadeshi Polytex Ltd. and Chowringhee Sales Bureau (P) Ltd. v. CIT are all under different circumstances and with reference to the facts of those cases which have no direct bearing to the issues raised in these cases39.	Reasoning
In Dy. Commr.	Reasoning
of Commercial Taxes (Mad))	Reasoning
the Division Bench of the Madras High Court, on the facts of the case, held that the bank in selling the goods pawned to it did not act as an agent of the assessee and the sales were on behalf of the pledger.	Reasoning
The learned Judges further held that the pawn or pledge by itself did not make the pawnee or pledgee the owner of the goods on the peculiar facts of that case40.	Reasoning
In Lallan Prasad case this Court considered a question whether the appellant in that case was entitled to a decree in view of his denial of the pledge and his failure to offer to redeliver the goods.	Reasoning
In answering that question, this Court, after referring to Section 176 of the Indian Contract Act, held that so long, however, as the sale does not take place, the pawnor is entitled to redeem the goods on payment of the debt.	Reasoning
Therefore, the right to sue on the debt assume that he is in a position to redeliver the goods on payment of the debt, and if by denying the pledge or otherwise, he was put himself in a position whereby he is not able to redeliver the goods, he cannot obtain a decree41.	Reasoning
In Balkrishan Gupta again a judgment of this Court had considered a question that arose under the Companies Act, 1956 and the effect and consequence of appointment of a receiver in respect of certain shares of a company42.	Reasoning
In Chowringhee Sales Bureau (P) Ltd.	Reasoning
this Court, on the peculiar facts of that case, found that there was a close and direct connection between an auctioneer and the transaction of auctionsale in that case.	Reasoning
On the basis of the peculiar facts, this Court also found that the auctioneer had collected sales tax on the auctionsale of the goods but had not passed on the same to the Revenue.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, this Court held that the auctioneer was liable to pay sales tax under the West Bengal Act43.	Reasoning
None of the cases cited by the learned counsel for the appellants had any bearing on the facts of the cases on hand.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the decisions cited in the judgments under appeal and cited in this judgment in support of the conclusions are directly on point44.	Reasoning
We have already stated that we are in agreement with the conclusions reached by the learned Judges in the judgments under appeal and we have dealt with only the principal reasons sufficient for approving the judgments under appeal In the light of the discussions made above and for the reasons given above, we are of the view that the judgments under appeal lay down the correct law and do not call for any interference.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the appeals fail and are dismissed.	Decision
However, there will be no order as to costs.	Decision
