 B. Sinha, J. An order dated 16.2.2006 passed by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) in Appeal No.E/3634/98Mum., is in question before us.	None
The appellant is a company incorporated under the Companies Act.	Facts
It undertook a contract for construction of bridges for M s. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (Konkan Railway, for short), which is a public sector undertaking.	Facts
Appellant manufactured Pre Stressed Concrete Girders (PSC Girders).	Facts
It used to transport them to the site of construction of bridges of the Railways.	Facts
It did not register itself with the authorities of the Central Excise.2.	Facts
Alleging that the appellant, for the period March 1993 and December 1994, although was involved in the manufacturing activity, by undertaking manufacture of 75 PSC Girders, but did not pay any excise duty thereupon.3.	Facts
A notice was issued to the appellant directing it to show cause as to why Central Excise duty to the tune of Rs.32,35,575/ should not be demanded and recovered from them in terms of the proviso appended to Rule 49(1) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 (Rules) read with Section 11A of the Central Excise and Salt Act, 1944 (Act) and as to why penalty should not be imposed on them and the plant machinery and the manufactured goods should not be confiscated.	Facts
Cause was shown by the appellant inter alia stating that no excise duty was payable.	Facts
The said notice was withdrawn stating The said Show Cause Notice has been issued without obtaining approval of the proper authority or by the proper officer.	Facts
Accordingly, Show Cause Notice dated 27.1.94 hereby withdrawn.	Facts
The withdrawal of the Show Cause Notice is without prejudice to any action including issue of fresh Show Cause Notice which may be taken against M s. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., Ratnagiri (North), Lanjekar Compound, Phansi Baug, Udyamnagar, Ratnagiri of Central Excise Law or any other law of the time being is force.	Facts
After a long time, namely, on 1.5.1996, another show cause notice was issued on the same premise for the period March 1993 and December, 1994.	Facts
The extended period of limitation was invoked alleging suppression of fact on the part of the appellant.	Facts
Appellant herein filed a show cause wherein inter alia the question of applicability of the extended period of limitation as contained in the proviso appended to Section 11A of the Act was specifically raised.	Facts
The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune, in his judgment opined that basically following four issues were involved Whether a process of manufacture is involved?(ii) Whether the girders can be considered as immovable property or not?(iii)	Facts
Whether the girders can be considered as marketable or not and whether exemption under Notification No.59/90 can be extended?(iv)	Facts
Whether there was suppression of facts on the part of the noticees so as to invoke extended period?	None
It was held that as construction of the bridges consists of many things, including foundation and super structure, manufacture of PSC Girders would come within the purview thereof and the same would not be immoveable property.	Facts
It was further held that the longer period of limitation has rightly been invoked as the appellant had suppressed the fact from the department that the goods in question were excisable articles.	Facts
It was opined As regards penalty on KRCL under Rule 209A, since the manufacturing activity was undertaken by M s. L T and there is no evidence of their mala fides in the matter, further they have also alerted the contracting party about discharge of central taxes etc.	Facts
as seen from clause 47 of contract, I refrain from imposing any penalty on them.13.	None
As regards confiscation of 75 Nos. of PSC girders, though M s. L T were given a notice in writing informing them the grounds on which it is proposed to confiscate the goods and they were also given an opportunity of making a representation within reasonable time against the said proposed confiscation and a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter, they only stated that these were not liable for confiscation being permanently embedded in the earth, thus immoveable property.	Facts
As already held since girders at the earth, they came into existence were not embedded to the earth, they cannot be considered as immoveable property and therefore I hold these 75 Nos. of PSC girders liable for confiscation under Rule 173Q read with Rule 226 of CER, 1944.	Facts
The appeal preferred there against by the appellant, as noticed hereinbefore, was dismissed by the Tribunal.	None
Mr. Venkataraman, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant would raise two contentions in support of this appeal(i) That earlier notice having been withdrawn wherein no allegation of suppression had been made, the same could not have been made in the second notice dated 1.5.1996.(ii)	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, the question as to whether the activities of the appellant would attract excise duty or not having been decided for the first time by a larger Bench of the Tribunal in Asian Techs Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, PuneII, 2005 (189) ELT 420 it was not a case where the extended period of limitation should have been invoked.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gopal Subramanium, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India, on the other hand, would submit(i)	Arguments of Respondent
For construction of the notice dated 27.1.1994, the allegations made therein as a whole must be taken into consideration for the purpose of arriving at a conclusion as to whether a case for suppression had been made out or not.(ii) Withdrawal of the first notice per se would not disentitle the Department from issuing another notice as the same had been issued by an officer who had no authority in relation thereto.(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
As the appellant had been seeking exemption from payment of excise duty, suppression of fact on its part must be inferred as it did not get itself registered for the purpose of payment of excise duty.	Arguments of Respondent
Whether the activities carried out by the appellant would amount to manufacture or not was a debatable issue.	None
Our attention has been drawn to several decisions of the Tribunal, namely, Asian Techs Ltd. (supra), Rajeswari Enterprises (Constructions) Pvt. Ltd. vs. CCE, Madurai, 2005 (180) ELT 66 (Tri.  Chennai), Tecco vs. CCE, Madurai, 2002 (149) ELT 133 (Tri. Chennai)	None
Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation vs. C.C.E., 1999 (114) ELT 421	None
(Tri.Delhi)	None
M. Ramachandra Rao vs. CCE, Guntur, 2005 (186) ELT 353 (Tr.Bangalore)	None
Raghunath Ramachandra Shanbag vs. CCE, MumbaiVII, 2004 (178) ELT 488 (Tr.Mumbai) and Gammon India Ltd. vs. CCE, Goa, 2002 (146) ELT 173, which held the field at the relevant point of time.	None
Questions involving similar cases came for consideration before the Tribunal at different points of time.	None
They were answered differently by different Benches.	None
The Tribunal in its order dated 25.4.2003, in the case of M s. B.E. Billimoria Co. Pvt. Ltd. opined that similar goods manufactured by others do not attract the provisions of the Central Excise Act.	Reasoning
It is stated that the same bench of the Tribunal in its judgment dated 10.5.2004, in Ragunath Ramchandra Shanbhag (supra), came to a similar conclusion.12.	Reasoning
During the period in question being 199394, no direct decision on the point involved was available.	None
It was noticed that different benches of the Tribunal in different cases had rendering their decisions differently.	Reasoning
In the case of Billimoria (supra), it was categorically held that manufacture of PSC Girders would not attract the provisions of Central Excise Act, 1944.13.	Reasoning
Correctness of Billimoria (supra) was questioned by another Bench of the Tribunal and the matter was referred to a larger Bench.	Reasoning
The larger Bench in Asian Techs Ltd. (supra) relying upon or on the basis of a large number of decisions of this Court opined that the excise duty was payable and the principles of works contract would not be applicable in a case of this nature.	Reasoning
We, therefore, accept the contention of the learned counsel that it was not a case where element of suppression extended to apply to extended period of limitation.	Reasoning
It is also not a case where the appellant did not plead bona fide.	Reasoning
It is furthermore not a case where the Tribunal and consequently this Court, could have arrived at a finding that the appellant took recourse to suppressio veri.14.	Reasoning
Acts of fraud or suppression, it is well settled, must be specifically pleaded.	Reasoning
The allegations in regard to suppression of facts must be clear and explicit so as to enable the noticee to reply thereto effectively.	Reasoning
It was not the case of the revenue that the activities of the appellant were not known to it.15.	Reasoning
Admittedly, when the first show cause notice was issued, the extended period of limitation was not resorted to.	Reasoning
A notice should ordinarily be issued within a period of six months (as the law then stood) i.e. within the prescribed period of limitation but only in exceptional cases, the said period could be extended to 5 years.	Reasoning
When in the original notice, such an allegation had not been made, we are of the opinion that the same could not have been made subsequently as the facts alleged to have been suppressed by the appellant were known to them.	Reasoning
In P B Pharmaceuticals (P) Ltd. vs. Collector of Central Excise, 2003 (153) ELT 14 (SC), this Court held as under However, Mr. Jaideep Gupta submits that the Tribunal did not accept that here has been assignment of logo in favour of the assessee.	None
We are unable to accept the contention of the learned counsel.	None
The tenor of the order, the assessee had produced certain documents such as registration form, trade mark authorities assigning the trade mark to them but the fact remains that there was material evidence by way of seizure of goods manufactured by M s. P B Laboratories bearing the same logo much after the alleged transfer of trade mark to the appellants discloses that the Tribunal accepted that there has been an assignment but proceeded to deal with the case of inapplicability of the exemption under the notification on the ground that the logo was being used by M s. P B Laboratories also.	None
We have already indicated above that use of logo of the manufacturer by third parties is alien for purposes of denial of exemption on the strength of para 7 of the notification.	None
In this view of the matter, we are unable to uphold the order of the Tribunal denying the exemption to the assessee.20.	None
In any event, the ground that the assessee has suppressed the fact that M s. P B Laboratories was also using the logo for availing the benefit under the notification cannot be a valid reason to invoke the proviso to Section 11A of the Act.	None
There is no obligation on the owner of a logo to make a roving enquiry to ascertain whether any other person is also using his logo and disclose it to the authorities to avert a possible allegation of suppression of fact for purposes of invoking the proviso.	None
Yet again in Nizam Sugar Factory vs. Collector of Central Excise, A.P., 2006 (197) ELT 465 (SC) the ratio rendered in P B Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (supra) has been reiterated stating Allegation of suppression of facts against the appellant cannot be sustained.	None
When the first SCN was issued all the relevant facts were in the knowledge of the authorities.	None
Later on, while issuing the second and third show cause notices the same similar facts could not be taken as suppression of facts on the part of the assessee as these facts were already in the knowledge of the authorities.	None
We agree with the view taken in the aforesaid judgments and respectfully following the same, hold that there was no suppression of facts on the part of the assessee appellant.	None
In the said decision, this Court followed the earlier judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in ECE Industries Limited v. Commissioner of Central Excise (2004) 13 SCC 719 2004 (164) ELT 236 , wherein it was categorically stated Appellant was served with a second SCN by the Collector on 16.7.1987 alleging that the appellant was supplying carbon dioxide to another unit as per agreement dated 19.3.1983 that they had not taken necessary licence had not followed the procedure prescribed under the rules and had not discharged duty liability.	None
The said SCN covered the period of assessment years 198283 to 198687.	None
Appellant responded to the second SCN and took the plea that the SCN under consideration was practically a repetition of the allegations contained in the SCN dated 28.2.1984 and for the period April, 1982 to September, 1982 the department had raised demands under two different SCNs.	None
It was pointed out that carbon dioxide in the impure form was not marketable as it also contained carbon monoxide in lethal proportions.	None
It was contended that they were under bona fide belief that since such impure carbon dioxide was not exigible to payment of duty, they were not required to file either Classification List or the Price List or take out licence.	None
It was submitted that resorting to extended period of limitation under Section 11A(1) was not justified in the circumstances of the case.	None
Appellant was served with the third SCN on 12.9.1988 for the period 16.3.1988 to 27.6.1988 on the same allegations.	None
Assessee filed its reply in terms of the earlier replies i.e. reply to SCN dated 16.7.1987.	None
The adjudicating authority did not accept the appellants contention and the demands raised in the SCN were confirmed.xxx xxx xxx8.	None
Without going into the question regarding Classification and marketability and leaving the same open, we intend to dispose of the appeals on the point of limitation only.	None
This Court in the case of P B Pharmaceuticals (P) Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise reported in (2003) 3 SCC 599 2003 (153) ELT 14 (SC) has taken the view that in a case in which a show cause notice has been issued for the earlier period on certain set of facts, then, on the same set of facts another SCN based on the same similar set of facts invoking the extended period of limitation on the plea of suppression of facts by the assessee cannot be issued as the facts were already in the knowledge of the department.	None
Furthermore, extension of the period of limitation entails both civil and criminal consequences and, therefore, must be specifically stated in the show cause notice, in absence whereof the Court would be entitled to raise an inference that the case was not one where the extended period of limitation could be invoked.	Reasoning
See Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh vs. M s. Punjab Laminates Pvt. Ltd., (2006 (7) SCC 431 )	None
Another aspect of the matter cannot also be lost sight of.	Reasoning
Appellant as also the Konkan Railawy raised a definite plea of bona fide.	Reasoning
Such a plea had not been rejected.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, while considering imposition of penalty under Section 11A of the Act, the Commissioner has refused to impose any penalty upon the appellant on the premise that it was not guilty of any act of mala fide.	Reasoning
We, therefore, keeping in view the facts and circumstances of this case, are of the considered view that the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
It is set aside accordingly.	Reasoning
We hold that the Revenue was not justified in invoking the extended period of limitation in the instant case.21.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained and it is set aside accordingly.	Decision
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
