 N. VARIAVA Leave granted.	None
These Appeals are against a judgment dated 4th July, 2001.	Facts
Briefly stated the facts are as follows Respondent No. 3 worked in the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) of the Government of India from 1982 to September 1990.	Facts
With effect from October 1990 Respondent No. 3 was repatriated to the State of Punjab.	Facts
He did not join duty till 30th September, 1991.	Facts
On 24th October 1991, i.e. 23 days later, Respondent No. 3 applies for ExIndia leave.	Facts
Even before the leave could be sanctioned Respondent No. 3 leaves India and goes to England.	Facts
From England he again applies for further leave.	Facts
Leave is sanctioned till 10th January, 1992.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 is informed that no further extension would be granted even on medical grounds.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 still does not join duty.	Facts
He then sends in, on 30th June, 1992, an application for voluntary retirement.	Facts
However, on 19th July, 1992, he sends a telegram withdrawing his application for voluntary retirement.	Facts
As Respondent No. 3 continues to remain absent he was chargesheeted on 14th January, 1993.	None
On 12th April, 1993 he reports for duty in the Office of the D.G.P., Punjab.	None
On 5th May, 1993 he again applies for voluntary retirement with immediate effect.	None
He deposits Rs. 30, 870/ in lieu of three months advance notice.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 does not even wait for his application to be accepted.	Facts
He again goes away abroad.	Facts
As Respondent No. 3 had applied for voluntary retirement DGP, Punjab recommends that the chargesheet against him be withdrawn.	Facts
On 27th September, 1993 the Government of India rejects the request for voluntary retirement on the ground that three months notice period had not been given.	Facts
The Government of Punjab by its representations dated 29th September, 1993 and 8th July, 1994 requests the Government of India to accept the application for voluntary retirement.	Facts
This request is again turned down by the Government of India on 13th September, 1994.	Facts
As Respondent No. 3 was not even in India and was not reporting for duty the Government of Punjab, on 29th November, 1994, points out to the Government of India that Respondent No. 3 has not been attending office since 5th May, 1993 and that his three months notice period may be considered from the date of application i.e. 5th May, 1993 and he may be allowed to voluntary retirement.	Facts
On 2nd March, 1995 the Government of India permits Respondent No. 3 to retire from service with effect from May, 1993.	Facts
It may be mentioned that in the meantime, on the recommendation of the D.G.P., Punjab, the chargesheet had been dropped against Respondent No. 3.	Facts
This was done in view of the fact that he was retiring voluntarily.	None
In his application for voluntary retirement, Respondent No. 3 had given his contact address as follows Sh.	Facts
R. K. Sharma, R862, New Rajinder Nagar, New Delhi  110 060.	None
The order of the Government of India dated 2nd March, 1995 permitting Respondent No. 3 to retire from service was forwarded to Respondent No. 3 at the above mentioned address.	Facts
It was however received back undelivered from the postal authorities with the remarks despite repeated visits, could not be delivered to addressee as he was not available The D.G.P., Punjab therefore deputes a Constable to deliver the Order to Respondent No. 3.	None
When the Constable goes to the above address the fatherinlaw of Respondent No. 3 states that no officer by name R. K. Sharma stays in this house.	Facts
The fatherinlaw further states that he knows nothing about R. K. Sharma.	None
On 18th April, 1995 Respondent No. 3 withdraws his request for voluntary retirement.	Facts
Significantly, the address given in his letter is the above mentioned address.	Facts
This shows that Respondent No. 3 was purposely evading receipt of Government Order dated 2nd March, 1995.	Facts
On 20th June, 1995 the Government of India rejects his request for withdrawal of voluntary retirement on the ground that the period within which such request could be made had already expired.	Facts
By his letters dated 20th July, 1995 and 4th March, 1996 Respondent No. 3 again requests the Government of India to allow him to withdraw his application for voluntary retirement.	Facts
Surprisingly, on 14th August, 1997, the Government of India accepts the request of Respondent No. 3 for withdrawal of voluntary retirement.	None
At this stage it must be mentioned that documents brought on record show that between the period 15th March, 1996 and 12th August, 1997 Respondent No. 3 took up employment with a foreign firm by name M s. California Designs and Constructions Inc. and represented the firm, as its director, before various departments of the Government of Punjab and the Government of Haryana.	None
It is being assumed that Respondent No. 3 concealed this fact from the Government of India and that the Government of India accepted his request for withdrawal of voluntary retirement in ignorance of this fact.	Facts
The Appellant therefore approached the Central Administrative Tribunal against reinduction of Respondent No. 3 into service.	None
The Appellant claims that by such reinduction his seniority in the cadre gets affected.	Facts
The Government and Respondent No. 3 contested the application.	Facts
Before the Central Administrative Tribunal it was urged that the Appellant had no locus to challenge the action of the Government in permitting Respondent No. 3 to withdraw his application for voluntary retirement.	Facts
It was also urged that the Central Administrative Tribunal had no jurisdiction.	Facts
The Central Administrative Tribunal negatived both these contentions.	Facts
The Central Administration Tribunal holds that Respondent No. 3 having left without waiting for his application to be sanctioned and Respondent No. 3 having taken up employment with a foreign company amounted to severance of the relationship of master and servant.	Facts
It was held that as the severance had attained finality the Government of India had no jurisdiction to pass the impugned order dated 14th August, 1997.	Facts
It was held that the effect of the Order was to give lateral entry into service which was not permissible.	Facts
It was held that Respondent No. 3, by his conduct, having severed the relationship of master and servant could not now be allowed to come back into service.	Facts
By its Order dated 3rd February, 1998 the Central Administrative Tribunal quashes the Order dated 14th August, 1997 allowing Respondent No. 3 to withdraw his voluntary retirement.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 as well as the Government of India file Writ Petitions in the Punjab Haryana High Court challenging the order dated 3rd February, 1998 passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal.	None
On 10th September, 1998 these Writ Petitions were taken up for admission.	Facts
At that stage a statement is made on behalf of Respondent No. 3 (herein) that he will not claim seniority over the Appellant (herein).	None
During the pendency of the Writ Petitions, the Government of India produces an affidavit of one Malkait Singh Sidhu who claimed that he was President of M s. California Designs and Construction Inc.	Facts
In the affidavit it was claimed that Respondent No. 3 was not a Director in this Company.	Facts
It was claimed before the High Court that Respondent No. 3 had not taken employment with this firm.	Facts
That this was a false stand came to light after arguments in the two Writ Petitions were over.	Facts
The High Court has, in the impugned judgment, set out what happened.	Facts
The relevant portion reads as follows Before proceeding further, we deem it proper to mention that after conclusion of the arguments, Shri P. Lal filed C.M. 2748950 of 2000 in C.W.P. No. 6196 of 1998 for placing on record additional affidavit dated 18.11.2000 along with Annexure R1/26 to R1/29 to show that between 1995 and 1997, Shri R. K. Sharma had actively represented M s. California Design and Construction INC for the purpose of award of contract for construction, erected and commission of ten sewage treatment plants under Yamuna Action Plan.	Facts
He also filed C.M. No. 2749192 of 2000 in C.W.P. No. 6461 of 1998 for placing on record additional affidavit dated 18.11.2000 and documents Annexure R3/26 to R3/29, C.M. No. 2835556 of 2000 was also filed on behalf of Shri R. K. Sharma for placing on record his affidavit dated 27.11.2000 and documents Annexures P35 to P40 to show that he was no longer Director of M s. California Designs and	Facts
Constructions India Ltd.	None
We may also mention that while hearing C.W.P. No. 14542 of 2000 filed by M s. California Design and Construction India Ltd. for quashing the action taken by the Incometax authorities to recover tax from the payment made to it by the Government of Haryana, counsel representing the petitioner in that case had produced a copy of the agreement entered into between his client and the State of Haryana which was signed by Shri R. K. Sharma on behalf of the petitionercompany as its director and he had represented to the Government of Haryana that he was the Managing Director of the said company.	Facts
After taking note of this, we had directed the listing of these petitions for further consideration.	Facts
On 20.11.2000, counsel appearing for Union of India in C.W.P. No. 6461 of 1998 sought adjournment to place on record an affidavit on behalf of Government of India explaining its position on the issue of employment of Shri R. K. Sharma.	Facts
Thereafter, Shri R. K. Mitra, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi filed an affidavit dated 25.11.2000 stating therein that the Government of India never made a statement that Shri R. K. Sharma had not taken employment with a foreign company.	Facts
At the same time, he averred that it is for the State Government to take appropriate action in the matter.	Facts
This shows that Respondent No. 3 had attempted to mislead the High Court of Punjab and Haryana.	Facts
He obviously had also mislead the Government of India by getting them to file, before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, the affidavit of Malkait Singh.	Facts
In any event now the Government of India and the Government of Punjab know that Respondent No. 3 had not just absented himself from duty but had in fact taken up employment with a foreign firm and represented it with various departments of the State Government.	Facts
Their conduct in continuing to side with Respondent No. 3 is to say the least surprising.	None
The High Court, after considering the submissions of the parties, negatives the contentions that the Appellant did not have locus.	None
It is held that the Central Administrative Tribunal had jurisdiction.	Facts
The High Court has adversely commented upon the conduct of Respondent No. 3 in going abroad without prior permission in remaining absent for such a long time, in taking up employment with a foreign company.	Facts
The High Court then holds that as the order of the Government of India dated 2nd March, 1995 was not communicated to Respondent No. 3 the relationship of master and servant continued.	Facts
It is held that Respondent No. 3 was therefore entitled to treat himself as continuing in service and was not even required to submit an application for withdrawal of his request for voluntary retirement.	Facts
The High Court holds that the decision of the Government of India to allow Respondent No. 3 to withdraw the request for voluntary retirement cannot be termed as illegal or vitiated due to want of jurisdiction.	Facts
The Writ Petitions were accordingly allowed.	Facts
The High Court however directed that disciplinary proceedings be held against Respondent No. 3.	Facts
Even though, on 10th September, 1998 a statement had been made that Respondent No. 3 would not claim seniority over the Appellant, the High Court in the impugned Order has held as follows In the result, the writ petitions are allowed.	Facts
Order dated 3.2.1998 passed by the Tribunal is set aside.	Facts
This shall be subject to the direction that Shri R. K. Sharma shall not be assigned seniority over Shri P. Lal and other officers, who had been promoted during his absence from duty till the government takes a comprehensive decision on the allegations of his absence from duty, going abroad without prior permission, taking up employment with a foreign company and joining the Board of Directors of a company registered in India and he is exonerated in the departmental enquiry, if any, held in these matters.	Facts
Thus now the High Court has left it open for Respondent No. 3 to claim seniority if he is exonerated in the departmental enquiry or if the departmental enquiry is dropped.	Facts
As is being set out hereinafter there is already a proposal to drop the departmental enquiry.	None
At this stage it is appropriate to mention that after notice was issued on these SLPs Respondent No. 3 filed an affidavit in this Court in which he inter alia states as follows Due to the malicious and selfish conduct of the Petitioner and the State, the answering respondent was left with no other option but to believe that his request for withdrawal of voluntary retirement has been rejected and, therefore, the petitioner took up an employment in a private firm in an honorary capacity, from 28.3.1996 to 12.8.1997.	Facts
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The allegation that the answering respondent immediately on submitting his application for voluntary retirement worked with M s. California Design and Construction Inc.	Facts
U.S.A. as Managing Director is not admitted and hence denied.	Facts
It is further submitted that the answering respondent did not take any employment in India in any company, concern or firm till 28.3.1996.	Facts
It is however submitted that on recovery from his illhealth and in absence of any response to his application for voluntary retirement, the answering respondent filed an application dated 18.4.1995 to withdraw the request for voluntary retirement and the same was rejected by Union of India on 20.6.95.	Facts
The answering respondent herein was left with no option but to take a job in a private firm in India in honorary capacity to keep himself occupied.	Facts
The said employment was only for a short period from 28.3.1996 to 12.8.1997.	Facts
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
It is submitted that the answering respondent took an employment in a private firm in India in an honorary capacity on 28.3.1996, as he neither received any reply to various representations made by him for withdrawal of request for voluntary retirement nor was given any posting order till 18.8.98.	Facts
It is submitted that Union of India erroneously passed the order dated 20.6.1995 due to lack of correct and true information furnished by the State Government.	Facts
The State Government illegally, erroneously and unilaterally severed the master servant relationship.	Facts
The State Governments following actions, made the answering respondent come to the conclusion that his services are no more required by the authorities  	Facts
No posting order given to the answering respondent pursuant to his joining report dated 18.4.1995. ii)	Facts
For all administrative and practical purposes, the State Government struck off the name of the answering respondent from the Punjab IPS Cadres Gradation List.	Facts
iii)	None
No salary given to answering respondent during the period 5.5.1993 to 18.8.1998.	Facts
iv) Eight letters issued from 26.6.1995 to 4.4.1997 by State Government declaring answering respondent has retired from service.	Facts
It is further submitted that the answering respondent on the basis of sequence of events and conduct of parties was compelled to believe that his employment in a private organization would not violate any rules as he had been retired by the State Government.	None
Accordingly, the State Government or for that matter the petitioner cannot have any grievance on that account and are estopped from making such reckless allegations.	Facts
The Appellant has now produced a letter dated 15th March, 1996 addressed by Respondent No. 3 as a Director of M s. California Design and Construction INC to the Superintendent Engineer to the Public Health Circle, Faridabad.	Facts
This shows that even on 15th March, 1996 Respondent No. 3 was a director of this foreign firm.	Facts
His statement of oath before this Court that he took employment with effect from 28th March, 1996 is shown to be patently false.	Facts
It is clear that he was employed with the foreign firm even prior to 28th March, 1986.	Facts
Before we consider the arguments it is important to set out certain other facts.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 had also filed a Special Leave Petition before this Court challenging that portion of the impugned judgment which held that the Appellant had locus that the Central Administrative Tribunal had jurisdiction and the directions to hold a disciplinary enquiry against him.	Facts
The Special Leave Petition was dismissed by an Order dated 10th December, 2001.	Facts
This Court however clarified that the enquiry must be conducted without being influenced by any observations made by the High Court.	Facts
Thus so far as Respondent No. 3 is concerned the findings in the impugned judgment, that the Appellant had locus and that the Central Administrative Tribunal had jurisdiction, have become final.	Facts
In these Special Leave Petitions by Order dated 11th January 2002, this Court stayed the impugned judgment.	Facts
This necessarily meant that the judgment of the Central Administrative Tribunal became effective again.	Facts
The effect of the order of the Central Administrative Tribunal is that Respondent No. 3 ceased to be in service.	Facts
In view of the above position the Principal Secretary to the Government of Punjab, by an Order dated 23rd January, 2002, held that Respondent No. 3 ceased to be in service with immediate effect in view of the order of this Court.	Facts
Surprisingly another Principal Secretary, one Mr. S. K. Singh, by an Order dated 31st March, 2002 withdraws the earlier order dated 23rd January, 2002.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 immediately assumes charge as Inspector General of Police on 31st March, 2002.	Facts
By an Order dated 18th April, 2002 he is posted against the vacant post of ADGP Internal Vigilance Cell to look after the Litigation Wing and Internal Vigilance Cell.	Facts
On 10th May, 2002 these facts are then brought to the notice of this Court.	Facts
This Court therefore directs the Principal Secretary to state on affidavit as to how the Order dated 31st March, 2002 came to be passed in violation of the order passed by this Court on 11th January, 2002.	Facts
The Principal Secretary has filed an affidavit dated 13th June, 2002 stating that the earlier Order of 23rd June, 2002 had been passed by the Principal Secretary to the Government of Punjab, but that on a representation submitted by Respondent No. 3 it was found that the power to relieve an officer from service rests with the Government of India and not with the Government of Punjab.	Facts
It was stated that it was found that the Order dated 23rd January, 2002 was without jurisdiction and deserved to be withdrawn and was therefore withdrawn.	Facts
It was stated that the subsequent order was passed after obtaining legal advice.	Facts
The reasoning given is entirely untenable.	Facts
The effect of the order of the Central Administrative Tribunal was that Respondent No. 3 ceased to be in service.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 was not being relieved by Order dated 23rd January, 2002.	Facts
The Order dated 23rd January, 2002 merely informed Respondent No. 3 that he had ceased to be in service.	Facts
In any event, in view of the stay order, Respondent No. 3 could not have been given a posting order.	Facts
By an Order dated 24th May, 2002, the posting order of R. K. Sharma has been held in abeyance pending decision in these Appeals.	Facts
But Respondent No. 3 is still allowed to continue in service in breach of an interim order of this Court and in violation of the order of the Central Administrative Tribunal.	Facts
One last fact which requires to be mentioned is that as per the direction of the High Court a chargesheet has been issued against Respondent No. 3 on 27th September, 2001.	None
As has now become common for Respondent No. 3, he again applies for voluntary retirement on 10th October, 2001.	Facts
The D.G.P. again recommends that the chargesheet be dropped as he has applied for voluntary retirement.	Facts
Following the recommendation for dropping of the chargesheet Respondent No. 3 has, on 26th November, 2001, again withdrawn his request for voluntary retirement.	Facts
The submissions of the parties have to be considered in the light of the above facts.	None
Mr. Jethmalani submitted that Respondent No. 3 is from the 1967 Batch of I.P.S. Officer, whereas the Appellant is from the 1969 Batch, i.e. two years junior to him.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that it is for the Government to decide whether or not to accept the request of Respondent No. 3 for withdrawal of voluntary retirement.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Appellant had no locus to challenge the action of the Government in accepting the request for withdrawal of voluntary retirement.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Central Administrative Tribunal had no jurisdiction to entertain the Petition filed by the Appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that under Section 14 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985, the Tribunal exercises such jurisdiction as was exercised by the Courts earlier.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that it is settled legal position that the Court only protect legal rights.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that mere expectations or accidental windfalls do not give any right and Courts would not protect claims based on expectations or accidental windfalls.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that Section 19 of the Administrative Tribunal Act provides that it is only a person aggrieved who can file an application before the Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his submission he relied upon the cases of Thammanna v. K. Veera Reddy reported in 1980 SC 606 and Bar Council of Maharashtra v. M. V. Dabholkar reported in 1975 SC 525, wherein it has been held that a person aggrieved must be a man who has suffered a legal grievance i.e. a man who has been wrongfully deprived of something or to whom something has been refused wrongfully.	Arguments of Respondent
He also relied upon the case of Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Shujat Ali v. Union of India reported in 1974 SC 5, wherein it has been held that the right to promotion is not the same thing as a mere chance to promotion.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Appellant is basing his expectations on an accidental windfall by hoping that Respondent No. 3 would not be in service.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Jethmalani submitted that the Appellant is not a person aggrieved in as much as he has no real right to claim seniority over Respondent No. 3.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Appellant has not been deprived of anything.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that in any event the Appellants complaint that his seniority would be affected, has been protected and, therefore, the Appellant can no longer have any complaint regarding seniority.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept the submissions of Mr. Jethmalani.	Reasoning
As has been pointed out hereinabove, against the portion of the impugned judgment which held that the Appellant had locus and that the Central Administrative Tribunal had jurisdiction, Respondent No. 3 had filed a Special Leave Petition.	Reasoning
That has been dismissed by this Court on 10th December, 2000.	Reasoning
It is therefore not open to Respondent No. 3 to again raise these contentions.	Reasoning
These findings in the impugned judgment have become final as against Respondent No. 3.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, we see no substance in these submissions.	None
Section 3(q) of the Administrative Tribunals Act defines service matters as follows (q) service matters, in relation to a person, means all matters relating to the conditions of his service in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State or of any local or other authority within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India, or, as the case may be, of any corporation or society owned or controlled by the Government, as respects  (i) remuneration (including allowances), pension and other retirement benefits (ii) tenure including confirmation, seniority, promotion, reversion, premature retirement and superannuation (iii) leave of any kind (iv) disciplinary matters or (v) any other matter whatsoever.	None
Thus, amongst other things, the question of seniority is a matter which is a service matter.	None
Section 14 vests in the Tribunal the jurisdiction, power and authority earlier exercised by Courts, amongst others, in respect of service matters.	None
As admitted by Mr. Jethmalani if Respondent No. 3 is allowed to remain in service he would be senior to the Appellant.	None
The Appellants seniority would be affected.	None
If in fact Respondent No. 3 has ceased to be in service the question of seniority between Appellant and Respondent No. 3 would not arise.	None
Thus Appellant can legitimately point out that Respondent No. 3 has ceased to be in service.	None
Thus Appellants claim is not based on mere expectations or accidental windfall.	Reasoning
The Appellant is a person aggrieved and has locus.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, as has been explained in great detail, both by the Tribunal as well as the High Court, the Tribunal had jurisdiction to entertain the application filed by the Appellant.	Reasoning
Merely because Respondent No. 3 made a statement before the High Court that he would not claim seniority would not be a ground for holding that the Tribunal had no jurisdiction.	Reasoning
A statement made in a Writ Petition before the High Court would not deprive the Appellant of locus and or the Tribunal of jurisdiction.	Reasoning
Mr. Jethmalani next submitted that a public servant has a right to withdraw his request for voluntary retirement at any time until the retirement becomes effective.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the relationship of master and servant does not come to an end until the same is terminated.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the relationship of master and servant does not get severed or ruptured merely because the employee conducts himself in a manner which gives to the employer a right to bring about a severance.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that unless and until the employer takes some positive action and severs the relationship of master and servant the same would continue.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that an IPC Officer is appointed by the President of India.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the appointment is notified in the official Gazette and thus the removal can only be accomplished in a similar manner i.e. by a Presidential Order duly notified in the Official Gazette.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that mere notings in the official files or mere administrative orders do not have the effect of severing the relationship of master and servant.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Jethmalani submitted that even if it is held that acceptance of a voluntary retirement need not be by a Presidential Order duly notified in the Gazette, even then the relationship of master and servant would not come to an end unless and until there is effective communication of the order accepting the request for voluntary retirement.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that a termination would take place automatically on the happening of a particular situation, for example absence from office, abundant of service etc.	Arguments of Respondent
only if there is a specific rule which so provides.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that in the absence of such a rule termination of service does not take place automatically.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied upon subrules (2) and (2A) of Rule 16 of the All India Services (DeathcumRetirement) Rules, 1958 which read as follows Superannuation gratuity or pension.  	None
(1) A member of the Service shall be required compulsorily to retire from the service with effect from the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 58 years Provided that he may be retained in service after the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 58 years on public grounds which, shall be recorded in writing  (a) for an aggregate period not exceeding six months by the State Government and (b) for any period beyond six months, with the sanction of the Central Government Provided further that a member of the Service shall not be retained in service beyond the age of 60 years except in very special circumstances.	Arguments of Respondent
(2) A member of the service may, after giving at least three months previous notice in writing, to the State Government concerned, retire from service on the date on which such member completes thirty years of qualifying service or attains fifty years of age or on any date thereafter to be specified in the notice Provided that no member of the Service under suspension shall retire from service except with the specific approval of the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
(2A)	None
A member of the service may, after giving three months previous notice in writing to the State Government concerned retire from service on the date on which he completes 20 years of qualifying service or any date thereafter to be specified in the notice Provided that a notice of retirement given by a member of the service shall require acceptance by the Central Government if the date of retirement on the expiry of the period of notice would be earlier than the date on which the member of the service could have retired from service under subrule (2) Provided further that a member of the Service, who is on deputation to a corporation or company wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the Government or to a body controlled or financed by the Government, shall not be eligible to retire from service under this rule for getting himself permanently absorbed in such corporation, company or body.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that at the relevant time Respondent No. 3 had not completed 30 years of service or attained 50 years of age and therefore subrule (2) would not have been applicable.	None
He submitted that under subrule (2A) the notice for voluntary retirement would not take effect until it was accepted by the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that acceptance could only take place if there was effective communication of the acceptance.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Jethmalani relied upon the case of Shambhu Murari Sinha v. Project Development India reported in 2000 SC 269.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case the question was whether it is open to a person having exercised the option of voluntary retirement to withdraw his application before it is made effective.	Issue
Relying upon earlier judgments of this Court, it was held that the voluntary retirement, in spite of its acceptance, can be withdrawn before the effective date.	None
Mr. Jethmalani also relied upon the case of Bank of India v. O. P. Swarnakar reported in (2002) 9 SCALE 519 wherein also it is held that a request for voluntary retirement can be withdrawn before it becomes effective.	None
He submitted that the Governments Order dated 2nd March, 1995, accepting the request for voluntary retirement, had not been communicated to Respondent No. 3.	None
He submitted that Respondent No. 3 was therefore entitled to withdraw his request for voluntary retirement.	None
He submitted that the application of Respondent No. 3 dated 18th April, 1995 (withdrawing his request for voluntary retirement) was prior to the retirement becoming effective as till that date the Governments order had not been communicated to him.	None
He submitted that the High Court was right in holding that the relationship of master and servant had continued.	None
Mr. Jethmalani relied upon the affidavit filed by the Union of India in this Court on 21st March, 2002, wherein it has been averred that the order accepting voluntary retirement had not become effective as the same had not been served on Respondent No. 3 before he withdrew his request for voluntary retirement.	None
Mr. Jethmalani pointed out that even according to the Government of India the relationship of master and servant had not been terminated.	None
He pointed out that by an Order dated 27th February, 1997 leave has been sanctioned to Respondent No. 3.	None
Mr. Jethmalani also relied upon an affidavit dated 2nd April, 2002 filed by the State of Punjab, wherein it has been stated that gazette notification of a retirement order is mandatory.	None
Mr. Jethmalani submitted that it was an admitted position that in this case there was no gazette notification.	None
At this stage itself	None
it must be pointed out that this stand taken by the State of Punjab, on oath, is contrary to the stand taken by them, on oath, in an affidavit filed by them before the Punjab Haryana High Court on 13th November, 1998.	None
In that Affidavit it is inter alia stated as follows No grounds are available to the petitioner to challenge order passed by the CAT  a)	None
The order passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal is proper valid and depict the correct interpretation of law.	None
The petitioner himself wanted his voluntary retirement to be effective with immediate effect vide notice application dated 5.5.93.	None
Intention of petitioner was clear when he deposited 3 months salary in lieu of notice.	None
His voluntary retirement was accepted by Government of India and order issued to this effect were intimated through the answering respondent and Director General of Police, Punjab at his last notified address.	None
The orders were also published in the Newspapers.	None
b)	None
The order of the acceptance of voluntary retirement was twice sent to the last notified address of the petitioner where he was not found available.	None
It appears that the petitioner intentionally had given wrong address.	None
The acquittance of voluntary retirement was duly published in the newspapers.	None
There is no requirement practice to get the order of retirement published in the official Gazette.	None
Mr. Jethmalani submitted that it was for the Government of India to decide whether or not to condone absence from duty.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that Respondent No. 3 was a very good officer who had had an unblemished record.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that there was nothing wrong in the Government of India condoning minor lapses on the part of such a good officer and retaining him in service.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Jethmalani submitted that as the Government of India desired to retain the services of such a good officer and as Respondent No. 3 now had only 2 more years of service left, this Court should not pass any adverse order.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Jethmalani also suggested that Respondent No. 3s stay abroad and work with the foreign firm were part of an assignment given to him.	Arguments of Respondent
He suggested that it is for this reason that the Government of India was bound to regularise leave and retain Respondent No. 3 in service.	Arguments of Respondent
As against this Mr. Gupta submitted that the conduct of Respondent No. 3 in leaving India without waiting for the Government to accept his request for voluntary retirement and thereafter taking an employment with foreign firm indicates that Respondent No. 3 had abandoned the service.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that by his own conduct there was severance of relationship of master and servant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that in any event withdrawal of request for voluntary retirement can only be within the notice period.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the notice period was only for 3 months.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the effective date within which the request for voluntary retirement could be withdrawn was only 3 months.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that in any event by Order dated 2nd March, 1995, the Government of India had accepted the request of Respondent No. 3 and permitted him to retire from service.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that on such acceptance the relationship of master and servant came to an end.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that thereafter Respondent No. 3 could not be permitted to withdraw his request for voluntary retirement.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the case that Respondent No. 3 had been sent abroad and or asked to work for a foreign firm cannot be believed.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the submissions of both the parties.	None
As has been set out, in Shambhu Muraris case and Bank of Indias case, an employee can withdraw his application for voluntary retirement before the effective date.	None
The effective date would necessarily be the date on which the retirement takes effect.	None
The request, which Respondent No. 3 had made by his letter dated 5th May, 1993, was to be allowed to retire voluntarily with immediate effect.	None
He had also deposited Rs. 30, 870/ in lieu of three months notice.	None
Thus so far as Respondent No. 3 was concerned the effective date was 5th May, 1993.	None
Of course Rule 16(2A) of the All India Services (DeathcumRetirement) Rules, 1958 provides that a notice of retirement had to be accepted by the Government of India.	None
In this case, the Government of India accepted the request on 2nd March, 1995 and permitted Respondent No. 3 to retire with effect from May 1993.	Facts
The moment Government of India accepted the notice the retirement became effective.	None
The relationship of master and servant came to an end.	None
We are unable to accept the submission that the relationship of master and servant did not terminate till the acceptance was communicated to Respondent No. 3.	None
It must be remembered that Rules 16(2) and 16(2A) enable a member to retire from service on giving the required notice.	None
Once such a notice is given it merely has to be accepted by the Government of India.	None
The moment it is accepted the retirement would become effective.	None
If any other view is taken it would lead to absurd results.	None
Such a view would mean that even though a member had given a notice for voluntary retirement stopped attending office and or gone away abroad and or taken up some other employment after a number of years of absence the member could claim to come back into service because the Government, for some unforeseen reasons, had not communicated its acceptance.	Reasoning
Taken to its absurd length such a member could after superannuation claim that, as the services were not terminated, he was entitled to pension and gratuity on the basis that he had continued in service.	Reasoning
The requirement of communication of acceptance would only arise in cases where, even after giving of a notice of voluntary retirement the member continues to work perform his duties.	Reasoning
In such cases the member would need to know from what date he can stop attending office.	Reasoning
In cases where the member has by his own conduct abandoned service the severance of the relationship of master and servant takes place immediately on acceptance of notice.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept the submission that the severance of relationship of master and servant cannot take effect until there is an Order by the President of India and the same is duly notified in the Gazette.	Reasoning
Rules 16(2) and 16(2A) have been set out hereinabove.	Reasoning
All that it requires is acceptance by the Government of India and not by the President of India.	Reasoning
Admittedly the request for voluntary retirement has been accepted by the Government of India on 2nd March, 1995.	Reasoning
No provision or rule could be shown which requires such acceptance to be gazetted.	Reasoning
On the contrary, as has been set out hereinabove, in its affidavit before the Punjab Haryana High Court, the Government of Punjab had categorically stated that there was no provision for gazetting such an order.	None
That the relationship of master and servant had been severed is clear from the affidavit filed by Respondent No. 3 in this Court.	None
The relevant portion has been reproduced hereinabove.	Reasoning
Even according to Respondent No. 3 no posting order had been issued to him.	Reasoning
According to Respondent No. 3 the Government of India had struck off, his name from the Gradation list, no salary was paid to him and 8 letters have been issued declaring that he has retired from service.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept Mr. Jethmalanis submission that, Respondent No. 3 had been sent abroad and asked to take up employment with a foreign firm by the Government.	Reasoning
There is no proof of such a case.	Reasoning
Neither the Government of India nor the Governments of Punjab Haryana state that this was so.	Reasoning
This appears to us to be an argument in desperation.	None
In view of the above it is held that the High Court erred in coming to the conclusion that the relationship of master and servant had not been terminated.	None
As has been set out hereinabove, the relationship of master and servant had been terminated before Respondent No. 3 sought to withdraw his request for voluntary retirement on 18th April, 1995.	Reasoning
Once relationship of master and servant had been severed and or terminated, by this back door method, Respondent No. 3 could not get back to service.	Reasoning
The Order of the Government of India dated 14th August, 1997 cannot be sustained and was correctly quashed by the Central Administrative Tribunal.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter the impugned judgment requires to be and is hereby set aside.	Reasoning
The Order of the Central Administrative Tribunal dated 3rd February, 1998 is restored.	Reasoning
Mr. Gupta had raised various other submissions.	Reasoning
In the view that we have taken it is not necessary to set out or deal with those submissions.	Reasoning
Accordingly the Appeals are allowed with costs.	Decision
In view of what has happened in the past it needs to be clarified that Respondent No. 3 has ceased to be in Government service with effect from May 1993 in the rank position that he then held.	Decision
There is now no necessity of issuing an order terminating his service.	Decision
All that is required is correction of official record if they purport to show that Respondent No. 3 has continued in service.	Decision
So far as Respondent No. 3 is concerned, this Judgment and Order of Central Administrative Tribunal are notice to him that his request for voluntary retirement dated 5th May, 1993 has taken effect from May, 1993.	Decision
It goes without saying that with effect from May 1993 Respondent No. 3 would not be entitled to any pay or any other consequential benefits.	None
It is expected that if any pay and or benefits have been given to him the same would be returned reimbursed by him so that the concerned Government is not forced to recover the same.	None
