Arijit Pasayat, J. Since the points involved in the criminal appeals are identical, they are taken up together for disposal.	None
Union of India questions legality of the judgments rendered by the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court holding that order dated 31.8.1995 passed by the Competent Authority under Section 7 of the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976 (in short The SAFEMA) against respondent nos.	Issue
1 and 2 was not sustainable in law.	Issue
for coming to such conclusion, reference was made to orders dated 19th December, 1994 passed under Section 11(1)(b) of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (in short the COFEPOSA revoking the order of detention and order dated 11.1.1995 passed in earlier writ petition filed by respondent nos.	Issue
1 and 2.	Issue
Reference was made to first proviso to Clause (b) of subsection (2) of Section 2 of SAFEMA for holding that proceedings initiated under the said statute became non est.	Issue
According to learned counsel for the appellantUnion the view taken by the High Court is clearly untenable.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the facts of the case, first proviso to clause (b) of subsection (2) had no application to the facts of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The revocation of the order of detention was in exercise of power conferred under Section 11(1)(b) of the COFEPOSA and not under Section 8 as stipulated in the said provision.	Issue
It is further submitted that the proceedings were initiated by issuance of notice under Section 6(1) of the SAFEMA for forfeiture of property on 12.10.1994.	Issue
The orders of detention under Section 3(1) of COFEPOSA were passed on 24.5.1994.	Arguments of Petitioner
The orders of detention were challenged by the respondents 1 and 2 in Writ petition nos.	Arguments of Petitioner
1071 and 1072 of 1994, After the showcause notice was issued in exercise of power under Section 11 (1)(b) of the COFEPOSA, the Central Government revoked the orders of detention of 19.12.1994 as indicated above.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the revocation of the orders of detention, the writ petitions were disposed of on 11.01.1995.	Issue
By order dated 31.8.95, properties mentioned in the showcause notice were directed to be forfeited under Section 7 of SAFEMA.	Arguments of Petitioner
The order directing forfeiture was challenged on merits before the Tribunal constituted under the SAFEMA.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter writ petitions were filed on 23.11.1995 challenging the orders of detention and also challenging the order of forfeiture.	Arguments of Petitioner
The latter additional challenge was by way of amendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
By the impugned judgment dated 13.6.1996 the High Court passed the impugned order in cash case.	Issue
Learned senior counsel, for the Union of India further submitted that the Tribunal did not consider that first proviso has no application to the facts of the case.	None
The order of detention was not revoked under Section 8 of SAFEMA but on the contrary under Section 11(1)(b) thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no revocation before receipt of the report of the Advisory Board or before making reference to the Advisory Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the proceedings were initiated when the order of detention was in force, and were brought to the logical end by passing the order under Section 7 of SAFEMA, no illegality existed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that it was not open to the respondents to question legality of the order of detention in the subsequent writ petition after the first writ petition was disposed of as having been rendered infructuous.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed on Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in Attorney General for India and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Amratlal Prajivandas and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1994 (5) SCC 54 ), more particularly in paras 40, 41, 42 and 56 of the judgment.6.	Arguments of Respondent
In response, Mr. Huzefa Ahmadi, learned counsel for respondent nos.	Arguments of Respondent
1 and 2, submitted that it is not open to the appellants to question correctness of the judgment after there was concession before the High Court about applicability of the proviso, and the absence of any scope for passing of any order under Section 7 of SAFEMA.7.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that even otherwise order under Section 11(1)(b) is clearly relatable to the report of the Advisory Board under Section 8 of SAFEMA.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the proviso has application to the facts of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
It, however, could not be disputed by the learned counsel that in case the revocation is not under Section 8 of SAFEMA, the proviso would not have any application.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that when the earlier writ petition is rendered infructuous there is no bar on filing a fresh writ petition on merits to avert the prejudice and damage caused on account of initiating proceedings under SAFEMA.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance is placed on Competent Authority, Ahmedabad v. Amritlal Chandmal Jain and Ors.	None
(1998 (5) SCC 615 ) and Karimaben K. Bagad v. State of Gujarat and Others (1997 (6) SCC 264).	None
We shall first deal with the effect of concession, if any, made by learned counsel appearing for the present appellants before the High Court.	Reasoning
Closer reading of the High Courts order shows that the High Court took the view that in view of the revocation of the order on 19th December, 1994 and the order passed by the High Court on 11th January, 1995, no further order could have been passed under Section 7 of SAFENA.	Reasoning
After having expressed this view, the socalled concession is recorded.	Reasoning
In our view the concession, if any, is really of no consequence.	Reasoning
because the wrong concession made by a counsel cannot bind the parties when statutory provisions clearly provided otherwise.	None
It was observed by Constitution Bench of this Court Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company v. M s. Bharat Coking Coal Limited and Another (1983 (1) SCC 147 ) that courts are not to act on the basis of concession but with reference to the applicable provisions.	None
The view has been reiterated in (1988 (6) SCC 538) and Central Council for Research in Ayurveda Siddha and Another v. Dr. K. Santhakumari (2001 (5) SCC 60 ).	None
In para 12 of Central Councils case (supra) it as observed as follows In the instant case, the selection was made by the Departmental Promotion Committee.	None
The Committee must have considered all relevant facts including the inter se merit and ability of the candidates and prepared the select list on that basis.	Reasoning
The respondent, though senior in comparison to other candidates, secured a lower place in the select list, evidently because the principle of meritcumseniority had been applied by the Departmental Promotion Committee.	Reasoning
The respondent has no grievance that there were any mala fides on the part of the Departmental Promotion Committee.	Reasoning
The only contention urged by the respondent is that the Departmental Promotion Committee did not follow the principle of senioritycumfitness.	Reasoning
In the High Court, the appellants herein failed to point out that the promotion is in respect of a selection post and the principle to be applied is meritcumseniority.	Reasoning
had the appellants pointed out the true position, the learned Single Judge would not have granted relief in favour of the respondent.	Reasoning
If the learned counsel has made an admission or concession inadvertently or under a mistaken impression of law, it is not binding on his client and the same cannot ensure to the benefit of any party.	Reasoning
(underlined for emphasis)	None
In Uptron (India) Ltd.	None
V. Shammi Bhan and Anr.	None
(1998 (6) SCC 538 ), it was held that a case decided on the basis of wrong concession of a counsel has no precedent value.	None
That apart, the applicability of the statute or otherwise to a given situation or the question of statutory liability of a person institution under any provision of law would invariably depend upon the scope and meaning of the provisions concerned and has got to be adjudged not on any concession made.	None
Any such concessions would have no acceptability or relevance while determining rights and liabilities incurred or acquired in view of the axiomatic principle, without exception, that there can be no estoppel against stature.	None
The respective stands on merits need careful consideration.	None
Section 2(2) of SAFEMA, so far as relevant reads as follows Application  (1)	None
The provisions of this Act shall apply only to the persons specified in subsection (2).(2)	None
The persons referred to in subsection (1) are the following namely (a) every person(i) who has been convicted under the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878).	None
or the Customs Act.	None
1962 (52 of 1962), of an offence in relation to goods of a value exceeding one lakh of rupees or(ii) who has been convicted under the Foreign exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 of 1947), or the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 Exchange Regulation Act, 1993 (46 of 1973), of an offence, the amount or value involved in which exceeds one lakh of rupees or(iii) who having been convicted under the sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), or the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), has been convicted subsequently under either of those Acts or (iv) who having been convicted under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 of 1947), or the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), has been convicted subsequently under either of those Acts(b) every person in respect of whom an order of detention has been made under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 (52 of 1974)Provided that (i) such order of detention, being an order to which the provisions of Section 9 or section 12A of the said Act do not apply, has not been revoked on the report of the Advisory Board under Section 8 of the said Act or under Section 8 of the said Act of before the receipt of the report of the Advisory Board or before making a reference to the Advisory Board or(ii) such order of detention, being an order to which the provisions of Section 9 or section 12A of the said Act do not apply, has not been revoked before the expiry of time for, or on the basis of the review under subsection (3) of Section 9, or on the report of the Advisory Board under Section 8, read with subsection (2) of Section 9, of the said Act or(iii) such order of detention, being an order to which the provisions of Section 9 or section 12A of the said Act do not apply, has not been revoked before the expiry of time for, or on the basis of, the first review under subsection (3) of that Section, of on the basis of the report of the Advisory Board under Section 8, read with subsection (6) of Section 12A, of that Act or(iv) such order of detention has not been set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction.	None
The first subclause of proviso to clause (b) of subsection (2) of Section 2 deals with three situations, when the exceptions provided by the proviso can operate.	None
When the order of detention is one to which provisions of Section 9 or Section 12(A) of the COFEPOSA do not apply, the situations are (1) when orders of revocations on the report of the Advisory Board under Section 8, or (2) before the receipt of the report of the Advisory Board, or (3) before making a reference to the Advisory Board.	None
The appellants have relied on a letter dated 22.2.1995 issued by the Government of India.	None
Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue addressed to the Competent Authority of SAFEMA indicating as follows The orders of detention were not revoked on the report of the Advisory Board under Section 8 of the said Act or before the receipt of the report of the Advisory Board or before making a reference to the Advisory Board.	None
The representations of the detenus were considered by the Advisory Board which did not accept them.	None
Additionally, in the counter affidavit filed before the High Court it was categorically stated that the revocation under Section 8 was not done before receipt of the report of the Advisory Board, and was not also revoked before making a reference to the Advisory Board.	None
The further contingencies which arise when the situations envisaged in relation to the orders to which also provisions of Section 9 of Section 12(A) of COFEPOSA do not apply, are not relevant for the purpose of this case and are dealt with in subclauses (ii) and (iii) of the proviso.	None
The order of detention was also not quashed in any judicial proceedings by a court of competent jurisdiction to attract subclause (iv).	None
Section 11 (1) of COFEPOSA reads as follows Revocation of detention orders  (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897.	None
a detention order may, at any time, be revoked or modified(a) notwithstanding that the order has been made by an officer of a State Government, by that State Government or by the Central Government(b)	None
notwithstanding that the order has been made by an officer of the Central Government, or by a State Government by the Central Government.	None
The first situation envisaged in subclause (i) of the proviso to clause (b) of subsection (2) of Section 2.	None
SAFEMA applies when the revocation is based on the report of the Advisory Board.	None
As the factual position noted above goes to show, the revocation was only in terms of Section 11(1)b) of COFEPOSA.	None
Such revocation when is done by the Central Government as in this case is really unrelated to a report of the Advisory Board.	None
On the factual position, none of the three situations indicated in the first subclause of the said proviso are applicable.	None
The inevitable position is, therefore, crystal clear that the proviso to clause (b) of subsection (2) of Section 2 SAFEMA had no application to the facts of the case as held by the High Court.	None
To that extent the judgment of the High Court is indefensible and is set aside.	None
That brings us to the residual question as to whether the order of detention could be challenged subsequent to the disposal of the earlier writ petition on the ground that it had become unfructuous.	Reasoning
According to learned counsel for appellants position has been settled beyond doubt that it is impermissible in view of what has been stated in Attorney Generals area.	Reasoning
This submission deserves no serious consideration, being one made in disregard of the view taken already by this Court.	Reasoning
We find that the effect of said decision was considered in the two decisions relied upon by learned counsel for respondent nos.	Reasoning
1 and 2.	Issue
The view taken in Amritlal Chandmal Jains case (supra) and Karimaben K. Boards case (supra) does not call for any further or fresh look or consideration the same being not only just and reasonable but quite in conformity with the basic tenets of Rule of Law but commends for our respectful acceptance, as well.	None
In both these cases, it was held that the subsequent with petition is maintainable and it should rightly be so having regard to the consequential action taken at any rate under SAFEM.	Reasoning
Otherwise it would amount to the Government concerned being allowed enabled to by their action disable and denude the person aggrieved from questioning the very applicability of SAFEMA to him or his properties de hors his other rights to challenge the same otherwise on merits as well.	Reasoning
In any event, this aspect as to the legality and validity of the order of detention does not appear to have been considered and decided on merits by the High Court.	Reasoning
We, therefore, remit the matter back to the High Court for fresh adjudication on merits as to the legality and validity of the orders of detention, for the purpose of applying the provisions of SAFEMA against the respondents or the properties concerned.	Reasoning
Since the matter is pending for a long time, it would be appropriate and in the interests of both parties as well, if the writ petitions are disposed of according to law after hearing parties within a period of six months from the date of judgment.	Decision
Parties are directed to maintain status quo in respect of the properties covered by the order under Section 7 of SAFEMA.	Decision
The respondents 1 and 2 shall not transfer or in any manner encumber the properties till the disposal of the writ petitions.	Decision
Similarly, the order under Section 7 of SAFEMA shall not be given effect till the disposal of the writ petitions and its implementation and enforcement would abide by the outcome of decision in the writ petition.	Decision
We make it clear that we are not expression by opinion on of any of the contentions regarding the respective stands taken by the parties by way of challenge made to the legality and validity of order of detention or proceedings orders passed on merits, except to the extent undertaken for setting aside the order of the High Court and the reasons assigned therefor.20.	Decision
The appeals are allowed to the extent indicated.	Decision
