 Subba Rao, J. (For himself and Sikri J.) 1.	None
These appeals raise the question of construction of the provisions of the Taxation Laws (Part B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950.	Issue
Hereinafter called the Order, in the matter of computation of the aggregate depreciation allowances for the purpose of assessment to tax.	None
2. Nandlal Bhandari Mills Ltd. is a public company incorporated in Indore under the Indore Companies Act, 1914.	Facts
It owns and runs a textile mill and some ginning factories.	Facts
The Incometax Officer assessed the Company for the assessment years 195051, 195152, 195253 and 195354 on its income of the corresponding accounting years, being the calendar years 1949, 1950, 1951 and 1952.	Facts
In the course of the assessments it became necessary to ascertain the writtendown value of the building, machinery, plant etc. of the respondentcompany as on January 1, 1949.	Facts
On April 1, 1950, the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, was extended to Part B States, including Madhya Bharat of which Indore became a part.	Facts
Till the said date, the assessee was for many years assessed in the Companies Circle, Bombay, as a nonresident and for some years as a resident under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	Facts
It was also assessed to Industrial Tax under the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927.	Facts
For those years in which it was assessed as a nonresident under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, only that part of its profits which could be said to be attributable to the sale proceeds of goods received in British India or in regard to which contracts were accepted in British India was brought to tax.	Facts
After the Indian Incometax Act was extended to Indore difficulties arose in the matter of fixing depreciation allowances, for the rates obtaining under the Indian Incometax Act and those obtaining under the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927, were not the same.	Facts
After the merger of the State in the Indian Union, in order to rationalize the tax structure, the Central Government in exercise of the power conferred on it under S. 12 of the Finance Act, 1950, issued the Order where under in the case of such disparity the greater of the two sums allowable was directed to be adopted.	Facts
During the assessment years, pursuant to the terms of that Order, the Incometax Officer took into account the depreciation allowances for the year upto and including 1944 as computed under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, and for the subsequent years 1945 to 1948, the depreciation allowance as computed under the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927.	Facts
On that basis he arrived at the writtendown value of the building, plant, machinery etc of the assessee as on January 1, 1949.	Facts
On appeals, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and, on further appeals, the Appellate Tribunal, confirmed the orders of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
At the instance of the assessee, the following questions, among others, were referred to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Jabalpur(1)	Facts
Whether the computation of the writtendown value of the assets of the applicant in the light of the provisions of the Taxation Laws (Para B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950, is legal and valid.	None
(2) Whether the provisions of the Taxation Laws (Part B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950, and the subsequent modifications thereof were valid in law in the light of the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, the Finance act. 1950, and the Constitution of India.	None
(3) Whether the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927, could be regarded as rule or law of a part B State for the purpose of the said Taxation Laws (Part B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950, and, if so, whether the same are valid in law and (4) Whether the depreciation actually allowed means the depreciation deducted in arriving at the taxable income or in arriving at the world income.	Facts
Before the High Court the third question was not pressed and the second question was concluded by the decision of this Court in Commr. of Incometax Hyderabad v. Dewan Bahadur Ramgopal Mills Ltd., (1961)	None
41 ITR 280 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ).	None
The correctness of the answers given by the High Court in respect of these two questions is not questioned before us and, therefore, nothing further need be said about them here.	Facts
3. Questions 1 and 4, in substance, form two parts of the same question.	Facts
On question 1, the High court held that the depreciation allowed for the years upto and including 1944 in the assessments made in the taxable territories would be the depreciation which was actually allowed against the taxable income and not the depreciation computed against the total world income.	Facts
On the 4th question, it answered that the depreciation actually allowed meant the depreciation deducted in arriving at the taxable income.	Facts
The present appeals filed by the Revenue question the correctness of the answers given by the High Court in regard to questions 1 and 4 referred to it.	Facts
4. Mr. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, learned counsel for the Revenue, argued that the assessee was only entitled to depreciation on the writtendown value calculated after deducting all the amounts of depreciation that had been taken into consideration in determining the world income.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that depreciation was allowed in respect of the user of the assets in the business, that the allowance did not depend on the assessable income and that the High Court, therefore, went wrong in striking a proportion on the basis of a part of the income actually assessed under the Indian Incometax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
5. Mr. Desai, learned counsel for the assessee, contended that no depreciation as such having been allowed for the years upto and including 1944 as computed under the Indian Incometax Act, the original cost itself should be taken as the writtendown value of the assets.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively, he argued that in any event only that part of the depreciation which had entered into the computation of income found liable to incometax under the Indian Incometax Act.	Arguments of Respondent
which income was calculated on proportionate basis alone, should be deducted from the original cost in determining the writtendown value under S. 10(5)(a) of the Indian Incometax Act.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
We shall deal with questions 1 and 4 together, as we have indicated earlier, they are really parts of the same question.	Facts
The answer to the questions turns upon the interpretation of the provisions of the Order.	None
It is, therefore necessary to read the relevant provisions of the Order.	None
7.	None
Paragraph 2. Computation of aggregate depreciation allowance and the writtendown value In making any assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State relating to incometax and supertax, or any law relating to tax on profits of business, shall be taken into account in computing the aggregate deprecation allowance referred to in subclause (c) of the proviso to Clause (vi) of subsection (2) and the writtendown value under Clause (b) of subsection (5) of S. 10 of the said Act Provided that where in respect of any asset, depreciation has been allowed for any year, both in the assessment made in the Part B State and in the taxable territories, the greater of the two sums allowed shall only be taken into account.	None
Explanation  For the purpose of this paragraph, the expression all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State means and shall be deemed always to have meant the aggregate allowance for depreciation taken into account in computing the writtendown value under any laws or rules of a Part B State or carried forward under the said laws or rules.	None
After the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, was extended to the Indore State, difficulties arose in the matter of fixing the allowances for depreciation.	Facts
The rats of depreciation under the Act and under the Order were not the same.	None
Paragraph 2 of the Order provides that in making an assessment under the Act all depreciation allowance actually allowed under laws obtaining in the Part B State before the Act was extended to it shall be allowed.	None
The proviso thereto says that when there is a conflict between the two rates, the greater of the two sums allowed shall be taken into account.	None
The Explanation to the section defines the expression all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State to mean the aggregate allowances for depreciation taken into account in computing the writtendown value under the laws prevalent in the Part B State or carried forward under the said laws or rules.	None
The argument turned upon the following expressions in the said paragraph actually allowed in the main part of the paragraph allowed in the assessment in the proviso and taken into account in computing in the Explanation.	None
It is true that decided cases have given a very wide meaning to the word assessment.	None
It means sometimes the computation of income sometimes, the determination of the amount of tax payable, and sometimes, the procedure laid down in the Act for imposing liability upon the taxpayer.	None
The proviso used the word assessment both with reference to Part B States and also with reference to taxable territories.	None
But we are really not concerned with the shades of meaning the said word bears under the Act.	Reasoning
For the purpose of computing the writtendown value, the amount of depreciation allowed for the purpose of the assessment is only relevant.	None
The key to the understanding of the paragraph is the expression allowed.	None
The expression actually allowed in the main paragraph, allowed in the proviso and taken into account in the Explanation mean the same thing.	None
What the Incometax Officer has to take into consideration in computing the writtendown value is the depreciation actually allowed under the Incometax Act or the laws obtaining in Part B States and adopt the greater of the two sums so allowed under that head.	None
It was conceded that the rates under the Indian Incometax Act were higher for some years than those obtaining under the laws in force in the Indore State.	None
The question, therefore, is what was the amount actually allowed to the assessee towards depreciation under the Incometax Act during the years upto and inclusive of 1944.	None
This would depend upon the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act. 8.	None
Under S. 10(2) of the Indian Incometax Act, profits or gains of business shall be computed after making, the allowances enumerated therein.	None
Under Cl.	None
(vi), in respect of depreciation of such buildings, machinery, plant or furniture being the property of the assessee, a sum equivalent to such percentage on the original cost thereof to the assessee as may in any case or class of cases be prescribed and in any other cases, to such percentage on the writtendown value thereof as may in any case or class of cases be prescribed be allowed.	None
Under S. 10(5)(b), writtendown value means in the case of assets acquired before the previous year the actual cost to the assessee less the depreciation actually allowed to him under the Act.	None
Under the Indian Incometax Act, income is to be charged to tax without reference to diminution in the value of capital or the were and tear involved in the user of the assets but in respect of specified assets like building, machinery, plant and furniture etc., the Act grants an allowance in the manner prescribed thereunder.	None
Depreciation allowance is in respect of such assets as are used in the business and shall be calculated on the writtendown value, which means, in the case of assets acquired in the previous year, the actual costs to the assessee and, in the case of assets acquired before the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee less all depreciation actually allowed to him under the Act.	None
The allowance towards depreciation is conditioned on the user of the assets, wholly or in part during the accounting year and thus contributing to the earning of the income.	None
Though it is not unrelated to the profits it does not depend upon the increase or decrease in the earning capacity of the assets, but is only linked up with physical depreciation in their value.	None
Even so, only the amount of depreciation actually allowed can be deducted from the original cost of the assets to ascertain the writtendown value.	Reasoning
De hors such an allowance, it has no significance in the incometax law.	None
So the question is, what was allowed as depreciation by the incometax authorities in the computation of the taxable income upto and inclusive of the year 1944?During the said years the assessee was taxed as a nonresident on the income which fell under S. 4(6) (a) or under S. 4(1)(c), read with S. 42 of the Indian Incometax Act.	Issue
The assessee was only assessed during the said years in respect of that part of its profits which could be said to be attributable to the sale proceeds or goods received in British India or in regard to which contracts were accepted in British India.	None
Such income was brought to tax in terms of R. 33 of the Indian Incometax Rules, 1922.	None
Under the said rule, if the actual amount of the income, profits or gains accruing or arising to a nonresident cannot be ascertained, the amount of such income, profits or gains for the purposes of assessment to incometax may be calculated on such percentage of the turnover so accruing or arising as the Incometax Officer may consider to be reasonable, or on an amount which bears the same proportion to the total profits of the business of such person, such profits being computed in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, as the receipts so accruing or arising bear to the total receipts of the business, or in such other manner as the Incometax Officer may deem suitable.	None
Under this provision, the Incometax Officer could proceed thereunder only if he could not ascertain the actual amount of the income, profits or gains accruing or arising to a nonresident.	None
If he could not, he could adopt one or other of the rule to three methods mentioned in the ascertain the said income.	None
Two of the said methods permit the Incometax Officer to make a reasonable or suitable estimate of such income.	None
But under the third method, which was adopted in the present case, the amount of such income for the purpose of incometax shall be calculated on an amount which bears the same proportion to the total profits of the business of such person as the receipts so accruing or arising bears to the total receipts of the business.	None
The working out of this method may best be understood by an illustration.	None
Suppose the total profit of a business is Rs. 100 and the receipt in India is Rs. 25, i.e., the income accrued in Indian is onefourth of the total income.	None
If a sum of Rs. 5 represents the depreciation of the assets used in the business and if this is allowed, the total income will be Rs. 95, and onefourth of Rs. 95 is Rs. 23.75 that is the income accrued in India under this formula.	None
In arriving at Rs. 23.75 as the income in India only Rs. 1.25, which is onefourth of Rs. 5, the total depreciation, is deducted from Rs. 25 towards the depreciation that is to say only Rs. 1.25 is actually allowed towards depreciation.	None
The same illustration may also be put in another way.	None
Rs. 25 is the gross income accrued in India to a nonresident Rs. 5 is the value of the depreciation on the total assets.	None
By taking onefourth of Rs. 5, i.e., Rs. 1.25, we get at the figure of Rs. 23.75 that is to say, only onefourth of the amount representing depreciation is accorded in ascertaining the taxable income in India.	None
It is, therefore, manifest that the Incometax Officer, who applied the formula laid down in R. 33 of the Incometax Rules, 1922, in fixing the depreciation allowance, had actually allowed only a fraction of the amount towards depreciation allowable in assessing the world income of the assessee.	None
9.	None
But the learned counsel for the Revenue contended that the entire depreciation of the assets was taken into consideration in computing the taxable income and, therefore, the entire amount should have been taken into account by the Incometax Officer in arriving at the writtendown value of the assets.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears that the Incometax Officer in assessing the nonresident upto 1944 had, in calculating the total world income of the assessee, allowed the entire amount of depreciation, thereafter, he arrived at the taxable income in India by the application of R. 33.	Reasoning
As we have pointed out, the mere fact that in the matter of calculation the total amount of depreciation was first deducted from the world income and thereafter the proportion was struck in terms of R. 33 does not amount to an actual allowance of the entire depreciation in ascertaining the taxable income accrued in India.	Reasoning
The Incometax Officer, as we have pointed out earlier, could have adopted a different method by first ascertaining the gross income accrued in India and then deducting from it the allowance under the Act proportionate to the said income.	Reasoning
Whatever method was adopted, only a fraction of the total depreciation was actually allowed in ascertaining the taxable income in India.	Reasoning
10.	None
Learned counsel for the assessee contended that under the method adopted in terms of R. 33 of the Incometax Rules, 1922, no depreciation was allowed at all in ascertaining the taxable income in India, for that was only taken into consideration in arriving at the total world income.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
We cannot accept this argument we may say that the learned counsel did not press this point seriously either As we have indicated earlier, only a fraction of the amount of depreciation was actually allowed in the assessment of the income accrued in India.	Reasoning
We do not propose to express any opinion on the question whether, if the other methods suggested in R. 33 of the Rules were adopted, it could be held that no depreciation was actually allowed in making the assessment.	Reasoning
12.	None
Our conclusion finds support in the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Hakumchand Mills Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax (Central), Bombay, (1963) 47 ITR 949 (Bom) .	None
We endorse the view expressed therein. 13.	None
In the result , we hold that the High Court has given correct answers to questions 1 and 4 referred to it.	Decision
The appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	None
14.	None
Shah, J. The respondent, a public limited company was incorporated in the former Indian State of Indore.	None
The Company was being assessed to pay incometax in the Indore State under the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927, on profits earned in its business of manufacturing cotton textiles.	None
In assessing tax under the Industrial Tax Rules the Tax Officer of the Indore State allowed depreciation on the assets at rates prescribed by the Industrial Tax Rules.	None
The Company was also assessed to tax in British India under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, for some years as a resident and in others as a nonresident.	None
The State of Indore became a part of the United States of Gwalior, Indore and Malwa in May, 1948, and the United States of Gwalior, Indore and Malwa became on January 26, 1950 a constituent State in the Indian Union as part of the Part B State of Madhya Bharat.	None
15.	None
The Finance Act, 1950 by S. 13 repealed the Taxation Laws in force in the territories of the Part B States In proceedings for assessment under the Indian Incometax Act for the assessment years 195051, 195152, 195253 and 195354, the Incometax Officer worked out the writtendown value of the buildings, plant and machinery of the Company on January 1, 1949 by taking into account the depreciation allowed under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, till January 1, 1945, and thereafter the depreciation allowed under the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, and assessed tax on that footing.	None
The order of the Incometax Officer was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	None
16.	None
The Tribunal referred under S. 66 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act four questions to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur.	None
The High Court did not answer questions Nos. 2 and 3, because one of the questions in view of the judgment of this Court (1961) 41 ITR 280 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ), did not require consideration, and the other was not canvassed.	None
The two other questions are(1)	None
Whether the computation of the writtendown value of the assets of the applicant in the light of the provisions of Taxation Laws (Para B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order. 1950 is legal and valid?	None
(4) Whether the depreciation actually allowed means the depreciation deducted in arriving at the taxable income or in arriving at the world income?	Issue
The High Court recorded on the first question the answer that depreciation allowed in the years upto and inclusive of the year 1944 in the assessment made in the taxable territories would be depreciation which was actually allowed against the total income and not the depreciation computed against the total world income, and on the fourth question that the depreciation actually allowed means depreciation deducted in arriving at the taxable income.	Facts
With certificate granted by the High Court, this appeal has been preferred.	None
17.	None
Under the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927, depreciation was allowed at certain rates in respect of buildings, plant and machinery.	None
By S. 10(2)(vi) of the Indian Incometax Act in computing profits or gains of a business, depreciation allowable in respect of buildings, machinery, plant and furniture used for the purpose of business being the property of the assessee, is a sum equivalent to such percentage on the original cost thereof the assessee as may in any case or class of cases be prescribed, and in any other case, at such percentage on the writtendown value thereof as may in any case or class of cases be prescribed.	None
By subsection (5) of S. 10, writtendown value in subsection (2) is defined.	None
By virtue of S. 4A(c) a company is regarded as resident in the taxable territories in any year (i) if the control and management of its affairs is situated wholly in the taxable territories in that year, or (ii) if its income arising in the taxable territories in that year exceeds its income arising without the taxable territories in that year.	None
18.	None
Control and management of the affairs of the Company was at all material times situated at Indore, but in the years in which its British Indian income exceeded the income without British India, the Company was treated as resident for the purpose of the Indian Incometax Act, and in the other years it was treated as nonresident.	None
In assessing income of the Company under the Indian Incometax Act.	None
in the years before 1950, the Incometax Officer had, whether the Company was assessed as resident or nonresident, to ascertain its world income, and for that purpose to take into account the depreciation allowable under S. 10(2)(vi) read with S. 10(5)(b), Depreciation allowance in respect of the profits of the Company was therefore computed before the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, was made applicable to the territory of the State of Indore by the Finance Act, 1950, under two different statutesthe Indian Incometax Act, and the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, and in the assessment year 195051 there were two different sets of writtendown values of the buildings plant and machinery of the Company.	None
19.	None
To remove anomalies arising from the application of the Incometax Act in the computation of taxable income of assessees from the Part B States, the Central Government issued under S. 12 of the Finance Act, 1950, the Taxation Laws (Part B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950.	None
Paragraph 2 of that Order as originally promulgated read as followsIn making any assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State relating to incometax and supertax, or any law relating to tax on profits of business, shall be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance referred to in subclause (c) of the proviso to Clause (vi) of subsection (2) and the writtendown value under Clause (b) of subsection (5) of S. 10 of the said Act Provided that where in respect of any asset, depreciation has been allowed for any year both in the assessment made in the Part B State and in the taxable territories, the greater of the two sums allowed shall only be taken into account.	None
But the expression all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State in paragraph 2 was ambiguous.	None
The Central Government purported to issue a notification under S. 60A of the Indian Incometax Act incorporating an Explanation to paragraph 2, but the notification was declared by the High Court of Hyderabad as invalid S. V. Naik v. Commr. of Incometax, Hyderabad, (1956) 29 ITR 206 (AIR 1955 Hyd 211).	None
Thereafter, the Central Government issued an amendment to the Order in exercise of the powers under S. 12 of the Finance Act, 1950, and incorporated an Explanation with retrospective operation.	None
The Explanation which became effective from May 8, 1956.	None
ProvidedFor the purpose of this paragraph, the expression all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State means and shall be deemed always to have meant the aggregate allowance for depreciation taken into account in computing the writtendown value under any laws or rules of a Part B State or carried forward under the said laws or rules.	None
By the Explanation it was sought to evolve a method of calculation of depreciation under the law or rules in force in a Part B State it was in effect a definition clause.	None
Therefore if before the application of the Incometax Act, an assessee in Part B State was being assessed to tax only under a State law, depreciation actually allowed had to be taken into account for ascertaining the writtendown value of buildings, plant and machinery in the assessment year 194950 if he was assessed under the Indian Incometax Act as well as the State law, in determining the appropriate writtendown value, the proviso to paragraph 2 had to be applied, and depreciation actually allowed under the State law had to be compared with the depreciation actually allowed under the Indian Incometax Act.	None
The expressions depreciation actually allowed under any law or rule of a Part B State in the first clause, and the expression depreciation has been allowed in the assessment in the Part B State in the proviso have in relation to any year of assessment the same connotation.	None
That is common ground.	None
The point in dispute is about the true import of the expression depreciation allowed for any year in the taxable territories.	None
The normal scheme of depreciation under the Incometax Act is that depreciation progressively decreases every year, being a percentage of the written down value, which in the first year is the actual cost to the assessee, and in the years following the actual cost less all depreciation allowed under the Incometax Act, 1922, or any Act repealed thereby see S 10(5)(b).	None
The Indore Industrial Tax Rules were, however, repealed by the Finance Act, 1950 and not by the Incometax Act, and the definition of writtendown value in S 10(5)(b) was in terms inapplicable, and depreciation had to be calculated under the special machinery prescribed by the proviso to paragraph 2 of the Taxation Laws (Part B State) (Removal of the Difficulties) Order, 1959 when assessment of income had been made both under the State law and the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	None
20.	None
In determining the writtendown value of the buildings, plant and machinery of the Company, the Appellate Tribunal held that the expression actually allowed in paragraph 2 means depreciation which is availed of for the purpose of assessment of tax, and not merely a fraction of the total depreciation allowance taken into account in levying charge upon a part of the taxable income at a rate determined by the total world income.	None
That is stated in paragraph 10 of the judgment of the Tribunal.	None
The last contention of the assessee is that the Incometax Officer should not have taken the full depreciation availed of in the preceding years, but that the depreciation should be apportioned in the same manner as the income brought to assessment.	None
The deduction should only be made in respect of that depreciation which can reasonably be attributable to the Indian income.	None
We think that the law does not make any distinction as to the part of income which was brought to assessment under the Indian Incometax Act.	None
If depreciation has in fact been availed of by the assessee either under the Indian Incometax Act or under the Industrial Rules of the State deduction has to be made.	None
The High Court did not accept this view.	None
They observed in paragraph 8 of their judgmentthe depreciation in respect of an asset under the Indian Incometax Act would clearly be the one actually allowed as laid down in S. 10(5)(b) and the depreciation under the Part B States law would also be the one actually allowed as provided in the substantive part of paragraph 2.	None
It follows, therefore, that under the proviso it is the greater of the two depreciation allowances actually allowed that has to be taken into account in computing the writtendown value under S. 10(5)(b).	None
The word allowed used in the proviso thus takes its colour from the expression all depreciation actually allowed to him under this Act as used in S. 10(5)(b) and the words all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State used in paragraph 2.	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Tribunal adopted this construction of the word allowed as used in the proviso but inconsistently with this they held that the words in the assessment made used in the proviso indicated that it was the greater of the depreciation not actually allowed but taken into account against the total world income that was to be taken into account in computing the written down value under S. 10(5)(b) after 1950.	None
We are unable to agree with this view.	None
The proviso had to be read with the substantive part of paragraph 2 and S. 10(5)(b) and is concerned only with laying down the rule that the greater of the two depreciation allowances shall be taken into account.	None
21.	None
Under S. 10 of the Incometax Act taxable profits or gains earned by an assessee under the head business after making appropriate allowances under subsection (2) have to be computed.	None
One of such allowances is depreciation in respect of buildings, machinery, plant and furniture being the property of the assessee and used for the purpose of the business at such percentage on the original cost thereof to the assessee or such percentage on the written down value thereof as may in any case or class of cases be prescribed.	None
The view which has appealed to the High Court is that even though in determining the rate at which tax was to be charged in respect of the income of the company as resident subject to the deductions permissible under S. 14(2)(c) or as a nonresident, the entire depreciation at rates applicable under the Indian Incometax Act had to be taken into account, depreciation allowed in the taxable territories within the meaning of the proviso meant only the fraction of the total amount of depreciation calculated in determining the income, equal to the fraction which the income taxable under the Indian Incometax Act bore to the total income of the Company.	None
But depreciation determined according to the rules merely enters into the computation of taxable profits, whether the assessee is a resident or a nonresident.	None
In the assessment of a Company the same rates of tax apply under the Indian Incometax Act, whether the Company is resident or nonresident.	None
If the Company is resident under S. 4A(c) its entire world income would be chargeable, subject of course to special exemptions like those provided by S. 14(2) (c) if it is nonresident only a slice of that income would be chargeable.	None
In determining the chargeable income from business, profession or vocation and the rate applicable thereto, the same rules apply, whether the Company is taxed as resident or nonresident.	None
Under the scheme of the Incometax Act depreciation like any other allowance has to be allowed in computing the total profit after the total profit is determined depreciation does not survive as a separate head of allowance.	None
A part only of the total profit of a Company determined in the manner prescribed by S. 10 may, for reasons already mentioned, be taxable.	None
But total profit being determined after depreciation is allowed, between the taxable profitswhich may be a fraction of the total profitsand depreciation there is no definable relation.	None
Therefore it is wrong to presume that the depreciation allowed in the taxable territories, which is to be taken into account under the proviso to paragraph 2 of the Removal of Difficulties Order is only a fraction of the depreciation considered for computing total profit.	None
22.	None
The view which prevailed with the Tribunal that in determining the depreciation allowed within the meaning of the proviso, it is wholly immaterial that a part of the total income was chargeable to tax if depreciation has in fact been availed of by the assessee, is in my judgment correct.	None
23.	None
Reliance was sought to be placed upon R. 33 of the Indian Incometax Rules, by counsel for the Company in support of his plea.	None
The material part of the Rule isIn any case in which the Incometax Officer is of opinion that the actual amount of the income, profits or gains accruing or arising to any person residing out of the taxable territories whether directly or indirectly XXX in the taxable territories XXX cannot be ascertained, the amount of such income, profits or gains for the purposes of assessment to incometax may be calculated on such percentage of the turnover so accruing or arising as the Incometax Officer may consider to be reasonable, or on an amount which bears the same proportion to the total profits of the business of such person (such profits being computed in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act) as the receipts so accruing or arising bear to the total receipts of the business, or in such other manner as the Incometax Officer may deem suitable.	None
The rule in terms applies only when the Incometax Officer cannot ascertain the actual income, profits or gains accruing or arising to any person residing outside the taxable territories.	None
Where from the evidence actual income can be determined the rule has no application.	None
Again the rule contemplates the computation of income of a nonresident in three different ways (1) on such percentage of the turnover so accruing or arising as the Incometax Officer may consider to be reasonable (2) on an amount which bears the same proportion to the total profits of the business of such person as the receipts so accruing or arising bear to the total receipts of the business (such profit being computed accordance with the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act) and (3) in such other manner as the Incometax Officer may deem suitable.	None
24.	None
In the computation of income of a nonresident by the second method it may be necessary to determine and allow depreciation.	None
When the first or the third method is resorted to, determination of depreciation would normally be out of place, because by the first method the income is taken as a percentage of the turnover accruing or arising, and by the third method taxable income may be determined in such other manner as the Incometax Officer deems suitable.	None
Paragraph 2 of the Taxation Laws (Para B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950, applies only to cases in which in making an assessment under the Indian Incometax Act depreciation allowed has to be taken into account in computing the total profits or income.	None
Where the question of considering the depreciation allowed does not arise, because in the method adopted determination of depreciation does not enter, paragraph 2 of necessity would have no application.	None
What must, however, be noticed is that in the ascertainment of total profits either for the purposes of assessment in the ordinary manner when the income of the assessee is determinable, or where a fraction is to be adopted for the purpose of the second method contemplated by R. 33, there is no scope for assuming that only a fraction of the depreciation is actually allowed Depreciation is deducted once and for all, and it is deducted in determining the total profits of the business.	None
25.	None
There is therefore no warrant either in S. 10(2)(vi) or in paragraph 2 of the Taxation Laws (Part B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950, or in R. 33 framed under the Indian Incometax Act for the view that depreciation allowed is a fraction of the total depreciation of the business.	None
I am unable to agree with the view taken by the High Court that in determining the appropriate writtendown value, by the application of the rule contained in the proviso to paragraph 2, only a fraction of the depreciation allowed in assessments made under the Indian Incometax Act, should be taken into account.	None
26.	None
I record an answer on the first question in the affirmative, and on the fourth question that the depreciation actually allowed means the depreciation taken into account in arriving at the total or world income.	None
27.	None
ORDER	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority, the appeals are dismissed with costs.	None
28.	None
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
