 K. Thakker, J. The present appeal was filed by appellant Girja Prasad (since deceased) against the judgment and final order passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Jabalpur on April 17, 2002 in Criminal Appeal No. 1070 of 1989.	Issue
By the said judgment, the High Court set aside an order of acquittal recorded by the II Addl.	Issue
District Sessions Judge, Jabalpur on March 15, 1989 in Special Criminal Case No. 40 of 1985 and convicted the appellant for an offence punishable under Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code (?IPC?	None
for short) and Section 5(1)(d) read with Section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as ?the Act?) and ordered him to undergo simple imprisonment for four months and to pay fine of Rs.200/ for the offence under Section 161, IPC.	Issue
No separate sentence, however, was awarded to him for offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act.	Issue
Shortly stated, the facts are that the appellant (Girja Prasad) was working as Lower Division Clerk (LDC) in the Office of Divisional Ayurved Chikitsa Adhikari, Jabalpur Division, Jabalpur.	None
It was the case of the prosecution that on September 20, 1983, Ramanarain Rajoria, Divisional Ayurved Chikitsa Adhikari, Jabalpur Division, Jabalpur (PW 4) paid surprise visit to Ayurvedic Chikitsalaya, Dindori, District Mandla and found that several members of the staff were absent including the Ayurvedic Chikitsak himself.	Facts
Consequently, he locked the Ayurvedic Chikitsalaya and returned to Jabalpur.	Facts
Ramnarain Rajoria was accompanied by the accused Girja Prasad Gupta.	Facts
On September 27, 1983, the complainant Anup Kumar (PW 1) came to Jabalpur and informed to the Divisional Ayurvedic Chikitsa Adhikari that he was on casual leave from September 7, 1983 to September 11, 1983.	Facts
He also stated that he had submitted an application for extension of leave upto September 23, 1983 but the same was not available in the Office of Divisional Ayurvedic Chikitsa Adhikari, Jabalpur.	Facts
On the same day, the Divisional Ayurvedic Chikitsa Adhikari went to Dindori and opened the lock of the Ayurvedic Chikitsalaya.	Facts
It is alleged that PW 4Ramnarain Rajoria asked the complainant that either he should pay an amount of Rs.500/ through accused Girja Prasad or should suffer suspension.	Facts
The case of the prosecution was that Anup Kumar paid Rs.300/ on the same day to accused Girja Prasad at Dindori and assured him to pay the remaining amount of Rs.200/ on October 5, 1983 at Jabalpur.	Facts
According to the prosecution, PW1complainant Anup Kumar was not willing to pay the remaining amount of Rs.200/ to the Divisional Ayurvedic Chikitsa Adhikari.	None
He, therefore, lodged a complaint in writing in the office of Lokayukt at Jabalpur.	Facts
In the said complaint, it was stated that the complainant wanted the corrupt officer to be caught redhanded.	Facts
One J.M. Wadhwa (PW 8), an Assistant Engineer from P.H.E.D., a Gazetted Officer agreed to act as trap witness.	Facts
The complainant and Wadhwa were asked to come on the next day i.e. on October 5, 1983 for arranging a trap.	Facts
Accordingly, on October 5, 1983, the complainant Anup Kumar reached the Office of Lokayukt at 11.00 a.m.	Facts
He was asked to bring the accused in a hotel so that he may be caught redhanded accepting the bribe.	Facts
Two currency notes of Rs.100/ denomination each were kept in the pocket of the complainant duly treated with chemical powder and he was informed about the special signal after giving bribe to the accused, so that the accused can be caught.	Facts
The complainant got back to the Lokayukt Office and informed the ?trapparty?	None
that the accused had promised to come to Narmada Restaurant at 5.00 p.m. At 5.00 p.m., the complainant came with the accused in the restaurant and sat near the table of Wadhwa, panch witness, who was intimated about the currency notes treated with chemical powder.	Facts
The accused then asked the complainant as to whether he had brought the amount.	Facts
The complainant replied in the affirmative, took out two currency notes with his right hand and gave them to the accused.	Facts
The complainant immediately gave signal to the ?trap party?.	None
Inspector of Special Police Establishment, S.K. Tiwari (PW 10) and Wadhwa (PW 8), Gazetted Officer who was associated with the ?trap party?	None
reached near the accused and asked him where the money was.	None
The accused told them that the money was in the pocket of his shirt.	Facts
The hands of the accused were washed in the solution of the sodium carbonate and liquid became ?matmaila?.	None
The pocket of the shirt of the accused was separately washed in the solution of the sodium carbonate and the liquid again became ?matmaila?.	Facts
A panchnama of the proceedings was drawn.	None
Another panch was Jawahar Soni (PW 6).	Facts
Liquid of the ?handwash?	None
and ?pocketwash?	None
of the accused was separately sealed in two bottles and was sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory.	Facts
On analysis, it was found by the Chemical Examiner that the ?pocketwash?	None
of the shirt of the accused was having traces of phenolphthalein powder.	Facts
Sanction for prosecution of the accused was granted by the State Government.	Facts
Charge sheet was submitted before the Special Judge.	Facts
Investigation was conducted and the accused was charged for offences punishable under Section 161, IPC and Sections 5(1)(d) and 5(2) of the Act.	None
The prosecution, in order to prove the case against the accused, inter alia examined PW1Anup Kumar Complainant, PW 4Ramnarain Rajoria, PW 6Jawahar SoniPanch II, PW 8J. M. WadhwaPanch I, PW 10S.K. TiwariInspector of Special Police Establishment.	Facts
The case of the appellantaccused was of total denial.	Facts
In his defence, he stated that he had been falsely implicated.	None
It may be stated that at the trial, both the Panch witnessesJawahar SoniPW 6 and WadhwaPW 8 did not support the prosecution and were treated ?	Facts
hostile?.	None
The fate of the case, therefore, hanged on two witnesses, PW 1Anup KumarComplainant and PW 10S.K. TiwariInspector of Special Police Establishment.	None
The Trial Court negatived the contention of the accused that sanction was not in accordance with law and the trial was vitiated.	Facts
The Court, however, acquitted the accused holding that both the Panchas did not support the case of the prosecution.	Facts
According to the prosecution, it was PW 4Ramnarain Rajoria, the Divisional Ayurvedic Chikitsa Adhikari who had asked the complainant to pay Rs.500/ to the accused that the complainant paid the said amount to him.	Facts
The Trial Court, therefore, concluded that the money was to be paid to PW 4Ramnarain Rajoria who was not arrayed as accused and against whom no proceedings had been initiated.	None
Regarding evidence of PW 1Anup KumarComplainant and PW 10S.K. TiwariInspector of Special Police Establishment, the Court stated that their evidence could not be relied upon since they were ?interested?	None
witnesses.	None
The Court also observed that the accused was merely a Clerk and he was not in a position to oblige the complainant by not placing him under suspension.	None
The power to suspend was only with Ramnarain RajoriaPW 4, and the ?main work?	None
was to be done by Ramnarain Rajoria, but it was not clear under what compelling circumstances, no prosecution was launched against Ramnarain Rajoria.	None
The Court also observed that presumption under Section 4(1) of the Act was not available to the prosecution as the amount paid by the complainant was to be given to PW4Ramnarain Rajoria.	Facts
Accordingly, the Trial Court acquitted the accused.	None
The State preferred an appeal against the acquittal and the High Court, as observed earlier, set aside the order of acquittal and convicted the accused for the offences with which he was charged.	Facts
The said conviction has been challenged by the accused in this Court.	Facts
On August 2, 2002, notice was issued by this Court.	None
On September 2, 2002, leave was granted and the accused was ordered to be released on bail.	None
The matter was thereafter placed for final hearing.	None
On August 1, 2007, when the matter was placed before us for final hearing, it was stated that during the pendency of the appeal, Girja Prasad (original appellantaccused) died.	None
It was stated that Smt.	None
Munni Bai, widow of deceased Girja Prasad had filed an application under proviso to subsection (2) of Section 394 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as ?the Code?) to allow her to continue the appeal by seeking leave of this Court.	None
The said provision confers right on near relatives of the accused who is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment and who dies during the pendency of the appeal to continue the appeal in certain cases by applying to the Court within thirty days of the death of the appellant.	None
Such application was filed by Munni Bai.	None
The Registry of this Court, however, raised an objection that there was delay of 149 days in filing the application.	None
After hearing learned counsel for the parties, we condoned delay, granted the prayer of applicantMunni Bai and allowed her to continue the appeal.	None
We, thereafter, heard learned counsel for the parties.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the High Court was wholly wrong in allowing the appeal against an order of acquittal and in convicting the deceasedaccused for offences punishable under Section 161, IPC and Section 5(1)(d) read with Section 5(2) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the Trial Court was right in acquitting the accused, particularly when no prosecution was lodged against PW 4Ramnarain Rajoria who was the main culprit and for whom the amount of Rs.200/ was alleged to have been accepted by the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that the Trial Court was right in observing that no independent witness supported the prosecution and only ?interested?	None
version was placed before the Court in the form of deposition of PW 1Anup KumarComplainant and PW 10S.K. Tiwari, Inspector.	None
Both independent panchas (PW 8Wadhwa and PW 6Jawahar Soni) did not oblige the prosecution.	None
The counsel submitted that from the evidence, it could not be said that demand and acceptance of Rs.200/ by the accused was proved.	None
But even if it was held proved, since the accused was not in a position to oblige the complainant and the demand and acceptance was for and on behalf of PW 4Ramnarain Rajoria, the Trial Court was right in holding that the accused was merely made a ?scapegoat?.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also urged that even if the High Court felt that the other view was possible, as per settled law, it ought not to have disturbed the order of acquittal.	None
Finally, it was submitted that during the pendency of the appeal in this Court, the accused had died and hence there is no question of sending the accused to jail.	None
On the other hand, if the conviction is set aside, the family members of the deceasedaccused would be able to get retiral benefits of the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondentState, on the other hand, supported the order of conviction passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the entire approach of the Trial Court was illegal and faulty.	Arguments of Respondent
Once it is proved that the accused accepted the amount, it was immaterial whether he was in a position to oblige the complainant or not or whether the acceptance of amount was for him or for someone else.	Arguments of Respondent
The Trial Court was, therefore, not right in acquitting the accused on the ground that the accused accepted the amount for Ramnarain RajoriaPW 4.	Arguments of Respondent
Grievance was also made by the learned advocate that the Trial Court was legally wrong in discarding the evidence of PW 1Anup KumarComplainant and PW 10S.K. TiwariInspector, characterizing them as ?interested?	Arguments of Respondent
witnesses.	None
It was, therefore, submitted that the appeal deserves to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Having anxiously considered the rival contentions of the parties and having gone through the record of the case meticulously, we are of the view that the High Court was wholly justified in setting aside acquittal of the accused and in recording an order of conviction against him.	Reasoning
From what is stated above, it is clear that the Trial Court also believed the case of the prosecution that the amount of Rs.200/ was paid by PW1Anup KumarComplainant to accused Girja Prasad which is clear form the following finding recorded in para 46 of the judgment ?	Reasoning
Thus from the above evidence from Anup Kumar, it becomes clear that Anup Kumar entrusted Rs.200/ to the accused so that accused Girja Prasad may give it to Shri Rajoria?.17.	Reasoning
The Court then proceeded to state?Clearly the acceptance of Rs.200/ currency notes by accused Girja Prasad, he was only innocent scarifying goat in the hands of Mr. Rajoria?.18.	Reasoning
The Trial Court also observed?It goes without saying that accused Girja Prasad worked as innocent carrier to Rajoria misusing his post while performing his official duty or he adopted illegal means for that?.	Reasoning
To us, the learned advocate for the respondentState is right in submitting that once it is proved that the amount has been received by the accused, presumption under Section 4 of the Act would get attracted.	None
Section 4 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (since repealed) provided for presumption where public servant accepted gratification other than legal remuneration.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) of the said section was relevant and read as under ?	None
Presumption where public servant accepts gratification other than legal remuneration.	None
(1) Where in any trial of an offence punishable under Section 161 or Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or of an offence referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of subsection (1) of Section 5 of this Act punishable under subsection (2) thereof, it is provided that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, for himself or for any other person, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he accepted or obtained, or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, that gratification or that valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said Section 161, or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.?	Reasoning
The Trial Court observed that the presumption is not ?absolute?, but is rebuttable and the accused can prove otherwise for getting rid of such presumption.	Reasoning
This is true.	Reasoning
But, in our view, the Trial Court lost sight of the fact that the case of the accused was of ?total denial?	Reasoning
and of ?false involvement?.	Reasoning
The presumption, in the circumstances, could not be said to have been rebutted by the accused.21.	Reasoning
In our opinion, once the finding was recorded by the Trial Court that the accused had accepted the amount, it was wholly immaterial whether the said acceptance of amount was for him or for someone else.	Reasoning
Even if an accused accepts the amount for ?someone else?, he commits an offence.	Reasoning
In this connection, we may refer to both the provisions i.e. Section 161, IPC (before it was repealed by Section 31 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988) and Section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (before the said Act was repealed by the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988).161.	Reasoning
Public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.	Reasoning
Whoever, being or expecting to be a public servant, accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept, or attempts to obtain from any person, for himself or for any other person, any gratification whatever, other than legal remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing to show, in the exercise of his official functions, favour or disfavour to any person, or for rendering or attempting to render any service or disservice to any person, with the Central or any State Government or Parliament or the Legislature of any State, or with any local authority, corporation or Government company referred to in section 21, or with any public servant, as such, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)5(1).	Reasoning
Criminal misconduct.(1)	Reasoning
A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct(a) to (c) .(d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)22.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, of no consequence whether the accused had accepted the amount for and on behalf of Ramnarain RajoriaPW 4.	Reasoning
Once it is proved that he accepted the amount of Rs.200/, he cannot escape from criminal liability on a specious ground that he was made ?scapegoat?	Reasoning
or was merely ?innocent carrier?.	Reasoning
It was also immaterial whether the accused was or was not in a position to oblige the complainant by preventing or delaying his suspension.	Reasoning
The case of the prosecution was that the complainant was asked to pay an amount of Rs.500/ by the accused and the said amount had been accepted by him in two installments, Rs.300/ at Dindori and Rs.200/ at Jabalpur where trap was successful.23.	Reasoning
We are equally unable to uphold the contention of the learned counsel for the appellant that the trial Court was right in not relying upon PW 1Anup KumarComplainant and PW 10S.K. TiwariInspector of Special Police Establishment.	Reasoning
The trial Court, it may be stated, discarded the evidence of these two witnesses by laying down the following proposition of law ?	None
It goes without saying that Anup Kumar and Shri S.K. Tiwari were concerned only with the success of the trap and thus both these persons are interested witnesses.	None
PW 10, Shri Tiwari is Inspector in Lokayukt Office therefore he is highly interested witness?.	Reasoning
In our judgment, the above proposition does not lay down correct law on the point.	None
It is wellsettled that credibility of witness has to be tested on the touchstone of truthfulness and trustworthiness.	Reasoning
It is quite possible that in a given case, a Court of Law may not base conviction solely on the evidence of Complainant or a Police Official but it is not the law that police witnesses should not be relied upon and their evidence cannot be accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars by other independent evidence.	Reasoning
The presumption that every person acts honestly applies as much in favour of a Police Official as any other person.	Reasoning
No infirmity attaches to the testimony of Police Officials merely because they belong to Police Force.	Reasoning
There is no rule of law which lays down that no conviction can be recorded on the testimony of Police Officials even if such evidence is otherwise reliable and trustworthy.	Reasoning
The rule of prudence may require more careful scrutiny of their evidence.	Reasoning
But, if the Court is convinced that what was stated by a witness has a ring of truth, conviction can be based on such evidence.25.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to refer to various decisions on the point.	Reasoning
We may, however, state that before more than halfacentury, in the leading case of Aher Raja Khima v. State of Saurashtra, AIR 1956 SC 217 , Venkatarama Ayyar, J. stated ?	None
The presumption that a person acts honestly applies as much in favour of a police officer as of other persons, and it is not judicial approach to distrust and suspect him without good grounds therefor.	None
Such an attitude could do neither credit to the magistracy nor good to the public.	Reasoning
It can only run down the prestige of the police administration?.	None
(emphasis supplied)26.	None
In Tahir v. State (Delhi), (1996) 3 SCC 338, dealing with a similar question, Dr. A.S. Anand, J. (as His Lordship then was) stated ?	None
Where the evidence of the police officials, after careful scrutiny, inspires confidence and is found to be trustworthy and reliable, it can form basis of conviction and the absence of some independent witness of the locality to lend corroboration to their evidence, does not in any way affect the creditworthiness of the prosecution case?.	Reasoning
Regarding setting aside acquittal by the High Court, the learned counsel for the appellant relied upon Kunju Muhammed v. State of Kerala, (2004) 9 SCC 193 JT (2003) 7 SC 114 , Kashi Ram v. State of M.P., (2002) 1 SCC 71 JT (2001) 8 SC 650 and Meena v. State of Maharashtra, (2000) 5 SCC 21 JT 2000 (4) SC 521 .	None
In our opinion, the law is well settled.	Reasoning
An appeal against acquittal is also an appeal under the Code and an Appellate Court has every power to reappreciate, review and reconsider the evidence as a whole before it.	Reasoning
It is, no doubt, true that there is presumption of innocence in favour of the accused and that presumption is reinforced by an order of acquittal recorded by the Trial Court.	Reasoning
But that is not the end of the matter.	Reasoning
It is for the Appellate Court to keep in view the relevant principles of law, to reappreciate and reweigh the evidence as a whole and to come to its own conclusion on such evidence in consonance with the principles of criminal jurisprudence.28.	Reasoning
In Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra, (1973) 2 SCC 793 , dealing with a similar situation, a three Judge Bench speaking through V.R. Krishna Iyer, J. stated ?	None
Even at this stage we may remind ourselves of a necessary social perspective in criminal cases which suffers from insufficient forensic appreciation.	None
The dangers of exaggerated devotion to the rule of benefit of doubt at the expense of social defence and to the soothing sentiment that all acquittals are always good regardless of justice to the victim and the community, demand especial emphasis in the contemporary context of escalating crime and escape.	Reasoning
The judicial instrument has a public accountability.	Reasoning
The cherished principles or golden thread of proof beyond reasonable doubt which runs thro?	Reasoning
the web of our law should not be stretched morbidly to embrace every hunch, hesitancy and degree of doubt.	Reasoning
The excessive solicitude reflected in the attitude that a thousand guilty men may go but one innocent martyr shall not suffer is a false dilemma.	Reasoning
Only reasonable doubts belong to the accused.	Reasoning
Otherwise any practical system of justice will then break down and lose credibility with the community.	Reasoning
The evil of acquitting a guilty person lightheartedly as a learned author has sapiently observed, goes much beyond the simple fact that just one guilty person has gone unpunished.	Reasoning
If unmerited acquittals become general, they tend to lead to a cynical disregard of the law, and this in turn leads to a public demand for harsher legal presumptions against indicated persons and more severe punishment of those who are found guilty.	Reasoning
Thus too frequent acquittals of the guilty may lead to a ferocious penal law, eventually eroding the judicial protection of the guiltless.	Reasoning
For all these reasons it is true to say, with Viscount Simon, that a miscarriage of justice may arise from the acquittal of the guilty no less than from the conviction of the innocent?.	Reasoning
In short, our jurisprudential enthusiasm far presumed innocence must be moderated by the pragmatic need to make criminal justice potent and realistic.	Reasoning
A balance has to be struck between chasing enhance possibilities as good enough to set the delinquent free and chopping the logic of preponderant probability to punish marginal innocents.?	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)29.	None
Recently, in Chandrappa v. State of Karnataka, (2007) 4 SCC 415 JT (2007) 3 SC 316 , after considering the relevant provisions of the old Code (Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898) and the present Code (Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973) and referring to decisions of the Privy Council and of this Court, one of us (C.K. Thakker, J.) laid down certain general principles regarding powers of Appellate Court in dealing with appeal against an order of acquittal.	Reasoning
In para 42 it was observed ?	None
42.	None
From the above decisions, in our considered view, the following general principles regarding powers of appellate Court while dealing with an appeal against an order of acquittal emerge(1)	Reasoning
An appellate Court has full power to review, reappreciate and reconsider the evidence upon which the order of acquittal is founded(2)	Reasoning
The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 puts no limitation, restriction or condition on exercise of such power and an appellate Court on the evidence before it may reach its own conclusion, both on questions of fact and of law(3)	Reasoning
Various expressions, such as, ?substantial and compelling reasons?, ?good and sufficient grounds?, ?very strong circumstances?, ?distorted conclusions?, ?glaring mistakes?, etc. are not intended to curtail extensive powers of an appellate Court in an appeal against acquittal.	Reasoning
Such phraseologies are more in the nature of ?flourishes of language?	Reasoning
to emphasize the reluctance of an appellate Court to interfere with acquittal than to curtail the power of the Court to review the evidence and to come to its own conclusion.(4)	Reasoning
An appellate Court, however, must bear in mind that in case of acquittal, there is double presumption in favour of the accused.	Reasoning
Firstly, the presumption of innocence available to him under the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that every person shall be presumed to be innocent unless he is proved guilty by a competent court of law.	Reasoning
Secondly, the accused having secured his acquittal, the presumption of his innocence is further reinforced, reaffirmed and strengthened by the trial court.(5)	Reasoning
If two reasonable conclusions are possible on the basis of the evidence on record, the appellate court should not disturb the finding of acquittal recorded by the trial court?.	None
In the case on hand, as observed earlier, both the Courts below recorded a positive finding that the accused accepted an amount of Rs.200/. In our opinion, therefore, Section 4 of the Act got attracted and presumption came into play against the accused.	None
There was no rebuttal by the accused by leading any evidence whatsoever.	Reasoning
The defence was of total denial and of false implication.	Reasoning
Hence, the doctrine of ?preponderance of probability?	Reasoning
also had no application.	Reasoning
The Trial Court was, therefore, wrong in not invoking Section 4 and raising presumption.	Reasoning
The Trial Court was also wrong in discarding the evidence of PW 1Anup KumarComplainant and PW 10S.K. TiwariInspector observing that they were ?interested?	None
witnesses and their testimony could not be relied upon.	Reasoning
If it is so, in our judgment, the High Court was justified in setting aside the order of acquittal and in convicting the accused for the offences with which he was charged.31.	Reasoning
We appreciate the anxiety of the learned counsel for the appellant that if the conviction of the deceased is upheld by this Court, the deceased may not be held entitled to pensionary and other benefits.	Reasoning
We are, however, helpless.	Reasoning
Once we are satisfied that the acquittal recorded by the Trial Court was not in consonance with law and the High Court was right in setting aside it and in convicting the accused, it is a mere ?	Reasoning
consequence?	Reasoning
which cannot be helped.	Reasoning
The argument of ?sympathy?, therefore, does not impress us and cannot carry the case of the appellantapplicant herein further.32.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
