 RAVINDRA BHAT, J. The appellant questions a decision of the High Court of Delhi (dated 13.09.2018, in M.A.C. APP.	Issue
520/ 2016) .	Issue
On 18.05.2012, the appellant was injured in a motor accident while travelling to Hapur as a passenger in a bus, having paid the requisite fare.	Facts
At about 1.30 pm when the bus reached village Sadikpur, PSHafizpur, Hapur, Uttar Pradesh, the driver of the offending bus (the first respondent) sought to overtake the bus in which the appellant was travelling, from the wrong side, and zipped the appellants bus, scratching it.	Facts
This rash and negligent act caused a dent in the bus where the appellant was seated, as a result of which he suffered injuries.	Facts
The appellant was removed to Dr. Khans Rehan hospital and thereafter, AIIMS Trauma Center.	Facts
The appellant claimed compensation, impleading the owner, the driver of the vehicle, and the insurer.	Facts
During the course of proceedings before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, he applied for ascertainment of his disability.	Facts
The disability report (Ex.	Facts
PWl/9 dated 01.04.2014 issued by Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital, during the motor vehicles compensation claim proceedings) showed that he suffered 89 disability in relation to his right upper limb, which had to be amputated.	Facts
The report also went on to say that the condition was non progressive, not likely to improve.	Facts
Reassessment is not recommended .	Facts
A first information report (FIR) regarding the accident was registered (FIR No. 57/12), as case Crime No. 255/12, Hazifpur Police Station, Hapur, Uttar Pradesh, under Sections 279 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.	Facts
The appellant, at that time unmarried, was working as a data entry operator typist at Tis Hazari Courts.	Facts
Prior to the injury, he earned an amount of Rs. 12,000 per month.	Facts
He had applied for grant of compensation under Sections 166 and 140 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, (hereafter the Act) claiming a sum of Rs. 50 lakhs with interest at the rate of 12 per annum against the first respondent, (the driver of the bus at the time of the accident), the second respondent (owner of the vehicle), and third respondent (the insurer).	Facts
The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (hereafter the Tribunal) rejected the insurers objection regarding its jurisdiction and further held that the appellant had suffered serious injuries due to rash and negligent driving of the respondent.	Facts
It awarded compensation in the following terms Compensation for medical expenses 11,000 Compensation for pain and suffering 30,000 Compensation for special diet, attendant and conveyance charges 30,000 Loss of future earning capacity income 11,66,400 Loss of amenities and enjoyment of life 15,000 Compensation for disfigurement 25,000 Loss of income during treatment 48,000 Future medical expenses 1,00,000 TOTAL 14,25,400 While assessing loss of earning capacity, the Tribunal took the appellants income to be Rs. 8000 per month, and added 50 towards future prospects.	None
At the time of the accident, the appellant was only 20 years of age.	Facts
Therefore, a multiplier of 18 was applied.	Facts
The physical disability was assessed to be 45, by the Tribunal.	Facts
The High Court, to which the claimant appealed (and the insurer cross appealed), revised this head of compensation by doing away with the addition of 50 towards future prospects, and reassessed the compensation for loss of earning capacity as Rs. 7,77,600 (Rs. 8000 x 12 x 45 x 18).	Facts
The total compensation was reassessed by the High Court to be Rs. 14,36,600, after enhancing the compensation for disfigurement, diet, attendant and conveyance, loss of amenities and enjoyment of life, and pain and suffering.	Facts
Further, an interest of 9 per annum was imposed.	Facts
In reducing the amount awarded for loss of future prospects, the High Court noticed this courts judgments in National Insurance Company Ltd. v. Pranay Sethi Ors.	Facts
(2017) 16 SCC 860. and Jagdish v. Mohan Ors (2018) 4 SCC 571 both by threejudge benches of this court.	Facts
The appellant argues that the impugned judgment is in material error, in misreading this courts judgments in Pranay Sethi Ors Supra n.2 which was later followed in Jagdish (Supra n.3) by a three judge Bench, which had ruled that the benefit of future prospects should not be confined only to those who have a permanent job and would extend to selfemployed individuals, and in case of self employed persons an addition of 40 of established income should be made where the age of the victim at the time of the accident was below 40 years.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the decision in Anant s o of Sidheshwar Dukre v. Pratap s o Zhamnnappa Lamzane Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2018 (9) SCC 450 ) relied on by the High Court, did not assess future prospects.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, that per se did not preclude claims by persons incurring permanent disablement as a consequence of motor accidents, from seeking such heads of compensation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that the High Court misread and created a distinct category of cases where addition in income towards future prospects can only be given in case of death, and not for injury, which cannot be the intention of this court as no such observation is made.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the High Court should have reassessed and not reduced the loss of future earning capacity of the appellant from Rs. 11,66,400/ (determined by the tribunal) to Rs. 7,77,600/ on the wrongly depressed income of Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
8000/. Learned counsel submitted that the assessment of monthly income should have been Rs.12,000/ and not Rs.8,000/. It was submitted that the courts below ignored the fact that in 2012, persons earning Rs.12, 000/ per month did not have to file income tax returns or pay tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court further erred in assessment of physical permanent disability of injured as 45, even though it was 100.	Arguments of Petitioner
5. Counsel for the insurer, who contested the appeal, urged this court not to interfere with the impugned judgment, and stated that the assessment of compensation was made by the High Court in conformity with this Courts decisions.	Arguments of Respondent
It was highlighted that permanent disability of loss of one arm, cannot lead to loss of earning capacity of up to 90 and consequently, the assessment of compensation on the head of loss of earning capacity was correctly fixed at 45.	Arguments of Respondent
He also argued that as far as income is concerned, although the appellant relied on the independent testimony of a lawyer (who stated that he used to pay him about Rs. 300/ per day), there was no proof of payment of income tax to support the claim that the appellant earned Rs. 12,000/ per month.	Arguments of Respondent
The production of the PAN card ipso facto did not establish income at the level claimed.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the counsel urged that the impugned judgment correctly appreciated the law, and loss of alleged future earning capacity was turned down.	Arguments of Respondent
The principle consistently followed by this court in assessing motor vehicle compensation claims, is to place the victim in as near a position as she or he was in before the accident, with other compensatory directions for loss of amenities and other payments.	Reasoning
These general principles have been stated and reiterated in several decisions.	None
Two questions arise for consideration one, whether in cases of permanent disablement incurred as a result of a motor accident, the claimant can seek, apart from compensation for future loss of income, amounts for future prospects too and two, the extent of disability.	Issue
On the first question, the High Court no doubt, is technically correct in holding that Pranay Sethi (Supra n.2) involved assessment of compensation in a case where the victim died.	Reasoning
However, it went wrong in saying that later, the threejudge bench decision in Jagdish (Supra n.3) was not binding, but rather that the subsequent decision in Anant (Supra n.6) to the extent that it did not award compensation for future prospects, was binding.	Reasoning
This court is of the opinion that there was no justification for the High Court to have read the previous rulings of this court, to exclude the possibility of compensation for future prospects in accident cases involving serious injuries resulting in permanent disablement.	Reasoning
Such a narrow reading of Pranay Sethi (Supra n.2) is illogical, because it denies altogether the possibility of the living victim progressing further in life in accident cases  and admits such possibility of future prospects, in case of the victims death.	Reasoning
This court has emphasized time and again that just compensation should include all elements that would go to place the victim in as near a position as she or he was in, before the occurrence of the accident.	Reasoning
Whilst no amount of money or other material compensation can erase the trauma, pain and suffering that a victim undergoes after a serious accident, (or replace the loss of a loved one), monetary compensation is the manner known to law, whereby society assures some measure of restitution to those who survive, and the victims who have to face their lives.	Reasoning
In Santosh Devi v. National Insurance Company Limited ((2012) 6 SCC 421 ) , this Court held that We find it extremely difficult to fathom any rationale for the observation made in paragraph 24 of the judgment in Sarla Vermas case that where the deceased was selfemployed or was on a fixed salary without provision for annual increment, etc., the Courts will usually take only the actual income at the time of death and a departure from this rule should be made only in rare and exceptional cases involving special circumstances.	None
In our view, it will be nave to say that the wages or total emoluments income of a person who is selfemployed or who is employed on a fixed salary without provision for annual increment, etc., would remain the same throughout his life.	None
The rise in the cost of living affects everyone across the board.	None
It does not make any distinction between rich and poor.	None
As a matter of fact, the effect of rise in prices which directly impacts the cost of living is minimal on the rich and maximum on those who are selfemployed or who get fixed income emoluments.	None
They are the worst affected people.	None
Therefore, they put extra efforts to generate additional income necessary for sustaining their families.	None
The salaries of those employed under the Central and State Governments and their agencies instrumentalities have been revised from time to time to provide a cushion against the rising prices and provisions have been made for providing security to the families of the deceased employees.	None
The salaries of those employed in private sectors have also increased manifold.	None
Till about two decades ago, nobody could have imagined that salary of Class IV employee of the Government would be in five figures and total emoluments of those in higher echelons of service will cross the figure of rupees one lac.	None
Although, the wages income of those employed in unorganized sectors has not registered a corresponding increase and has not kept pace with the increase in the salaries of the Government employees and those employed in private sectors but it cannot be denied that there has been incremental enhancement in the income of those who are selfemployed and even those engaged on daily basis, monthly basis or even seasonal basis.	None
We can take judicial notice of the fact that with a view to meet the challenges posed by high cost of living, the persons falling in the latter category periodically increase the cost of their labour.	None
In this context, it may be useful to give an example of a tailor who earns his livelihood by stitching cloths.	None
If the cost of living increases and the prices of essentials go up, it is but natural for him to increase the cost of his labour.	None
So will be the cases of ordinary skilled and unskilled labour, like, barber, blacksmith, cobbler, mason etc.	None
Therefore, we do not think that while making the observations in the last three lines of paragraph 24 of Sarla Vermas judgment, the Court had intended to lay down an absolute rule that there will be no addition in the income of a person who is selfemployed or who is paid fixed wages.	None
Rather, it would be reasonable to say that a person who is selfemployed or is engaged on fixed wages will also get 30 per cent increase in his total income over a period of time and if he she becomes victim of accident then the same formula deserves to be applied for calculating the amount of compensation.	None
In Jagdish (Supra.n.3) the victim, a carpenter, suffered permanent disablement, and his claim for compensation including for loss of future prospects was considered by a threejudge bench (which included, incidentally, the judges who had decided Pranay Sethi (Supra n.2) ).	Reasoning
This court held that In the judgment of the Constitution Bench in Pranay Sethi National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Pranay Sethi, (2017) 16 SCC 680 , this Court has held that the benefit of future prospects should not be confined only to those who have a permanent job and would extend to selfemployed individuals.	Reasoning
In the case of a selfemployed person, an addition of 40 of the established income should be made where the age of the victim at the time of the accident was below 40 years.	Reasoning
Hence, in the present case, the appellant would be entitled to an enhancement of Rs 2400 towards loss of future prospects.	Reasoning
In making the computation in the present case, the court must be mindful of the fact that the appellant has suffered a serious disability in which he has suffered a loss of the use of both his hands.	Reasoning
For a person engaged in manual activities, it requires no stretch of imagination to understand that a loss of hands is a complete deprivation of the ability to earn.	Reasoning
Nothingat least in the facts of this casecan restore lost hands.	Reasoning
But the measure of compensation must reflect a genuine attempt of the law to restore the dignity of the being.	Reasoning
Our yardsticks of compensation should not be so abysmal as to lead one to question whether our law values human life.	Reasoning
If it does, as it must, it must provide a realistic recompense for the pain of loss and the trauma of suffering.	Reasoning
Awards of compensation are not laws doles.	Reasoning
In a discourse of rights, they constitute entitlements under law.	Reasoning
Our conversations about law must shift from a paternalistic subordination of the individual to an assertion of enforceable rights as intrinsic to human dignity.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has noted that the appellant is unable to even eat or to attend to a visit to the toilet without the assistance of an attendant.	Reasoning
In this background, it would be a denial of justice to compute the disability at 90.	Reasoning
The disability is indeed total.	Reasoning
Having regard to the age of the appellant, the Tribunal applied a multiplier of 18.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, the compensation payable to the appellant on account of the loss of income, including future prospects, would be Rs 18, 14,400.	Reasoning
In addition to this amount, the appellant should be granted an amount of Rs 2 lakhs on account of pain, suffering and loss of amenities.	Reasoning
The amount awarded by the Tribunal towards medical expenses (Rs 98,908) for extra nourishment (Rs 25,000) and for attendants expenses (Rs 1 lakh) is maintained.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has declined to award any amount towards future treatment.	Reasoning
The appellant should be allowed an amount of Rs 3 lakhs towards future medical expenses.	Reasoning
The appellant is thus awarded a total sum of Rs 25,38,308 by way of compensation.	Reasoning
The appellant would be entitled to interest at the rate of 9 p.a.	Reasoning
on the compensation from the date of the filing of the claim petition.	Reasoning
The liability to pay compensation has been fastened by the Tribunal and by the High Court on the insurer, owner and driver jointly and severally which is affirmed.	Reasoning
The amount shall be deposited before the Tribunal within a period of 6 weeks from today and shall be paid over to the appellant upon proper identification.	Reasoning
The recent decision in Parminder Singh v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd (2019) 7 SCC 217 , involved an accident victim who underwent surgery for hemiplegia (Weakness of one half of the body on the left side in this case, caused by an accident.) .	None
According to the treating medic, he could not work as a labourer or perform any agricultural work, or work as a driver (as he was wont to) the assessment of his disability was at 75, and of a permanent nature.	None
The court held that 5.2.	None
On the basis of the affidavit filed by the employer of the appellant, we accept that the income of the appellant was Rs 10,000 p.m. at the time of the accident, for the purpose of computing the compensation payable to him.	None
5.1.	None
The appellant has however, produced an affidavit by his employer in this Court.	None
As per the said affidavit, the appellant was earning Rs 10,000 p.m. at the time of the accident.	None
5.3.	None
Taking the income of the appellant as Rs 10,000 p.m., with future prospects 50 as awarded by the High Court, the total income of the appellant would come to Rs 15,000 p.m. 5.4.	None
The appellant was 23 years old at the time when the accident occurred.	Facts
Applying the multiplier of 18, the loss of future earnings suffered by the appellant would work out to Rs 15,000 12 18 Rs 32,40,000.	None
5.7.	None
In K. Suresh v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd (2012) 12 SCC 274 , this Court held that (at page 279, para 10) It is noteworthy to state that an adjudicating authority, while determining the quantum of compensation, has to keep in view the sufferings of the injured person which would include his inability to lead a full life, his incapacity to enjoy the normal amenities which he would have enjoyed but for the injuries and his ability to earn as much as he used to earn or could have earned.	None
Hence, while computing compensation the approach of the Tribunal or a court has to be broad based.	None
Needless to say, it would involve some guesswork as there cannot be any mathematical exactitude or a precise formula to determine the quantum of compensation.	None
In determination of compensation the fundamental criterion of just compensation should be inhered.	None
5.9.	None
In the present case, it is an admitted position that it is not possible for the appellant to get employed as a driver, or do any kind of manual labour, or engage in any agricultural operations whatsoever, for his sustenance.	None
In such circumstances, the High Court has rightly assessed the appellants functional disability at 100 insofar as his loss of earning capacity is concerned.	None
The appellant is, therefore, awarded Rs 32,40,000 towards loss of earning capacity.	None
Yet later and more recently in an accident case, which tragically left in its wake a young girl in a lifelong state of paraplegia, this court, in Kajal v. Jagdish Chand, ((2020) 4 SCC 413.) reiterated that in addition to loss of earnings, compensation for future prospects too could be factored in, and observed that In Concord of India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Nirmala Devi Concord of India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Nirmala Devi, (1979) 4 SCC 365 1979 SCC (Cri) 996 1980 ACJ 55 , this Court held (SCC p. 366, para 2) 2.	None
the determination of the quantum must be liberal, not niggardly since the law values life and limb in a free country in generous scales.	None
In R.D. Hattangadi v. Pest Control (India)	None
(P) Ltd.	None
R.D. Hattangadi v. Pest Control (India) (P) Ltd., (1995) 1 SCC 551 1995 SCC (Cri) 250 , dealing with the different heads of compensation in injury cases this Court held thus (SCC p. 556, para 9) Broadly speaking while fixing the amount of compensation payable to a victim of an accident, the damages have to be assessed separately as pecuniary damages and special damages.	None
Pecuniary damages are those which the victim has actually incurred and which are capable of being calculated in terms of money whereas non pecuniary damages are those which are incapable of being assessed by arithmetical calculations.	None
In order to appreciate two concepts pecuniary damages may include expenses incurred by the claimant (i) medical attendance (ii) loss of earning of profit up to the date of trial (iii) other material loss.	None
So far as nonpecuniary damages are concerned, they may include (i) damages for mental and physical shock, pain and suffering, already suffered or likely to be suffered in the future (ii) damages to compensate for the loss of amenities of life which may include a variety of matters i.e. on account of injury the claimant may not be able to walk, run or sit (iii) damages for loss of expectation of life i.e. on account of injury the normal longevity of the person concerned is shortened (iv) inconvenience, hardship, discomfort, disappointment, frustration and mental stress in life.	None
In Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar, (2011) 1 SCC 343 (2011) 1 SCC (Civ) 164 (2011) 1 SCC (Cri) 1161 , this Court laid down the heads under which compensation is to be awarded for personal injuries (SCC p. 348, para 6)	None
The heads under which compensation is awarded in personal injury cases are the following Pecuniary damages (Special damages) Expenses relating to treatment, hospitalisation, medicines, transportation, nourishing food, and miscellaneous expenditure.	None
Loss of earnings (and other gains) which the injured would have made had he not been injured, comprising Loss of earning during the period of treatment Loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability.	None
Future medical expenses.	None
Nonpecuniary damages (General damages) Damages for pain, suffering and trauma as a consequence of the injuries.	None
Loss of amenities (and or loss of prospects of marriage).	None
Loss of expectation of life (shortening of normal longevity).	None
In routine personal injury cases, compensation will be awarded only under heads (i), (ii)(a) and (iv).	None
It is only in serious cases of injury, where there is specific medical evidence corroborating the evidence of the claimant, that compensation will be granted under any of the heads (ii)(b), (iii), (v) and (vi) relating to loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability, future medical expenses, loss of amenities (and or loss of prospects of marriage) and loss of expectation of life.	None
In K. Suresh v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. K. Suresh v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd., (2012) 12 SCC 274 (2013) 2 SCC (Civ) 279 (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 638 , this Court held as follows (SCC p. 276, para 2) There cannot be actual compensation for anguish of the heart or for mental tribulations.	None
The quintessentiality lies in the pragmatic computation of the loss sustained which has to be in the realm of realistic approximation.	None
Therefore, Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for brevity the Act) stipulates that there should be grant of just compensation.	None
Thus, it becomes a challenge for a court of law to determine just compensation which is neither a bonanza nor a windfall, and simultaneously, should not be a pittance.	None
Loss of earnings Both the courts below have held that since the girl was a young child of 12 years only notional income of Rs 15,000 p.a. can be taken into consideration.	None
We do not think this is a proper way of assessing the future loss of income.	None
This young girl after studying could have worked and would have earned much more than Rs 15,000 p.a.	None
Each case has to be decided on its own evidence but taking notional income to be Rs 15,000 p.a. is not at all justified.	None
The appellant has placed before us material to show that the minimum wages payable to a skilled workman is Rs 4846 per month.	None
In our opinion, this would be the minimum amount which she would have earned on becoming a major.	None
Adding 40 for the future prospects, it works to be Rs 6784.40 per month i.e. 81,412.80 p.a.	None
Applying the multiplier of 18, it works out to Rs 14,65,430.40, which is rounded off to Rs 14,66,000.	None
In view of the above decisive rulings of this court, the High Court clearly erred in holding that compensation for loss of future prospects could not be awarded.	Reasoning
In addition to loss of future earnings (based on a determination of the income at the time of accident), the appellant is also entitled to compensation for loss of future prospects, 40 (following the Pranay Sethi principle).	Reasoning
The factual narrative discloses that the appellant, a 20yearold data entry operator (who had studied up to 12 th standard) incurred permanent disability, i.e. loss of his right hand (which was amputated).	Reasoning
The disability was assessed to be 89.	Reasoning
However, the tribunal and the High Court reassessed the disability to be only 45, on the assumption that the assessment for compensation was to be on a different basis, as the injury entailed loss of only one arm.	Reasoning
This approach, in the opinion of this court, is completely mechanical and entirely ignores realities.	Reasoning
Whilst it is true that assessment of injury of one limb or to one part may not entail permanent injury to the whole body, the inquiry which the court has to conduct is the resultant loss which the injury entails to the earning or income generating capacity of the claimant.	Reasoning
Thus, loss of one leg to someone carrying on a vocation such as driving or something that entails walking or constant mobility, results in severe income generating impairment or its extinguishment altogether.	Reasoning
Likewise, for one involved in a job like a carpenter or hairdresser, or machinist, and an experienced one at that, loss of an arm, (more so a functional arm) leads to near extinction of income generation.	Reasoning
If the age of the victim is beyond 40, the scope of rehabilitation too diminishes.	Reasoning
These individual factors are of crucial importance which are to be borne in mind while determining the extent of permanent disablement, for the purpose of assessment of loss of earning capacity.	Reasoning
In Neerupam Mohan Mathur v. New India Assurance Company (2013) 14 SCC 15 , this court considered the case of a victim, whose injury was assessed to 70 as loss of earning capacity for amputation of the arm he was a postgraduate diploma holder in mechanical engineering, 32 years of age and earning about Rs. 3000/ per month.	None
This court held, approving the High Courts order (which had adopted the formula from the Workmens Compensation Act, to determine 70 for the purpose of deciding loss of earning capacity) as follows In the present case, the percentage of permanent disability has not been expressed by the doctors with reference to the full body or with reference to a particular limb.	None
However, it is not in dispute that the claimant suffered such a permanent disability as a result of injuries that he is not in a position of doing the specialised job of designing, refrigeration and air conditioning.	None
For the said reason, the claimants services were terminated by his employer but that does not mean that the claimant is not capable to do any other job including the desk job.	None
Having qualification of BSc degree and postgraduate diploma in Mechanical Engineering, he can perform any job where application of mind is required than any physical work.	None
In view of the forgoing discussion we find no grounds made out to interfere with the finding of the High Court which determined the percentage of loss of earning capacity to 70 adopting the percentage of loss of earning capacity as per the Workmens Compensation Act.	None
The total loss of income was thus rightly calculated by the High Court at Rs 6, 04,800.	None
Later, in another judgment, i.e. Jakir Hussein v. Sabir (2015) 7 SCC 252 this court had to consider the correctness of a compensation assessment based on the High Courts analysis of the injury to the victim (a driver who suffered permanent injury to his arm, impairing movement as well as the wrist, which rendered him incapable of driving any vehicle).	None
The High Court had assessed permanent disablement at 30 though the doctor had certified it to be 55.	None
This court, reversing the High Court order, observed inter alia that Due to this injury, the doctor has stated that the appellant had great difficulty to move his shoulder, wrist and elbow and pus was coming out of the injury even two years after the accident and the treatment was taken by him.	None
The doctor further stated in his evidence that the appellant got delayed joined fracture in the humerus bone of his right hand with wiring and nailing and that he had suffered 55 disability and cannot drive any motor vehicle in future due to the same.	None
He was once again operated upon during the pendency of the appeal before the High Court and he was hospitalised for 10 days.	None
The appellant was present in person in the High Court and it was observed and noticed by the High Court that the right hand of the appellant was completely crushed and deformed.	None
In view of the doctors evidence in this case, the Tribunal and the High Court have erroneously taken the extent of permanent disability at 30 and 55, respectively for the calculation of amount towards the loss of future earning capacity.	None
No doubt, the doctor has assessed the permanent disability of the appellant at 55.	None
However, it is important to consider the relevant fact, namely, that the appellant is a driver and driving the motor vehicle is the only means of livelihood for himself as well as the members of his family.	None
Further, it is very crucial to note that the High Court has clearly observed that his right hand was completely crushed and deformed.	None
In Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar (2011) 1 SCC 343, this Court specifically gave the illustration of a driver who has permanent disablement of hand and stated that the loss of future earnings capacity would be virtually 100.	None
Therefore, clearly when it comes to loss of earning due to permanent disability, the same may be treated as 100 loss caused to the appellant since he will never be able to work as a driver again.	None
The contention of the respondent Insurance Company that the appellant could take up any other alternative employment is no justification to avoid their vicarious liability.	None
Hence, the loss of earning is determined by us at Rs 54,000 per annum.	None
Thus, by applying the appropriate multiplier as per the principles laid down by this Court in Sarla Verma v. DTC (2009) 6 SCC 121 (2009) 2 SCC (Civ) 770 (2009) 2 SCC (Cri) 1002 , the total loss of future earnings of the appellant will be at Rs 54,000 16 Rs 8,64,000.	None
Recently, in Anthony Alias Anthony Swamy v. Managing Director, K.S.R.T.C (2020)	None
SCC OnLine SC 493 where the victim was a painter by profession, a threejudge bench had followed Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar (2011) 1 SCC 343 and Nagarajappa v. Divisional Manager, Oriental Insurance Company Limited (2011) 13 SCC 323. .	None
The High Court had assessed the injury to be 25 permanent disability, although the treating doctor had said that the injury incurred by the bus passenger (who was earning Rs. 9000/ per month) was 75 of the left leg and 37.5 for the whole body.	None
In Raj Kumar (Supra n.22) , the physical disability of the upper limb was determined as 68 in proportion to 2223 of the wholebody.	None
The High Court had assessed the injury as 25 and granted compensation.	None
However, this court assessed the injury on the basis that the disability was 75, stating as follows PW.3 had assessed the physical functional disability of the left leg of the appellant at 75 and total body disability at 37.5.	None
The High Court has considered it proper to assess the physical disability at 25 of the whole body only.	None
There is no discussion for this reduction in percentage, much less any consideration of the nature of permanent functional disability suffered by the appellant.	None
The extent of physical functional disability, in the facts of the case has to be considered in a manner so as to grant just and proper compensation to the appellant towards loss of future earning.	None
The earning capacity of the appellant as on the date of the accident stands completely negated and not reduced.	None
He has been rendered permanently incapable of working as a painter or do any manual work.	None
Compensation for loss of future earning, therefore has to be proper and just to enable him to live a life of dignity and not compensation which is elusive.	None
If the 75 physical disability has rendered the appellant permanently disabled from pursuing his normal vocation or any similar work, it is difficult to comprehend the grant of compensation to him in ratio to the disability to the whole body.	None
The appellant is therefore held entitled to compensation for loss of future earning based on his 75 permanent physical functional disability recalculated with the salary of Rs. 5,500/ with multiplier of 14 at Rs. 6,93,000/.	None
The question of amount of compensation payable to one suffering injury as a result of motor vehicle accident was considered in Syed Sadiq Ors. v. Divisional Manager, United Insurance Company Limited (2014) 2 SCC 735 , when this Court had to apply the correct standard for awarding compensation for loss of future prospects for a vegetable vendor, whose right leg had to be amputated, as a result of a motor accident.	None
The High Court had considered the disability to be 65.	None
This court held as follows Further, the appellant claims that he was working as a vegetable vendor.	None
It is true that a vegetable vendor might not require mobility to the extent that he sells vegetables at one place.	None
However, the occupation of vegetable vending is not confined to selling vegetables from a particular location.	None
It rather involves procuring vegetables from the wholesale market or the farmers and then selling it off in the retail market.	None
This often involves selling vegetables in the cart which requires 100 mobility.	None
But even by conservative approach, if we presume that the vegetable vending by the appellant claimant involved selling vegetables from one place, the claimant would require assistance with his mobility in bringing vegetables to the market place which otherwise would be extremely difficult for him with an amputated leg.	None
We are required to be sensitive while dealing with manual labour cases where loss of limb is often equivalent to loss of livelihood.	None
Yet, considering that the appellant claimant is still capable to fend for his livelihood once he is brought in the market place, we determine the disability at 85 to determine the loss of income.	None
The appellant claimant in his appeal further claimed that he had been earning pic10,000/ p.m. by doing vegetable vending work.	None
The High Court however, considered the loss of income at pic3500/ p.m. considering that the claimant did not produce any document to establish his loss of income.	None
It is difficult for us to convince ourselves as to how a labour involved in an unorganized sector doing his own business is expected to produce documents to prove his monthly income.	None
In Arvind Kumar Mishra v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd (2010) 10 SCC 254 , the appellant at the time of accident was a final year engineering (Mechanical) degree student in a reputed college.	None
He was a brilliant student and had passed all his semester examinations with distinction.	None
He suffered grievous injuries and remained in a coma for about two months his studies were disrupted as he was moved to different hospitals for surgeries.	None
For many months, his condition remained serious his right hand was amputated and vision seriously affected.	None
This court accepted his claim and held that he was permanently disabled to the extent of 70.	None
In Mohan Soni v. Ram Avtar Tomar (2012) 2 SCC 267 at page 272 again a case of injury entailing loss of a leg, the court held that medical evidence of the extent of disability should not be mechanically scaled down On hearing the counsel for the parties and on going through the materials on record, we are of the view that both the Tribunal and the High Court were in error in pegging down the disability of the appellant to 50 with reference to Schedule I of the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923.	None
In the context of loss of future earning, any physical disability resulting from an accident has to be judged with reference to the nature of work being performed by the person suffering the disability.	None
This is the basic premise and once that is grasped, it clearly follows that the same injury or loss may affect two different persons in different ways.	None
Take the case of a marginal farmer who does his cultivation work himself and ploughs his land with his own two hands or the puller of a cyclerickshaw, one of the main means of transport in hundreds of small towns all over the country.	None
The loss of one of the legs either to the marginal farmer or the cyclerickshawpuller would be the end of the road insofar as their earning capacity is concerned.	None
But in case of a person engaged in some kind of desk work in an office, the loss of a leg may not have the same effect.	None
The loss of a leg (or for that matter the loss of any limb) to anyone is bound to have very traumatic effects on ones personal, family or social life but the loss of one of the legs to a person working in the office would not interfere with his work earning capacity in the same degree as in the case of a marginal farmer or a cyclerickshawpuller.	None
This Court in K. Janardhan case (2008) 8 SCC 518 (2008) 2 SCC (LS) 733 , set aside the High Court judgment and held that the tanker driver had suffered 100 disability and incapacity in earning his keep as a tanker driver as his right leg was amputated from the knee and, accordingly, restored the order passed by the Commissioner of Workmens Compensation.	None
In K. Janardhan (2008) 8 SCC 518 (2008) 2 SCC (LS) 733 this Court also referred to and relied upon an earlier decision of the Court in Pratap Narain Singh Deo v. Srinivas Sabata (1976) 1 SCC 289 1976 SCC (LS) 52 in which a carpenter who suffered an amputation of his left arm from the elbow was held to have suffered complete loss of his earning capacity.	None
Any scaling down of the compensation should require something more tangible than a hypothetical conjecture that notwithstanding the disability, the victim could make up for the loss of income by changing his vocation or by adopting another means of livelihood.	None
The party advocating for a lower amount of compensation for that reason must plead and show before the Tribunal that the victim enjoyed some legal protection (as in the case of persons covered by the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995) or in case of the vast multitude who earn their livelihood in the unorganised sector by leading cogent evidence that the victim had in fact changed his vocation or the means of his livelihood and by virtue of such change he was deriving a certain income.	None
The loss of earning capacity of the appellant, according to us, may be as high as 100 but in no case it would be less than 90.	None
We, accordingly, find and hold that the compensation for the loss of the appellants future earnings must be computed on that basis.	None
On calculation on that basis, the amount of compensation would come to Rs 3,56,400 and after addition of a sum of Rs 30,000 and Rs 15,000 the total amount would be Rs 4,01,400.	None
The additional compensation amount would carry interest at the rate of 9 per annum from the date of filing of the claim petition till the date of payment.	None
The additional amount of compensation along with interest should be paid to the appellant without delay and not later than three months from today.	None
One more decision, Sandeep Khanduja v. Atul Dande 2017 (3) SCC 351 too had dealt with the precise aspect of assessing the quantum of permanent disablement.	None
The victim was aged about 30 years, working as a chartered accountant for various institutions for which he was paid professional fees.	None
The injuries suffered by him resulted in severe impairment of movement he had problems in climbing stairs, back trouble while sleeping, etc.	None
A rod was implanted in his leg.	None
He suffered 70 permanent disability, and mental and physical agony.	None
This court enhanced the compensation, observing the proper manner to calculate the extent of disability The percentage of permanent disability is expressed by the doctors with reference to the whole body, or more often than not, with reference to a particular limb.	None
When a disability certificate states that the injured has suffered permanent disability to an extent of 45 of the left lower limb, it is not the same as 45 permanent disability with reference to the whole body.	None
The extent of disability of a limb (or part of the body) expressed in terms of a percentage of the total functions of that limb, obviously cannot be assumed to be the extent of disability of the whole body.	None
If there is 60 permanent disability of the right hand and 80 permanent disability of left leg, it does not mean that the extent of permanent disability with reference to the whole body is 140 (that is 80 plus 60).	None
If different parts of the body have suffered different percentages of disabilities, the sum total thereof expressed in terms of the permanent disability with reference to the whole body cannot obviously exceed 100.	None
Where the claimant suffers a permanent disability as a result of injuries, the assessment of compensation under the head of loss of future earnings would depend upon the effect and impact of such permanent disability on his earning capacity.	None
The Tribunal should not mechanically apply the percentage of permanent disability as the percentage of economic loss or loss of earning capacity.	None
In most of the cases, the percentage of economic loss, that is, the percentage of loss of earning capacity, arising from a permanent disability will be different from the percentage of permanent disability.	None
Some Tribunals wrongly assume that in all cases, a particular extent (percentage) of permanent disability would result in a corresponding loss of earning capacity, and consequently, if the evidence produced show 45 as the permanent disability, will hold that there is 45 loss of future earning capacity.	None
In most of the cases, equating the extent (percentage) of loss of earning capacity to the extent (percentage) of permanent disability will result in award of either too low or too high a compensation.	None
What requires to be assessed by the Tribunal is the effect of the permanent disability on the earning capacity of the injured and after assessing the loss of earning capacity in terms of a percentage of the income, it has to be quantified in terms of money, to arrive at the future loss of earnings (by applying the standard multiplier method used to determine loss of dependency).	None
We may however note that in some cases, on appreciation of evidence and assessment, the Tribunal may find that the percentage of loss of earning capacity as a result of the permanent disability, is approximately the same as the percentage of permanent disability in which case, of course, the Tribunal will adopt the said percentage for determination of compensation.	None
The crucial factor which has to be taken into consideration, thus, is to assess as to whether the permanent disability has any adverse effect on the earning capacity of the injured.	None
In this sense, the MACT approached the issue in right direction by taking into consideration the aforesaid test.	None
However, we feel that the conclusion of the MACT, on the application of the aforesaid test, is erroneous.	None
A very myopic view is taken by the MACT in taking the view that 70 permanent disability suffered by the appellant would not impact the earning capacity of the appellant.	None
A person who is engaged and cannot freely move to attend to his duties may not be able to match the earning in comparison with the one who is healthy and bodily abled.	None
Movements of the appellant have been restricted to a large extent and that too at a young age.	None
Though the High Court recognised this, it did not go forward to apply the principle of multiplier.	None
We are of the opinion that in a case like this and having regard to the injuries suffered by the appellant, there is a definite loss of earning capacity and it calls for grant of compensation with the adoption of multiplier method, as held by this Court in Yadava Kumar v Divisional Manager, National Insurance Co. Ltd 2010 (10) SCC 341	None
We do not intend to review in detail state of authorities in relation to assessment of all damages for personal injury.	None
Suffice it to say that the basis of assessment of all damages for personal injury is compensation.	None
The whole idea is to put the claimant in the same position as he was insofar as money can.	None
Perfect compensation is hardly possible but one has to keep in mind that the victim has done no wrong he has suffered at the hands of the wrongdoer and the court must take care to give him full and fair compensation for that he had suffered.	None
In some cases for personal injury, the claim could be in respect of lifetimes earnings lost because, though he will live, he cannot earn his living.	None
In others, the claim may be made for partial loss of earnings.	None
Each case has to be considered in the light of its own facts and at the end, one must ask whether the sum awarded is a fair and reasonable sum.	None
The conventional basis of assessing compensation in personal injury casesand that is now recognised mode as to the proper measure of compensationis taking an appropriate multiplier of an appropriate multiplicand.	None
In that case, after following the judgment in Kerala SRTC v. Susamma Thomas (1994) 2 SCC 176 , the Court chose to apply multiplier of 18 keeping in view the age of the victim, who as 25 years at the time of the accident.	None
In the instant case, the MACT had quantified the income of the appellant at Rs. 10,000, i.e. Rs. 1,20,000 per annum.	None
Going by the age of the appellant at the time of the accident, multiplier of 17 would be admissible.	None
Keeping in view that the permanent disability is 70, the compensation under this head would be worked out at Rs. 14,28,000.	None
The MACT had awarded compensation of Rs. 70,000 for permanent disability, which stands enhanced to Rs. 14,28,000.	None
For mental and physical agony and frustration and disappointment towards life, the MACT has awarded a sum of Rs. 30,000, which we enhance to Rs. 1,30,000.	None
Courts should not adopt a stereotypical or myopic approach, but instead, view the matter taking into account the realities of life, both in the assessment of the extent of disabilities, and compensation under various heads.	Reasoning
In the present case, the loss of an arm, in the opinion of the court, resulted in severe income earning impairment upon the appellant.	Reasoning
As a typist data entry operator, full functioning of his hands was essential to his livelihood.	Reasoning
The extent of his permanent disablement was assessed at 89 however, the High Court halved it to 45 on an entirely wrong application of some proportionate principle, which was illogical and is unsupportable in law.	Reasoning
What is to be seen, as emphasized by decision after decision, is the impact of the injury upon the income generating capacity of the victim.	Reasoning
The loss of a limb (a leg or arm) and its severity on that account is to be judged in relation to the profession, vocation or business of the victim there cannot be a blind arithmetic formula for ready application.	Reasoning
On an overview of the principles outlined in the previous decisions, it is apparent that the income generating capacity of the appellant was undoubtedly severely affected.	Reasoning
Maybe, it is not to the extent of 89, given that he still has the use of one arm, is young and as yet, hopefully training (and rehabilitating) himself adequately for some other calling.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the assessment of disability cannot be 45 it is assessed at 65 in the circumstances of this case.	Reasoning
This court is also of the opinion that the courts below needlessly discounted the evidence presented by the appellant in respect of the income earned by him.	Reasoning
Working in the informal sector as he did, i.e. as a typist data entry operator in court premises in Delhi, his assertion about earning Rs.12,000/ could not be discarded substantially, to the extent of bringing it down to Rs. 8,000/ per month.	Reasoning
Such self employed professionals, it is noticeable, were not obliged to file income tax returns for AY 20112012, when no levy existed for anyone earning less than Rs. 1,60,000/ per annum.	Reasoning
(First Schedule, Finance Act, 2011.)	Reasoning
The advocate who deposed about the earnings of the appellant was believed to the extent that the tribunal fixed the appellants monthly earnings at Rs.	Reasoning
8,000/.	Reasoning
If one takes into account contemporary minimum wages for skilled workers (which was in the range of Rs. 8,500/)	Reasoning
the realistic figure would be Rs.10,000/ per month.	Reasoning
Adding future prospects at 40 (By applying the ratio in Pranay Sethi) , the income should be taken as Rs.14,000 for the purpose of calculation of compensation.	Reasoning
Accordingly, this court finds that the compensation payable for the disability of loss of an arm (assessed at 65) would be Rs.19,65,600/ (i.e., Rs. 14,000/ x 12 x 65 x 18) or Rupees Nineteen lakhs sixty five thousand six hundred only.	Reasoning
In parting, it needs to be underlined that Courts should be mindful that a serious injury not only permanently imposes physical limitations and disabilities but too often inflicts deep mental and emotional scars upon the victim.	Reasoning
The attendant trauma of the victims having to live in a world entirely different from the one she or he is born into, as an invalid, and with degrees of dependence on others, robbed of complete personal choice or autonomy, should forever be in the judges mind, whenever tasked to adjudge compensation claims.	Reasoning
Severe limitations inflicted due to such injuries undermine the dignity (which is now recognized as an intrinsic component of the right to life under Article 21) of the individual, thus depriving the person of the essence of the right to a wholesome life which she or he had lived, hitherto.	Reasoning
From the world of the able bodied, the victim is thrust into the world of the disabled, itself most discomfiting and unsettling.	Reasoning
If courts nitpick and award niggardly amounts oblivious of these circumstances, there is resultant affront to the injured victim.	Reasoning
The High Courts assessment of amounts payable under other heads (such as compensation for medical expenses, compensation for pain and suffering, compensation for special diet and attendant, conveyance charges, loss of amenities and enjoyment of life, disfigurement and loss of income during treatment), do not call for interference.	Reasoning
In view of the above conclusions, the impugned judgment is hereby modified the sum of Rs.19,65,600/ shall be substituted in place of the amount of Rs. 7,77,600/, considering the enhancement towards loss of earning capacity and future prospects.	Decision
The appeal is partly allowed the impugned judgment stands modified in the above terms.	Decision
There shall be no order on costs.	Decision
