 M. SAHAI, J. The principal issue that arises for consideration in this appeal is whether thrust washers, thrust halfwashers and wrapped bushes manufactured by the appellant exclusively for motor vehicles could be classified as thin walledbearings so as to attract duty under Notification No. 99 issued in 1971.	Issue
Apart from this another legal question which has cropped up mainly due to the High Courts finding and approach of departmental authorities whether a goods which has a meaning assigned to it with consensus of Department and trade could be held to be so even without satisfying the requirements on the premise that the court and quasijudicial authorities are not bound by it Legally there can be no two opinions that a trade notice issued by the Collector of Excise or even the Central and Excise Tariff Board (in brief Board) has no binding authority and the assessing authority can draw its conclusions but the importance of it can be appreciated in this appeal only when facts, in brief, are narrated.	None
The appellant is manufacturer of the bushes and washers which are exclusively used in motor vehicles.	Facts
They are thus parts and accessories and were dutiable under Item 34A which read as underItem No. Description of Goods Rate of Duty 34A Parts and accessories not Twenty per cent ad elsewhere specified of motor valorem vehicles and tractors including trailersExplanation	Facts
I The expression Motor Vehicles has the meaningassigned to it in Item No. 34Explanation II	Facts
The expression Tractors shall includeagricultural tractorsIn 1971 Notification No. 99 was issued exemption motor vehicles accessories and parts except those which are mentioned in the Schedule.	Facts
The notification is reproduced below In exercise of the powers conferred by subrule (1) of Rule 8 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, the Central Government hereby exempts motor vehicles parts and accessories, falling under Item No. 34A of the First Schedule to the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), other than those specified in the Schedule hereto annexed, from the whole of the duty of excise leviable thereonTHE SCHEDULE1.	Facts
Brake linings2.	Facts
Clutch facings3.	Facts
Engine valves4.	Facts
Gaskets5.	Facts
Nozzles and nozzleholders6.	None
Piston rings7.	None
Shock absorbers8.	Facts
Sparking plugs9.	None
Thinwalled bearings10.	None
Tie rod ends11.	Facts
Electric horns.	None
The effect of this notification was that from the date it was issued every accessory and part of the motor vehicles became exempt from payment of any duty except the items mentioned in it.	None
Since the bushes and washers manufactured by the appellant were accessories and parts of motor vehicles, it was not liable to pay any duty and consequently the appellant cleared these goods produced in the factory without paying and duty from 1971 onwards.	Facts
In February 1978 a meeting was called by the Board in which representatives of the trade participated.	Facts
Two decision appear to have been taken by consensus, one that such washers and bushes as were manufactured by the appellant were bimetal bearings and second, they could be classified as thin walled bearings if they satisfied the specifications as provided in Indian Standard 4774/1968.	Facts
The consensus arrived at the meeting is extracted below Bushes, bearings and thrust halfwashers would fall within the category of bearings(ii) the question whether a bearing should be considered as a thin walled bearing should be decided after taking into account the other relevant dimensions as laid down in ISI specification IS 47741968 (it was understood that this had not been further revised)(iii) the question whether a bearing was or was not bimetallic or multimetallic would not be relevant for deciding whether it was a thinwalled bearing This led to issuing of trade notice dated 2391978 which read as under It is considered that valve rocker arm bushes, axle bushes, suspension bushes, steering bushes, thrust washers, sintered bushes, and miscellaneous bushes would fall within the category of bearings.	Facts
However, the relevant dimensions as laid down in ISI specification IS 47741968 should be taken into account to decide whether a bearing is thinwalled bearing.	None
Whether a bearing is or is not bimetallic or multimetallic would not be relevant for deciding whether it is a thinwalled bearing2.	None
All the Trade Associations and Chamber of Commerce and Industries are requested to bring the contents of this Trade Notice to the notice of their memberconstituents.	None
Acting on this Trade Notice, the Superintendent of Central Excise issued a letter to the appellant which is reproduced below Take notice that on behalf of the Central Government.	None
I hereby demand payment by you of the sum of Rs. 1, 79, 504.21 ps (Rs.	None
One lakh seventynine thousand five hundred and four and paise twentyone only within ten days from the date hereof.	None
Particulars of demand As per Tariff Advice No. 44 of 1978 dated 781978 and Poona Central Excise Collectorate Trade Notice No. 168 of 1978 dated 2391978 all the thinwalled bearings attract Central excise duty provided they are manufactured walled bearings attract Central excise duty provided they are manufactured to ISI specification IS 47741968 and are used or have application as M. V. parts.	None
In view of the above the thinwalled bearings are thrust washers and bushes like valve rocker arm bush etc. cleared from your factory from 781978 works out as under.	None
The appellant denied that the washer and bushes manufactured by it were thinwalled bearings.	None
In the note of arguments, it was claimed that wrapped bushes and thrust washers were not thinwalled bearings.	None
The relevant portion of the note of objections is extracted below IS 47741968 does not give any specifications for bushes(b) IS 4774 gives specifications for(i)	None
Thinwalled bearings and(ii) Thrust half washers(c) IS47571968 specifies dimensions for wrapped bushes and thrust washers(d)	None
The bushes manufactured by KOEL for automotive use being formed from strip are wrapped bushes and are in conformity with IS 47571968 and(e)	None
The thrust half washers and thrust washers manufactured for automotive use are in conformity with IS 47741968 and IS 47571968 respectivelyOn examination of IS 47741968 and 47571968 one can appreciate that wrapped bushes and thrust washers (half or full) are articles different from thinwalled bearing and therefore not excisable from the date of exemption notification.	None
The Assistant Collector did not agree and held that since the goods manufactured by the appellant were thinwalled bearings falling under Item No. 34A, it was liable to pay duty on these goods.	None
The Assistant Collector did not accept the claim of the appellant that only bearings which are manufactured according to the specification mentioned in Tables Nos. 2 to 5 of ISI were liable to be classified as thinwalled bearings.	None
In appeal the Collector of Central Excise held According to this specification, thrust washers are used at one or each end of a plan jurnal (sic) bearing in order to take light duty thrust loads, a function performed by a bearing.	None
Therefore, technically it will not be incorrect to call trust washers including thrust half washers, which are nothing but one half of a split thrust washer, as bearings.	None
Similarly, a wrapped bush is a bush with a longitudinal split in one place and bush means a bearing liner in the form of a complete tube covering 360 degrees.	None
Bearing liner is a tubular element whose inner surface is the bearing bore.	None
Thus, bushes of the type manufactured by the appellants also are bearings.	None
In case the thrust washers and wrapped bushes have thin walls having specifications given in IS 47741968, these will be classifiable as thinwalled bearings and thus liable to pay duty under Tariff Item 34 A.	None
It is only when these are not according to those specifications, they would be other than thinwalled bearings.	None
Accordingly, I hold that the impugned goods are thinwalled bearings and must pay duty under Tariff Item 34A. The Collector thus did not record any finding whether the goods satisfied IS 47741968 specification.	None
The orders were challenged by the appellant by way of a writ petition.	None
The High Court held that there was no material to determine how the bushes and washers manufactured by the appellant were understood in the trade circle.	None
The High Court was of opinion that ISI specification was irrelevant.	None
It could not reflect trade understanding.	None
It did not agree that there was difference between bearing and bushes.	None
The Court went into merits as well and held that it was not disputed that thrust washers and wrapped bushes manufactured by the company are in accordance with specifications under IS 47741968, i.e., in the nominal diameter range 16 to 150 mm.	None
The High Court held that since the function performed by the bushes and washers manufactured by the appellant was the same as those performed by the bearing, they were liable to be treated as thinwalled bearings as they are in accordance with the specification given in the ISI Schedule.	None
The High Court further held that even if it be assumed that two views could be possible on the classification of certain goods, the orders passed by the Collector and Assistant Collector were not liable to interference unless it was found that they were perverse or unreasonable or entirely unsustainable Various submissions were advanced by Shri.	None
Hidayatullah, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that functional test to determine taxability or assessability was rejected by this Court as far back as 1988 in Jain Engineering Co. v. Collector of Customs1, therefore, the High Court gravely erred in rejecting the claim of the appellant only because the bushes and bearings manufactured by the appellant were performing the same function as bearings.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed on Union of India v. Delhi Cloth General Mills2 and it was urged that the specifications by the Indian Standard Institute furnished very strong and indeed incontrovertible evidence and, therefore, the High Court was in complete error in its opinion that the Indian Standard specifications do not reflect trade understanding.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel challenged the finding recorded by the High Court on merits and urged that the specifications as given by the Indian Standard Institute have not only been understood erroneously, but even applied incorrectly as the Assistant Collector found that the bush and bearing manufactured by the appellant were of dimension of 4775 and the consensus having been arrived at the meeting between the Board and the trade representatives for including those bushes and washers which were of dimension of 4774 the High Court could not have in the absence of any other material held that the goods manufactured by the appellant were thinwalled bearings.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand Shri. A. K. Ganguli, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Department urged that it has been held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Novopan India Ltd. v. CCE and Customs3 that the burden was on the assessee to prove the exception and in the absence of any material brought on record as to how the goods were understood in the trade circle the High Court was justified in dismissing the writ petition A bush in normal sense is understood as a thin metal sleeve or tubular lining serving as a bearing or guide.	None
In Van Nostrands Scientific Encyclopaedia it is explained as under In mechanical terminology, to bush is to reduce the size of a hole.	None
A bushing is a hollow cylinder used as a renewable liner for a bearing or a drill jig.	None
Similarly, washer is understood as a flat ring or drilled disc of metal used under the head of a bolt or nut to spread the load when tightened.	None
In McGrawHills Encyclopaedia of Science Technology it is explained as a flattened, ringshaped device used to improve the tightness of a screw fastener.	None
The use of washer in common parlance is explained in the dictionary as for placing beneath a nut or an axle bearing or joint, to serve as a cushion, to relieve friction etc.	None
A bearing is normally understood in mechanical sense to be a part that rests on something or on which something rests or in which a pin etc. turns (Encyclopaedia Britannica, Vol. 2).	None
In normal sense, therefore, a washer has different purpose than bearing Wrapped bushes and thrust washers, however, find a very wide application in engineering industry, particularly automobile industry.	None
In the Foreword to the Indian Standard Booklet, published in 1974 it is mentioned that wrapped bushes save both space and weight and thrust washers with wrapped bushes are intended to take light thrust loads.	Reasoning
A bearing on the other hand is generally understood as mentioned in the same booklet an element of mechanism which allows a force to be transmitted between two relatively moving parts.	Reasoning
A bush and washer manufactured by the appellant could not normally be treated as bearing except when it is understood in technical sense.	Reasoning
It appears when the Indian Standard Specifications were published and washers and wrapped bushes, thrust washers and thrust half washers were mentioned in the booklet as goods which are extensively used in automobile industry, the Department invited the trade representatives to discuss the matter, the result of which has been extracted earlier.	Reasoning
Therefore, before a decision was taken by the Board, there was no material available with the Department which could furnish basis for deciding whether bushes or washers manufactured by the appellant could be classified as bearing much less thinwalled bearing within the meaning of notification issued in 1971.	Reasoning
Not only that the entire proceedings were initiated by the Superintendent of Central Excise on the basis of Trade Notice referred to earlier inviting the appellant to classify these goods as thinwalled bearings if they satisfied the specification of 4774.	Reasoning
It is true, as held by the High Court and by the authorities that a trade notice is not binding, but what the High Court omitted to consider was that there was no other material with the Department on which it could assume that the washers and bushes manufactured by the appellant were thinwalled bearings.	Reasoning
The basis for initiation of proceedings being Indian Standard Booklet published by the Indian Standard Institute, it was not proper either for the High Court or for the assessing authorities to ignore it and levy the duty treating these goods to be thinwalled bearings, on assumptions without any material.	Reasoning
The observation in the judgment of the High Court that it was specification under IS 47741968 is factually incorrect.	Reasoning
The written note of the appellant given before the assessing authority has been extracted.	Reasoning
It is obvious that the order was made under misapprehension7.	Reasoning
Since the High Court and the assessing authorities approached the case with an entirely incorrect perspective, their orders cannot be maintained.	Reasoning
Yet it would be hazardous for this Court to examine the dimension and specification of these bushes and washers and decide whether they can be classified as thinwalled bearings.	Reasoning
For that purpose it would be expedient to sent the case back to the High Court which may decide it either itself or send it to the Tribunal which has now been constituted.	Reasoning
In view of this it is not necessary to decide any other issue8.	Reasoning
For these reasons this appeal succeeds and is allowed.	Decision
The order passed by the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The matter is remitted back to it to restore the write petition to its original number, decide the same or transfer it to the Tribunal for deciding it in accordance with law9.	Decision
Parties shall bear their own costs.	Decision
