 	None
These appeals are against the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court dated 8th June, 2001.	None
Briefly stated, the facts are as followsIn Andhra Pradesh, there was a company known as Hyderabad Allwyn Ltd In this company, the Government of Andhra Pradesh was a major shareholder.	Facts
The company suffered huge losses and became a sick company.	None
Therefore the matter was taken up before the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR).3.	Facts
While the matter was before the BIFR, negotiations took place with the appellants for the purpose of reviving at least the refrigeration department of that company.	Facts
A Memorandum of Understanding was entered into on 28th of March, 1993, which, inter alia, provided as under HAL has been incurring losses for the past few years and the Government of Andhra Pradesh has decided to disinvest its holding and interalia privatise HAL with a view to making it a viable unit and achieving the following objectives(a) To secure the public interest by reviving HAL, balancing the drain on the States exchequer and consequential denial of use of States finances for other State and public purpose and objectives and obviating allocations of the State and public purposes and objectives and obviating allocations of the State budget to HAL, as contrasted with the consequences of continued retention of the shareholding and management of HAL as a Government Company.(b)	Facts
To avoid bankruptcy of HAL and consequential loss of employment in the State of Andhra Pradesh and loss of capital of the State of Andhra Pradesh by initiating measures of privatisation.(c) To ensure the commitment on the part of the new owner to maintain and fully utilise the existing production capacities at reasonable level and to ensure the growth and stability of HAL in the long run.	Facts
By this MOU, it was agreed that all the business interests and undertaking of Refrigeration Department would be transferred to and taken over by the appellants by virtue of an amalgamation on the terms and conditions set out in the MOU.	Facts
The MOU clarified that it would take effect from 29th of March, 1993 provided the scheme of amalgamation was approved by the BIFR.5.	Facts
Thereafter, a draft scheme was prepared and circulated to all the parties.	Facts
The draft scheme inter alia provided for certain waivers and concessions.	Facts
One of the concessions was a deferment of sales tax for a period of seven years from the date of final order passed by the BIFR approving the scheme.6.	Facts
The scheme was placed before the BIFR.	Facts
After giving notice to all interested parties and after hearing objections BIFR sanctioned the scheme on 4th April, 1994.	Facts
The sanctioned scheme contained the following two clauses which are relevant for our purpose 13(b)(3)	None
Unpaid statutory dues like sales tax to be funded and the amount so funded to have a moratorium of 2 years (199495 and 199596) for repayment of such dues and payment of interest thereon.	None
Thereafter, repayment to be made in 20 equal quarterly instalments with interest at 6 p.a.13(b)(4) Deferment of sales tax liabilities in respect of the products manufactured at Sanatnagar and Nandalur factories for a period of 7 years from the date of the final order from the BIFR approving this scheme.	Facts
The Government issued a GO No. 66 dated 20th January, 1994, wherein it was provided as follows The sales tax deferral will be upto a maximum of 50 of the fresh monies which amounts to Rs. 18.50 crores to be brought in by M s. Voltas for the rehabilitation of the Refrigerator Division as per the sanctioned scheme of the BIFR.	Facts
Sales tax upto the above ceiling will be deferred for a period of 7 years.	Facts
However, by another GO bearing No. 119 dated 18th August, 1995, the Government substituted the above mentioned clauses of the earlier GO by the following The Sales Tax Deferral shall be limited to the maximum of 50 of the fresh monies to be brought in by M s. Voltas Limited for rehabilitation of the Refrigeration Division as per the sanctioned scheme of Board for Industries Reconstruction of Rs. 18.50 crores whichever is less.	Facts
The sales tax upto the above ceiling shall be deferred for a period of 7 years starting from 1.4.1993.	Facts
The amount of Sales Tax so deferred shall carry an interest of 18 per annum.	Facts
It shall be payable after 7 years in one lumpsum.	Facts
After GO No. 119 was issued, the appellants made a reference to the Government.	Facts
The Government by its letter dated 25th October, 1995 directed the appellants to move BIFR for obtaining a specific order to extend concession of sales tax deferral without charging any interest.10.	Facts
BIFR by its order dated 5th December, 1995 refused to interfere on the ground that the sales tax deferral was granted by the Government based on its policy and if the policy guidelines did not provide for waiver of interest then that benefit could not be granted to the appellants.11.	Facts
The appellants filed an appeal before the Appellate Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction, which by its order dated 25th July, 1996 dismissed the appeal, inter alia, on the ground that the liability to pay interest was a statutory liability.	Issue
It was held that in the absence of any provision in the scheme the statutory liability could not be waived.12.	Issue
The appellants then filed a writ petition in the Andhra Pradesh High Court, which has been dismissed by the impugned judgment.	Issue
The Andhra Pradesh High Court has held that there was no exemption from sales tax.	Facts
It held that all that had been granted was a deferral for payment of sales tax.	Facts
It held that there was no provision in the Sales Tax Act to grant deferral	Issue
but it would not go into the question whether such deferral could have been granted as it did not arise before it.	Issue
It held that there was a statutory liability to pay interest and so long as there was no express waiver of the statutory liability in this sanctioned scheme interest had to be paid.	Issue
It held that normally sales tax become due and payable on filing of the return and if there is deferred payment then interest has to be paid.	Facts
It is urged, on behalf of the appellants, that the whole purpose of the amalgamation and the scheme was to revive a sick company and to ensure that the company remained in the State of Andhra Pradesh.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the whole purpose was to see that workmen did not lose jobs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that with this view in mind the concessions and the waivers were granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted while considering the scheme before BIFR the cost elements were also taken into consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the costs factor was worked out on the basis that there was to be a deferral without their being any interest liability.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that taking into account the cost factor, above mentioned Clause 4 was incorporated in the scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that Clause 4 did not contain any provision for payment of interest on the deferred sales tax and therefore no interest was payable under the scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was made to various provisions of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 to show that once a scheme is sanctioned, it is final and binding not only on the parties to the scheme but that it also prevails over all other contracts and even other laws.	None
It was submitted that the provision of the scheme prevail over the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax.	None
It was submitted that as there was no provision for payment of interest, no interest could be charged from the appellants.	None
Reliance was placed upon the case of J.K. Synthetics Ltd. v. Commercial Taxes Officer, 1994 (4) SCC 276 , wherein the question was whether an assessee was liable to pay interest.	None
The assessee had not included the amount of freight charged in respect of sales of cement, as part of price and filed returns on that basis.	None
The assessee also paid tax on that basis.	None
However, ultimately on adjudication it was held that freight was part of the price and that tax had to be paid even on this element.	None
The assessee thus paid the tax.	None
The question was whether the assessee was liable to pay interest on this payment.	None
In this context, this Court held as follows Let us look at the question from a slightly different angle.	None
Section 7(1) enjoins on every dealer that he shall furnish prescribed returns for the prescribed period within the prescribed time to the Assessing Authority.	None
By the proviso the time can be extended by not more than 15 days.	None
The requirement of Section 7(1) is undoubtedly a statutory requirement.	None
The prescribed return must be accompanied by a receipt evidencing the deposit of full amount of tax due in the State Government on the basis of the return.	None
That is the requirement of Section 7(2).	None
Section 7(2A), no doubt, permits payment of tax at shorter intervals but the ultimate requirement is deposit of the full amount of tax due shown in the return.	None
When Section 11B(a) uses the expression tax payable under Subsections (2) and (2A) of Section 7, that must be understood in the context of the aforesaid expressions employed in the two subsections.	None
Therefore, the expression ex payable under the said two subsections is the full amount of tax due and tax due is that amount which becomes due tax hypothesi on the turnover and taxable turnover shown in or based on the return.	None
The word payable is a descriptive word, which ordinarily means that which must be paid or is due, or may be paid but its correct meaning can only be determined if the context in which it is used is kept in view.	None
The word has been frequently understood to mean that which may, can or should be paid and is held equivalent to due.	None
Therefore, the conjoint reading of Sections 7(1), (2) and (2A) and 11B of the Act leaves no room for doubt that the expression tax payable in Section 11B can only mean the full amount of tax which becomes due under Subsections (2) and (2A) of the Act when assessed on the basis of the information regarding turnover and taxable turnover furnished or shown in the return.	None
Therefore, so long as the assessee pays the tax which according to him is due on the basis of information supplied in the return filed by him, there would be no default on his part to meet his statutory obligation under Section 7 of the Act and, therefore, it would be difficult to hold that the tax payable by him is not paid to visit him with the liability to pay interest under Clause (a) of Section	None
11B. It would be a different matter if the return is not approved by the authority but that is not the case here.	None
It is difficult on the plain language of the section to hold that the law envisages the assessee to predicate the final assessment and expect him to pay the tax on that basis to avoid the liability to pay interest.	None
That would be asking him to do the near impossible.	None
It was submitted that this authority shows that a liberal interpretation had to be given and that the assessee should not be made liable for interest amounts.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view this authority is against the appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
This authority shows that the tax becomes due on the date that the return are filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In J.K. Synthetics case the assessee had paid the tax which the assessee thought was payable.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case the appellants were not exempted from paying tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
All that happened was that payment of tax was deferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus the appellants collected tax from the customers but were not paying the same over to the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
The concession of deferral did not mean that the payment and not become due.	Arguments of Petitioner
Payment become due with the filing of the returns.	Arguments of Petitioner
The deferral was granted as payment had become due.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants know that it was due but due to the concession granted under the scheme, they were not paying the same.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the amounts become due and payable only on 29th of March, 2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention reference was also made to a letter dated 1st March, 2000 addressed by the Commercial Tax Officer to the appellants calling upon them to pay the amount by 29th of March, 2000.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this submission.	Arguments of Petitioner
As set out above the payment had become due on filing of the return.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has also placed upon the case of Indian Shaving Products Ltd. v. Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction and Anr., 1996 (1) SCC 683 , wherein this Court has held that an amalgamated company is entitled to the benefit of Section 72(a) of the Income Tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view, this authority has no relevance, at all, to the question before us.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the clause also does not contain any provision for payment of interest.	None
It also does not contain waiver from payment of interest.	None
Under the provisions of Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, the assessee has to obtain a licence, file returns and pay the tax at the time the returns are filed.	None
However Section 16(2)(b) of the Sales Tax Act permits extension of time for payment of tax.	None
Section 16 reads as follows Payment of tax and other dues payable under the Act(1)	None
The tax assessed, whether provisionally or finally and the penalty levied under the provisions of this Act shall be paid by the dealer in such manner, and within such time, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice of assessment or of the levy of penalty, as may be specified in such noticeProvided that the timelimit of fifteen days for a notice under this subsection shall not apply to casual tradersProvided further that the Assessing Authority may, for good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, required the dealer to pay the tax assessed or the penalty levied within such time, not being less than seven days from the date of service of the notice of assessment, as may be specified in the noticeProvided also that the Assessing Authority shall require the dealer to pay the tax due as per the return filed by him in case such return is not accompanied by the proof of payments of tax and it shall not be necessary to give minimum time of fifteen days for payment of tax as mentioned in this section2(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in Subsection (1), on an application made by the assessee, the Deputy Commissioner may, by an order, allow extension of time for payment of any tax, penalty or other amount due under this Act, or permit the payment thereof in such instalments within such intervals and subject to such conditions as he may specify in the said order, having regard to the circumstances of each case(b) in every case where extension of time for such payment is allowed or where such payment in instalments is permitted, the dealer shall pay, in addition to such tax, penalty, instalment or other amount, interest at the rate of one rupee and fifty paise for every one hundred rupees or part thereof, from the date specified for its payment for the period so extended or on the instalments so permitted.	None
Thus time for payment can be extended.	Reasoning
But if such an extension is granted a statutory liability to pay interest at the rate of 18 arises.	Reasoning
This is a statutory liability.	Reasoning
If a statutory liability has to be waived then there must be an express waiver of the same.	Reasoning
The fact that the scheme is silent about such waiver shows that there is no waiver.	Reasoning
This becomes further clear from Clause 13(b)(3) of the scheme.	Reasoning
That clause specifies that interests shall only be at the rate of 6.	Reasoning
Such a provision had to be made because otherwise the statutory liability would have been to pay interest at the rate of 18.	Reasoning
In Clause 13(B)(4)	Reasoning
there is no express waiver of or reduction in the rate of interest and the payment thereof.21.	None
On behalf of the respondents, reliance has been placed upon the case of Amrit Banaspati Co. Ltd. and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. State of Punjab and Anr., 1992 (2) SCC 411.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case the Chief Minister and the Government had promised refund of sales tax if the industry was set up in the State.	Arguments of Respondent
After the industry was set up, the Government did not grant the refund of sales tax.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court held that a promise of refund of sales tax is completely different from waiver of tax.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court held that if there is a waiver of tax, that benefit ultimately goes to the consumer inasmuch as no tax is collected.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court held that in case the tax is collected from the consumer it has to be paid to the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court held that to promise refund of tax, which is due and payable, would be a fraud on the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held that such a promise could not be enforced.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held that promissory estoppel does not arise in such a case.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has, in the impugned judgment, relied upon this authority to conclude that there can be no implied waiver of a statutory liability.	Arguments of Respondent
We see no infirmity in the reasoning of the High Court.	Reasoning
Reliance was also placed by the respondents on the case of South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. v. State of M.P. and Ors., 2003 (8) Scale 600 , wherein it has been held that if under the provisions of the contract or statute interest is payable then such interest must be paid.	Reasoning
However, in that case, the question whether the provision of a scheme sanctioned by BIFR would prevail over a statutory provision did not arise.23.	Reasoning
Thus in our view there being no express waiver of interest, the statutory provision must prevail.	Reasoning
We thus do not find any infirmity in the order of the High Court.	Reasoning
The appeals stand dismissed accordingly.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
