 P. Wadhwa, J.Leave granted.	None
In both these appeals which are against two separate judgments of the same Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court, a common question of law arises.	Issue
It is that in the circumstances could a completed assessment under the U.P. Sales Tax Law be reopened after the prescribed period when that period was enlarged by amending the law.	Issue
Facts are similar.	None
In the appeal of Lohia Machines Limited (arising out of SLP (C) No. 11015 of 1997) assessment for the year 198586 under the UP Trade Tax Act, 1948 (for short the Act) was completed on November 27, 1989.	Facts
The Act is also called the U.P. Sales Tax Act.	Facts
In the appeal of Jyoti Traders (arising out of SLP(C)	Facts
No. 8866 of 1997) assessment for the year 198586 was completed on February 28, 1990.	Facts
Period for assessment or reassessment which is four years u s 21 of the Act, for the assessment year 198586 expired, on March 31, 1990.	Facts
The Act was extensively amended by the UP Sales Tax (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1991.	Facts
The amending Act received the assent of the Governor of Uttar Pradesh on August 19, 1991.	Facts
Different dates were prescribed for coming into force of various provisions of the amending Act.	Facts
Section 21 of the Act also underwent an amendment and the relevant provision with which we are concerned came into force with effect from February 19, 1991.	Facts
Taking advantage of the amendment to section 21, which now prescribed a period of eight years, the Sales Tax Officer after taking sanction from the Commissioner of Sales Tax issued notices to the respondents in both these appeals for reassessment.	Facts
In the case of Lohia Machine Ltd. sanction order is dated December 12, 1993 and notice is dated September 8, 1994.	Facts
In the case of Jyoti Traders date of sanction order is November 12, 1993 and the notice had been issued for January 11, 1994.	Facts
Sanctions given and notices thus issued were after more than four years with reference to the assessment year 198586 under the Act before its amendment.	Facts
The respondent challenged both these orders of sanction of the Commissioner of Sales Tax and the notices for reassessment in two separate writ petitions which allowed by the High Court and the sanction orders of the Commissioner as well as notices issued by the Sales Tax Officer were quashed.	Facts
This led to filing of the present appeals.	Facts
Relevant provisions of section 21 of the Act are as under  Section 21.	None
Assessment of tax on the turnover not assessed during the year.	None
If the assessing authority has reason to believe that the whole or any part of the turnover of the dealer, for any assessment year or part thereof, has escaped assessment to tax or has been under assessed or has been assessed to tax at a rate lower than that at which it is assessable under this Act, or any deductions or exemptions have been wrongly allowed in respect thereof the assessing authority may, after issuing notice to the dealer and making such inquiry as it may consider necessary, assess or reassess the dealer or tax according to law Provided that the tax shall be charged at the rate at which it would have been charged had the turnover not escaped assessment, or full assessment as the case may be.	None
Explanation Except as otherwise provided in this section no order of assessment or reassessment under any provision of this Act for any assessment year shall be made after the expiration of four years from the end of such year.	Reasoning
By the amending Act a proviso was added to subsection 2 as under  Provided that if the Commissioner of Sales Tax, on being satisfied on the basis of reasons recorded by the assessing authority that it is just and expedient so to do authorities the assessing authority in that behalf, such assessment or reassessment may be made after the expiration of the period aforesaid but not after the expiration of eight years from the end of such year notwithstanding that such assessment or reassessment may involve a change of opinion.	Reasoning
There are other amendments in section 21 which were made by subsequent amending Acts but with those we are not concerned.	Reasoning
As noted above, the proviso to subsection 2 of section 21 as inserted by the amending Act, 1991 came into force with effect from February 19, 1991.	Reasoning
High Court had held that sanction issued by the Commissioner of Sales Tax for initiation of proceedings u s 21 of the Act for the Assessment Year 198586 was barred by limitation and that the proviso to Section 21(2) of the Act which had been introduced with effect from February 19, 1991 and was inapplicable to the Assessment Year 198586 as the assessment order for this year had been made much before the introduction of the proviso to Section 21(2) of the Act.	Reasoning
High Court was thus of the view that when the period for assessment or reassessment for the year 198586 u s 21 of the Act before insertion of the proviso to Subsection (2) thereof had expired on March 31, 1990, the amendment had no effect.	Reasoning
Mr. Goel, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that if we accept the interpretation to Subsection (2) of Section 21 to hold that the amendment is of prospective nature it will make the proviso redundant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said proviso in fact operates after expiry of four years period prescribed under that subsection and that notice has to follow after the order is obtained from the Commissioner and not before that.	Arguments of Petitioner
Strong reliance was placed by him on a decision of this Court in Commercial Tax Officer and others Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
M s. Biswanath Jhunjhunwala and another, .	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, which is under the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 the respondent, a registered dealer under this Act, was assessed for the assessment years Chaitra Sudi 2023 and 2024.	Arguments of Petitioner
The assessments were completed on February 17, 1969 and March 26, 1969 respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Rule 80 (5) of the Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1941 made under that Act the assessment could have been reopened only within a period of four years.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Rule 80(5) in relevant part is as under  80(5)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Commissioner or any other authority to whom power in this behalf has been delegated by the Commissioner, shall not, of his own motion, revise any assessment made or order passed under the Act or the rules thereunder if  the assessment has been made or the order has been passed more than four years previously.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	None
Bengal Sales Tax Ordinance, 1973 was promulgated which was later replaced by the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) (Third Amendment) Act, 1974.	None
This amending Act substituted Section 26(1) of the principal Act under which now the State Government was empowered to make rules, with prospective or retrospective effect for carrying out the purposes of the Act.	None
With this new power conferred on the State Government Rule 80(5) was amended by notification issued on March 30, 1974 amending the same with effect from November 1, 1971, and in relevant pan now it reads as under  80(5)	None
The Commissioner or any other authority to whom power in this behalf has been delegated by the Commissioner shall not, of his own motion, revise any assessment made or order passed under the Act or the rules thereunder if  the assessment has been made or the order has been passed more than six years previously.	Arguments of Petitioner
After this amendment to Rule 80(5) as aforesaid Commercial Tax Officer issued notices on November 7, 1974 reopening the completed assessments for the years Chaitra Sudi 2023 and 2024.	Reasoning
These notices were challenged in the Calcutta High Court by writ petition questioning the legality of the notices.	Reasoning
High Court upheld the contention of the respondentassessee that by the amendment of the Rule, assessments which had been completed could be revised within six years of the date of such completion, but when the right to revise the assessments under the unamended provision of the rule stood barred on the date of the amendment, such assessments could not be reopened or revised.	Reasoning
High Court said that the notification did not either expressly or necessary implication confer any power of revision of assessment which stood barred on the date on which it was issued.	Reasoning
After referring to decision of this Court in the cases of ITO vs. S.K. Habibullah (1962) 44 ITR 8091, S.S. Gadgil, Income Tax Officer, Bombay Vs. Lal and Company, and J.P. Jani, Income Tax Officer, Circle IV, Ward G, Ahmedabad and Another Vs.	Reasoning
Induprasad Devshanker Bhatt, this Court held as under  What, therefore, we have to seek is the clear meaning of the said Notification.	None
If there be no doubt about the meaning the amendment brought about by the said Notification must be given full effect.	Reasoning
If the language expressly so states or clearly implies, retrospectively must be given with effect from 1.11.1971, so as to encompass all assessments made within the period of six years theretofore, whether they have become final by reason of the expiry of the period of four years or not.	Reasoning
BY reason of the said Notification, with effect from 1.11.1971, Rule 80(5)(ii) has to be read as barring the Commissioner (or other authority to whom power in this behalf has been delegated by the Commissioner) from revising of his own motion any assessment made or order passed under the Act or the rules if the assessment has been made or the order has been passed more than six years previous to 1.11.1971.	Reasoning
Put conversely, with effect from 1.11.1971, Rule 80(5)(ii) permits the Commissioner (or other authority) to revise of his own motion any assessment made or order passed under the Act or the rules provided the assessment has not been made or the order passed more than six years previously.	Reasoning
This being the plain meaning, the said Notification must be given full effect.	Reasoning
Full effect can be given only if the said Notification is read as being applicable not only to assessments which were incomplete but also to assessments which had reached finality by reason of the earlier prescribed period of four years having elapsed.	Reasoning
Where language as unambiguous as this is employed, it must be assumed that the legislature intended the amended provision to apply even to assessments that had so become final if the intention was otherwise, the legislature would have so stated.	Reasoning
Mr. Agrawal, who appeared for Lohia Machines Ltd. and Mr. Hansaria, for Jyoti Traders, submitted that the amendment would not have any retrospective operation and that High Court was right in its view.	Arguments of Respondent
To get support for their arguments reference was made to the decisions of this Court in Y. Narayana Chetty Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
vs income tax Officer Nellore Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1953) 35 ITR 388, S.S. Gadgil, Income Tax Officer, Bombay Vs. Lal and Company, , J.P. Jani, Income Tax Officer, Circle IV, Ward G, Ahmedabad and Another Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Induprasad Devshanker Bhatt, and The Ahmedabad Mfg. and Calico Printing Co., Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
S.C. Mehta, Income Tax Officer and Another, In Y. Narayana Chetty Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
vs. income tax Officer Nellore Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
one of the questions raised was that proceedings taken by the Income Tax Officer u s 34 of the Income Tax Act, 1922 were invalid because the notice required to be issued under the said section had not been issued against the assessees contemplated therein.	None
This Court said that the Income Tax Officer had purported to act u s 34(1)(a) against the assessee and proceeded to hold as under The said subsection provides inter alia that if the income tax Officer has reason to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return of his income u s 22 for any year or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income, profits or gains chargeable to income tax has been under  assessed, he may, within the time prescribed, serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in the notice under subsection (2) of section 22 and may proceed to reassess such income, profits or gains.	None
The argument is that the service of the requisite notice on the assessee is a condition precedent to the validity of any reassessment made u s 34, and if a valid notice is not issued as required, proceedings taken by the income tax Officer in pursuance of an invalid notice and consequent orders of reassessment passed by him would be void and inoperative.	None
In our opinion, this contention is wellfounded.	None
The notice prescribed by section 34 cannot be regarded as a mere procedural requirement it is only if the said notice is served on the assessee as required that the income tax Officer would be justified in taking proceedings against him.	None
If no notice is issued or if the notice issued is shown to be invalid then the validity of the proceedings taken by the income tax Officer without a notice or in pursuance of an invalid notice would be illegal and void.	None
That is the view taken by the Bombay and Calcutta High Courts in Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City I Vs.	None
Ramsukh Motilal, Bombay, and R.K. Das and Co.	None
Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal, and we think that that view is right.	None
In S.S. Gadgil vs. Lal Co. Section 34 of Income Tax Act, 1922 was considered which prescribed a period of one year for assessment or orassessment in the case of income escaping assessment in the case of a person deemed to be an agent of a nonresident person.	None
By Section 18 of the Finance Act, 1956, period of one year was increased to two years.	None
The relevant clauses of Section 34 prescribing the period within which notice may be issued read as follows If he may in cases falling under clause (a) at any time within eight years and in cases falling under clause (b) at any time within four years of the end of that year, serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under subsection (2) of section 22 and may proceed to assess or reassess such income, profits or gains or recompute the loss or depreciation allowance Provided that Where the assessment made or to be made is an assessment made or to be made on a person deemed to be the agent of a nonresident person u s 43, this subsection shall have effect as if for the periods of eight years and four years a period of one year was substituted.	None
By Section 18 of the Finance Act, 1956 section 34 was extensively amended and clause (iii) of the proviso was substituted by the following proviso Provided further that the income tax Officer shall not issue a notice under this subsection for any year after the expiry of two years from that year if the person on whom an assessment of reassessment is to be made in pursuance of the notice is a person deemed to be the agent of a nonresident person u s 43.	None
20. income tax Officer, therefore, could issue a notice to a person deemed to be the agent of a nonresident after the expiry of two years from the date of the expiry of the assessment year.	None
It was common ground that Section 18 of the Finance Act, 1956 was not given retrospective operation before April 1, 1956.	None
The question before this Court was whether the income tax Officer could issue a notice of assessment to a person as an agent of a nonresident party under the amended provisions when the period prescribed for such notice had, before the Amended Act came into force, expired.	None
This Court said that the Amending Act came into force after the period provided for issue of a notice u s 34, before it was amended, had expired.	None
The Court said that in considering whether the amending statute applied, the question was one of interpretation, i.e., to ascertain whether it was the intention of the legislature to deprive a taxpayer of the plea that action for assessment or reassessment could not be commenced, on the ground that before the amending Act became effective, it was barred.	None
The Court then held as under As we have already pointed out, the right to commence a proceeding for assessment against the assessee as an agent of a nonresident party under the income tax Act before it was amended, ended on March 31, 1956.	None
It is true that under the amending Act by Section 18 of the Finance Act, 1956, authority was conferred upon the income tax Officer to assess a person as an agent of a foreign party u s 43 within two years from the end of the year of assessment.	None
But authority of the income tax Officer under the Act before it was amended by the Finance Act of 1956, having already come to an end, the amending provision will not assist him to commence a proceeding even though at the date when he issued the notice it is within the period provided by that amending Act.	None
This will be so.	None
notwithstanding the fact that there has been no determinable point of lime between the expiry of the time provided under the old Act and the commencement of the amending Act.	None
The legislature has given to Section 18 of the Finance Act, 1956, only a limited retrospective operation, i.e., up to April 1, 1956, only.	None
That provision must be read subject to the rule that in the absence of an express provision or clear implication, the legislature does not intend to attribute to the amending provision a greater retrospectivity than is expressly mentioned, nor to authorise the income tax Officer to commence proceedings which before the new Act came into force had by the expiry of the period.	None
In J.P. Jani income tax Officer Circle IV Ward G Ahmedabad Anr.	Reasoning
vs. Induprasad Devshanker Bhatt the assessment for the assessment year 194748 was completed on January 31, 1952 under the Income Tax Act, 1922.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the income tax Officer received information that a certain profit made by the assessee had escaped assessment by reason of the assessee not having disclosed at the time of the original assessment.	Reasoning
The income tax Officer, therefore, after obtaining the approval of the Commissioner of income tax issued notice dated March 27, 1956 u s 34(1)(a) of the Income Tax Act, 1922.	Reasoning
By order dated March 29, 1957, the income tax Officer completed reassessment proceedings.	Reasoning
Assessee went in appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who allowed the same by Order dated January 5, 1963 and set aside the order of assessment on the ground that there was no valid service of notice.	Reasoning
By this time, Income Tax Act, 1961 had come into force.	Reasoning
On January 4, 1963, the income tax Officer issued a notice calling upon the assessee to show cause why proceedings should not be taken u s 147(a) of the new Act for bringing to tax the escaped profit of the assessee.	Reasoning
Subsequently, notice u s 148 of the Act new was issued.	Reasoning
Assessee protested against this new notice on the ground that action under the old Act had become time barred and the new Act had no application to his case.	Reasoning
After considering the provisions of the old Act and Section 297 of the new Act which repealed the old Act and on the effect of the repeal, this Court said that all the new sections must be read as applicable only to those cases where right of the income tax Officer to reopen the assessment was not barred under the repealed section.	Reasoning
The Court held as under In our view, the new statute does not disclose in express terms or by necessary implication that there was a revival of the right of the income tax Officer to reopen an assessment which was already barred under the old Act.	Reasoning
This view is brone out by the decision of this Court in S.S. Gadgil, Income Tax Officer, Bombay Vs. Lal and Company, This Court observed that neither by express terms nor by necessary implication did Section 297(2)(d)(ii) disclosed that there was a revival of the right of the income tax Officer to reopen an assessment which was already barred under the old Act.	Reasoning
The Section was applicable only to those cases where the right of the income tax Officer to reopen the assessment was not barred under the old Act.	Reasoning
In The Ahmedabad Mfg. and Calico Printing Co., Ltd.	None
Vs. S.C. Mehta, Income Tax Officer and Another, , the appellant, a company, had been granted under the provisions of the Finance Act, 1952, a rebate on a portion of its profits of the previous year, that is, 1951 which it had not distributed as dividends to its shareholders.	None
In the next assessment year 195354, the appellant used a part of the aforesaid undistributed profits for declaring, dividends.	None
As the law then stood, nothing could be done by the revenue authorities to withdraw the rebate earlier granted on the ground of the profits being utilised in declaring dividends in a latter year.	None
From April 1, 1956, however, there was a change in the law as subsection (10) of Section 35 of the income tax Act, 1922, was brought into force then.	None
By an order made on March 27, 1958, under that subsection, the aforesaid rebate was withdrawn and the appellant was called upon to refund it.	None
The appellant then applied to the High Court at Bombay for a writ to quash the order of March 27, 1958, on the ground that subsection (10) was not applicable to the facts of this case.	None
That application was dismissed by the High Court.	None
The appeal in the Supreme Court was against this decision of the High Court at Bombay dismissing the application.	None
Now subsection (10) of Section 35 of the income tax Act was enacted by the Finance Act of 1956.	None
That subsection, in so far as it is necessary to state for the purpose of this case, provided that where in any of the assessment years 194849 to 195556, a rebate of income tax was allowed to a company under the Finance Act prevailing in that year on a part of its total income and subsequently the amount on which the rebate of income tax was allowed as aforesaid is availed of by the company, wholly or partly, for declaring dividends in any year the income tax Officer shall recomplete the tax payable by the company by reducing the rebate originally allowed.	None
The subsection in substance permits a rebate duly allowed in any year before it come into force to be withdrawn if subsequently the amount on which the rebate was allowed is availed of for declaring dividends in any year.	None
The appellant contended that the subsection did not apply unless the amount on which the rebate was granted was availed of for declaring dividends after the subsection had come into force, that is, after April 1, 1956 and, therefore, it did not apply to the present case.	None
It was said that if it were not so, the subsection would be given a retrospective operation and the rule was that it was to be presumed that a statute dealing with substantive rights was not to have such operation.	None
This Court, per majority (3 2), held that subsection (10) of section 35 was intended to have a retrospective operation and was applicable to the present case.	None
Sarkar, J. who was in majority, in his concurring judgment, observed as under There is no dispute that by subsection (10) the legislature intended to penalise a case where subsequent to its enactment, the amount on which rebate had been granted was utilised in declaration of dividends.	None
Now is there any reason to think that the legislature did not want to impose the penalty also on those who had earlier utilised the amount in declaration of dividends?	None
There was no special merit in these letter cases.	None
And I also think that they formed the majority of the cases.	None
The grant of rebate having been stopped after March 31, 1956, there was no occasion to provide for cases of such grant thereafter.	None
All these circumstances lead me to the view that the intention of the legislature was to penalise the cases of utilisation of amounts on which rebate had been granted in payment of dividends which had happened before the Subsection came into force.	None
The remedy which the subsection provided would largely fail in any other view.	None
The general scope and purview of the subsection and a consideration of the evil which it was intended to remedy lead me to the opinion that the intention of the legislature clearly was that the subsection should apply to the facts that we have in this case.	None
Hidayatullah, J. who spoke for the majority said that subsection (10) was introduced into Section 35 of the Income Tax Act, 1922 by the Finance Act, 1956 and that if there was nothing more in the language of the subsection to give it operation from an earlier date it would have operated only from April 1, 1956 but the language of the subsection gave it additional retrospectivity and said so in such clear and unambiguous language as to leave no doubt.	None
He then observed In the present case, this is so.	None
The assessee company declared dividends in the calendar year 1952.	None
The assessment year was 1.4.1953 to 31.3.1954.	None
The letter written on March 18, 1958, asking the assessee company to show cause was within the four years reckoned from the end of the financial year (3131954) in which the amount on which rebate of income tax was availed of for declaring dividends.	None
It complied with the letter of the subsection.	None
Since the power commenced on 1.4.1956, the utmost reach of the income tax Officer would be the end of the assessment year 1952.	None
Any declaration of dividend after 1st day of April, 1952, out of accumulated profits of any of the years in which rebate was earned would be within time for the recall of the rebate.	None
But a declaration prior to 1.4.1952 would be beyond the power of the income tax Officer to recall.	None
This meaning is the only meaning which the plain words of the section can bear.	None
Any other meaning might make subs.	None
(10) unworkable because no company, with the knowledge that rebate would be recalled, would like to declare dividends after April 1, 1956 out of amounts on which rebate was earned.	None
If the other meaning was attributed, subs.	None
(10) might well be a dead letter.	None
The subsection was obviously the result of noting how rebates were earned and later were being utilized to fill the pockets of the shareholders.	None
The amendment met this situation and did it in very clear terms.	None
We do not think that decisions in the cases of Y. Narayana Chetty Anr.	Reasoning
S.S. Gadgil and J.P. Jani ITO are of any help in interpreting the provisions of law now before us.	Reasoning
In Y. Narayana Chettys case this Court upheld the contention of the assessee that the notice on the assessee is a condition precedent to the validity of reassessment made u s 34 of the Income Tax Act, 1922.	Reasoning
The Court said that notice prescribed under this section could not be regarded as a mere procedural requirement and that the income tax Officer gets jurisdiction to reassess only when notice is served on the assessee as required.	Reasoning
In S.S. Gadgils case this Court said that in considering whether the amending statute applied the question was one of the interpretation and that the amending provision must be read subject to the rules that in the absence of an express provision or clear implication the legislature does not intend to attribute to the amending provision a greater retrospectivity than expressly mentioned.	Reasoning
J.P. Janis case was concerned with the retrospective operation of the new Income Tax Act, 1961 when assessment proceedings under the old Income Tax Act, 1922 had already concluded and period to reopen the assessment under the old Act had become barred.	Reasoning
The two decisions in the cases of The Ahmedabad Manufacturing Calico Printing Co. Ltd. and Biswanath Jhunjhunwalla Anr. are more closer to the issue involved in the present case before us.	Reasoning
They laid down that it is the language of the provision that matters and when meaning is clear, it has to be given full effect.	Reasoning
In both these cases this Court held that the proviso which amended the existing provision gave it retrospectivity.	Reasoning
When the provision of law is explicit, it has to operate fully and there could not be any limits to its operation.	Reasoning
This Court in Biswanath Jhunjhunwalla case said that if the language expressly so states or clearly implies, retrospectivity must be given to the provision.	Reasoning
u s 34 of the Income Tax, 1922, it is the service of the notice which is sine qua non, an indispensable requisite, for the initiation of assessment or reassessment proceedings where income had escaped assessment.	Reasoning
That is not so in the present case.	Reasoning
Under subsection (1) of Section 21 of the Act before its amendment, the assessing authority may, after issuing notice to the dealer and making such inquiry as it may consider necessary, assess or reassess the dealer according to law.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) provided that except as otherwise provided in this Section no order for any assessment year shall be made after the expiry of 4 years from the end of such year.	Reasoning
However, after the amendment, a proviso was added to subsection (2) under which Commissioner of Sales Tax authorities the assessing authority to make assessment or reassessment after the are of any help in interpreting the provisions of law now before us.	Reasoning
In Y. Narayana Chettys case this Court upheld the contention of the assessee that the notice on the assessee is a condition precedent to the validity of reassessment made u s 34 of the Income Tax Act, 1922.	Reasoning
The Court said that notice prescribed under this section could not be regarded as a mere procedural requirement and that the income tax Officer gets jurisdiction to reassess only when notice is served on the assessee as required.	Reasoning
In S.S. Gadgils case this Court said that in considering whether the amending statute applied, the question was one of the interpretation and that the amending provision must be read subject to the rules that in the absence of an express provision or clear implication the legislature does not intend to attribute to the amending provision a greater retrospectivity than expressly mentioned.	Reasoning
J.P. Janis case was concerned with the retrospective operation of the new Income Tax Act, 1961 when assessment proceedings under the old Income Tax Act, 1922 had already concluded and period to reopen the assessment under the old Act had become barred.	Reasoning
The two decisions in the cases of The Ahmedabad Manufacturing Calico Printing Co. Ltd. and Biswanath Jhunjhunwalla Anr. are more closer to the issue involved in the present case before us.	Reasoning
They laid down that it is the language of the provision that matters and when meaning is clear, it has to be given full effect.	Reasoning
In both these cases this Court held that the proviso which amended the existing provision gave it retrospectivity.	Reasoning
When the provision of law is explicit, it has to operate fully and there could not be any limits to its operation.	Reasoning
This Court in Biswanath Jhunjhunwalla case said that if the language expressly so states or clearly implies, retrospectivity must be given to the provision.	Reasoning
u s 34 of the Income Tax, 1922, it is the service of the notice which is sine qua non, an indispensable requisite, for the initiation of assessment or reassessment proceedings where income had escaped assessment.	Reasoning
That is not so in the present case.	Reasoning
Under subsection (1) of Section 21 of the Act before its amendment, the assessing authority may, after issuing notice to the dealer and making such inquiry as it may consider necessary, assess or reassess the dealer according to law.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) provided that except as otherwise provided in this Section no order for any assessment year shall be made after the expiry of 4 years from the end of such year.	Reasoning
However, after the amendment, a proviso was added to subsection (2) under which Commissioner of Sales Tax authorises the assessing authority to make assessment or reassessment after the expiration of 8 years from the end of such year notwithstanding that such assessment or reassessment may involve a change of opinion.	Reasoning
The proviso came into force w.e.f.	Reasoning
February 19, 1991.	Reasoning
We do not think that subsection (2) and the proviso added to it leave anyone in doubt that as one the date when the proviso came into force, the Commissioner of Sales Tax could authorise making of assessment or reassessment after the expiration of 8 years from the end of that particular assessment year.	Reasoning
It is immaterial if a period for assessment or reassessment under subsection (2) of Section 21 before the addition of the said proviso had expired.	Reasoning
Here, it is the completion of assessment or reassessment u s 21 which is to be done before the expiration of 8 years of that particular assessment year.	Reasoning
Read as it is, these provisions would mean that the assessment for the year 198586 could be reopened up to March 31, 1994.	Reasoning
Authorisation by the Commissioner of Sales Tax and completion of assessment or reassessment under subsection (1) of Section 21 have to be completed within 8 years of the particular assessment year.	Reasoning
Notice to the assessee follows the authorisation by the Commissioner of Sales Tax, its service on the assessee is not a condition precedent to reopen the assessment.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that a fiscal statute can have retrospective operation.	Reasoning
If we accept the interpretation given by the respondents, the proviso added to subsection (2) of Section 21 of the Act becomes redundant.	Reasoning
Commencement of Act can be different than the operation of the Act though sometimes both may be the same.	Reasoning
Proviso now added to subsection (2) of Section 21 of the Act does not put any embargo on the Commissioner of Sales Tax not to reopen the assessment if period, as prescribed earlier, had expired before the proviso came into operation.	Reasoning
One has to see the language of the provision.	Reasoning
If it is clear, it has to be given its full effect.	Reasoning
To reassure oneself, one may go into the intention of the legislature in enacting such provision.	Reasoning
The date of commencement of the proviso to Section 21(2) of the Act does not control its retrospective operation.	Reasoning
Earlier the assessment reassessment could have been completed within four years of that particular assessment year and now by the amendment adding proviso to Section 21(2) of the Act it is eight years.	Reasoning
The only safeguard being that it is after satisfaction of the Commissioner of Sales Tax.	Reasoning
The proviso is operative from February 19, 1991 and a bare reading of the proviso shows that the operation of this proviso relates and encompasses back to previous eight assessment years.	Reasoning
We need not refer to the provisions of Income Tax Act to interpret proviso to Section 21(2) language of which is clear and unambiguous and so is the intention of Legislature.	Reasoning
We are, thus, of the view that High Court was not right in quashing the sanction given by the Commissioner of Sales Tax and notices issued by the Assessing Authority in pursuance thereto.	Reasoning
We, therefore, set aside the impugned judgments and orders of the High Court and allow the appeals with costs.	Decision
