 N. Kirpal, J. The sole question which arises for consideration in this appeal is whether the respondent, who is an employee of the appellant, can claim damages from the appellant on account of the injury suffered by him during the course of employment when he has already received the benefit under the provisions of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (hereinafter referred to as the ESI Act).2.	Issue
Briefly stated, the facts are that the appellant is a company owning and operating a plywood factory.	Facts
The respondent, who was working with the company, met with an accident, when he was feeding the DAP compound into the roller mill by pushing it with his own hand.	Facts
As a result of this accident one of his hands was amputated.	Facts
Notwithstanding this accident, the appellant allowed the respondent to continue in its service without any reduction in remuneration.3.	Facts
The ESI Act was applicable to the employees of the appellant company, including the respondent.	Facts
After the aforesaid accident, a claim was made thereunder and as a result thereof the disabled benefit of Rs. 260/ per month on account of permanent partial disablement was ordered to be paid to the respondent.	Facts
This decision of the Employees State Insurance Corporation to pay the said amount was not challenged.	Facts
It is the case of the appellant that besides this benefit under the ESI Act, the medical expenses for the treatment of the respondent were also borne by it and in fact the said respondent received the best medical treatment available in that area.4.	Facts
While still in service the respondent filed OP No. 108 of 1981 in the Court of Subordinate Judge, Tellicherry, under Order 33 Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, seeking permission of the Court to allow him to file a suit against the appellant herein for Rs. 1,50,000/ as compensation for the injuries sustained by him on account of the aforesaid accident which had taken place in April, 1980.	Facts
This application was opposed by the appellant herein, inter alia, on the ground that it was liable to be dismissed under Order 33 Rule 5 (d) and (f) of the Code of Civil Procedure, in view of the provisions of Section 53 of the ESI Act, which barred the receiving or recovery of any compensation or damages by an employee under any law other than the Employees State Insurance Act.	Facts
This contention of the appellant was upheld and the Subordinate Court dismissed the said application of the respondent.5.	Facts
The respondent thereafter filed an appeal before the High Court of Kerala.	Facts
A Division Bench of the High Court doubted the correctness of an earlier Bench decision on the same question and, consequently, the case was referred to a Full Bench.	Facts
The Full Bench consisting of three learned judge held that the provisions of Sections 53 and 61 of the ESI Act did not bar an action by an injured employee under tort for compensation against the employer.	Facts
It accordingly allowed the appeal and directed the application of the respondent under Order 33 Rule 1 to be decided by the trial Court on merits and in accordance with law.	Facts
Hence this appeal by special leave.	Facts
It was submitted by Mr. A.S. Nambiar, learned senior counsel for the appellant, that the Employees State Insurance Act is a selfcontained code and the insured employees, like the respondent, are entitled to the benefit in case of injury suffered under the provisions of the ESI Act and such employees in the case of an employment injury are debarred from making any claim under any other Act or law.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection our attention was drawn to the relevant provisions of the ESI Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Manoj Swarup, learned counsel for the respondent, on the other hand, submitted that Section 53 should be construed in such a way that an aggrieved employee is able to receive adequate compensation on account of the injury which is sustained by him.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the amount which was paid under the ESI Act could not be regarded as an adequate measure of damages suffered by the respondent and, therefore, Section 53 should not be construed in such a way as to prevent an employee from bringing about an action in tort.	Arguments of Respondent
In the alternative it was submitted that this Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution, should not interfere in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
There are only three provisions of the ESI Act which are relevant for the present case.	None
Section 2(8) defines the term employment injury and reads as follows employment injury means a perennial injury to an employee caused by accident or an occupational disease arising out of and in the course of his employment, being an insurable employment whether the accident occurs or the occupational disease is contracted within or outside the territorial limits of India.	None
The two other sections with which we are concerned in this case are Sections 53 and 61 which are as follows Bar against receiving or recovery of compensation on damages under any other law  An insured person or his dependents shall not be entitled to receive or recover, whether from the employer of the insured person or from any other person any compensation or damages under the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923) or any other law for the time being in force or otherwise, in respect of an employment injury sustained by the insured persons as an employee under this Act.61.	Reasoning
Bar of benefits under other enactments  When a person is entitled to any of the benefits provided by this Act, he shall not be entitled to receive any similar benefit admissible under the provisions of any other enactment.	None
The aforesaid provisions have been construed by different Court, including this Court.	None
Mr. Nambiar first relied upon the decision of the Karnataka High Court in K.S. Vasantha and others v. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, 1982(60) FJR 118, wherein it was held, while construing Section 53 of the ESI Act, that where workmen travelling to work on a transport provided by the employer had suffered injury by an accident caused to the vehicle, it amounted to employment injury and that Section 53 was a bar to any claim by the insured under any other law or the Workmans Compensation Act, 1923.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their remedy, it was held, was only to claim compensation or damages from the Employees State Insurance Corporation.	None
To the same effect is the judgment of the Madras High Court in the case of Mangalamma and others v. Express Newspapers Ltd. and another, AIR 1982 Madras 223.	Arguments of Petitioner
While construing Section 53 the Madras High Court held that the object of Section 53 of the Act was to save the employer from facing more than one claim in relation to the same accident.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Annapurna and others v. General Manager, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, Bangalore and others, 1984 Lab IC Journal 1355 a Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court followed its earlier judgments and reiterated that Section 53 created a bar to the recovery of compensation under any other law in cases where the insured person had received an employment injury.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Swarup, however, relied on the decision in the case of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. v. P. Venu Perumal and another, AIR 1972 Mysore 255.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held by the Mysore High Court that the right to sue under the Motor Vehicles Act originates from the substantive law, namely, the law of tort.	Arguments of Respondent
This law was not an enactment and, consequently, the provisions of Section 61 of the ESI Act could not prohibit an employee from making a claim under Section 110 of the Motor Vehicles Act claiming damages on account of injuries suffered in an accident.	Arguments of Respondent
Though the observations in the said judgment do support the submission of Mr. Swarup but the High Court did not consider in that case the applicability and effect of Section 53, with which we are concerned here.	None
The position with regard to the claim of an employee against his employer on his suffering an employment injury now stands settled with the decision of this Court in A. Trehan v. Associated Electrical Agencies and another, 1996(4) SCC 255 1996(3)	None
SCT 621 (SC).	None
In that case Trehan, who was an employee of the respondent, received injuries on his face while he was carrying out repairs of a television in the course of his employment as a result of which he lost vision in the left eye.	None
After receiving the benefit from the Employees State Insurance Corporation under the ESI Act, he served a notice on the respondent demanding Rs. 7 lacs as compensation.	None
Thereafter he filed an application under the Workmens Compensation Act claiming compensation of Rs. 1,06,785/.	None
The employer objected to the maintainability of the same and relied upon Section 53 of the ESI Act.	None
The Commissioner overruled the employers objection and followed the judgment of the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court in the present case and observed that ESI being a welfare legislation, the Parliament could not have intended to create a bar against the workmen claiming more advantageous benefit under the Workmens Compensation Act.	None
The Single judge of the High Court dismissed the writ petition filed by the employer but the Division Bench, in appeal, held that in view of the bar created by Section 53, the application for compensation filed by Trehan was not maintainable.	None
This Court analysed the provisions of Section 53 of the ESI Act and observed at page 260 as follows In this background and context we have to consider the effect of the bar created by Section 53 of the ESI Act.	None
Bar is against receiving or recovering any compensation or damages under the Workmens Compensation Act or any other law for the time being in force or otherwise in respect of an employment injury.	None
The bar is absolute as can be seen from the use of the words shall not be entitled to receive or recover, whether from the employer of the insured persons or from any other person, any compensation or damages and under the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923), or otherwise.	None
The words employed by the legislature are clear and unequivocal.	None
When such a bar is created in clear and express terms it would neither be permissible nor proper to infer a different intention by referring to the previous history of the legislation.	None
That would amount to bypassing the bar and defeating the object of the provision.	None
In view of the clear language of the section we find no justification in interpreting or construing it as not taking away the right of the workman who is an insured person and an employee under the ESI Act to claim compensation under the Workmens Compensation Act.	None
We are of the opinion that the High Court was right in holding that in view of the bar created by Section 53 the application under the Workmens Compensation Act was not maintainable.	None
The judgment under appeal in the present case of the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court was considered and it was observed that we cannot agree with some of the assumptions and observations made by the Kerala High Court.	None
Moreover, the Kerala High Court has taken that view without referring to and considering the effect of the clear and express words used in that Section.	None
In view of the aforesaid observations in Trehans case, with which we respectfully agree, it is clear that the respondent could not make a claim for damages.	Reasoning
Sections 53 disentitles an employee who has suffered an employment injury from receiving or recovering compensation or damages under the Workmens Compensation Act or any other law for the time being in force or otherwise.	Reasoning
The use of the expression or otherwise would clearly indicate that this Section is not limited to ousting the relief claimed only under any statute but the wordings of the section are such that an insured person would not be entitled to make a claim in Torts which has the force of law under the ESI Act.	Reasoning
Even though the ESI Act is a beneficial legislation the legislature had thought if fit to prohibit an insured person from receiving or recovering compensation or damages under any other law, including Torts, in cases where the injury had been sustained by him is an employment injury.11.	Reasoning
The ESI Act has been enacted to provide certain benefits to the employees in case of sickness, maternity and employment injury and make provisions in respect thereof.	Reasoning
Under this Act contribution is made not only by the employee but also by the employer.	Reasoning
The claims by the employees against the employer where the relationship of the employer and employee exists were meant to be governed by the ESI Act alone.	Reasoning
It is precisely for this reason that the Madras High Court in Mangalammas case (supra) had observed that the object of Section 53 of the ESI Act was to save the employer from facing more than one claim in relation to the same accident.	Reasoning
This, in our opinion, is the correct reading of the said provision.	Reasoning
This being so the claim of the respondent for damages being barred under Section 53 of the ESI Act, the trial Court was right in dismissing the application under Order 33 Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure.12.	Reasoning
The position in law being clear and concluded by the decision of this Court in Trehans case (supra) we see no justification for the Court not exercising its jurisdiction under Article 136, as was contended by the respondents counsel.	Reasoning
The incorrect decision on a point of law of the High Court has to be corrected.	Reasoning
During the course of hearing it had been argued that Section 53 should not be construed in such a way that an insured person cannot raise a claim against a third party in the event of his suffering an employment injury.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that though qua the employer only one remedy may be available, namely, under the ESI Act but as far as third persons are concerned Section 53 cannot be taken up as a defence to an action in tort in a claim being made for damages because the ESI Act creates certain rights as a result of the employment qua the employer and has no application as far as third parties are concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection it was submitted that the use of the words employment injury in Section 53 relates to a claim which is relatable to the employment of the insured person with his employer.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, though there is considerable force in the said submission but it is not necessary for the decision of the present case to decide this issue finally because in the instant case the claim which was sought to be made was not against the third party but against the employer itself.	Reasoning
Perhaps this question may require consideration in an appropriate case.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons this appeal is allowed.	Decision
The judgment of the High Court is set aside and that of the trial Court dismissing the respondents application under order 33 Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is restored.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
