 MOHAN Leave granted.	None
These civil appeals are directed against the judgment of the Division Bench of Andhra Pradesh High Court reported in Southern Steel Ltd. v. A.P.	Facts
State Electricity Board, Hyderabad 1990 AIR(AP) 58.	Facts
The facts briefly are as under.	Facts
The Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board is constituted under Section 5 of the Electricity Supply Act, 1948 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The said Board is engaged in generation, distribution and supply of electricity in the State of Andhra Pradesh.	Facts
Electric energy is supplied for industrial, commercial, agricultural and domestic purposes.	Facts
To such of these industries, using energy about a particular level, it is supplied at a higher voltage.	Facts
They are classified as high tension consumers (H.T. consumers).	Facts
All the appellants herein belong to that category.	Facts
Section 49 of the Act empowers the Board to notify the terms and conditions upon which it will supply electricity to a person.	Facts
It is also empowered to frame uniform tariffs in that behalf.	None
Subsection (2) specifies in fixing the uniform tariff, the Board shall have regard to all or any of the following factors, namely  (a) the nature of the supply and the purposes for which it is required (b) the coordinated development of the supply and distribution of electricity within the State in the most efficient and economical manner, with particular reference to such development in areas not for the time being served or adequately served by the licensee (c) the simplification and standardisation of methods and rates of charges for such supplies (d) the extension and cheapening of supplies electricity to sparsely developed areas.	Facts
Subsection (3) empowers the Board to enter into a special agreement with any consumer and prescribe different tariffs for him.	None
Under Section 4, an obligation is cast on the Board not to show undue preference to any person while fixing the tariff and terms and conditions for the supply of electricity.	Facts
In all these cases, the appellants are covered by the general terms and conditions were notified under Section 49(1) of the Act.	Facts
The terms and conditions were notified by the Board and the B.P.M.S.	Facts
No. 690, dated September 17, 1975.	Facts
It is not necessary to refer in detail to the various terms and conditions.	Facts
However, what requires to be noticed is the terms and conditions oblige every consumer executing an agreement in the prescribed form, undertaking to abide by the terms and conditions prevailing on the date of agreement and also agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions as may be notified from time to time.	Facts
It is important to note under Section 25, the Board has unilateral right to vary from time to time under Clause 25.1 the terms and conditions for supply of electricity by special or general proceedings.	Facts
Condition 32.1 provides the Board shall as far as possible within 15 days after the expiration of each calendar month cause to be delivered to every consumer a bill of charges stating the accounts payable by the consumer towards charges for energy supplied and any other sum in connection with supply of energy by the Board.	Facts
Conditions 32.2.1 obliges the consumers to pay the amount shown in the bill within 15 days of the date of the bill, in default whereof they are liable to pay an additional charge of 2 per month on part thereof for the period of delay in paying the bill.	Facts
Condition 32.3, empowers the Board to disconnect the supply in case of default in paying the bill, without prejudice to its right to recover the amount due.	Facts
Conditions 24.3 also lays down that the consumer shall pay to the Board every month the charges for electrical energy supplied to him during the preceding month at the tariff in force from time to time.	Facts
Condition 28 obliges the consumers to deposit an amount equivalent to three months consumption charges with the Board.	Facts
It would be appropriate to set out condition 28 as far as it is necessary for the purpose, omitting what is not relevant as under Consumption Deposits 28.1 Initial consumption deposit.  	None
28.1.1.	None
The consumer shall deposit with the Board a sum in cash equivalent to estimated three months consumption charges.	Facts
The consumer coming under the L.T. category domestic shall however pay at Rs. 30.00 per kilowatt or part thereof connected load Provided that the Board may, in the case of industrial consumers, accept by way of consumption deposit a sum equivalent to two months consumption charges during a period of three years from the date of first release of supply of electricity.	Facts
28.1.2.	None
In the event of the consumer failing to pay to the Board any sum that may become due for payment to the Board on the dates fixed for payment thereof, the Board may, in addition to and without prejudice to the other rights of the Board, appropriate a part or whole of such deposit towards the sum due from the consumer.	Facts
28.2 Additional consumption deposit.  	None
All consumers other than those L.T. Domestic consumers whose monthly bills are less than Rs. 500 for a continuous period of six months, shall keep with the Board an amount equivalent to charges for three months demand and energy charges as consumption deposit.	Facts
The adequacy of the consumption deposit shall be reviewed by the Board usually once in every year and or at any time during the year if so warranted due to upward revision of tariffs, enhancement of the contracted demand by the consumer charges in the pattern of consumption by the consumer relaxation of power restrictions or such other factors which in the opinion of the Board, warrant review of the adequacy of the existing consumption deposit.	Facts
The review shall take into account the following factors (i) In the case of consumers where there is no change in the contracted demand, the average consumption for the preceding twelve months after taking into consideration the quantum and nature of restrictions imposed, if any, during that period shall be the basis.	Facts
(ii) In the case of consumers who were sanctioned additional demand and availed it during a part of the period, average recorded consumption for the period of review shall be from the date of utilisation of increased demand to the date of review after taking into consideration the nature and quantum of restrictions imposed, if any during that period.	Facts
(iii)	None
The demand shall be contracted demand of the consumer at the time of review.	None
(iv) The rates, at which the demand or energy charges shall be calculated, will be tariff rates prevailing as on the date of review.	None
Based on such review, if the consumption deposit of the consumer is found inadequate or has fallen short on account of adjustments made as indicated in Clause 28.1.2 hereof, the consumer shall deposit within 30 days of receipt of notice in this regard such additional amount as may be required by the Board or replenish the required amount as the case may be.	None
28.3 Interest on consumption deposit.  	None
Interest shall be paid by the Board on deposits of more than Rs. 60 made in cash at the rate of 3 per annum of such other rate as may be fixed by the Board from time to time.	Facts
Full calendar months only shall be taken into account for the purpose of calculating interest and interest shall be calculated to nearest five paise.	Facts
The interest accruing to the credit of the consumer shall be adjusted every year in the month of April in the Electricity Supply bills.	Facts
28.4 Disconnection or nonpayment of consumption deposit.  	None
If the consumer does not make payment of amount of consumption deposit or additional consumption deposit or where the deposit is given in Government security or National Saving Certificate Bank guarantee etc., he fails to replace them by deposit in cash when so demanded by Board within the notice period of 30 days supply of consumer shall be liable for disconnection.	Facts
28.5	None
The consumption deposit so calculated as per Clause 28.1 and or 28.2 above shall not be less than three times the monthly minimum charges, applicable to the consumer under the category to which he belongs.	None
28.6	None
All consumers shall pay the consumption deposit or additional consumption deposit within thirty days from the date of the demand notice.	None
If there be any delay in payment, the consumer shall pay surcharge thereon equal to 1 1/2 per month or such other percentage to be fixed by the Board from time to time, of the demanded amount for each month of delay or part thereof.	Facts
This will be without prejudice to the Boards right to disconnected supply of electricity.	None
Clause (1) of condition 28 is general in nature.	None
It applies to all consumer.	Facts
Clause (1.2) enables the Board to appropriate a part or whole of the said deposit towards any amount due to the Board and not paid within the prescribed period.	Facts
Clause (2) applies to all consumers, except those L.T. Domestic consumers whose monthly bills are less than Rs. 500 per month for a continuous period of six months.	Facts
Such consumers are obliged to keep with the Board an amount equivalent to three months demand and energy charges, as consumption deposit.	Facts
The deposit is liable to be reviewed by the Board from time to time, having regard to the factors mentioned in the said clause.	Facts
Clause (3) prescribes interest which the Board has to pay on such deposit.	Facts
It is 3 per annum.	Facts
Clause (4) empowers the Board to disconnect the supply if consumption deposit additional consumption deposit is not made, or is not replaced whenever called upon to do so.	Facts
Clause (5) prescribes a certain floor below which consumption deposit shall not go.	Facts
Clause (6) says that the consumption deposit or additional deposit shall be paid within thirty days of the notice demanding such deposit.	Facts
In default, not only interest is payable but the supply also is liable to be disconnected.	Facts
The attack before the High Court was that according to Condition 32.1, the bill is served within 15 days of the expiration of each calendar month.	Facts
The amount covered by the bill is payable within 15 days of the date of bill.	Facts
The period of 15 days for payment is calculated not from the date of service of the bill but from the date of the bill.	Facts
A bill could be served even on the very first day of the succeeding month in which event it will become payable within 15 days of the date of the bill.	Facts
In such a situation, it is not correct to say that a consumer goes on availing and enjoying energy for a period of three months without paying for it.	Facts
Invariably it does not exceed six weeks or at any rate, two months.	Facts
In the event of nonpayment under Condition 32.3, supply of energy can be disconnected without seven days notice as contemplated under Section 24 of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910.	Facts
Therefore  (1) it was urged that the consumption deposit should in no event exceed two months average consumption charges.	Facts
(2) The second attack was the payment of 3 interest by the Board on such consumption deposit is no longer good law in view of the judgment of Supreme Court rendered in Jagdamba Paper Industries (P) Ltd. v. Haryana State Electricity Board since this Court had taken the view that the interest on such deposit should be paid at the same rate as is paid by the scheduled bank on fixed deposit.	Facts
It was generally urged that the Electricity Board being a State within the meaning of Article 12, it has to act fairly.	Facts
Any term or condition will have to answer the test of reasonableness.	Facts
On the contrary, if it is arbitrary, it would be violative of Article 14.	Facts
The High Court after analysing the object behind Condition 28 relating to the consumption deposit held The condition requires the consumer to pay the charges within 15 days from the date of the bill and on such failure, a right is conferred on the Board to disconnect the supply.	Facts
The condition merely refers to the power of the Board.	Facts
Existence of power is distinct from exercise of power.	Facts
The Board cannot blindly act upon Condition 32.3 and disconnect the supply the moment 15 days time (from the date of the bill) expires.	Facts
It has to take a realistic view of the situation.	Facts
After all, these industries are engaged in production of goods essential to the community.	Facts
A blind and mechanical adherence to Condition 32.3 (instant disconnection) may indeed prove counterproductive in larger sense.	Facts
It was also not possible for the Board to notice the nonpayment immediately in view of the large number of consumers and the extensive nature of organisation.	None
Besides, huge sum are required by the Electricity Board as rotating capital.	Facts
It borrows large amounts from organisations like L.I.C. and Banks, on which it pays interest to them.	Facts
Hence, it is well entitled to require the consumer to cooperate by paying their bills regularly, by furnishing security deposits and by conforming to the terms and conditions of supply.	Facts
Under these circumstances, the requirements of three months deposit could not be said to be unreasonable and unjustified.	Facts
As regards, the payment of 3 interest, the High Court was of the view that the decision of this Court in Jagdamba Paper Industries (P) Ltd. could not be read as a decision of the Supreme Court on the basis of which it could be declared that the earlier Bench decisions of the High Court were no longer binding.	Facts
Accordingly, it dismissed the writ petitions.	Facts
Aggrieved by this decision, the present SLPs have come to be preferred.	Facts
Mr. R. N. Narasimhamurthy, learned counsel for the appellant after drawing our attention to Clauses 28 and 32 would submit that if there is any laxity on the part of the Board in preparing the bill that cannot be a ground to make a consumer to pay three months deposit.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The tariffs of 1974 provided for the payment of bills within 14 days from the date of the bill while the quantum of deposit is three months consumption charges.	Arguments of Petitioner
Originally, the time for payment was 30 days from the date of the bill.	Arguments of Petitioner
That has been reduced to 15 days which is a drastic change.	Arguments of Petitioner
The security deposit is a provision for continued default of the consumer.	Arguments of Petitioner
The quantum of such a deposit is reckoned on the basis of the lapse of time between the consumption charges that become due after expiry of time required for reading of meter, billing, delivery of the bill to the consumer grace time allowed and the reasonable time required for disconnecting the consumers service connection.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reduction to 15 days has great relevance on the quantum of deposit as the deposit is intended to cover the defaulted amount by the time of disconnection.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, considering that the bills of power intensive industries are prepared within 3 days of meter reading and also considering the close monitoring that is feasible in verification of payments of bills of these consumers and the small number of these consumers distributed among the several circle offices of the Board, any default is detectable within 20 days of the bill for appropriate action to be taken immediately.	Arguments of Petitioner
The purpose of consumption deposit is only to safeguard the actual consumption charges that become payable by the time penal action could be initiated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the judgment of the High Court indicates a time lapse of 37 days from the date of meter reading without considering the 7 days notice prescribed under Section 24 of the Indian Electricity Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The balance time of 23 days to make up for 90 days is provided for the laxity in the Board administrative system which justifiably cannot be passed on to the consumer by way of consumption deposit.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the high stakes involved in the case of power intensive consumers, the Board should evolve a suitable system of payments and must keep the security deposit to the minimum instead of three months.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the security deposit could be in the form of bank guarantee.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no justification to require cash deposit.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a matter of fact, as noted a Haryana Ice Factory v. Municipal Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
of Delhi the security in the form of Government Bond is permissible.	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Jagdamba Paper Industries case paragraph 11 of the judgment deals with rate of interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is a case where 8 was increased to 10 by consent.	Arguments of Petitioner
If really, it is in the nature of a deposit, there is no justification as to why bank rate should not be awarded.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is seen from Chairman, Karnataka Electricity Board v. Gadag Mining Co. 1986 AIR(Kant) 252 1986 ILR(Kant) 503 ten per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
interest had been awarded.	Arguments of Petitioner
19.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Anil B. Divan, learned counsel for the appellant in SLP (C) No. 2564 of 1992 would submit as under.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	Arguments of Petitioner
Power intensive units like the appellants form a distinct class of consumers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Ferro Silicon plant of petitioner 1 is a power intensive one where the cost of electricity constitutes about 55 of the price of the ferro silicon produced.	Arguments of Petitioner
Electricity, thus is the basic raw material for this industry.	Arguments of Petitioner
On an average, the appellant is consuming electricity worth Rs. 1.6 crores per month.	Arguments of Petitioner
If there was full supply of electricity (without there being a power cut), the monthly bill would be approximately Rs. 4 crores at the present tariff.	Arguments of Petitioner
21.	Arguments of Petitioner
The power intensive plant of the appellant maintains a very high load factor of 0.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ordinary, H.T. consumers work at a load factor of only 60 and the units consumed at only 50 per KVA demand.	Arguments of Petitioner
The HTIII tariff for power intensive consumers requires a minimum consumption of 403.3 units per KVA demand.	Arguments of Petitioner
This means more than 8 times that of H.T. consumers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Electricity Board has always classified power intensive units as a separate category.	Arguments of Petitioner
At present, there is a special tariff called HTIII tariff with a list of power intensive industries specified in the tariff notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
22.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appellant 1 had deposited Rs. 1.07 crores in cash towards the security deposit.	Arguments of Petitioner
A bank guarantee for Rs. 53.64 lakhs had also been furnished.	Arguments of Petitioner
A further demand of Rs. 96.5 lakhs prompted the filing of the writ petition in the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
As per the orders of this Court in SLP No. 12077 of 1984 it was directed on February 6, 1987 that a sum of Rs. 1 crore be paid by the 3rd of every month and the balance within 7 days of the presentation of the bill.	Arguments of Petitioner
This order came to be modified that Rs. 1 crore was to be paid on the 30th of the month and the balance within one week of the receipt of the bill.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said arrangement has been working satisfactorily.	Arguments of Petitioner
There has not been any default in payment of electricity bills.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the entire dispute is a theoretical one as to what the quantum of the security deposit can, or ought to be.	Arguments of Petitioner
A deposit in cash of an amount equal to three months average monthly bills at full supply at the present tariff without any power cut will amount to Rs. 12 crores on the basis of tariff revised in October 1992.	Arguments of Petitioner
With ever increasing tariffs, the deposit demanded will also keep increasing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under these circumstances, the condition requiring three months security deposit is arbitrary and illegal for power intensive consumers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The paidup share capital of appellant 1 is Rs. 3.8 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
The gross value of the plant and machinery of the power intensive units is Rs. 7.94 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
The total advances made by the consortium of bankers for working capital is Rs. 4.25 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
The total net worth of all the divisions of appellant 1 that is Marine Products, Sugar Engineering, Machine Building and the power intensive Ferro Silicon Plant is Rs. 14.6 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
The security already furnished namely Rs. 5.7 crores is crippling the Ferro Silicon Plant division.	Arguments of Petitioner
A demand of three months cash deposit would be in the range of Rs. 12 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is arbitrary and unjustifiable to require appellant 1 to deposit several times its share capital by way of security.	Arguments of Petitioner
If this demand is enforced strictly, the plant of the appellant will become sick and ultimately, will have to be wound up.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other States, the provision is not so harsh.	None
If the security deposit is consumption deposit and it is for meeting the cost of supply in advance, then the Electricity Board cannot charge penal interest at 2 per month for nonpayment of bills within the stipulated period.	None
The deposit, first must be appropriated against the dues and the interest charged only if there is balance due.	None
The stand of the Electricity Board is perverse and illegal.	None
Equally, there can be no question of supply on credit if deposit is adjusted against consumption all the time.	None
The consumer has got a right to negotiate.	None
In the Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Karnataka Electricity Board this Court directed the Electricity Board to adopt a realistic policy.	None
Here also condition 28 must be altered.	None
There is no power under the Electricity Supply Act to enable the Board to raise revenue or to cover its capital cost etc. except by way of adjusting tariffs as seen from under Section 59 of the Supply Act, 1948.	None
Therefore, consumption deposit cannot be used for the purpose of revenue or raising revenue.	None
In this case, the Electricity Board had not placed any material to give interest only at 3.	None
Mr. K. Parasaran, learned counsel appearing in SLP No. 13004 of 1989 after referring to the passage occurring at page 66 of Haryana Ice Factory case submits that the security deposit cannot go to build up the capital or fixation or tariff.	None
Under Section 49 and 59 of the Supply Act, finance is required to be adjusted including the payment of interest.	None
Demand of three months consumption deposit cannot be resorted to.	None
In support of his submission, reliance is placed on Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. A.P.	None
State Electricity Board.	None
Mr. Kailash Vasudev, learned counsel for appellant in SLP No. 13004 of 1989 submits that under Section 49 of the Supply Act, it is enjoined upon the Board to adjust its tariffs by keeping the factors detailed in the said Supply Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the Board cannot have recourse to methods not provided under the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The demand for a deposit to ensure the due payment of the bills for electrical energy consumed amounts to framing an additional tariff.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Board cannot do indirectly what it cannot do directly.	Arguments of Petitioner
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Board being a State monopoly has to act reasonably and not arbitrarily.	Arguments of Petitioner
The terms and conditions of supply cannot be unfair and oppressive.	Arguments of Petitioner
29.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. R. Venkataramani, learned counsel in his written submissions in Writ Petition Nos. 1293 of 1989 and 1353 of 1989 and SLP (C) Nos. 479192 of 1990 and 479394 of 1990 would urge that Section 49 of the Supply Act is unconstitutional since there are no guidelines for framing the terms and conditions of supply of electricity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said section does not specifically spell out fairness of action.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 28 of the terms and conditions of supply is a clear illustration of arbitrariness and subordinate legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
30.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words as the Board thinks fit ought to be interpreted so as to be consistent with the fairness of State action.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are to be construed as reasonably thinks fit as held in Roberts v. Hopwood 1925 AC 578 1925 ALLER 24 and Pyx Granite Co. Ltd. v. Minister of Housing and Local Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
31.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 28 of the terms and conditions of supply relating to fixation of 3 interest and additional charges are vitiated due to nonapplication of mind.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Clause 28.6 of the terms and conditions, in the event of delay in payment of consumption deposit or additional consumption deposit within the stipulated period, the consumer is obliged to pay surcharge at 18.	Arguments of Petitioner
The obligation to pay surcharge and the power of the Board to vary the percentage from time to time would constitute Draconian provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
Money, wherever it is held in deposit could only be used to earn some interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, paying 3 interest on the consumer deposit is not at all justified.	Arguments of Petitioner
A public institution cannot be allowed to get excessive interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
In meeting these arguments, the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral submits the under Electricity Supply Act, the finances of the Board are controlled to the minutest detail.	None
Originally, prior to 1978, Section 59 required the Board as far as practicable and after taking credit for any subvention from the State Government not to carry on its operation on loss.	None
For this purpose, it was empowered to adjust its charges accordingly from time to time.	None
Section 59 was amended by Act 23 of 1978.	None
After the amendment, the Board after taking credit for any subvention from the State Government was required to carry on its operations and to adjust its tariffs so as to ensure that the total revenues in any year after meeting of the expenses left such surplus as the State Government may specify from time to time.	None
This Court has taken the view in Kerala State Electricity Board v. S. N. Govinda Prabhu that even if the Government had not prescribed surplus, the Electricity Board could generate surplus.	None
After the amendment by Act 16 of 1983 which came into force on April 1, 1985, the Board was to create a minimum surplus of 3 or such higher percentage as the State Government would specify in this behalf.	None
It is in this background, the matter will have to be adjudged.	None
The reason why three months security deposit is demanded is, for two months, the consumer gets free electricity.	None
For supply of such electricity, the Board has to borrow and make payment of interest.	None
If there are no consumer deposits, the tariff shall have to be increased.	None
That will affect all the consumers.	None
Interest at 3 is charged in case of default only in order to ensure proper payment.	None
It is penal in character.	None
In the judgment under appeal, the High Court held that the burden relating to interest can be reflected either in the tariff or could be set off by calling upon the consumer to make deposit.	None
In fact, this Court has upheld the tariff revision effected by Andhra Pradesh Electricity Board as seen from Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. A.P.	None
State Electricity Board.	None
It cannot be contended that the three months consumption deposit is arbitrary.	None
This argument ignores the following important factors This is not a security deposit but a consumption deposit.	None
(ii) It is in the nature of an advance payment.	None
(iii) In the event of failure to pay, it could be proceeded against as seen from Clause 28.1.2.	None
(iv) Consumption deposit is variable as per Clause 28.2(iv).	None
If therefore, the object of consumption deposit is to ensure proper payment with reference to electricity supply, there is nothing arbitrary or unjustifiable.	None
The fact that some of the appellants pay large amounts by way of electricity charges will have nothing to do with the nature of deposit.	None
Merely because it is a powerbased unit, it cannot be treated separately.	None
Nor can the appellant make a virtue out of necessity.	None
The terms of supply relating to consumer deposit must be uniform, therefore, it is not correct to contend that the powerbased unit must be treated separately.	None
As regards payment of interest at 3, electricity supply is made on credit basis.	None
Therefore, it is a matter of adjustment of Board finances.	None
Strictly speaking, the consumer deposit is in the nature of fidelity guarantee to ensure proper payment by consumer.	None
The consumer may not be entitled to interest at all.	None
However, where the Board has so adjusted finances and pays 3 interest, the Board cannot be defaulted.	None
Jagdamba Paper Industries case cannot be said to be a decision as to the rate of interest payable by the Electricity Board.	None
Upon reading paragraph 11 of the judgment, it will be clear that it proceeded on the consent of the counsel.	None
RAJASTHAN	None
The writ petitions applied to the appellant Board for the supply of high tension power for their factories.	None
After the execution of the necessary agreement and furnishing of security deposit, power connections were given.	None
Subsequently, the Board issued notice requiring the consumers to deposit the enhanced amount of cash security as well as the bank guarantee on the basis of maximum power consumption of three months.	None
With regard to security deposit, Part II of the General Conditions of Supply and Scale of Miscellaneous Charges in Note II stated that no interest will be paid by the Board on the security deposit.	None
Two contentions were raised in the writ petitions, (i) Note II providing for no interest was bad in law, (ii) the enhanced security must be calculated not on three months maximum consumption but on the basis of minimum power consumption.	None
These two contentions found favour with the learned Single Judge.	None
The Rajasthan Electricity Board filed special appeals while the consumers filed crossappeals.	None
The Division Bench held as under The Board has power to demand additional security but the average consumption of three months should be taken as the basis for calculating the amount of such security.	None
(ii) The clause relating to nonpayment of interest was not reasonable.	None
Interest must be allowed on the entire amount of cash security from the date of the writ petition.	None
The appeals by the Board were dismissed while crossappeals by the consumers were allowed.	None
Aggrieved by this judgment, the present SLPs have come to be preferred by the Rajasthan Electricity Supply Board.	None
Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned counsel appearing for the appellant argued as follows.	Arguments of Petitioner
43.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no legal obligation to pay interest on deposit made by the consumer with the Board in terms of Clause 20(a) (c) of the General Conditions of Supply.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nor even interest is payable under common law or in equity.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, the learned counsel draws our attention to Halsburys, 4th Edn., Vol. 32, pages 5455.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no legal or equitable obligation to pay interest for detention of monies.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this argument, learned counsel relies on Bengal Nagpur Railway Co. Ltd. v. Ruttanji Ramji and Union of India v. A. L. Rallia Ram.	Arguments of Petitioner
44.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no contract or agreement which provides for payment of interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, Clause 9(b)(ii) of the General Conditions expressly provides that no interest will be paid by the Board on security deposit.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no statutory provision which casts an obligation on the Board to pay interest on the security deposit.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court erred in relying on the model form of draft conditions of supply because the said model form is applicable to only licensee as defined under Section 2(h) of Electricity Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not applicable to a Board which is not a licensee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it is not necessary on the part of the Board to adopt model form.	Arguments of Petitioner
Schedule VI of 1948 Act again cannot be pressed into service as the Board is not a licensee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 2(b)(v) of Schedule VI merely specifies interest on security deposit as properly incurred item of expenditure for the purpose of determining the clear profit of the licensee.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said clause does not and cannot by itself impose an obligation on the licensee to pay interest on security deposit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Should interest be paid, then it qualifies as an item of expenditure properly incurred.	Arguments of Petitioner
45.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court also erred in relying on Section 4(2) of the Interest Act, 1978.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 4(2) has no application where on account of contractual term or a statutory provision, payment of interest is not permitted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 4(2) of the Interest Act, 1978 merely enlarges the categories of cases mentioned under Section 4(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
The said section cannot override other statutory provisions or a contract between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
The nonobstante clause under Section 4(2) is restricted only to the provisions of Interest Act, 1948.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that under the billing practice prevalent with the Rajasthan Electricity Board the consumer has free use of electricity during the period between consumption of electricity and expiry of period after notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
During this period which varies from 2 to 2 1/2 months, the consumer in effect enjoys a credit facility.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, if security deposit is demanded for three months, it is neither unreasonable nor arbitrary.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a matter of fact, the security demanded by the appellant Board is in the form of cash for one month and bank or insurance guarantee for two months.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is all the more reasonable.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this, reliance is placed on Kistna Cement Works, Tadepalli v. Secretary, APSEB, Vidyut Soudha 1979 AIR(AP) 291 (1979) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
An WR 469), B.R. Oil Mills, Bharatpur v. Assistant Engineer (D) R.S.E.B., Bharatpur 1981 AIR(Raj) 108 1980 Raj LW 121), Municipal Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
for Greater Bombay v. Devidayal Metal Industries 1984 ILR(Bom) 1180 1964 AIR(Bom) 242, Haryana Ice Factory v. Municipal Corpn. of Delhi and Southern Steel Ltd. v. A.P.	Arguments of Petitioner
State Electricity Board, Hyderabad 1990 AIR(AP) 58.	Facts
On the question of the constitutionality of the provisions regarding nonpayment of interest and whether it is violative of Article 14, it is submitted Article 14 does not mandate mathematical exactitude or scientific precision.	Issue
(ii) The mode and period of security should be related to the billing practice prevailing in Rajasthan Electricity Board.	Issue
(iii) The consumer with open eyes has entered into the agreement and has solemnly undertaken to abide by the condition regarding nonpayment of interest.	Issue
He cannot resile from that condition.	Issue
There is nothing inherently objectionable, nor is the condition illegal or void as opposed to public policy.	Issue
Even assuming, the contract between the consumer and the Board is an adhesion contract it is not necessarily unconscionable.	Issue
In this connection, reference is invited to Blacks Law Dictionary, 6th Edn., page 40.	None
That passage has been cited with approval in Central Inland Water Transport Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly.	None
In such matters, relief is given to the party only if the contract is so unreasonable as to be unconscionable.	None
In this connection reliance is placed on Gillespie Brothers and Co. Ltd. v. Roy Bowles Transport Ltd Farnsworth on Contracts, 2nd Edn. 319 and 320, para 4.27.	None
The rate of interest on security deposit cannot be equated with the rate of interest payable on fixed deposit because the nature and character of a security deposit is basically different from a fixed deposit.	None
This is clearly brought out by the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 1975.	None
The said rules expressly exempt security deposit in definition of Rule 2, clauses (v) and (vi).	None
In Jagdamba Paper Industries case the rate of interest was based on a concession by the parties.	None
The Court had no occasion to decide the rate of interest.	None
That part of the judgment proceeds sub silentio.	None
The argument based on surcharge levied for delayed payment is a non sequitur.	None
If the provision for nonpayment of interest is valid and not arbitrary, it does not become arbitrary and unconstitutional because surcharge is levied at 2 per month.	None
In fact, surcharge has not been challenged.	None
Surcharge is attracted only if the bill is not paid within the due date.	None
The submissions based on Sections 57 and 59 of the Supply Act in relation to security deposit proceed on a misconception of the nature and character of payment as a security deposit.	None
The object of security deposit is to secure prompt payment of electricity bills.	None
They are not intended to finance the Boards transaction.	None
Section 57 read with Sixth Schedule is meant to ensure a reasonable return.	None
The expression charges in the Sixth Schedule clearly shows that security deposits are not included within the expression charges.	None
There is no mutual exclusivity between increase of tariffs and earning interest on security deposits.	None
It is also incorrect to contend that prompt payees of electricity bills are treated on par with the defaulters and thus unequals are treated alike.	None
The real test is, whether in the general application of law there is any discrimination.	Reasoning
In support of this submission, the learned counsel placed his reliance on Collector of Customs, Madras v. Nathella Sampathu Chetty, Vivian Joseph Ferreira v. Municipal Corpn. of Greater Bombay, B. Banerjee v. Anita Pan and Fatehchand Himmatlal v. State of Maharashtra.	None
The last submission of the learned counsel is that a statutory provision may be struck down as unconstitutional only if it is palpably arbitrary and irrationality is writ large.	None
Merely because the Court considers a particular provision to be unwise or undesirable, it is never struck down.	None
The learned counsel fairly concedes that the enhanced security deposit could be calculated only on the average consumption of three months of the previous years.	None
Mr. Altaf Ahmad, learned counsel supporting the arguments of Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee would urge In this case, the consumers are those who use H.T. and E.H.T. lines.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 49(3) gives the clue that each Board can have its own scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 79 of the Supply Act speaks of the power to make regulation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clauses (i) and (j) are relevant because they talk of principles governing the making of arrangements with licensees under Section 47 and other than licensees under Section 49.	Arguments of Petitioner
51.	Arguments of Petitioner
The industrial consumers constitute the majority user of the electricity amounting to 49.51 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The transmission losses for 199293 alone are 22 per cent.	None
Besides, the Board is also purchasing power from other corporations and States.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the demand for security deposit is fully justified and there is nothing arbitrary is not providing for interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is what is provided under Clause 21(a) of the agreement in relation to high tension supply.	Arguments of Petitioner
The consumption deposit cannot be equated to the deposit in a bank and interest could be demanded as of right.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned counsel appearing for the Haryana Board which Board has now withdrawn payment of interest, has filed intervention application since the present day position of the Haryana Board is on a par with Rajasthan.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. R. K. Mehta, learned counsel for the intervenor on behalf of the Orissa Electricity Board through his written submissions urges that it may be that the regulations in the case of Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar provide for payment of interest at a certain rate on the security deposit.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the Rajasthan and Orissa regulations provide that no interest shall be payable on the securities furnished to the Board.	Arguments of Respondent
In the impugned judgment the Division Bench has not given any cogent or valid reason for striking down Condition 20 of the general conditions of the Rajasthan Electricity Board.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court had failed to appreciate the following factors while quashing the impugned clause of the regulations.	Arguments of Respondent
Electricity is an item which cannot be sold and supplied immediately after generation.	Arguments of Respondent
For the sale of electricity one has to take meter reading meant for the said purpose and, therefore, the Board sends the bill for particular duration.	Arguments of Respondent
It is obvious that the reading of the meter could not be taken at every point of time but only for duration period.	Arguments of Respondent
In the process 2 1/2 months elapse.	Arguments of Respondent
The Board does not charge any interest at least for 2 1/2 months from its consumers.	Arguments of Respondent
At the same time, the Board needs finance for production, supply and other charges necessary for supply of electricity.	Arguments of Respondent
The Board is thus obliged to take loans from various financial institutions.	Arguments of Respondent
The consumers who are utilising electricity for 2 1/2 months without making any payment will be unjustifiably enriched at the cost of general public in the absence of security deposit.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, taking of advance money without interest for providing other services in the market is a general practice.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, a similar provision in the general conditions for supply of the Board cannot be treated as arbitrary or unreasonable.	Arguments of Respondent
A consumer is not entitled to claim interest on his security deposit having regard to the following considerations The security deposit is furnished in consideration of the performance of the consumers obligation for obtaining the service essential to the life and the wellbeing of community.	None
(2) The electricity supply is made to that consumer on credit without requiring him to make instant payment.	None
(3) The billing time taken by the Board is for the benefit and convenience of the consumer as he saves additional expenditure on account of instant or shorter billing time, possibly through electronic devices which will be included in the tariffs.	None
(4) The public revenues are blocked in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for the performance of supply on which the Board pays interest insofar as they form part of the loans borrowed by the Board for performing the public service.	Reasoning
On the return of the blocked moneys the Board gets no interest from the consumers.	None
(5) The Board needs back its blocked money to carry out service with a reasonable recompense.	Reasoning
(6) The Board is not essentially a commercial organisation to which the consumer furnishes the security deposit to earn interest.	Reasoning
Having entered into a contract with open eyes it is not open to the consumer to say that interest should be paid.	None
The basis of supply of electricity and the conditions on which it is supplied being statutory, the provisions under the conditions of supply that the Board shall not pay interest on the security deposit has statutory basis and accordingly cannot be struck down as arbitrary on the basis of a commercial transaction governing a bank deposit.	None
Therefore, it is submitted that Regulation 7 of the Orissa State Electricity Board General Conditions of Supply Regulations, 1981 providing that no interest would be payable on security deposit is just and reasonable and is not arbitrary or violative of Article 14 of the Consumption.	None
Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel opposing the stand of Rajasthan Electricity Board submits that the only question in this special leave petition is whether Electricity Board is obliged to pay interest on the cash security deposits as the Board compels industrial consumers to secure against default in payment of electricity bills.	Arguments of Respondent
In the first place, as laid down in Jagdamba Paper Industries (P) Ltd. v. Haryana State Electricity Board this Court has indicated that the security amount should bear the same interest as admissible on fixed deposit of scheduled banks.	Arguments of Respondent
The interest rate on 10 per cent. was decided not really on the basis of admission but on a positive finding.	Arguments of Respondent
Apart from this, this Court has in several other writ petitions ordered interest at 12 per cent.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the scheme of Indian Electricity Rules of 1956 and the scheme of the Electricity Supply Act also show that the interest on security deposit is supposed to be payable.	None
The Board is not entitled to use the deposits to argument its finances.	None
They are meant only to secure the default in payment of the bills.	None
Section 59 of the Supply Act indicates that the only condition in which the Board could raise the revenue is by adjustment of its tariff.	None
Section 49 of the Act makes provision for the sale of electricity by the Board to persons other than licensees under the terms and conditions as the Board thinks fit.	None
It can be seen from the definitions of the Sixth Schedule to the Supply Act that the scheme was meant to be applicable to licensees.	None
The place of the licensees has been taken over by the Board.	None
That is why Clause 2(b)(v) of Schedule VI of the definition of clear profit states that the interest on security deposits was to be a part of the expenditure properly incurred by licensees.	Reasoning
Then again, the manner in which the accounts are to be maintained by the licensees also shows that the licensees have to make a provision for payment of interest on security deposits.	None
The High Court is right in relying on Section 4 of the Interest Act.	None
The contract in the instant case is between a consumer, however, high he might be and a monopolistic public utility company.	None
It is clearly an adhesion contract.	None
This Court in Central Inland Water Transport Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly has clearly held that an unreasonable term of an adhesion contract will not be enforced by the Court.	None
Interest on security deposit is also admissible under equity or common law.	None
Halsbury, 4th Edn., Vol. 32, paragraph 106 at page 53 defines interest as the return or compensation for the use or retention by one person of a sum of money belonging to or owing to another.	Reasoning
The Board is clearly in the position of a trustee in respect of this money since the money is deposited by the consumers in trust with the Board to secure the Board against default in payment of bills.	Reasoning
The deposit of security is like the usufructuary mortgage which is provided for in Section 76 of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
Section 76(g) and (h) provide that the mortgagee in a usufructuary mortgage would have to keep account of the incomes received from the mortgagee in his use and would have to pay compensation for the benefit derived by the user of the mortgaged property.	None
The position here is more or less similar.	None
It is not correct to state that security is an advance payment.	None
If it is so, it would amount to Board taking three months advance payment from the consumers.	None
In such a case, the Board cannot disconnect the electricity until the period of three months is over.	None
But the rules of the Board enable it to disconnect even if the consumer fails to pay his bills on the due date.	None
Then again, a penal interest is charged in case of default.	None
If it is in the nature of an advance payment there is no scope for charging 2 1/2 per cent.	None
penal interest.	None
Lastly, it is submitted that even under English law interest is payable on security for electricity as seen from Halsburys, Vol. 16, paragraph 129 Giving of security.  	None
Security required under the Schedule to the Electric Lighting (Clauses) Act, 1899 to be given to an electricity board see the Electric Lighting (Clauses) Act, 1899, Schedule, Sections 25(2), 27(2), (3) and paras 115, 118, ante.	None
may be by deposit or otherwise, and of an amount agreed or, failing agreement, determined by a magistrates court, and that court may deal with the costs of the proceedings, and its decision is final and binding on all parties.	None
Ibid., Schedule, Section 71 Electricity Act, 1947, Section 57(2), Sch. 4, Part III Where security is given by way of deposit the party to whom it is given must pay interest at the rate of 4 per cent.	None
per annum on every 50p for each period of six months during which it remains so deposited.	None
Electric Lighting (Clauses) Act, 1899, Schedule, Section 71 proviso Decimal Currency Act, 1969, Section 10(I).	None
UTTAR PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD The question raised before the High Court was as to the rate of interest.	None
The respondent (U.P. State Electricity Board) amended the rate of security deposit as Rs. 2 per KVA.	None
On such deposit it paid only 3 per cent.	None
interest whereas on late payment of the bills it charged more than 24 per cent.	None
surcharge from the consumer.	None
The appellants preferred writ petitions insofar as they were denied 12 per cent.	None
interest on the deposit taken from the consumers.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court held These petitions are dismissed with a direction that in case the Supreme Court decided that the interest at a rate higher than 3 should be paid on such security and additional security deposit, the benefit of the same judgment shall also be extended to the petitioners herein, without the necessity of any further proceedings being taken by the petitioners.	None
Hence, the special leave petitions.	None
Mr. G. Ramaswamy, learned counsel for the appellants would urge that Jagdamba case has decided the rate of interest.	None
Therefore, that should govern.	None
In a number of matters this Court has also ordered interest at 12 per cent.	Arguments of Respondent
The same principle should apply to this case as well.	None
Security Deposit is a compulsory levy.	None
The consumer has no option.	None
2.	None
Even in contractual matters if the Board, which is a State, does not behave fairly, this Court can always interfere.	None
3.	None
The Board cannot compel the consumer to make a security deposit without corresponding obligation to pay interest.	None
4. Deposit does not contemplate appropriation.	None
5.	None
Prior to appropriation, what is the character of the deposit, requires to be determined.	None
It is not the payment of money by way of advance.	None
As to the meaning of interest it could be gathered from the case in Riches v. Westminster Bank Ltd. Union of India v. A. L. Rallia Ram this Court held that interest is awardable in equity.	None
A distinction will have to be made between unreasonable and unconscionable.	None
In Administrative Law mere unreasonableness is enough to set aside a contract while unconscionable relates to private law.	None
If interest is not paid security deposit cannot be demanded as this will amount to unconscionable bargain.	None
As to the meaning of unconscionability.	None
Blacks Law Dictionary (Fifth Edn.)	None
at page 1367 can be usefully referred to Basic test of unconscionability of contract is whether under circumstances existing at time of making of contract and in light of general commercial background and commercial needs of particular trade or case, clauses involved are so onesided as to oppress or unfairly surprise party.	None
Division of Triple T. Service Inc. v. Mobil Oil Corp ((60 Misc 2d 720 304 NYS 2d 191, 201).	None
Unconscionability is generally recognized to include an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties, to a contract together with contract terms which are unreasonably favourable to the other party.	None
Gordon v. Crown Central Petroleum Corp. D. C. Ga.	None
(423 F Supp 58, 61) Typically the cases in which unconscionability is found involve gross overall onesidedness or gross onesidedness of a term disclaiming a warranty, limiting damages, or granting procedural advantages.	None
In these cases onesidedness is often coupled with the fact that the imbalance is buried in small print and often couched in language unintelligible to even a person of moderate education.	None
Often the seller deals with a particularly susceptible clientele.	None
Kugler v. Romain (58 NJ 522 279 A 2d 640).	None
As to the meaning of reasonableness it is stated in G. B. Mahajan v. Jalgaon Municipal Council.	None
Under English Law relating to electricity supply as seen from Halsburys, Vol. 16 at paragraph 129 it is clearly stated that interest on security deposit is payable.	None
Therefore, all the more the reason why here also it must be held to be payable.	None
Mr. Kapil Sibal, opposing the stand of Mr. G. Ramaswamy argues that there is no order of this Court adjudicating the rights of the Board on the Consumer in respect of the validity of consumption security deposit being condition precedent for the supply of electricity by the Board as well as the liability of the Board to pay interest to the consumer in respect of the consumption security deposit.	None
In the absence of any such adjudication the question of Board being bound by the previous orders of this Court, does not arise.	None
In cases where 12 per cent.	None
interest was awarded it was only by way of ad interim measure.	None
The other orders are also not conclusive on this aspect.	None
Therefore, the matter will have to be decided afresh in the instant cases.	None
Far from being a compulsory levy, the consumption security deposit is not only a deposit in cash to safeguard recovery of electricity dues for the energy supplied to the consumer on credit but also a security towards payment or satisfaction of any money (for example, theft), which may become due and payable to the Board by the consumer.	None
The obligation to pay interest to the consumer proceeds on the assumption that the Board is keeping the security deposit and depriving the consumer of the use of the money which is alleged to be earning interest with the Board.	None
This assumption is not warranted for the following reasons The cycle of billing demonstrates that in the very nature of things the consumer is supplied energy on credit.	None
The security deposit is hardly sufficient to secure the payment to the Board by the time the formal bill by the Board is raised on the consumer.	None
(2) The consumption security deposit indeed represents only part of the money which is payable to the Board at the end of the billing cycle.	None
The said amount can be appropriated at any time towards the payments that are due to the Board and reflected in the formal bill.	None
(3) In the nature of billing cycle it is the Board which has to receive interest on the energy supplied to the consumers or credit.	None
(4) The concept of interest earned on a fixed deposit is alien to the issue.	None
The liabilities of the consumer increase on a daily basis depending on the level of supply and consumption.	None
Therefore, the amounts due are liable to be appropriated forthwith.	None
That is not possible where moneys are placed either on fixed deposit or a savings bank account.	None
It is incorrect to contend that the amount is lying in trust with the Board.	None
The amount lying with the Board could also be appropriated for satisfaction of any amount liable to be paid by the consumer for violation of any conditions of supply in the context of widescale theft of energy and tampering with meters.	None
Therefore, the security deposit serves not only to secure the interest of the Board but also serves as a deterrent on the consumer is discharging his obligation towards the Board.	Reasoning
Under Section 49 the Board is enabled to supply electricity upon such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.	Facts
Under Article 226 of the Constitution, the Court is to conduct a limited scrutiny whether by imposing such a condition the Board has not acted as a private trader and thereby shed off its public utility character.	None
Should the Court come to the conclusion that the Board has not acted as a private trader and the nature of deposit has a rational relationship, the issue will fall outside the scope of judicial purview.	None
Section 49 must be read along with Section 59.	None
The contention that the Board can achieve a surplus by adjusting its credit does not flow from the language of Section 59.	None
The requirement of consumption security deposit is a condition of supply.	None
It has a direct bearing on the operation of the Board.	None
Hence it is per se reasonable and constitutional.	None
If there is a revision in the rate of tariff there has to be an upward revision of the consumption security deposit since it has a direct bearing on the level of supply in consumption of electricity.	Reasoning
In October, 1986, the tariffs in the State of Uttar Pradesh were adjusted upwards.	Reasoning
The revision in the form of an additional security deposit with interest at the rate of 3 per cent.	Reasoning
was made in January 1987.	Reasoning
These facts would suggest the rationale in the imposition of additional security deposit.	None
This being a condition of supply no reasons need be given at the time of upward revision.	Reasoning
Union of India, v. A. L. Rallia Ram, relates to the award of interest by an arbitrator.	None
The nature of consumption security deposit is such that it represents the moneys of the Board.	None
There is no relationship of debtor and creditor.	None
There is no deprivation of property which alone will entail the consequences like payment of interest.	None
The learned counsel has also filed a tabulated statement to show that the security deposit made by the appellant is 72.42 lakhs for all industries while the arrears in electricity come to 965.73 lakhs.	None
A formal chart has been filed based on the figures for August, September and October 1991 to show that after the third month the consumption charges total to 45.09 lakh while security that is offered is 15.95.	None
The same is the position with reference to other industries as well concerning whom the learned counsel has filed a tabulated statement.	None
This is to establish how the Electricity Board has supplied electricity on credit to the various consumers and the security deposit is hardly sufficient even for one months consumption.	None
BIHAR SLP No. 11799 of 1989 The appellant (Bihar Electricity Board) provided 4 per cent.	None
interest per annum on security deposit.	None
When this was questioned in C.W.J.C.	None
No. 3000 of 1987 in the matter of Dhanbad Flour Mills, a Division Bench of the High Court was of the view that an interest at 4 per cent.	None
appeared to be unreasonable and directed the Board to examine the question of enhancement of the rate of interest.	None
Similar directions were issued in another case.	None
The appellantBoard after examining the matter issued a notification on May 27, 1988 and enhanced the rate of simple interest to 5 per cent.	None
per annum.	None
This was because the amount of security deposit was kept in the savings account which earned 5 per cent.	None
interest which was passed on the consumer.	None
The said notification was questioned before the High Court by seeking a writ of mandamus claiming interest at the rate payable on fixed deposit by a nationalised bank in view of the decision by this Court in Jagdamba case.	None
By the impugned judgment the High Court directed payment of interest on security deposit at the rate payable on fixed deposit by nationalised banks.	None
Aggrieved by this judgment the Bihar State Electricity Board has preferred the special leave petition.	None
Mr. G. L. Sanghi, learned counsel appearing for the Bihar Board draws our attention to Clause 15.3 of the tariff notification and submits that the consumption security deposit is not only for the supply of energy on credit but also for satisfaction of any money payable by him.	None
If the consumer does not pay the dues in time the arrears of consumption charges will have to be adjusted against the security deposit.	None
Therefore, the security deposit can never be kept in bank under fixed deposit.	None
This is the reason why the amount is kept in savings bank account and whatever interest is earned thereon, that is passed on to the consumer.	None
Therefore the High Court was not right in awarding a higher rate of interest.	None
In other respect, the learned counsel adopts the argument of the other learned counsel appearing for the various Boards including the contention that Jagdamba case did not lay down the rate of interest.	None
Normally, in market transaction when anyone supplies on credit to a consumer a guarantee is taken for the payment on dues.	None
Such a guarantee may be in the shape of a bank guarantee, fixed deposit.	None
Similarly, the Board when it supplies electricity on credit it keeps the security for the amount of supply of electricity.	None
According to Boards standing order No. 433 dated December 31, 1974, dues at any time are not allowed to exceed amount of security deposit and adjustment is to be made against the security deposit after the disconnection of supply.	None
Therefore, it is not correct to state that the security is not adjusted towards the bill and is kept intact.	None
Section 24 of the Electricity Act is the only provision to ensure payment as indicated in Bihar State Electricity Board, Patna v. Green Rubber Industries.	None
In meeting these arguments it is submitted by Mr. M. P. Jha, learned counsel for the respondent that the stand of the Board in making payment of interest at 4/5 per cent.	None
is clearly arbitrary.	None
The security aspect of the Boards requirement can easily be satisfied by the Board resorting to liquidation of security deposit.	None
As a matter of fact, the security deposit was never adjusted by the appellantBoard.	None
As a result large amounts were kept without investing them in fixed deposit.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent relies on the orders issued by this Court and submits that the question of interest is settled by the ruling in Jagdamba case.	None
Section 24 W.P. No. 578 of 1987.	None
In this writ petition, under Article 32 of the Constitution, the challenge is to the increase of security deposit for L and H power consumes above 100 BHP.	None
It has been increased from Rs. 170 to Rs. 200.	None
No reason whatever has been assigned for such an increase of security deposit.	None
That will be bad in law as laid down in Central Inland Water Transport Corpn.	None
Ltd.	None
This is the argument of Mr. Gobinda Mukhoty.	None
This is countered saying that when there is an increase in tariff the security deposit also is liable to be increased.	None
PUNJAB P. No. 1317 of 1990 In this writ petition, the challenge is to the validity of Sections 49 and 79 of the Supply Act.	None
According to the respondent (Punjab State Electricity Board), the writ petition is not maintainable.	None
A challenge to the imposition of advance consumption of deposit does not involve any fundamental right.	None
The Punjab State Electricity Board is a licensee of the State of Punjab.	None
The electrical energy is generated through hydro as well as thermal plants for ultimate sale to consumers.	None
Fifty per cent.	None
of power is generated through hydro while the remaining through thermal plants which consume coal oil.	Reasoning
The coal companies and those major suppliers of power plants are demanding cost of coal in advance.	None
On these advances no interest is payable to the Board.	Reasoning
Therefore, while the Electricity Board is required to make colossal advances to generate electricity and supply to consumers, the consumers also use and consume electricity on credit ranging from 2 to 3 months depending upon the category of consumers.	Reasoning
To offset part of the amount that the consumer owes to the Board constantly and also to ensure timely payment of advances by the Board to its supplies an advance consumption deposit is insisted upon before commencing supply to the consumer.	Reasoning
If this is not so taken the Board will be left with no other option than to increase the tariff.	None
This advance deposit cannot be termed as a fixed deposit as the amount cannot be utilised against nonpayment of dues from consumers.	None
Besides, the consumers can also ask for the refund.	None
Sections 49(1) and 79(j) cannot be termed as arbitrary.	None
In fact, this Court has upheld the validity of Section 49(1) in Jagdamba case.	None
Lastly, it is submitted that the Board is generating electricity and each unit so generated costs the Board rupee one per unit.	None
The Board is selling at an average rate of 50 paisa per unit to the consumer which includes the agricultural sector.	None
Therefore, the amendment to Clause 23 of abridged conditions of supply requiring to pay advance consumption deposits is perfectly reasonable.	None
Mr. P. P. Rao, learned counsel appearing as intervenor on behalf of Calcutta Electricity Supply Corporation supplements the submissions of Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee.	None
The deposit though called security deposit is really an adjustable advance payment of consumption charges.	None
The amount is revisable from time to time depending upon the average consumption charges on the basis of actual consumption over a period.	None
The true nature of transaction in these cases is one of advance for consumption of electricity estimated for a period of three months subject to adjustment revision, if necessary.	Reasoning
Such an advance is liable to be made good and kept at a stipulated level from month to month.	Reasoning
It is open to the consumer to permit adjustment of the advance in the first instance.	Reasoning
Thereafter, make good the shortfall in consumption charges and the security deposit before actual disconnection of supply which takes at least about three months.	None
In short, it is in the nature of a running account.	None
The security deposit does not remain in tact like a fixed deposit but gets depleted day after day depending on the extent of consumption.	None
More often that not, the consumption charges and other dues exceed the security deposit.	None
That necessitates calling for additional advance to make up a shortfall.	None
In the absence of any usage or contract or any provision of law requiring payment of interest, interest is not payable for wrongful detention of money.	None
In this case, there is no wrongful detention even.	None
Section 4(2) of the Interest Act has no application to this deposit.	None
When electricity supply is duly made with a consequential liability to pay for each days consumption, the socalled security deposit is not a deposit in the real sense for the consumers to claim the benefit of Interest Act.	None
We will now proceed to consider the correctness of the above submissions with reference to the following aspects Whether Section 49 is bad for want of guidelines.	Issue
(ii) The nature of consumption deposit, irrespective of the nomenclature by which it is called.	None
(iii) (a) The liability of the Electricity Board to pay interest.	None
(b) Whether the clause in the terms of supply providing for nonpayment of interest is unconstitutional or arbitrary.	None
(iv) The demand for additional consumer deposit  Whether valid ?	None
Validity of Section 49 The law relating to electricity is principally contained in two Acts The Indian Electricity Act of 1910 (hereinafter referred to as the Electricity Act).	None
This provides for grant of licences in relation to supply of electricity and the projects of undertakings.	None
It also provides for supply of electricity including the protective clauses.	None
(ii) The Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 (hereinafter referred to as the Supply Act) provides for constitution of State Electricity Boards, the powers and duties of such Boards.	None
Certain important provisions of the Act may now be seen.	None
Section 2 is interpretation section.	None
Under Section 2(2)	None
the Board means a State Electricity Board constituted under Section 5.	None
Section 2(10) states that regulation means regulations made by the Board under Section 79.	None
Section 5 deals with the constitution and composition of State Electricity Board.	None
Section 49 is the provision for sale of electricity by the Board to persons other than the licensees.	None
Subsection (1) of the said section commences with the words Subject to the provisions of this Act and of regulations.	None
This means if there are any provisions regulating the Board in the matter of supplying electricity to any person not being a licensee then the supply by the Board will be subject to all those provisions.	None
It has been so laid down in Mysore State Electricity Board v. Bangalore Woollen, Cotton and Silk Mills Ltd.	None
The expression Subject to the provisions of this Act merely means that if there are any provisions regulating the Board in the matter of supplying electricity to any person not being a licensee, then the supply by the Board will be subject to those provisions.	None
No provision has been brought to our notice which regulates the Board in the matter of the charges which it may fix for the supply of electricity.	None
This Court had occasion to deal with the scope of the said section and Section 59.	None
In Hindustan Zinc Ltd.	None
A.P. State Electricity Board it has been observed thus (SCC pp. 31719, paras 2125)	None
Section 49 makes provision for the sale of electricity by the Board to persons other than licensees.	None
Subsection (1) starts with the words Subject to the provisions of this Act and of regulations, if any, made in this behalf.	None
This means that the provision made therein is subject to other provisions of the Supply Act and the regulations.	None
It then proceeds to say that the Board may supply electricity to any person not being a licensee upon such terms and conditions as the Board thinks fit and may for the purposes of such supply frame uniform tariffs.	None
Subsection (2) then enumerates several factors which the Board is required to have regard to in fixing the uniform tariffs.	None
The meaning of the expression have regard to is well settled.	None
It means that the factors specifically enumerated shall be taken into account while performing the exercise which in this case is the fixation of the uniform tariffs.	None
Ordinarily, therefore, uniform tariffs are required to be framed by the Board for making such supply.	None
Subsection (3) then proceeds to say that nothing in the earlier enacted provisions shall derogate from the power of the Board, if it considers it necessary or expedient to fix different tariffs for the supply of electricity to any person, having regard to the geographical position of any area, the nature of the supply and purpose for which supply is required and any other relevant factors.	None
Subsection (4) then says that in fixing the tariffs and terms and conditions for the supply of electricity, the Board shall not show undue preference to any person.	Facts
In other words, subsection (4) provides against any unreasonable discrimination in fixing the tariffs and terms and conditions for supply of electricity.	None
The power of fixation of tariffs in the Board is provided in this manner by Section 49 of the Supply Act which requires the fixation of uniform tariffs ordinarily having regard particularly to the specified factors and enables fixation of such tariffs for any person having regard to the factors expressly stated and any other relevant factors, providing further that no unreasonable or undue preference shall be shown to any person by the Board in exercise of its powers of fixing the tariffs.	None
The next important provision is Section 59 of the Supply Act.	None
For appreciating the argument based on Section 59, it is necessary to bear in mind the distinction in Section 59 as it stood prior to 1978, as amended by Act 23 of 1978 and finally as amended by Act 16 of 1983, quoted earlier.	None
Prior to 1978, Section 59 required the Board, as far as practicable and after taking credit for any subventions from the State Government under Section 63, not to carry on its operations under this Act at a loss and for this purpose, it was empowered to adjust its charges accordingly from time to time.	None
Under the provision as it then existed, the main thrust was to avoid the Board incurring any loss and for that purpose, it could adjust its charges accordingly from time to time.	None
Section 59 as amended by Act 23 of 1978 required the Board, after taking credit for any subventions from the State Government under Section 63, to carry on its operations under this Act and to adjust its tariffs so as to ensure that the total revenues in any year after meeting all expenses properly chargeable to revenue including those specified, left such surplus as the State Government specified from time to time.	None
The shift was, therefore, towards having a surplus as the State Government specified from time to time.	None
Subsection (2) then provided guidelines for the State Government in specifying the surplus under subsection (1) and mentioned the factors to which regard was to be had for this purpose.	None
The effect of the amendment made in Section 59 by Act 16 of 1983, which came into effect from April 1, 1985, was to provide for a minimum surplus of three per cent.	None
or such higher percentage as the State Government is to specify in this behalf.	None
In other words, prior to 1978 amendment, the requirement from the Board was to avoid incurring any loss, after the 1978 amendment the shift was towards ensuring a surplus as specified by the State Government, and after the 1983 amendment the Board is required to ensure a surplus of at least three per cent.	None
unless the State Government specifies a higher surplus.	None
This is the scheme of Section 59 and it is Section 59 as amended by 1978 Act but prior to its amendment by the 1983 Act, with which we are concerned in the present case.	None
It cannot be doubted that Section 59 requiring the Board to adjust its tariffs for the purpose of Boards finance is to be read along with Section 49 which provides specifically for fixation of tariffs and the manner in which that exercise has to be performed while dealing with any question relating the revision of tariffs.	None
The effect of 1983 amendment, which came into force from April 1, 1985, is that the Board entitled to adjust its tariffs to ensure generating a surplus of not less than three per cent.	None
even without such specification by the State Government and when the State Government specifies a higher surplus, then the Board must ensure generating the higher specified surplus.	None
This is, of course, subject to the accepted norm of the Board acting in consonance with its public utility character and not entirely with a profit motive like that of a private trader.	None
The pre1978 concept of the Boards functioning to merely avoid any loss is replaced by the shift after 1978 amendment towards the positive approach of requiring a surplus to be generated, the quantum of surplus being specified by the State Government, with a minimum of three per cent.	None
surplus in the absence of the specification by the Government of a higher surplus, after the 1983 amendment.	None
This construction made of Section 59, as it stood at different times in Govinda Prabhu case indicated earlier, cannot be faulted in any manner.	None
In Govinda Prabhu case The next section is Section 79 which talks of power to make regulations.	None
Clause (j) deals with the principles governing the supply of electricity by the Board to persons other than the licensees under Section 49.	Reasoning
In accordance with this, each of the Boards has framed regulations.	Reasoning
All consumers are required to execute agreements governing the supply of energy.	Reasoning
The attack against Section 49 is that it does not contain any norm or guideline with regard to framing of terms and conditions for the supply of electricity and in particular, the demand of payment of interest on the amounts due to the Board.	Reasoning
Further, the principle of fairness of action has not been explicitly set out so as to make it a visible guide.	Reasoning
The words occurring in the section as the Board thinks fit must be construed as reasonably thinks fit.	Reasoning
We are unable to countenance this argument.	Reasoning
A careful reading of Section 49 clearly discloses as was noted in Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. A.P.S.E.B. subsection (1) of the said section starts with the words Subject to the provisions of the Act and of regulations, if any, made in this behalf.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Board has to conform to the various provisions of the Act and the regulations.	Reasoning
Section 49 contains two powers To prescribe terms and conditions of supply and 2.	None
fix the tariff.	None
No guidelines are required in this regard.	None
In Jagdamba Paper Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. Haryana State Electricity Board it was pointed out as follows (SCC pp. 51314, para 7)	None
We are of the view that the Board has been conferred statutory power under Section 49(1) of the Act to determine the conditions on the basis of which supply is to be made.	None
This Court in Bisra Stone Lime Co. Ltd. v. Orissa State Electricity Board took the view that enhancement of rates by way of surcharge was well within the power of the Board to fix or revise the rates of tariff under the provisions of the Act.	None
What applied to the tariff would equally apply to the security, that being a condition in the contract of supply.	None
Each of the petitioning consumers had agreed to furnish security in cash for payment of energy bills at the time of entering into their respective supply agreements.	None
There was no challenge in these writ petitions that the demand of security at the time of entering into supply agreements has to be struck down as being without jurisdiction.	None
Section 49(1) of the Act clearly indicates that the Board may supply electricity to any person upon such terms and conditions as the Board thinks fit.	Facts
In exercise of this power the Board had initially introduced the condition regarding security and each of the petitioners had accepted the term.	None
Where, therefore, under Section 49 read with Section 79(j) regulations are made, the validity of the regulations could be examined by the court, whether they are reasonable or not.	None
In Southern Steel Ltd., Hyderabad v. A.P.	None
State Electricity Board it was observed (AIR pp.	None
6667, paras 13 and 14) Before we proceed to deal with the rival contentions, it would be appropriate to notice the scope of the judicial scrutiny by this Court in such matters.	None
Acting under Article 226 of the Constitution, this Court does not sit as an appellate authority over the Electricity Board.	None
Indeed, the Act has not chosen to provide an appeal against the terms and conditions under Section 49.	None
The jurisdiction exercised by this Court under Article 226 is supervisory in nature.	None
It is to ensure the observance of fundamental right the rule of law, and to keep the authorities within their bounds.	None
Undoubtedly, the Electricity Board is a State within the meaning of Article 12, and hence it is subject to Parts III and IV of the Constitution.	None
The scope of enquiry, therefore, would be to examine whether the power conferred upon the Board by Section 49 of the Act has been exercised so unreasonably and arbitrarily that interference by this Court is called for.	None
For the purpose of this enquiry it is not necessary for us to go into the question whether the terms and conditions notified under Section 49 are statutory in nature or not.	None
We shall proceed on the assumption that they are not statutory.	None
We shall proceed on the assumption that the terms and conditions notified under Section 49 ought to be reasonable, in the sense that they must be related to the object and purpose for which they are issued.	None
We are equally aware that the power under Section 49 cannot be allowed to be used for oblique purposes, or for purposes unrelated to the one sought to be achieved by a given condition.	None
In B.R. Oil Mills, Bharatpur v. Assistant Engineer (D) R.S.E.B., Bharatpur it was observed (AIR p. 109, headnotes) Where demand for deposit of cash security for one months estimated consumption charges and bank security equal to two months estimated as contemplated by Regulation 20 read with the Schedule thereto was made by the Electricity Board from a consumer of high tension electricity, the demand could not be said to be unreasonable and the consumer would not be entitled to continuation of the energy under Section 24 of the Electricity Act on his failure to deposit such security, even if no agreement had been entered into between the consumer and the Board after the commencement of high tension supply.	None
Once the supply for electricity had commenced the consumer was bound by the terms and conditions of supply contained in the regulations.	None
Further, in such a case, merely because the Board did not encash or could not encash a small portion of the security deposited in the form of National Saving Certificates before coming into force of the regulations, it could not be said that the demand of cash security in the form of Bank guarantee by the Board under the regulations was unreasonable.	None
Furthermore, the demand of security from the consumer which was in accordance with the regulations framed by the Board could not be said to be unreasonable merely because no interest is paid on the cash security deposited by the consumer.	None
In other words, the terms and conditions notified under Section 49 must relate to the object and purpose for which they are issued.	Reasoning
Certainly, that power cannot be exercised for a collateral purpose.	Reasoning
In this view, we hold Section 49 as valid.	None
Nature of Consumption Security Deposit Each of the Electricity Board before us is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	None
The Boards are different from licensees.	Reasoning
Each of the Boards has framed the terms and conditions of supply.	Reasoning
One such condition relates to security deposits.	Reasoning
Such a deposit varies from Board to Board.	Reasoning
For example, under the terms and conditions notified by Andhra Pradesh Electricity Board under Condition 28.1.1 the consumer is required to deposit with the Board a sum in cash equivalent to estimated three months consumption charges.	Reasoning
In the case of Rajasthan, the security is in the form of cash for one month and bank or insurance guarantee for two months.	Reasoning
The legislative sanction behind the power of the Board to direct a consumer to furnish security may be examined.	Reasoning
It has already been seen that the Supply Act is complementary to the Electricity Act. 1910.	Reasoning
Section 26 of the supply Act states that the Board shall have all the powers and obligations of a licensee under the Electricity Act.	Reasoning
And this shall be deemed to be a licence of the Board for the purpose of the Act.	Reasoning
Under the regulations framed by the Board in exercise of powers of Section 49 read with Section 79(j) the consumer is only entitled and the Board has an obligation to supply energy to the consumer upon such terms and conditions as laid down in the regulations.	Reasoning
If, therefore, the regulations prescribed a security deposit that will have to be complied with.	Reasoning
It also requires to be noticed under Clause VI of the Schedule to the Electricity Act that the requisition for supply of energy by the Board is to be made under proviso (a) after a written contract is duly executed with sufficient security.	Reasoning
This, together with the regulations stated above, could be enough to clothe it with legal sanction.	Reasoning
In cases where regulations have not been made Rule 27 of the Rules made under the Electricity Act enables the adoption of model from of draft conditions of supply.	Reasoning
Annexure VI in Clause 14 states that the licensee may require any consumer to deposit security for the payment of his monthly bills for energy supplied and for the value of the meter and other apparatus installed in his premises.	Reasoning
Thus, the Board has the power to make regulations to demand security from the consumers.	None
The next question will be what is the object in demanding security ?	Issue
The deposit though called security deposit is really an adjustable advance payment of consumption charges.	None
The payment is in terms of the agreement interpreting the conditions of supply.	Reasoning
This security deposit is revisable from time to time on the basis of average consumption charges depending upon the actual consumption over a period.	Reasoning
This is the position under the terms of supply of energy with reference to all the Boards.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, electricity is supplied in anticipation of payment.	Reasoning
In almost every case it takes nearly 2 1/2 months for the recovery of the amount before action for disconnection could be taken.	Reasoning
We will give one illustration as is in the case of Rajasthan.	Reasoning
The following is the billing cycle Consumption period.	None
30 days (b) Period consumed after taking the meter readings to issue bills 10 days (c) Period allowed for payment 17 days (d) Notice for disconnecting supply if consumer fails to deposit energy bill in time 7 days (e) Period taken in actual disconnection after expiry of notice 10 days Total 74 days In practice, some time is also taken between the period allowed for payment and the notice of disconnection.	None
At the same time, there is no obligation that the consumer must use only a particular quantum of electricity.	Reasoning
He could even consume more than the average consumption.	Reasoning
The Board after 2 1/2 months recovers amount for the electricity supplied by it.	Reasoning
It could charge late surcharge in case of high tension tariff after the expiry of the said period.	Reasoning
Thus, it will be clear that the true nature of the transaction in these cases is one of the advance payment of charges for consumption of electricity estimated for a period of approximately three months.	Reasoning
Such an advance is liable to be made good and kept at the stipulated level from month to month.	Reasoning
It is open to the consumer to permit adjustment of the advance in the first instance.	Reasoning
Thereafter, he could make good the shortfall in consumption charges and the security deposit before actual disconnection.	Reasoning
Actually speaking, it is only after three months the disconnection takes place.	Reasoning
Hence, it is like a running current account.	None
The cycle of billing by the Board demonstrates that in the very nature of things, the consumer is supplied energy on credit.	Reasoning
The compulsory deposit in the context of billing cycle is hardly adequate to secure payments to the Board by the time the formal bill by the Board is raised on the consumer.	Reasoning
In one sense, the consumption security deposit represents only a part of the money which is payable to the Board on the bill being raised against the consumer.	Reasoning
Thus, the Board secures itself by resorting to such deposit to cover part of the liability.	Reasoning
For supply of electricity the Board needs finance for production, supply and other charges necessary for supply of electricity.	Reasoning
For this purpose, it takes loans from various financial institutions.	Reasoning
This is best illustrated if one looks at the transactions of Punjab Electricity Board where electric energy is generated through hydro as well as thermal plants for ultimate sale to the consumers.	Reasoning
Of the total power generated about 50 per cent.	Reasoning
is through hydro plants.	Reasoning
The remaining energy is generated through thermal power plants which are operated on coal oil.	Reasoning
Due to limited hydro resources within the State of Punjab the dependency on power on thermal plants is on the increase.	Reasoning
The present requirement for working of thermal plants is more than 52 lakh tonnes of coal per annum.	Reasoning
In addition, 60 thousand kilolitre of furnace oil is required.	Reasoning
The coal companies Coal India Limited together with major suppliers of power plant like M s BHEL demand cost of coal spares projects in advance for the supply of material.	Reasoning
The Board is also required to purchase power from Central projects N.T.P.C., N.H.P.C. in order to meet the demand for power by the consumers.	Reasoning
For purchase of such power again advance payments are made by the Board.	Reasoning
On such advances the Board is not paid any interest.	Reasoning
The effect is, the Board is obliged to bear the liability of hundreds of crores of rupees per annum.	Reasoning
It has no option but to pay the charges and deposits in order to keep the power available at a level to meet with the demand of the consumers.	Reasoning
It is the case of the Board that it has opened letters of credit by making advance deposits in favour of National Thermal Power Corporation and the suppliers.	Reasoning
Coal India Limited has also asked the Board to open revolving letters of credit in favour of coal companies Coal India Limited.	Reasoning
Despatch of coal is only against the letter of credit.	Reasoning
From the above, it is clear that while the Electricity Board is required to make colossal advances to generate electricity and supply to consumers, the consumers use and consume electricity on credit ranging from 2 to 3 months depending upon the category of consumers.	Reasoning
To offset part of the amount the consumer owes to the Board continually and to ensure timely payment of bills by the Board to its suppliers, the advance consumption deposit is required to be kept with the Board before commencing supply to the consumer.	Reasoning
The clauses in the contract in relation to conditions of supply of electric energy enable the Board to adjust the bill against such deposits.	Reasoning
Therefore, this is not a case of mere deposit of money as in commercial transaction.	None
In demanding security deposit it is open to the court to take note of pilferage as laid down in Ashok Soap Factory v. Municipal Corpn.	None
of Delhi The variation in the electricity consumed by different consumers indicated that the charge of pilferage of electricity and gross underutilisation or consumption of electricity compared to the sanctioned load was not without foundation The meaning of the term deposit is given in Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol.	None
26A, p. 194 quoted in Davidson v. U.S. (292 F 750, 752) as follows In the sense of an Act a deposit has been described as a mere incident of custody, and, in its ordinary signification, implies something more than mere possession, negatives all idea of loan with contemplation of use for profit, and has been defined as an act by which a person receives the property of another, binding himself to preserve it and return it in kind the act of one person giving to another, with his consent the possession of personal property to keep for the use and benefit of the first or of a third party.	None
It may mean a permanent disposition of the thing placed or deposited, or a mere temporary disposition or placing of the thing.	None
In these circumstances, we conclude that the object of security deposit is to ensure proper payment of bills.	None
Three months security deposit cannot be characterised either unreasonable or arbitrary.	None
This Court had occasion to point out in Jagdamba Paper Industries Pvt. Ltd. at paragraph 10 which reads as under We agree, however, on the facts placed that the stand of the Board that a demand equal to the energy bill of two months or a little more is not unreasonable.	None
Once we reach the conclusion that the Board has the power to unilaterally revise the conditions of supply, it must follow that the demand of higher additional security for payment of energy bills is unassailable, provided that the power is not exercised arbitrarily or unreasonably.	None
Several High Court decisions also had taken this view as seen from K.C. Works v. Secretary APSEB, Vidyut Soudha 1979 AIR(AP) 291 (1979) 1	None
An WR 469) (AIR pp. 29495, para 9)	None
The reasonableness of such a requirement is explained by the Board in its counter in W.P. No. 2359 of 1975 out of which W.A. No. 156 of 1977 arises.	None
In the counter it was stated as follows The consumer is billed for each month separately.	None
The consumers electricity consumption during the month is billed at the end of the succeeding month and 30 days time is given to him for payment of the bill.	None
If he does not pay the bill his supply is liable to be disconnected after giving one weeks notice under Section 24 of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910.	None
Meanwhile he will be consuming the power.	None
So by the time the supply is disconnected to a defaulting consumer he would have consumed energy for 3 months.	None
The Boards interest requires that there should be some protection by way of security of advance payment in respect of the consumption of this three months period.	None
This is how the Board sought to explain the reasonableness of the requirement of security representing three months average consumption charges.	None
Nobody can say that this is unreasonable.	None
For three months a consumer can go on consuming electrical power without paying any charges.	None
It is therefore, eminently reasonable for the Board to require the consumer to furnish security for three months charges.	None
Therefore, we are satisfied that the requirement of security for three months consumption charges is reasonable.	None
At page 295, para 11, it was observed thus As a matter of fact it may be that the writ appellant and the writ petitioner before us are prompt in paying their electrical dues, but the Board deals with lakhs and lakhs of consumers and it should have a uniform policy in demanding security.	None
It cannot make a distinction or discrimination from one consumer to another.	None
That is why a uniform policy has been laid down by incorporation it in the conditions aforesaid.	None
For these reasons we are satisfied that the requirement of security for three months average consumption charges by way of cash deposit is reasonable.	None
In Municipal Corpn.	None
for Greater Bombay v. D.M. Industries 1984 AIR(Bom) 242 1984 ILR(Bom) 1180 it was observed thus (AIR p. 256, para 34)	None
This brings us to the last argument by Mr. Hidayatullah that Clause 12 of the draft agreement is arbitrary and unreasonable.	None
The argument was that the power to impose conditions cannot be exercised to impose unreasonable conditions and it must also be ascertained whether the condition achieves the object for which it is imposed.	None
On principle, the proposition is undisputable.	None
Clause 12 which can be described as unreasonable and whether this clause has no nexus with the object of the Act and the rules.	None
The argument appears to be that if the object of security is to secure payment of bills, then insistence on cash deposits would be unreasonable because the object could also be served by furnishing of any security and it is said that the consumer was willing to furnish a bank guarantee.	None
In addition, it is urged that the period of consumption for which the security is required should not exceed two months and, therefore, the determination of three months is arbitrary.	None
In Haryana Ice Factory v. Municipal Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
of Delhi it was held thus (AIR p. 89, para 24)	None
The demand of the security was correlated to the consumption pattern of the consumers and to cover the energy charges from the date of its consumption till the date of ultimate disconnection as a result of nonpayment of the charges due.	None
The court cannot enter into mathematical calculations to come to a conclusion that instead of three months, it should be 2 1/2 months.	None
The fixing of the period of security equal to energy consumption of three months is reasonable It may be that the Haryana Electricity Board has fixed the period of security deposit equal to the amount of energy consumed for a period of two months but that would depend upon the billing cycle adopted by the Haryana State Electricity Board.	None
In Southern Steel Ltd., Hyderabad v. A.P.	None
State Electricity Board 1990 AIR(AP) 58 it was observed (AIR pp.	Arguments of Petitioner
6869)	None
It is also stated by the Board that huge sums are required by it as rotating capital that it borrows large amounts from organisations like L.I.C. and Banks that it pays interest to them, and that in such circumstances it is well entitled to require the consumer to cooperate by paying their bills regularly, by giving security deposits, and by conforming to the terms and conditions of supply.	None
It is argued that this consideration was also one of the bases of Condition 28.	None
We do not think it necessary to express any opinion on this question, though the truth of the matter cannot be denied.	None
There are two views upon the matter.	None
The petitioners say that the interest burden should be reflected in the tariffs, while the Board says that interest burden can be reflected in consumption deposits, and not necessarily in tariffs.	None
All that we can say is that there is no hard and fast rule in this behalf.	None
The interest burden can be reflected either in tariffs, or can be sought to be set off by calling upon the consumers to make deposits.	None
In this case, however, it is unnecessary to go into this aspect, since the requirement of three months deposit, in our opinion, cannot be said to be unreasonable and unjustified having regard to the facts mentioned above.	Facts
It cannot be said that the said condition is so unreasonable and arbitrary as to call for interference by this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
We reiterate that even if this Court comes to the conclusion that the deposit should not be 3 months, but 2 months 7 days, or 2 1/2 months, it would not be entitled to interfere in the matter, not being an appellate authority.	None
It cannot substitute its own opinion for the opinion of the Board.	None
It can interfere only when the exercise of power is shown to be arbitrary, and unrelated to the object sought to be achieved.	None
We are in agreement with the above extracts.	None
The liability of Electricity Board to pay interest on security deposit Now, we come to the crucial question as to whether interest is payable on security deposit or advance consumption deposit.	None
We will examine from the following angles The scheme of Electricity Acts.	Reasoning
(b) Schedule VI of the Supply Act.	None
(c) Interest Act, 1978.	None
(d) Equity or common law.	None
(a) (b) Scheme of Electricity Acts Schedule VI of Supply Act It is the submission of Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel appearing for the respondent against Rajasthan Electricity Board that the scheme of the Electricity Act and Supply Act together with the rules suggest the payment of interest.	Reasoning
The Board is not entitled to utilise the security deposits for augmenting its finances as they are meant to secure the Board against default in payment of the bills.	Reasoning
The correctness of this argument may now be seen.	Reasoning
There is no statutory provision which casts an obligation on the Board to pay interest on security deposit.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, reliance is placed on model form of draft conditions of supply as is found in Annexure VI, traceable to Rule 27 of Indian Electricity Rules, 1956.	Reasoning
Clause 14 relating to security deposit of the said Annexure reads Interest at the rate of per cent.	Reasoning
per annum will be paid by the licensee on deposits exceeding Rs. 25.	Reasoning
The model form is applicable only to a licensee as defined in Section 2(4) of the Electricity Act.	Reasoning
Though Rule 27 prescribes a model form it is not compulsory even for a licensee to adopt the model condition of supply.	Reasoning
This is because Rule 27 itself stipulates the model conditions of supply contained in Annexure VI, may with such variations as the circumstances of each case require, be adopted by the licensee.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is an option available to adopt with such modifications.	Reasoning
In such a case, the adoption of the model form becomes permissive.	Reasoning
In this connection, Section 26 of the Supply Act, to which we have made a reference earlier, must be looked at.	Reasoning
Though the Board is to have powers and obligations of a licensee under the Electricity Act, the second proviso to this section assumes importance.	Reasoning
It reads Provided further that the provisions of Clause VI of the Schedule to that Act shall apply to the Board in respect of that area only where distribution mains have been laid by the Board and the supply of energy through any of them has commenced.	Reasoning
Second proviso of the Supply Act leads us to Schedule VI.	Reasoning
This Schedule has been framed in exercise of powers under Sections 57 and 57A.	Reasoning
In defining clear profit paragraph (2) of Clause XVII, item (v) makes a reference, as interest on security deposits which is a part of expenditure properly incurred by the licensee.	Reasoning
From this it is impossible to hold that this clause imposes an obligation on the licensee to pay interest on security deposits.	Reasoning
All that would mean is, if interest is paid then it qualifies as an item of expenditure properly incurred.	Reasoning
This is the position with regard to licensee.	Reasoning
But this cannot apply to the Board, which as stated above, is not a licensee.	Reasoning
For the same reason Item L 1(c) of Form IV of the Electricity Rules relating to interest paid and accrued on consumers security deposits is of no avail because that relates to the manner of keeping accounts by the licensee, not being applicable to a Board.	Reasoning
In the above premises, it follows that there is nothing to indicate under the scheme of the Electricity Act or Schedule VI of the Supply Act that interest must be paid on the security deposit.	None
Interest Act applicability As regards the applicability of Interest Act, we find that the Division Bench of Rajasthan High Court has erred in holding that it is applicable.	Reasoning
Section 4(2)(g) of the Interest Act of 1978 reads as under Notwithstanding the aforesaid and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of subsection (1), the Court shall in each of the following cases allow interest from the dates specified below to the date of institution of the proceedings at such rate as the Court may consider reasonable, unless the court is satisfied that there are special reasons why interest should not be allowed namely (a) Where money or other property has been deposited as security for the performance of an obligation imposed by law or contract from the date of the deposit.	None
This section has no application to a case where on account of a contractual term or a statutory provision payment of interest is not permitted.	Reasoning
A careful reading of Section 4(2) of the Interest Act would disclose that it merely enlarges the category of cases mentioned in Section 4(1).	Reasoning
Even otherwise, there is nothing to indicate that Section 4(2) could override other statutory provisions or a contract between the parties.	Reasoning
No doubt, Section 4(2) contains a nonobstante clause.	None
But, such a clause is restricted to the provisions of Interest Act and cannot extend to other laws or a contract between the parties.	Reasoning
Accordingly we overrule the judgment of Rajasthan High Court which holds the Interest Act is applicable.	Reasoning
The deposit made cannot be equated to a fixed deposit.	Reasoning
It has already been seen that in the case of daily supply of electricity, there is a consequential liability to pay for each days consumption of electricity.	Reasoning
To ensure that payment, the security deposit is furnished.	Reasoning
Hence, it cannot be equated to a deposit at all.	Reasoning
It is in the nature of a running current account.	None
Position in Equity or Common Law If this be the position, could interest be claimed either on equity or common law?	Reasoning
The argument on behalf of the consumers is, if money belonging to any person is used by someone else he is obliged to pay interest for the period of its user.	Reasoning
Halsbury, Volume 32 (page 53, para 106) defines interest as the return or compensation for the use or retention by one person of a sum of money belonging or owed to another.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is contended that the Board is clearly in the position of a trustee in respect of this money since the money is deposited by the consumer in trust with the Board to secure the Board against default in payment of interest.	Reasoning
The object of the deposit is to secure the payment of consumption charges.	Reasoning
These charges may vary depending upon the daily consumption, depending on the level of supply.	Reasoning
The amount due by way of consumption charges would also be liable to be appropriated.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is incorrect to state that the Board is a trustee.	Reasoning
The relationship between the Board and consumer is not that of a trustee and a beneficiary but a depositor and depositee.	Reasoning
This is not even a case of a constructive trust under Section 90 of the Indian Trust Act, since no advantage is gained by the Electricity Board in derogation of the rights of the consumer in view of what we have observed above.	Reasoning
Strictly speaking, the word interest would apply only to two cases where there is a relationship of debtor and creditor.	Reasoning
A lender of money who allows the borrower to use certain funds deprives himself of the use of those funds.	Reasoning
He does so because he charges interest which may be described as a kind of rent for the use of the funds.	Reasoning
For example, a bank or a lender lending out money on payment of interest.	Reasoning
In this case, as already noted, there is no relationship of debtor and creditor.	Reasoning
We may now refer to Halsbury, 4th Edn., Vol. 32, para 108 When interest is payable at common law.  	None
At common law interest is payable (1) where there is an express agreement to pay interest (2) where an agreement to pay interest can be implied from the course of dealing between the parties or from the nature of the transaction or a custom or usage of the trade of profession concerned (3) in certain cases by way of damages for breach of a contract (other than a contract merely to pay money) where the contract, if performed, would to the knowledge of the parties have entitled plaintiff to receive interest.	None
Except in the cases mentioned, debts do not carry interest at common law.	None
Consumption security deposit does not fall under any of the categories mentioned above.	None
Para 109 says Equitable right to interest.  	None
In equity interest may be recovered in certain cases where a particular relationship exists between the creditor and the debtor, such as mortgagor and mortgagee, obligor and obligee on a bond, personal representative and beneficiary, principal and surety, vendor and purchaser, principle and agent, solicitor and client, trustee and beneficiary, or where the debtor is in a fiduciary position to the creditor.	None
Interest is also allowed on pecuniary legacies not paid within a certain time, on the dissolution of a partnership, on the arrears of an annuity where there has been misconduct or improper delay in payment, or in the case of money obtained or retained by fraud.	None
It may also be allowed where the defendant ought to have done something which would have entitled the plaintiff to interest at common law, or has wrongfully prevented the plaintiff from doing something which would have so entitled him.	None
This paragraph is also inapplicable to the present case.	None
Even a case of wrongful detention of money cannot arise.	None
In Bengal Nagpur Railway v. Ruttanji Ramji the question arose whether interest was payable on damages on account of wrongful detention of money.	None
It was held (IA pp. 7172)	None
The Interest Act, however, contains a proviso that interest shall be payable in all cases in which it is now payable by law.	None
This proviso applies to cases in which the Court of equity exercises jurisdiction to allow interest.	None
As observed by Lord Tomlin in Maine and New Brunswick Electrical Power Co. Ltd. v. Alice M. Hart 1929 AC 631 1929 AIR(PC) 185	None
In order to invoke a rule of equity, it is necessary in the first instance to establish the existence of a state of circumstances which attracts the equitable jurisdiction, as for example, nonperformance of a contract of which equity can give specific performance.	None
The present case does not however attract the equitable jurisdiction of the Court and cannot come within the purview of the proviso.	None
The very passage was noted by this Court in Union of India v. A.L. Rallia Ram.	None
The argument of Mr. G. Ramaswamy, learned counsel, that the deposit does not contemplate appropriate is not correct because in the nature of contract it is liable to be appropriated for the satisfaction of any amount liable to be paid by the consumer to the Board for violation of any conditions of supply in the context of widescale theft of energy, tampering with the meters and such other methods adopted by the consumers.	Reasoning
Therefore, the said consumption security deposit serves not only to secure the interest of the Board for any such violation but should serve as a deterrent on the consumer in discharging his obligations towards the Board.	Reasoning
Mr. G. Ramaswamy would rely on Riches v.	Reasoning
Westminster Bank Ltd.	Reasoning
That is a case which arose under Income Tax Act.	Reasoning
That has no application to this case.	Reasoning
What came up for consideration in A. L. Rallia Ram case was the power of the Board to award interest.	Reasoning
Hence, that case has no application.	Reasoning
Accordingly, it is held that the claim for interest cannot be legally founded either on common law or equity.	Reasoning
As is rightly contended by Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned counsel and the other learned counsel appearing for the various Boards, it is the Board which should be entitled to receive interest on energy supplied to the consumers on credit as the consumers enjoy a credit facility as noted already.	Reasoning
We are also unable to accept the argument advanced on behalf of consumers that because the Electricity Boards charge interest on belated payments, interest must be paid on security deposit.	Reasoning
Interest on belated payments is by way of penalty.	Reasoning
That has no bearing.	None
Clause providing for nonpayment of interest Whether unreasonable ?	None
While the terms and conditions of supply of Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar provide for payment of interest at certain rate, in the case of Rajasthan and Orissa the Boards have clearly stipulated that no interest shall be payable on the securities furnished to the Board.	Issue
Whether that clause could be considered unconstitutional or arbitrary ?	Issue
In examining the constitutionality of this provision, in that it is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India, the following factors have to be borne in mind Article 14 does not mandate mathematical exactitude or scientific precision.	None
2. The mode and the period of security visavis the billing practice must form the consideration.	None
3.	None
The consumer with open eyes has entered into the agreement and solemnly undertaken to abide by the conditions regarding nonpayment of interest.	Issue
He cannot resile from the condition because there is nothing inherently objectionable about such a condition not is such a condition per se illegal or void as opposed to public policy.	Reasoning
It is not uncommon in commercial transaction, such a provision is entered into.	Reasoning
The argument that the Board is monopolistic in character and therefore, the consumers have no other option but to enter into contract appears to be misconceived.	Reasoning
The Board under Section 49 of the Supply Act is entitled, apart from framing uniform tariff, to insist upon such terms and conditions as the Board thinks fit.	Reasoning
This has also been so stated in Jagdamba case.	Reasoning
The consumption security deposit whether or not it carries interest is a condition precedent for the supply of electric energy.	Reasoning
We are clearly of the view that the scrutiny of the Court in determining the unconstitutionality of a provision not providing for interest must be tested on the following touchstone In imposing such a condition has the Board acted as a private trader and thereby shed off its public utility character ?	Reasoning
By referring to Hindustan Zinc Ltd. we have earlier pointed out the interrelationship between Sections 49 and 59 as noted by this Court.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the view that in imposing such a condition the Board has not acted as a private trader.	Reasoning
The nature of deposit has a rational relationship to the object which is incorporated as a condition of supply.	Reasoning
Some of the learned counsel appearing for the consumers would draw our attention to Section 59 of the Supply Act as well.	Reasoning
Under the said section the Board is obligated to carry on its operation as to ensure that it generates a surplus of 3 per cent.	Reasoning
or as specified by the State Government.	Reasoning
The Board is obligated to adjust its tariffs for ensuring such surplus.	Reasoning
The condition of supply requiring a consumption security deposit has a direct bearing on the operations of the Board which are to be conducted in such a manner as to ensure a surplus.	Reasoning
The language in Section 59 of the Supply Act is carry on its operations under this Act and adjust its tariffs.	Reasoning
The language of the said section is not by adjusting tariff.	Reasoning
Therefore, the argument that the only manner in which the Board can achieve a surplus is to adjust its tariffs does not flow from the language of Section 59.	Reasoning
So read, in the context of the insistence of a security deposit which has direct bearing on the operations of the Board is per se reasonable and constitutional.	Reasoning
We will assume, for a moment, that the contract is an adhesion contract.	Reasoning
But still, it is not unconscionable.	None
In Central Inland Water Transport Corpn.	None
v. Brojo Nath Ganguly adhesion contract is defined quoting Blacks Law Dictionary, Fifth Edn., at page 38, as follows Adhesion contract.  	None
Standardized contract form offered to consumers of goods and services on essentially take it or leave it basis without affording consumer realistic opportunity to bargain and under such conditions that consumer cannot obtain desired product or services except by acquiescing in form contract.	None
Distinctive feature of adhesion contract is that weaker party has no realistic choice as to its terms.	None
Not every such contract is unconscionable.	None
With reference to these contracts the Court offered relief to the parties against such a clause if it is so unreasonable as to be unconscionable.	None
As a matter of fact at page 211, paragraph 83 of Central Inland Water Transport Corpn.	None
v. Brojo Nath Ganguly it stated thus	None
Yet another theory which has made its emergence in recent years in the sphere of the law of contracts is the test of reasonableness or fairness of a clause in a contract where there is inequality of bargaining power.	None
Lord Denning, MR, appears to have been the propounder, and perhaps the originator at least in England, of this theory.	None
In Gillespie Brothers Co. Ltd. v. Roy Bowles Transport Ltd. where the question was whether an indemnity clause in a contract, on its true construction, relieved the indemnifier from liability arising to the indemnified from his own negligence, Lord Denning said (at pages 41516)	None
The time may come when this process of construing the contract can be pursued no further.	None
The words are too clear to permit of it.	None
Are the courts then powerless ?	None
Are they to permit the party to enforce his unreasonable clause, even when it is so unreasonable, or applied so unreasonably, as to be unconscionable ?	None
When it gets to this point, I would say, as I said many years ago There is the vigilance of the common law which, while allowing freedom of contract, watches to see that it is not abused (John Lee Son (Grantham) Ltd. v. Railway Executive 1949 (2) AllER 581, 584).)	None
It will not allow a party to exempt himself from his liability at common law when it would be quite unconscionable for him to do so.	None
Farnsworth on Contracts, 2nd Edn., 319, 320, para 4.27 states 4.27 Precursors of Unconscionability.  	None
Courts of equity did not share the reluctance of common law courts to police bargains for substantive unfairness.	None
Though mere inadequacy of consideration alone was not a ground for withholding equitable relief, a contract that was inequitable or unconscionable  one that was so unfair as to shock the conscience of the court  would not be enforced in equity.	None
In one such case, a man promised to give a 20 per cent.	None
interest in all property the he might later acquire in Alaska in return for the promisees payment of 1, 000 and his cancellation of an 11, 225 debt of questionable collectability.	None
When the promisor acquired property worth over 750, 000, the promisee sought specific performance.	None
The court refused to grant it.	None
Though the fairness of the bargain was to be judged as of the time that the bargain was made, in equity as at common law, here the inadequacy of consideration for the promise sought to be enforced was so gross as to render the contract unconscionable.	None
In dealing with the validity of the agreement containing a relating to minimum guarantee this Court had occasion to observe in Bihar State Electricity Board v. Green Rubber Industries as follows It is true that the agreement is in a standard form of contract.	None
The standard clauses of this contract have been settled over the years and have been widely adopted because experience shows that they facilitate the supply of electric energy.	None
Lord Diplock has observed If fairness or reasonableness were relevant to their enforceability the fact that they are widely used by parties whose bargaining power is fairly matched would arise a strong presumption that their terms are fair and reasonable.	None
Schroeder (A.) Music Publishing Co. Ltd. v. Macaulay 1974 (3) AllER 616, 624).	None
In such contracts a standard form enables the supplier to say If you want these goods or services at all, these are the only terms on which they are available.	None
Take it or leave it.	None
It is a type of contract on which the conditions are fixed by one of the parties in advance and are open to acceptance by anyone.	None
The contract, which frequently contains many conditions is presented for acceptance and is not open to discussion.	None
It is settled law that a person who signs a document which contains contractual terms is normally bound by them even though he has not read them, even though he is ignorant of the precise legal effect.	None
In the light of the above discussion, we hold that the clause not providing for interest is neither arbitrary nor palpably unreasonable, nor even unconscionable.	Reasoning
In holding so we have regard to the following The consumer made the security deposit in considering of the performance of his obligation for obtaining the service which is essential to him.	Reasoning
2.	None
The electricity supply is made to the consumers on credit as has been noted above.	Reasoning
3.	None
The billing time taken by the Board is to the advantage of the consumer.	Reasoning
4. Public revenues are blocked in generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for the purpose of supply.	Reasoning
The Board pays interest on the loans borrowed by the Board.	Reasoning
This is in order to perform public service.	Reasoning
On those payments made by the Board it gets no interest from the consumers.	Reasoning
5.	None
The Board needs back its blocked money to carry out public service with reasonable recompense.	Reasoning
6.	None
The Board is not essentially a commercial organisation to which the consumer has furnished the security to earn interest thereon.	Reasoning
We should also observe that the rate of interest on security deposit cannot be equated with the rate of interest on the fixed deposit.	Reasoning
First of all, if the consumption charges are to be appropriated the moneys accrued by way of deposits cannot be held in fixed deposits.	Reasoning
Nor all deposits need carry interest in every transaction.	Reasoning
Secondly, the nature and character of the security deposit is essentially different from fixed deposit.	Reasoning
It is worthwhile, in this connection, to refer to Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 1975.	Reasoning
In Rule 2 it is stated Definitions.  	None
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires  (a) (b) deposit means any deposit of money with, and includes any amount borrowed by, a company, but does not include  (i)  (iv) (v) any amount received from an employee of the company by way of security deposit (vi) any amount received by way of security or as an advance from any purchasing agent, selling agent, or other agents in the course of or for the purposes of the business of the company or any advance received against orders for the supply of goods or properties or for the rendering of any service We may add that merely because the English Acts provide for interest, it is not necessary the same should be adopted here as well.	Reasoning
Thus, we hold that the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court erred in striking down Condition 20 of the General Conditions of the Rajasthan Electricity Board as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
Has this Court decided the question of rate of interest in Jagdamba Paper Industries (Pvt.)	None
Ltd. v. Haryana State Electricity Board In that case the following two points were raised as seen from paragraph 3 at page 511	None
The enhancement made in the security amount towards the meter is without any justification.	None
The enhancement of security deposit was not warranted.	None
On the question of interest in paragraph 11 at page 515 in Jagdamba case it is stated thus On the security amount interest at the rate of 4 per cent.	None
was initially payable.	None
The same has already been enhanced to 8 per cent.	None
per annum.	None
Since the amount is held as security, we indicated to the counsel for the Board that security amount should bear the same interest as admissible on fixed deposits of Scheduled Banks for a term of years and we suggested keeping the present rate of interest in view that it should be enhanced to 10 per cent.	None
Boards counsel has now agreed that steps would be taken to enhance the present rate of interest of 8 per cent.	None
to 10 per cent.	None
with effect from October 1, 1983.	None
It requires to be carefully noted that the question of interest on security was not raised before the Court.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Court had no occasion to decide this issue of interest.	Reasoning
That part of the judgment, as rightly contended by Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned counsel, is sub silentio.	Reasoning
However, the learned counsel for the consumers pressed into service the various orders passed by this Court in relation to interest and urged that it is concluded by those orders.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this argument.	Reasoning
All the orders have their root in Interlocutory Application No. 1 of 1989 in Writ Petition No. 578 of 1987.	Reasoning
That order is extracted in full We have heard counsel for the parties.	None
Mr. Gopal Subramaniam, counsel for the State Electricity Board on instructions states that the initial deposit which has been made by the consumer petitioner, to the tune of Rs. 10, 07, 378.81 was intended as security for payment of energy dues.	None
In terms of our order of May 5, 1988, the petitioner would be entitled to the interest on that amount from the date of the deposit at the rate of 12 per annum.	None
Mr. Gobind Mukhoty, counsel for the petitioner now agrees to deposit the balance amount of Rs. 6, 91,	None
621 minus the interest which is said to be the additional security and while making the deposit of the additional amount, the petitioner is entitled to deduct the interest already accrued on the deposit of Rs. 10, 07, 378.81 from the date of the deposit at the rate of 12 per annum.	None
The balance amount after deduction of the interest shall be deposited in two equal quarterly instalments, the first being due by October 15, 1989.	None
The application for directions is disposed of accordingly.	None
Based on this, in Writ Petition No. 613 of 1990 it was stated thus In view of the order made by this Court in the connected matters on September 7, 1989, after hearing parties in Writ petition No. 578 of 1987 on the amount deposited by the consumer as security, interest at the rate of 12 would be admissible.	None
The writ petition is disposed of accordingly.	None
Two other orders remain to be seen.	None
One rendered in W.P. 5582 of 1989 which was disposed of by consent and the other in W.P. No. 576 of 1990 where the writ petition was disposed of in the following manner If the Electricity Board has been directed to allow interest at the rate of 12 per annum on the security deposited with the Board by the petitioners similarly situated, the claims of the petitioner should similarly be dealt with by the Board.	None
The writ petition is disposed of.	None
On careful examination of the above orders, we do not think the Court ever intended to adjudicate upon the rate of interest or render a decision on that question.	Reasoning
Therefore, it cannot be contended that the disposal of Writ Petition No. 613 of 1990, though by a Bench of three Judges would be binding on us because, as pointed out above, it was entirely based on interlocutory order.	Reasoning
We are of the view that we are free to decide the question on its merits.	Reasoning
The argument of Mr. Anil Divan, learned counsel that unequals are treated equals has no basis.	Reasoning
It may be that the consumers of electricity, where it is raw material, would be prompt in their payment in their own interest.	Reasoning
On that basis, it cannot be contended that they cannot be treated in the same way as defaulters.	Reasoning
The test, in our considered opinion, is whether in the general application of law there is any discrimination.	Reasoning
Merely because some of the consumers are prompt those isolated cases cannot render the provision unconstitutional.	Reasoning
We may usefully refer to the following cases.	None
In Collector of Customs, Madras v. Nathella Sampathu Chetty 1962 (1) CrLJ 364 it was observed (SCC pp. 82930)	None
The deleterious effects of smuggling, as pointed out in the extract from the report, are real and it is not in dispute that the prevention and eradication of smuggling is a proper and legally attainable objective and that this is sought to be achieved by the relevant law.	None
If therefore for the purpose of achieving the desired objective and to ensure that the intention of Parliament shall not be defeated a law is enacted which operates somewhat harshly on a small section of the public, taken in conjunction with the position that without a law in that form and with that amplitude smuggling might not be possible of being effectively checked, the question arises whether the law could be held to be violative of the freedom guaranteed by Article 19(f) and (g) as imposing an unreasonable restrain.	None
That the restrictions are in the interest of the general public is beyond controversy.	None
In Vivian Joseph v. Municipal Corpn., Bombay	None
The levy of the cess under Section 27 of the Act is not based on the principle of quid pro quo.	None
Its object is not to repair all residential premises, but to preserver and prolong their lives in order to avert the dilemma caused by the acute shortage of residential accommodation on the one hand, and the reluctance and or inability of the owners to carry out repairs resulting from the Rent Act, on the other, and to establish so that structural repairs to buildings in dangerous or ruinous conditions can be carried out.	None
The finances for these objects are provided from a fund from the impugned cess and contributions by the State and the Corporation.	None
The contention that some of the buildings falling in categories B and C would not need structural repairs throughout the life of the Act or that such repairs would be carried out in buildings not cared for by defaulting landlords, takes no notice of the fact that the primary object of the Act is not to repair all buildings subject to cess but to prevent the annually recurrent mischief of house collapses and the human tragedy and deprivations they cause.	None
The cess being thus levied to prevent such disasters, there is no question of unequal treatment between one class of owners and another.	None
The classification of buildings into three categories is based, as already stated, on their age and the construction current during the periods of their erection.	None
It is, therefore, based on an intelligible differentia and is closely related to the objects of the legislation.	None
There is, therefore, no question of unequals being treated as equals, as each building of the Board and has to be structurally repaired if the need were to arise.	None
In B. Banerjee v. Anita Pan	None
it was observed (SCC p. 179, paras 22 23)	None
Moreover, what is the evil corrected by the Amendment Act ?	None
The influx of a transferee class of evictors of tenants and institution of litigation to eject and rackrent or rebuild to make larger profits.	None
Apparently, the inflow of such suits must have been swelling slowly over the years and when the stream became a flood the legislature rushed with an amending bill.	None
Had it made the law merely prospective, those who had, in numbers, already gone to Court and induced legislative intention would have escaped the inhibition.	None
This would defeat the object and so the application of the additional ban to pending actions could not be called unreasonable.	None
To omit to do so would have been unreasonable folly.	None
The question is whether those cases which were filed several years ago should have been carved out of the category of transferees hit by the Act ?	None
Where do you draw the line ?	None
When did the evil assume proportions ?	None
These are best left to legislative wisdom and not courts commonsense although there may be grievances for some innocent transferees.	None
If this be the paradigm of judicial review of constitutionality, we have to ignore exceptional cases which suffer misfortune unwittingly.	None
The law is made for the bulk of the community to produce social justice and isolated instances of unintended injury are inevitable martyrs for the common good since God Himself has failed to make perfect laws and perfect justice, Freaks have to be accepted by the victims rightly or wrongly as forensic fate In Fatehchand Himmatlal v. State of Maharashtra it was observed (SCC pp.	None
68889, para 42) Maybe, some stray moneylenders may be good souls and to stigmatize the lovely and unlovely is simplistic betise.	None
But the legislature cannot easily make meticulous exceptions and has to proceed on broad categorisations, not singular individualisations.	None
So viewed pragmatics overrule punctilious and unconscionable moneylenders fall into a defined group.	None
Nor have the creditors placed material before the Court to contradict the presumption which must be made in favour of the legislative judgment.	None
After all, the lawmakers representatives of the people, are expected to know the socioeconomic conditions and customers.	None
Since nice distinctions to suit every kindly creditor is beyond the lawmaking process, we have to uphold the grouping as reasonable and the restrictions as justified in the circumstances of the case.	None
In this branch, there are no finalities.	None
The attack on additional consumer deposit is that no reasons have been adduced for additional demand.	Reasoning
It stands to reason that if there is a revision in the rate of tariff there must be an upward revision in the consumption security deposit since it has direct bearing on the level of supply in consumption of electricity.	Reasoning
For example, in the State of Uttar Pradesh, the tariffs were adjusted upwards in October 1986.	Reasoning
The revision in form of an additional security deposit with interest at the rate of 3 per cent.	Reasoning
was made in January 1987.	Reasoning
These facts indicate the rationale in the demand of additional security deposit.	None
As stated above, this being a condition of supply, no reason need be given at the time of upward revision.	Reasoning
Therefore, we reject the argument of Mr. Gobinda Mukhoty, learned counsel in this regard.	Reasoning
In view of the above finding, upholding the clause relating to nonpayment of interest, for example, Rajasthan and Orissa, what is to happen to such of those cases where interest is provided like Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar ?	Reasoning
In all those cases wherever the Electricity Boards have framed is provision for payment of interest after adjusting its finances at a stated rate they cannot be allowed to delete such adjusting its finance at a stated rate they cannot be allowed to delete such a clause.	Reasoning
The provision for interest has been made by the various Boards having regard to the overall budgetary and financial position and further, keeping in view the quantum and mode of security deposit and billing and recovery practice.	Reasoning
Nor again, could the Board withhold payment of interest on the basis of this basis of this judgment.	Reasoning
However, if there is any change in the circumstances affecting the budgetary and financial position, the Board can examine the case and decide the future course of action.	Reasoning
But any change resulting in nonpayment or reduction of interest will have to be justified by cogent reasons and materials having a bearing on the financial position of each Board and facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
We also add that notwithstanding Jagdamba case as on today, Haryana Electricity Board has dispensed with payment of interest.	Reasoning
We make it clear by this judgment that we are not deciding the validity of such a provision since the matter is stated to be pending.	Reasoning
In conclusion, we hold Section 49 of the Supply Act is valid.	None
(2) The nature of consumption deposit is to secure prompt payment and is intended for appropriation.	Decision
(3) There is no liability on the Electricity Board either under the statute or common law or equity to pay interest.	None
(4) Conditions and the terms of supply providing for nonpayment of interest is not so unconscionable as to shock the conscience of the Court.	None
(5) No reason need be given for enhancement of additional security deposit.	None
Accordingly we uphold the judgment of Andhra Pradesh High Court and reverse the judgment of Rajasthan High Court.	Decision
In the result, the following cases filed against Andhra Pradesh Electricity Board are dismissed SLP (C) Nos. 13004 of 1989, 14995 of 1989, 14629 of 1989, 14899 of 1989, 15739 of 1989, 15817 of 1989, 7475 of 1990, 6374 of 1990, 966165 of 1990, 5461 of 1990, 6371 of 1990, 5294 of 1990, 6769 of 1990, 5492 of 1990, 5921 of 1990, 5559 of 1990, 479394 of 1990, 479192 of 1990, 6375 of 1990, 6570 of 1990, 12270 of 1990, 9926 of 1990, 11548 of 1990, 2600 of 1990, 637273 of 1990, 603544 of 1990, 6505 of 1990, 6374 of 1990, 6094 of 1990, 676568 of 1990, 6462 of 1990, 530608 of 1990, 9132 of 1990, 12424 of 1990.	Decision
6370 of 1990, C.A. No. 1779 of 1990, SLP (C) Nos. 17465 of 1991, 17679 of 1991, 1786566 of 1991, 20125 of 1991, 19532 of 1991, 18043 of 1991, 1958693 of 1991 19597600, 20076 of 1991, 21 of 1992, 649 of 1992, 2564 of 1992, 578283 of 1992, 8336 of 1992, 912425 of 1992, 9488 of 1992, 12318 of 1992, 12506 of 1992, 12610 of 1992, 12805 of 1992, 12804 of 1992, 12814 of 1992, 14439 of 1992, 14449 of 1992, 14555 of 1992, 173943 43A of 1992, 13593 of 1992, C.A. No. 2409 of 1992, W.P. (C) Nos. 603 of 1992, 455 of 1992, 3558 of 1983, 566 of 1992, 1353 of 1989, 48 of 1992, 362 of 1992, 1293 of 1989 6770 of 1990.	Decision
The Transfer Petition (C) No. 366 of 1992 filed by the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Board is allowed.	Decision
The following cases filed by Rajasthan State Electricity Board are allowed A. Nos. 4714 of 1991 492843 of 1991, SLP (C) Nos. 446 of 1992, 703 of 1992, 12941 of 1990, 43336 of 1992, 43942 of 1992, C.A. Nos. 5342 of 1992, 118788 of 1992, 4512 of 1992, 4510 of 1992, 4511 of 1992, 2800 of 1992, 1204 of 1992, 406436 of 1992, SLP (C) No. 20 of 1992, 46 of 1992, 47 of 1992, 50 of 1992, 53 of 1992, 449452 of 1992, 494 of 1992, 516 of 1992, 48 of 1992, 49 of 1992, 51 of 1992, 52 of 1992, 54 of 1992, 55 of 1992, 4345 of 1992, 5672 of 1992, 428432 of 1992, 443444 of 1992, 453457 of 1992, 50308 of 1992, 51214 of 1992, 53033 of 1992, 14450 of 1992.	None
The following cases filed by the Bihar Electricity Board are allowed SLP (C) Nos. 11799 of 1989, 1856 of 1990, 8318 of 1992, 16028 of 1992.	None
The following cases against Uttar Pradesh Electricity Board are dismissed.	None
P. (C) Nos. 513 of 1987, 804 of 1987, 1144 of 1987, 743 of 1987, 531 of 1987, 725 of 1987, 739 of 1987, 526 of 1991, 576 of 1987, 577 of 1987, 801 of 1987, 833 of 1987, 769 of 1987, 676 of 1987, 578 of 1987, 728 of 1987, 762 of 1987, 818 of 1987, 526 of 1987, 744 of 1987, 742 of 1987, 540 of 1987, 1238 of 1987, 738 of 1987, 684 of 1987, SLP (C) Nos. 295256 of 1987, 15885 of 1991 and 12902 of 1991.	Decision
The W.P. (C) No. 1317 of 1990 filed against Punjab Electricity Board is dismissed.	None
All the I.As. are allowed.	None
However, there shall be no order as to costs.	None
