Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 13.7.2010, passed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in Criminal Appeal No. 302 of 2007, concurring with the judgment and order dated 5.2.2007 of the Ist Additional Sessions Judge, Mahabubnagar, Andhra Pradesh, in Sessions Case No. 83 of 2006, whereby and whereunder the appellant was found guilty of the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 404 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as the IPC), and was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs.100/, in default of payment of which, simple imprisonment for a period of three months under Section 302 IPC and for the offence punishable under Section 404 IPC, rigorous imprisonment for a period of three years, was imposed on him.	Issue
However, both the sentences were directed to run concurrently.	Issue
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that Balamani (deceased) was the second wife of the appellant.	Facts
Their marriage was solemnized in 2002, for which her father had given dowry of Rs.20,000/, gold earrings, a ring and silver anklets etc.	Facts
Appellant became suspicious of the fidelity of his wife, and began to beat her up at times.	Facts
The deceased went to live in the house of her parents because of the illtreatment meted out to her by the appellant.	Facts
However, upon the advice of the elders in her family, she decided to go back to the appellant.	Facts
The appellant and the deceased were taken by G. Balaiah (PW.3), the paternal uncle of deceased to Hyderabad, and there he was engaged in coolie work.	Facts
Here too, the appellant and Balamani (deceased) would often quarrel, and the appellant would beat her.	Facts
They eventually returned to their village, and 15 days prior to the said incident, the appellant had taken Balamani (deceased) to Srisailam and here they had worked at Eagalapenta, attending to the petty works in and around the colony for some time.	Facts
D.V. Subbaiah (PW.2), a neighbour, had seen the appellant and the deceased quarrelling, and as a result thereof, had also noticed Balamani (deceased) weeping.	Facts
B.	Facts
On 12.7.2003, Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1), father of the deceased, received a telephone call from the appellant, wherein he was informed that Balamani was suffering from a severe stomach ache.	Facts
The next day, the appellant again made a call to the neighbours of Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1) and asked them to give a message to Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1), asking him to come to Eagalapenta.	Facts
However, Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1) was unable to reach there.	Facts
The next day, at about 10.30 A.M., the appellant telephonically informed Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1) that Balamani had committed suicide.	Facts
Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1) immediately rushed by jeep, alongwith his family.	Facts
On the way, they met the appellant at Santa Bazar at Achampet.	Facts
The appellant then informed them that Balamani had committed suicide by hanging herself in the G Type Labour Quarters, Near the Krishna Guest House, Eagalapenta.	Facts
Even on being requested by Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1), the appellant refused to accompany them and instead, escaped from there.	Facts
The family of Balamani (deceased) had thereafter reached the G type quarters, and here they found that the dead body of Balamani (deceased) was smelling, and that from it, blood was flowing out of the house over its threshold.	Facts
The dead body of the deceased was lying on the floor, and two granite stones lay near the head of the dead body.	Facts
There were tears on certain parts of the body of deceased, which clearly indicated that there had been attempts made to forcibly snatch off her gold ornaments.	Facts
C. Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1) filed an FIR regarding the incident on 15.7.2003, alleging that the appellant had killed Balamani on the night of 12.7.2003, by strangulation.	Facts
Her nose and ears were viciously cut, and all her gold ornaments and anklets had been stolen.	Facts
D.	Facts
The police had recovered the dead body of Balamani, and had got the autopsy performed upon it.	Facts
The appellant had been absconding, and thus could be arrested only on 15.7.2003.	Facts
On the basis of the disclosure statement that was made by the appellant, the ornaments of Balamani, deceased, had been recovered in the presence of two panch witnesses, namely, Ganjai Niranjan (PW.8) and Syed Aktharali (PW.9).	Facts
After completion of the investigation, a chargesheet was filed on 28.10.2005.	Facts
Charges were framed on 17.8.2006 against the appellant, for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 404 IPC.E. After the conclusion of the trial, the learned Additional Sessions Judge convicted and sentenced the appellant vide impugned judgment and order dated 5.2.2007, as has been referred to hereinabove.	Facts
F. Aggrieved, the appellant preferred an appeal before the High Court, which was dismissed vide impugned judgment and order dated 13.7.2010.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	None
Dr. Aman Hingorani, learned counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted, that the present case was one of suicide by hanging, and that the same most certainly did not involve homicide by strangulation, as it is evident from the postmortem report, as well as from the deposition of Dr. K. Padmavathi (PW.10), both of which clearly suggest, that death had been caused as a result of suicide by hanging.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even otherwise, there exist serious discrepancies and inconsistencies in the depositions of the witnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no motive whatsoever, for the appellant to commit the murder of his wife.	Arguments of Petitioner
All the recoveries are fake, and the material objects, particularly jewellery and other items have been planted by the police to falsely implicate the appellant in the case, as recovery witnesses of the jewellery, particularly Ganjai Niranjan (PW.8) and Syed Aktharali (PW.9), do not support the recovery of the aforementioned items.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mere appearance and admission of their signature thumb impression on the memo of recovery, does not prove the recovery.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Shri Gagandeep Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the respondent, has opposed the appeal, contending that opinion of Dr. Padmavathi (PW.10) could not be a piece of conclusive evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not necessary that the medical report, as well as the deposition of Dr. K. Padmavathi (PW.10) suggest the theory of suicide by hanging, and not of homicidal death by strangulation.	Arguments of Respondent
The inconsistencies in the depositions of the witnesses are minor, and the same natural, as the evidence of the said witnesses was recorded after the lapse of a long period from the date of incident.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant had doubted the fidelity of his wife, and had therefore nursed a grudge when she had gone alongwith her paternal uncle G. Balaiah (PW.3) alone.	Arguments of Respondent
However, she had been taken by G. Balaiah (PW.3) alongwith her sister.	Arguments of Respondent
The concurrent findings of fact recorded by the courts below do not warrant any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
The appeal lacks merit and is thus, liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties, and perused the record.	None
The Trial Court has appreciated the evidence of all the witnesses, including medical evidence.	None
So far as the recoveries are concerned, undoubtedly, Ganjai Niranjan (PW.8) and Syed Aktharali (PW.9), do not support the recoveries of the ornaments.	None
However, they have admitted to their signature thumb impression(s) being present on the recovery memos.	None
D.V. Subbaiah (PW.2) is a circumstantial witness, and has deposed that being a neighbour of the couple referred to herein, he was fully aware of the fact that the appellant had in fact illtreated his wife, and that there quarrels often arose between them.	None
The deceased Balamani would cry a lot.	None
G. Balaiah (PW.3), the paternal uncle of deceased has deposed that he had taken the deceased and her sister alongwith him from Hyderabad, and the same had become an issue with respect to which the appellant would quarrel bitterly with the deceased Balamani, as he doubted her character and he presumed that G. Balaiah (PW.3) had taken her alone from Hyderabad.	None
Thus, it is indirectly suggested that owing to the suspicious mind of the appellant, he had believed that there had existed a questionable relationship between the deceased and G. Balaiah (PW.3).	None
The Trial Court, after considering the entire evidence on record has recorded the following findings The conduct of the appellant towards his wife was not cordial, and there existed adequate material on record to prove that the accused had in fact been beating and harassing his wife intentionally.(ii)	None
The evidence on record conclusively proves that the appellant had a deep rooted motive to somehow eliminate his wife, and the reason for this was the suspicion he had with respect to her character, particularly after she had travelled with G. Balaiah (PW.3) alone (in his opinion), from Hyderabad to Bommanapally.(iii)	None
The recovery witnesses Ganjai Niranjan (PW.8) and Syed Aktharali (PW.9) particularly as regards the recovery of the jewellery of the deceased, do not support the case of the prosecution, but they have admitted to their signature thumb impression(s) appearing on the panchnama Ext.P4.(iv)	None
Indisputably, the panchnama Ext.P4 is in relation to material objects 1 to 3, i.e. in relation to the ornaments belonging to the deceased Balamani.(v)	None
The appellant has not offered any explanation as regards the gold ornaments of his wife being in his possession.	None
He had been fully aware of the death of his wife from the very beginning.(vi)	None
The appellant had been in the company of his wife at the time of her death, and had been last seen with her.	None
It is not the case of the appellant that any other person could have come and committed the crime.(vii)	None
The evidence on record fully excludes the theory of suicide, and establishes the cause of death as homicidal.(viii)	None
The appellant had been giving misleading information to Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1), the father of the deceased.(ix)	None
The appellant had stayed in a guest house, leaving the dead body of his deceased wife lying in the house, and had subsequently, after meeting the family members of the deceased, absconded, and could only be apprehended after several days.(x)	None
Any inconsistencies, embellishments or discrepancies in the evidence are minor, and do not go to the root of the case.	None
The High Court has reappreciated the entire evidence on record, and has concurred with the conclusions arrived at by the Trial Court, observing as under That the appellant had been with the deceased at the time of her death.	None
He had furnished false information to the family members of the deceased, and the recovery of the jewellery of the deceased from the house of the accused had been made at his behest.	None
The defence put forward by the appellant stating that the deceased had committed suicide by hanging herself at their residence, was not acceptable.	None
The tears present on the body of the deceased indicated the forcible snatching of her ornaments.	None
So far as the medical evidence is concerned, the High Court has dealt with the opinion of Dr. K. Padmavathi (PW.10), who has referred to Modis Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, wherein it has been stated that, hyoid bone and superior cornuae of the thyroid cartilage are not, as a rule, fractured by any other means other than by strangulation, although the larynx and the trachea may, in rare cases, be fractured as a result of a fall.	None
The postmortem has revealed that the fracture of the hyoid bone is characterised by the absence of hemorrhage in the tissues around the fracture.	None
Furthermore, the High Court has dealt with the factual matrix of the case and has relied upon the statement of Dasu Krishnaiah (PW.1), who has deposed that the sari of the deceased had been thrown into a corner of the room, and that it had not been cut into two pieces as was suggested by the appellant accused.	None
The appellant has suggested that he had cut the sari with a knife, and had let the dead body of his wife onto the floor.	None
As an observation of the scene of the offence does not indicate that the remaining piece of sari had been found on the ceiling, and the prosecution has established the other facts regarding them last being seen and living together.	None
The case against the appellant stands fully proved, and the theory that the deceased had committed suicide by hanging herself, is a false plea taken by the appellant, which in itself is an additional link connecting the appellant to the commission of offence.	None
So far as the medical evidence is concerned, the issue involved herein is no more res integra.	None
This Court dealt with the issue in Ponnusamy v. State of Tamil Nadu, AIR 2008 SC 2110 , and observed as under 2021.	None
It is true that the autopsy surgeon, PW 17, did not find any fracture on the hyoid bone.	None
Existence of such a fracture leads to a conclusive proof of strangulation but absence thereof does not prove contra.	None
In Taylors Principles and Practice of Medical Jurisprudence, 13th Edn., pp. 30708, it is stated The hyoid bone is U shaped and composed of five parts the body, two greater and two lesser horns.	None
It is relatively protected, lying at the root of the tongue where the body is difficult to feel.	None
The greater horn, which can be felt more easily, lies behind the front part of the strip muscles (sternomastoid), 3 cm below the angle of the lower jaw and 1.5 cm from the midline.	None
The bone ossifies from six centres, a pair for the body and one for each horn.	None
The greater horns are, in early life, connected to the body by cartilage but after middle life they are usually united by bone.	None
The lesser horns are situated close to the junction of the greater horns in the body.	None
They are connected to the body of the bone by fibrous tissue and occasionally to the greater horns by synovial joints which usually persist throughout life but occasionally become ankylosed.	None
Our own findings suggest that although the hardening of the bone is related to age there can be considerable variation and elderly people sometimes show only slight ossification.	None
From the above consideration of the anatomy it will be appreciated that while injuries to the body are unlikely, a grip high up on the neck may readily produce fractures of the greater horns.	None
Sometimes it would appear that the local pressure from the thumb causes a fracture on one side only.	None
While the amount of force in manual strangulation would often appear to be greatly in excess of that required to cause death, the application of such force, as evidenced by extensive external and soft tissue injuries, make it unusual to find fractures of the hyoid bone in a person under the age of 40 years.	None
As stated, even in older people in which ossification is incomplete, considerable violence may leave this bone intact.	None
This view is confirmed by Green.	None
He gives interesting figures in 34 cases of manual strangulation the hyoid was fractured in 12 (35) as compared with the classic paper of Gonzales who reported four fractures in 24 cases.	None
The figures in strangulation by ligature show that the percentage of hyoid fractures was 13.	None
Our own figures are similar to those of Green.	None
In Journal of Forensic Sciences, Vol. 41 under the title Fracture of the Hyoid Bone in Strangulation Comparison of Fractured and Unfractured Hyoids from Victims of Strangulation, it is statedThe hyoid is the Ushaped bone of the neck that is fractured in onethird of all homicides by strangulation.	None
On this basis, postmortem detection of hyoid fracture is relevant to the diagnosis of strangulation.	None
However, since many cases lack a hyoid fracture, the absence of this finding does not exclude strangulation as a cause of death.	None
The reasons why some hyoids fracture and others do not may relate to the nature and magnitude of force applied to the neck, age of the victim, nature of the instrument (ligature or hands) used to strangle, and intrinsic anatomic features of the hyoid bone.	None
We compared the case profiles and xeroradiographic appearance of the hyoids of 20 victims of homicidal strangulation with and without hyoid fracture (n 10, each).	None
The fractured hyoids occurred in older victims of strangulation (39 ?	None
14 years) when compared to the victims with unfractured hyoids (30 ? 10 years).	None
The age dependency of hyoid fracture correlated with the degree of ossification or fusion of the hyoid synchondroses.	None
The hyoid was fused in older victims of strangulation (41 ? 12 years) whereas the unfused hyoids were found in the younger victims (28 ? 10 years).	None
In addition, the hyoid bone was ossified or fused in 70 of all fractured hyoids, but, only 30 of the unfractured hyoids were fused.	None
The shape of the hyoid bone was also found to differentiate fractured and unfractured hyoids.	None
Fractured hyoids were longer in the anteriorposterior plane and were more steeply sloping when compared with unfractured hyoids.	None
These data indicate that hyoids of strangulation victims, with and without fracture, are distinguished by various indices of shape and rigidity.	None
On this basis, it may be possible to explain why some victims of strangulation do not have fractured hyoid bones.23.	None
Mr Rangaramanujam, however, relied upon Modis Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 23rd Edn.	None
at p. 584	None
wherein a difference between hanging and strangulation has been stated.	None
Our attention in this connection has been drawn to Point 12 which reads as underHangingStrangulationFracture of thelarynx and tracheaVery rare and thattoo in judicialhangingFracture of thelarynx and trachea Often found alsohyoidbone.24.	None
A bare perusal of the opinion of the learned author by itself does not lead to the conclusion that fracture of hyoid bone, is a must in all the cases.	None
Dr. Aman Hingorani has submitted that in the present case, the post mortem report is completely silent about the ligature mark and its characteristics, as a result of which it cannot be said that the present case was one of homicidal strangulation throttling as alleged by the prosecution.	None
Dr. Hingorani has placed a very heavy reliance on Modis Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology wherein after emphasizing that hyoid bone and superior cornuae of the thyroid cartilage are not, as a rule, fractured by any other means other than by strangulation, has given the differences between hanging and strangulation in tabulated form, two of them being as follows HangingStrangulation Ligature Mark Oblique, noncontinuous placed high up in the neck between the chin and the larynx, the base of the groove of furrow being hard, yellow and parchment like Scratches, abrasions and bruises on the face, neck and other parts of the body Usually not presentLigature Mark Horizontal or transverse continuous, round the neck, low down in the neck below the thyroid, the base of the groove or furrow being soft and reddish Scratches, abrasions and bruises on the face, neck and other parts of the body Usually not present However, in view of the binding decision referred to hereinabove, we concur with the reasoning that has been given by the Trial Court, as well as by the High Court and are not in a position to accept the submissions made by Dr. Aman Hingorani.	None
It is a settled legal proposition that in a case based on circumstantial evidence, where no eyewitnesss account is available, the principle is that when an incriminating circumstance is put to the accused and the said accused either offers no explanation for the same, or offers an explanation which is found to be untrue, then the same becomes an additional link in the chain of circumstances to make it complete.	Reasoning
(Vide State of U.P. v. Dr. Ravindra Prakash Mittal, AIR 1992 SC 2045 Gulab Chand v. State of M.P., AIR 1995 SC 1598 State of Tamil Nadu v. Rajendran, AIR 1999 SC 3535 State of Maharashtra v. Suresh, (2000) 1 SCC 471 and Ganesh Lal v. State of Rajasthan, (2002) 1 SCC 731 ).	None
In Neel Kumar Anil Kumar v. State of Haryana, (2012) 5 SCC 766 , this Court observed It is the duty of the accused to explain the incriminating circumstance proved against him while making a statement under Section 313 CrPC.	None
Keeping silent and not furnishing any explanation for such circumstance is an additional link in the chain of circumstances to sustain the charges against him.	None
Recovery of incriminating material at his disclosure statement duly proved is a very positive circumstance against him.	None
(See also Aftab Ahmad Anasari v. State of Uttaranchal, AIR 2010 SC 773 )	None
In cases where the accused has been seen with the deceased victim (last seen theory), it becomes the duty of the accused to explain the circumstances under which the death of the victim has occurred.	None
(Vide Nika Ram v. The State of Himachal Pradesh, AIR 1972 SC 2077 Ganeshlal v. State of Maharashtra, (1992) 3 SCC 106 and Ponnusamy (supra).	None
In Trimukh Maroti Kirkan v. State of Maharashtra, (2006) 10 SCC 681 , this Court held as under Where an accused is alleged to have committed the murder of his wife and the prosecution succeeds in leading evidence to show that shortly before the commission of crime they were seen together or the offence takes place in the dwelling home where the husband also normally resided, it has been consistently held that if the accused does not offer any explanation how the wife received injuries or offers an explanation which is found to be false, it is a strong circumstance which indicates that he is responsible for commission of the crime.	None
(See also Prithipal Singh Ors. v. State of Punjab Anr., (2012) 1 SCC 10 )	None
In view of the above discussion, we reach the inescapable conclusion that appellant had been doubting the character of his wife and therefore, had adequate motive to eliminate her.	Reasoning
In spite of the fact that he had been in the same room, he failed to furnish any explanation as under what circumstances his wife was found dead.	Reasoning
Particularly, in view of the fact that the courts below had excluded the theory of suicide.	Reasoning
The same conclusion stands fully fortified by the fact that the saree of deceased was lying in the corner of the room and the version given by the appellant that he had found his wife hanging with a saree around her neck and he cut the same by knife stands fully falsified as in such a factsituation, part of the saree should have been found hanging with the ceiling of the room.	Reasoning
The conduct of the appellant that he had given a false information to his inlaws and while dead body was lying in his house he stayed in a Krishna Guest House further that he had absconded from the city itself, suggest that he is guilty of the offence.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we do not find any cogent reason to interfere with the judgments and orders of the courts below.	Decision
The appeal lacks merit, and is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
