Uday Umesh Lalit, J.1.	None
This appeal arises out of judgment and order dated 24.07.2012 passed by the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital allowing Government Appeal No.386 of 2003 and setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the District and Sessions Judge, Haridwar in Sessions Trial No.26 of 2000 insofar as the present appellants are concerned.	Issue
On 07.09.1999 at about 1.30 pm the complainant Mustafa submitted a written report in Police Station Bhagwanpur, Haridwar to the effect that in the intervening night between 6th and 7th September 1999 he along with his brother Behroj, nephew Wasim and father Ali Hassan were sleeping in the verandah and that in the night at about 1200 hrs.	Facts
he woke up and saw one Sabbir armed with Palkati, his brother Kabir armed with pharsa and one Naim armed with lathi coming to the verandah.	Facts
Naim allegedly asked where was Ali Hassan, whereupon Kabir stated that Ali Hassan was sleeping and exhorted that he be killed, after which Sabbir gave a blow by palkati on the neck of Ali Hassan while he was sleeping.	Facts
Ali Hassan died instantaneously.	Facts
Upon alarm being raised these three persons ran away and while running they were seen by Farid Akhtar and Taimur.3.	Facts
On the basis of the above report Case Crime No.147 of 1999 under Section 302/504 IPC was registered.	Facts
During the investigation statements of the complainant and other witnesses were recorded.	Facts
Sabbir, Naim and Kabir were arrested and their statements led to the recovery of palkati and other weapons.	Facts
The postmortem on the body of the deceased was conducted by Dr. O.P. Sharma.	Facts
After completion of investigation Sabbir, Kabir and Naim were charged for having committed the offences under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and under Section 504 IPC.4.	Facts
The prosecution examined complainant as PW1, his brother Behroj as PW2, nephew Wasim as PW4 and Taimur as PW3.	None
The earliest version in the form of FIR, which was within few hours of the incident naming all the three accused was reiterated by PW1 Mustafa and supported by other three eyewitnesses, namely, PWs 2, 3 and 4.	None
However, the trial court was of the view that the fatal blow was dealt by Sabbir and though the other two accused, namely, Kabir and Naim were present at the place of occurrence, they had not participated in the actual assault.	Facts
The appreciation by the trial court in this respect is quoted hereunder From the depositions of above four witnesses it is clear that accused Kabir was having farsa and accused Nayeem was having lathi in hand, but they have not used both the weapons.	None
It has been stated for Nayeem that he loudly said as where is Ali Hassan, only he has to be seen and Kabir said that Ali Hassan is sleeping here, kill him.	None
If all three had come with the intention to cause murder of Ali Hassan then definitely all three would have caused blows but only Sabbir caused blow by palkati and neck of Ali Hassan cut.	None
In post mortem report also only one injury in neck is stated and it is stated that death occurred due to that.	None
In post mortem report it is told only one incised wound 12 x 7cm x deep backbone, right side of neck which was 3 cm below from right jaw.	None
The margins of wound was clear cut and fourth neck backbone was cut.	None
All vessels and muscles of right side were cut.	None
Apart from this no other injury was found on his body and it is also not case of prosecution that Nayeem and Kabir also caused blows.	None
The trial court thus convicted Sabbir under Section 302 and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life.	Facts
The other two accused Naim and Kabir were acquitted of the charges under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and Section 504 IPC.6.	Facts
The convicted accused Sabbir preferred an appeal against conviction, namely, Criminal Appeal No.285 of 2003 in the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital.	Facts
The High CourtHigh Hi affirmed the view taken by the trial court insofar as Sabbir was concerned and dismissed the appeal.	Facts
Special leave petition arising therefrom was also dismissed by this Court on 08.03.2010 and thus the case against Sabbir and his conviction and sentence stood concluded and confirmed.7.	Facts
In the meantime the State, being aggrieved by the order of acquittal insofar as Kabir and Naim are concerned, preferred Government Appeal No.386 of 2003.	Facts
The High Court after appreciating the entire material on record found the approach of the trial court to be completely erroneous in granting the benefit to Kabir and Naim.	Facts
It was observed that all three accused were armed with deadly weapons and had entered the house of the deceased at 1200 hrs.	Facts
in the night and that the essence of Section 34 IPC, namely, consensus of minds of two or more persons to participate in a criminal act to bring about a particular result was fully evident.	Facts
The High Court, therefore, set aside the acquittal of said Kabir and Naim and convicted them under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and sentenced them to undergo imprisonment for life.8.	Facts
This appeal under Article 134(1)(1)(b) and Article 134(2) of the Constitution of India read with Section 379 IPC seeks to challenge the view taken by the High Court.	Facts
Appearing for the appellants Mr. P.S. Datta, learned senior counsel submitted that the probability of the occurrence in the manner suggested by the prosecution was completely doubtful, that there was delay of two months in examining PW2 Behroj under Section 161 Cr.P.C., that no independent witnesses were examined, and that, in any event of the matter, the fundamental aspects of Section 34 IPC were completely absent in the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel thus submitted that appeal deserves to be allowed and the accused Kabir and Naim ought to be acquitted of the charges leveled against them.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Prateek Dwivedi, learned counsel, on the other hand, appearing for the State countered the submissions made on behalf of the accusedappellants and supported the view taken by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
In the instant case the FIR lodged by PW1 within two hours of the incident had named all three accused ascribing particular weapons in their hands and also definite role to them.	None
The FIR further stated that the incident in question was witnessed by Farid and Taimur and that along with the complainant his brother Behroj and nephew Wasim were also sleeping in the verandah.	None
The FIR thus in clear terms disclosed not only the identity of the accused but also the role played by them, so also the names of the persons who subsequently were examined as prosecution witnesses.	None
The entire case of the prosecution insofar as the conviction of Sabbir is concerned rested on the very same testimony coming from the witnesses which case was accepted right upto this Court.	None
The only discordant note that was struck by the trial court was on the applicability of Section 34 IPC insofar as the role ascribed to and played by other two accused, namely, Kabir and Naim.	None
We must observe that Kabir was armed with pharsa and Naim was armed with a lathi, that all three accused had entered the house of the deceased and the complainant at midnight in the company of Sabbir who was also armed with a sharp cutting weapon.	Reasoning
When three persons separately armed with weapons storm into the house of the victim in the dead of the night, merely because only one out of them uses the weapon and gives the fatal blow, would not absolve the others.	Reasoning
The others may not be required to use their weapons but that by itself does not change the role of such other accused to that of a mere byestander.	Reasoning
The circumstances can show that the others shared the same intention.	None
In the instant case the common intention to bring about a definite result is evident from the circumstances on record.	Reasoning
Additionally, the role of exhortation is also ascribed to the present appellants.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, in our considered view, Section 34 IPC is definitely attracted and the High Court was completely justified in setting aside the order of acquittal.	Reasoning
The order of acquittal as regards Kabir and Naim was perverse and unwarranted.	Reasoning
Having thus considered the matter in its independent perspective we are not persuaded to take a view different from the one which weighed with the High Court.12.	Reasoning
We, therefore, confirm the judgment and order of the High Court and dismiss the present criminal appeal.	Decision
The accused, who are in custody, shall serve the sentence awarded to them by the High Court.	Decision
