Dalveer Bhandari, J. These appeals are directed against the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur dated 6.7.1999 delivered in Misc.	Issue
Appeal No. 1058 of 1995 and Misc.	Issue
Petition No.1 of 1991.	Issue
Brief facts relevant to dispose of these appeals are as under The appellant Satna Stone Lime Company Ltd., Satna entered into an agreement with the General Manager, G.I.P. Railway, Government of India, on 23.3.1897, whereby a siding was provided to the company for clearance of its goods.	Facts
The agreement was revised from time to time and the last such agreement was executed on 1.10.1942 (hereinafter called the agreement).3.	Facts
The Railway administration on 24.8.1968 informed the appellants that the maintenance charges would be levied at the rate of 4 per annum instead of 2.	Facts
The respondent Railway administration raised the bills for the period 1.11.1963 to 31.3.1975.	Facts
The appellants paid the bill under protest on 22.6.1976.	Facts
The appellants filed an application under section 20 of the Arbitration Act, 1940.	Facts
On the request of the appellants, the matter was referred to the Arbitration.	Facts
The Arbitrator decided the claim in favour of the appellants.	Facts
The objections raised by the Railways under section 30 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 were rejected by the learned District Judge and the award was made the rule of the court.4.	Facts
The miscellaneous application was preferred by the Railways before the Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court against the said order of the District Judge.	Facts
The respondent Railways submitted that the claim of the appellants was clearly barred by limitation because the demand crystallized on 1.5.1975 and the claim was made on 8.8.1978.5.	Facts
This Court in Union of India v. L.K. Ahuja Co. (1988) 3 SCC 76 that the arbitrator would decide unless, however, if on admitted facts a claim is found at the time of making an Order under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, to be barred by limitation.6.	Facts
In Union of India v. Indian Sugar Mills Association, Calcutta Another AIR 1968 SC 22 , the court dealt with this aspect and came to the conclusion that Railway administration was competent to increase the rate chargeable for the services rendered.7.	Facts
This aspect of the matter was also ignored by the arbitrator and the High Court rightly concluded that the award is based on wrong principles of law.	Facts
If the decision of the arbitrator is contrary to law laid down by this Court then it would be justified in interfering with the award.8.	Facts
The learned counsel for the appellants has placed reliance on the judgment of this Court in B.V. Radha Krishna v. Sponge Iron India Ltd. (1997) 4 SCC 693 to demonstrate that the High Court was not justified in substituting its own view in place of arbitrators view as if it was dealing with an appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is forbidden by a series of judgments of this Court.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the appellants has also placed reliance on Food Corporation of India v. Joginderpal Mohinderpal Another (1989) 2 SCC 347.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, the court relying on earlier judgment of this court in Puri Construction Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (1989) 1 SCC 411 reiterated the legal position that the court cannot sit in appeal over the views of the arbitrator by reexamining and reassessing the material.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. v. Governor of Orissa Others (1995) 3 SCC 8 the court observed as follows It is well known that the Court while considering the question whether the award should be set aside, does not examine that question as an appellate court.	None
While exercising the said power, the court cannot reappreciate all the materials on the record for the purpose of recording a finding whether in the facts and circumstances of a particular case the award in question could have been made.	None
Such award can be set aside on any of the grounds specified in Section 30 of the Act.	None
There is no quarrel with the proposition canvassed by the learned counsel for the appellants.	None
This scope of interference by the court is limited and the court would not be justified in reappreciating the material on record and substituting its own view in place of arbitrators view.	None
This exercise is not permissible by the court in view of the settled legal position.	None
In the instant case, where there is an error apparent on the face of record or where the arbitrator has not followed the statutory legal position, the court would be justified in interfering with the award of the arbitrator.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondents placed reliance on Trustees of the Port of Madras v. Engineering Constructions Corporation Limited (1995) 5 SCC 531 wherein this court observed as under In the case of a reasoned award, the court can interfere if the award is based upon a proposition of law which is unsound in law.	Arguments of Respondent
The error apparent on the face of the award contemplated by Section 16(1) (c) as well as Section 30 (c) of the Arbitration Act is an error of law apparent on the face of the award and not an error of fact.	Arguments of Respondent
An error of law on the face of the award means an error of law which can be discovered from the award itself or from a document actually incorporated therein.	Arguments of Respondent
The erroneous proposition of law must be established to have vitiated the decision.	Arguments of Respondent
The arbitrator being a creature of the contract must operate within the four corners of the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not permissible to travel beyond and consider material not incorporated in or appended to the award.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel for the respondents has also placed reliance on the case of Indian Sugar Mills Association AIR 1968 SC 22 (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
In this case, this court laid down that the local administration was competent to increase the rates of charges.	Arguments of Respondent
The arbitrator ignored the settled legal position and consequently the High Court was justified in interfering with the award based on wrong principles of law.15.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel for the respondents also placed reliance on Bungo Steel Furniture Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (1967) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 633.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case, the court observed as under The arbitrator in fixing the amount of compensation had not proceeded to follow any principles, the validity of which could be tested on the basis of laws applicable to breaches of contract.	Arguments of Respondent
He awarded the compensation to the extent that he considered right in his discretion without indicating his reasons.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a decision by an Arbitrator could not be held to be erroneous on the face of the record.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, the court further held as under It is now a well settled principle that if an arbitrator, in deciding a dispute before him, does not record his reasons and does not indicate the principles of law on which he has proceeded, the award is not on that account vitiated.	None
It is only when the arbitrator proceeds to give his reasons or to lay down principles on which he has arrived at his decisions that the court is competent to examine whether he has proceeded contrary to law and is entitled to interfere if such error in law is apparent on the face of the award itself.	Facts
The Privy Council in Champsey Bhara Co. v. Jivraj Balloo Spg.	None
Wvg.	None
Co. Ltd. AIR 1923 PC 66 observed as under An error in law on the face of the award means, in their Lordships view, that you can find in the award or a document actually incorporated thereto, as for instance, a note appended by the arbitrator stating the reasons for his judgment, some legal proposition which is the basis of the award and which you can then say is erroneous.	None
In Raipur Development Authority Others v. M s. Chokhamal Contractors Others (1989) 2 SCC 721 , a Constitution Bench of this Court clarified that the ground arising out of an error of law apparent on the face of the award prima facie appears to fall either under Section 16(1) (c) of the Act, which empowers the Court to remit the award to the arbitrator where an objection to the legality of the award which is apparent upon the face of it is successfully taken, or under Section 30 (c) of the Act which empowers the Court to set aside an award if it is otherwise invalid.18.	None
From the discussion of the aforementioned cases, it is clear that the error apparent on the face of the award contemplated by Section 16(1)(c) as well as Section 30(c) of the Arbitration Act is an error of law apparent on the face of the award and not an error of fact.	Reasoning
Same principle has been reiterated in Thawardas Pherumal v. Union of India (1955) 2	Reasoning
SCR 48.	Reasoning
The court reiterated the legal position that an arbitrator cannot ignore the law or misapply it in order to do what he thinks is just and reasonable.	Reasoning
The legal position has been crystallized in a series of judgments of this Court that the arbitrator has got ample power in giving an award.	Reasoning
The arbitrator is the sole judge of the quality as well as the quantity of evidence and it will not be for the court to take upon itself a task of being a judge of the evidence before the arbitrator.	Reasoning
The court should approve the award with the desire to support it, if that is reasonably possible rather than to destroy it, by calling it illegal.	Reasoning
This court has very limited jurisdiction to interfere with the reasoned award.	Reasoning
Only when the award is based upon a proposition of law which is unjustified in law, the error of law must appear from the award itself or from any document or note incorporated in it or appended to it.	Reasoning
It is not permissible to travel beyond and consider material not incorporated in or appended to the award.19.	Reasoning
In view of the clear legal position which has been correctly appreciated by the High Court in the impugned judgment, in our considered view, no interference is called for.20.	Reasoning
The appeals are accordingly dismissed being devoid of any merit.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.	Decision
