 Ruma Pal, J. Leave granted.	None
The appellants grievance is that his tender for allotment of land reserved for educational use was not accepted by the respondentauthority.	Issue
The tender notice was published on 22nd September 1993.	Facts
It invited tenders from registered institutions who manage educational activities or are constituted for this purpose for 10,340 sq.mtrs.	Facts
of land reserved for educational purposes under the respondentauthoritys scheme.	Facts
Of the tenders submitted the three tenderers were  the appellant, Jagriti.	Facts
Bal Mandir Society (hereafter referred to as Jagriti) and Crescent Public school (hereafter referred to as Crescent) who bid Rs. 261 per Sqm.	Facts
Rs. 201 per Sq.m. and Rs. 177.60 per Sq.m.	Facts
respectively.	Facts
The appellant, as its name suggests, is a construction company.	Facts
However, one of its objects in its Memorandum of Association is claimed to be to construct and establish schools.	Facts
Because the appellant did not have any experience of managing an educational institution its tender was rejected on 28th December 1993 and, the respondent authority allotted the land in equal halves to Jagriti and Crescent.	Facts
The appellant and Jagriti filed writ petitions in the Gujarat High Court.	Facts
The appellants grievance was that he was the highest tenderer having quoted for the land at Rs. 261 per sq. mtr.	Facts
and that his tender was rejected unreasonably.	Facts
Jagirits grievance was that it had bid for the land at Rs. 201 per sq.mtr.	Facts
which was higher than the bid of Crescent which had offered only Rs. 177.60 per sq.mtrs.	Facts
Jagriti, therefore, claimed that the whole of the land should have been made available to it.	Facts
Both the writ petitions were disposed of by an order dated 4th March 1998 by which the Court directed the respondentauthority to consider the representations of the appellant and Jagriti.	Facts
The matter was reconsidered by respondent No.1 and again by resolution dated 7th December, 1998, the decision taken earlier was reaffirmed.	None
Pursuant to the decision, a letter of allotment was issued to Jagriti and Crescent.	Facts
This led to a second round of litigation by the appellant and Jagriti reiterating their earlier stand.	Facts
Both the writ petitions were allowed by a common order on 29th February 2000.	Facts
The learned Single Judge was of the view that the requirement in the tender that the tender would be accepted only from registered institutions which are engaged in educational activities had an alternative which was ignored by the respondent No.1, namely, that the institutions constituted for that purpose could also participate.	Facts
Since the appellants memorandum showed that the appellant was constituted, interalia, for setting up schools, it could not be disqualified on this ground.	Facts
The respondent No.1 was accordingly required to decide the representations of the appellant and Jagriti afresh with a speaking order without being influenced by the earlier recommendations or earlier resolutions.	Facts
Three appeals were preferred from this order before the Division Bench.	Facts
One appeal was by Jagriti and two by Crescent.	Facts
Jagritis appeal was dismissed for default.	Facts
One of Crescents appeal was dismissed on the ground that the Single Judge had done substantial justice.	None
The respondent No.1  authority then considered the matter again and by a resolution dated 18th September 2000, in keeping with the observations of the High Court, held that the appellant was competent to tender and accept the tender.	None
Its tender was accepted and allotment of the entire plot of 10,340 sq.mtrs.	Facts
was made to the appellant.	Facts
Immediately after this, Jagritis Letters Patent Appeal was restored and ultimately after hearing the parties allowed by the impugned order.	Facts
The learned Single Judges decision was set aside and the respondent No.1 was given the liberty to implement and give effect to the advertisement published by it on 22nd September, 1993.	Facts
The appellant has challenged the decision of the Division Bench contending that the dismissal of Crescents Letters Patent Appeal from the order of the learned Single Judge operated as res judicata and that in any event, the advertisement had been misconstrued by the Division Bench to mean that the tenderers had to be engaged in education without considering that the advertisement allowed institutions which were merely constituted for the purpose of education to apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents have submitted that there was no question of the order of the Division Bench dismissing Crescents appeal appeal operating as res judicata against Jagriti because Jagriti was only a corespondent in Crescents appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also argued that the principle of res judicata would only apply if there was a hearing and a decision  both which were absent when the order on Crescents appeal was passed.	Arguments of Respondent
On the question of the eligibility of the appellant to apply, it was contended that irrespective of the construction of the advertisement since Jagriti had established experience in the field of education it was better qualified than the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the appellant could not be said to have been constituted for the purpose of education.	Arguments of Respondent
The objects of Memorandum of Association merely list possible fields of diversification.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also submitted that there was nothing in the advertisement from which it could be assumed that the tender would be given to the highest bidder.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, money was not the sole governing factor.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, reference was made to Government Order dated 28th August, 1986 from Madhya Pradesh Tender Advertisement Law Manual.	Arguments of Respondent
It records that the Government had taken a decision that public institutions like educational, religious and charitable institutions may be allotted space for the purposes for which they were set up by determining the price of land allotted on the principle of No Profit No Loss basis.	Arguments of Respondent
On the merits, Jagritis submissions appear to be correct.	Reasoning
The tender notice has asked for bids from registered institutions carrying on educational activities.	None
The clear implication of the language is that the institution must be one which is constituted for the purpose of educational activities, if it does not already manage educational activities.	None
The tender notice specified, inter alia, that the tender form had to be accompanied with description of activities managed earlier by the society.	None
In response to the appellants tender, by letter dated 1st December, 1993, the respondent No.1 had informed the appellant that it was required to submit the detailed particulars of the educational activities of the institution.	None
The appellant admittedly has no experience in educational activities of any sort.	None
The question then is  Was it constituted for educational purposes?	None
Out of 67 objects mentioned in its Memorandum of Association	None
, the main objects of the appellant were to carry on the business of constructing, building, roads, bridges etc. and to act as a supplier of hardware, paints, sanitary fittings, construction material and so on.	None
The objects incidental or ancillary to the attainment of the main objects, are specified in Clauses 3 to 28.	None
Other objects are mentioned in Clauses 30 to 67.	None
These include a wide variety of possible diversification of the appellants business.	None
The last Clauses reads The last Clauses reads To establish and construct shopping markets, show rooms Nursing homes, schools, clubs houses, cinemas, office premises and other buildings for commercial purposes on lands seized and licence basis.	None
We do not read this as in any way justifying the appellants claim that it was constituted for educational purposes.	Reasoning
To be constituted for means the primary objective of the constitution.	Reasoning
The primary objective of the appellant was certainly not to carry on educational activities.	Reasoning
Besides the language of Clauses 67 does not indicate that even this object is to carry on the running of the management of the school, but rather pertains to the construction of school buildings.	Reasoning
Where the object was to carry on the business, this has been specifically so stated in the remaining objects clauses, for example in Clauses 3031, 3437, 4042, 4464 and 66 of the Memorandum.	Reasoning
The importance of the requirement for being involved with educational activities will also appear from the Regulations for Transfer of Property and other Ancillary Matters, 1987 framed under the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam 1973, where Regulation 33 (which refers to the respondent No.1 as the Authority) says that  The Authority may transfer any property earmarked in the layout of any scheme for fulfillment of any community needs like education, medical, social, etc. by direct negotiations with such registered institutions which run hospitals, schools or to such bodies dedicated to science, art, music, literature, etc or engaged in other social or community purposes.	None
The Authority shall determine the rate of premium on No profit No loss basis, each year commencing from 1st October, at which such property shall be transferred to such institutions or bodies.	None
The fact that the appellant had bid the highest was, in the circumstances, immaterial as the object of allotting the land to an educational institution was not the making of profit.	Reasoning
The learned Single Judge was therefore wrong in construing the advertisement dated 22nd September, 1993 in the manner he did and the Appellate Court erred in dismissing Crescents appeal.	Reasoning
In our opinion the appellant was not competent to participate in the tender.	Reasoning
However, the appellant is entitled to succeed on the ground that the order of the Division Bench disposing of Crescents appeal operated as res judicata to bind not only Crescent but also Jagriti and the appellant.	Reasoning
It makes no difference that Jagriti was a corespondent with the appellant.	Reasoning
The principle of res judicata has been held to bind codefendants if the relief given or refused by the earlier decision involved a determination of an issue between codefendants (or corespondents as the case may be).	Reasoning
This statement of the law has been approved as far back as in 1939 in Munni Bibi vs. Trilokinath 58 I.A. 158, 165, where it has been said that to apply the rule of res judicata as between codefendants three conditions are requisite.	Reasoning
There must be a conflict of interest between the defendants concerned (2) it must be necessary to decide this conflict in order to give the plaintiff the relief he claims and (3).	None
the question between the defendants must have been finally decided.	None
This view has been consistently followed by this Court.	Reasoning
(See Iftikhar Ahmed vs. Sahid Meharban Ali, (1974) 2 SCC 151 where the principle was extended to bind coplaintiffs Mahboob Sahab vs. Syed Ismail AIR 1995 SC 1205 ).	Reasoning
In the present case the facts show that all the three conditions were fulfilled.	Reasoning
There was a conflict of interest between the two corespondents in Crescents appeal, namely between Jagriti and the appellants.	Reasoning
For the purposes of deciding the relief, if any, to be granted to Crescent it was necessary for the Appellate Court to decide whether the appellant was entitled to participate.	Reasoning
Although, the decision of the Appellate Court is cryptic, nevertheless, it cannot be said that the Court had not applied its judicial mind to the merits of the case.	Reasoning
The exact language of the order disposing of the Crescents appeal reads as follows Heard.	None
Dismissed as the order of the Honble Single Judge has done substantial justice, it also says that I.D.A. would decide the matter by all considerations.	None
This order is passed after hearing the L C of the parties for about an hours.	None
Jagritis counsel was recorded as being present.	Reasoning
The fact that the Appellate Court was wrong in affirming the decision of the learned Single Judge would not make the decision less binding.	Reasoning
(See State of West Bengal vs. Hemant Kumar Bhattacharjee AIR 1966 SC 1061 Gorie Gouri Naidu vs. Thandrothu Bodemma AIR 1997 SC 808 , 809)	Reasoning
The counsel for Jagriti has referred us to several decisions viz.	Reasoning
Gopal Upadhyaya and others vs. Union of India and others 1986 (Supp) SCC 501, Ambica Quarry Works vs. State of Gujarat and others (1987) 1 SCC 213 , Deena Alias Deen Dayal and and others vs. Union of India and others etc. etc. (1983) 4 SCC 645 and Krishena Kumar vs. Union of India and others (1990) 4 SCC 207.	Reasoning
None of the decisions are apposite.	Reasoning
They refer to the principle of precedent which is distinct from the principle of res judicata.	Reasoning
A precedent operates to bind in similar situations in a distinct case.	Reasoning
Res judicata operates to bind parties to proceedings for no other reason, but that there should be an end to litigation.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, the appeals are allowed without any order as to costs.	Decision
