 K. Das, J.1.	None
These are two appeals by special leave of this Court.	Facts
One appeal is from the judgment and order of the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay Bench C (hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal), dated November 7, 1955, by which the Tribunal held that S. 34 (1) (a) of the Indian Incometax Act. 1922 was not applicable in the case, as there was no omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return of his income under S. 22 for the assessment year 194546, or to disclose fully and truly all the material facts necessary for his assessment for that year.	Facts
The second appeal is from the order of the High Court of Bombay, dated December 14, l956 by which the said High Court rejected an application made by the present appellant under S. 66 (2) of the Incometax Act.	Facts
By that order the High Court refused to ask the Tribunal to state a case for its consideration of a question of law which the appellant said arose from the order of the Tribunal, dated November 7, 1955.2.	Facts
A preliminary objection as to limitation was raised before us on behalf of the respondent with regard to the appeal from the order of the Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not necessary to deal with that preliminary objection, because learned Advocate for the appellant has conceded that the appeal direct from the order of the Tribunal must be dismissed in view of the decision of this Court in Chandi Prasad Chokhani v. State of Bihar, 196143 ITR 498 (AIR 1961 SC 1708 ),which laid down that save in exceptional and special circumstances, this Court would not exercise its power under Art.	Reasoning
136 of the Constitution in such a way as to bypass the High Court by entertaining an appeal direct from the order of the Tribunal and thereby ignore the decision given by the High Court.	Reasoning
Therefore, the appeal from the order of the Tribunal, dated November 7, 1955 must be dismissed.3.	None
Now, we proceed to consider the appeal from the order of the Bombay High Court, dated December 14, 1956.	None
The short facts are these.	None
The present respondent, who was the assessee in the case, carried on a cloth business at Ahmedabad.	None
Later he opened branches at Karachi and Bombay.	Reasoning
He was assessed to Incometax in the status of a Hindu undivided family.	None
In the account period relevant to the assessment year 194344, the assessee opened a branch at Karachi.	Reasoning
The total income for that assessment year was determined at Rs. 38,400.	Reasoning
For the assessment years 194445 and 194546 the assessee maintained joint accounts for the whole period of two years.	Reasoning
In the assessment year 194546 he opened a branch office at Bombay.	Reasoning
The original assessment for the aforesaid two years was completed under the provisions of S. 23 (3) of the Incometax Act on September 13, 1946.	Reasoning
In the assessment for the year 194546 (Samvat year 2000) the assessees income was derived from his cloth business carried on at Ahmedabad, Karachi and Bombay and certain other properties.	Reasoning
Separate sets of accounts were maintained for the head office as well as for the two branches.	Reasoning
The books of accounts were produced and were examined by the Examiner of Accounts who submitted a report to the Incometax Officer concerned.	Reasoning
The total income for the assessment year 194546 was determined to be Rs. 15,294.	Reasoning
Sometime after the completion of the said assessment, the Incometax Officer concerned received information that the assessee had purchased a draft of Rs. 1,10,000 from the Exchange Bank of India and Africa Ltd. at Bombay and the draft was deposited on July 17, 1944 in a branch of the said Bank at Ahmedabad for realisation.	Reasoning
In consequence and on the basis of this information, the Incometax Officer initiated a proceeding under S. 34 (1) (a) of the Incometax Act against the assessee by issuing a notice to the latter on March 24, 1954.	Reasoning
It may be here stated that the exact date on which the Incometax Officer came to know of the purchase of the draft for Rs. 1,10,000 is not known.	Reasoning
The Incometax Officer also issued a notice to the assessee under S. 22 (4) to produce his account books for the Samvat year 2000 and his pass books of the Exchange Bank of India and Africa Ltd.	Reasoning
The assessee gave a certain explanation for not being able to produce either his account books or the pass books of the said Bank.	Reasoning
The Incometax Officer disbelieved the explanation and by a revised assessment order made on October 15, 1954, added a sum of Rs. 1,10,000 as income from an undisclosed source, which had escaped assessment in the original assessment.	Reasoning
There was an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who confirmed the order of the Incometax Officer.	Reasoning
Then, there was an appeal to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The Tribunal allowed the appeal on the ground that S. 34 (1(a) was not applicable inasmuch as there was no omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return of his income under S. 22 for the year 194546, or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year.	Reasoning
The Tribunal pointed out that at the time of the Original assessment the assessee had produced his books of account with regard to all the three offices at Ahmedabad, Bombay and Karachi.	Reasoning
The assessee also filed the balancesheets relating to his business at the aforesaid three places.	Reasoning
The Tribunal further pointed out that before completing the assessment for the years 194445 and 194546, the Incometax Officer had called for all the relevant account books which had been examined by an Examiner of Accounts, an officer subordinate to the Incometax Officer.	Reasoning
This officer submitted a report relating to the account books of the Ahmedabad business and he mentioned therein that the assessee had accounts with the Exchange Bank of India and Africa Ltd. and certain other banks.	Reasoning
The Tribunal held that in these circumstances it could not be said that there was any omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return of his income under S. 22 or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for the year 194546.	None
The present appellant then moved the Tribunal under S. 66 (1) of the Incometax Act and asked the Tribunal to state a case to the High Court of Bombay on the following question of law, which, according to the appellant, arose out of the Tribunals order Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, and having particular regard to the fact that the return and the statements accompanying the return furnished by the assessee during the course of the assessment proceedings for 194546 did not indicate such a large transaction as Rs. 1,10,000 by a single bank draft, the Incometax Officer was right in starting proceedings under S. 34 (1) (a) on the receipt of the information about the above transaction, to make a reassessment for 194546?4.	Reasoning
The Tribunal rejected the application under S. 66 (1) on two grounds firstly, that the question which the appellant said arose out of the Tribunals order was a question of fact and not a question of law and secondly, that the question suggested by the appellant was misconceived, because the question before the Tribunal at the time of the hearing of the appeal was not whether the assessee had failed to disclose the transaction of Rs. 1,10,000 in his return and the statements accompanying it, but whether there was any omission or failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for the year in question.	Reasoning
The appellant then moved the High Court of Bombay under S. 66 (2) of to Incometax Act.	Reasoning
That application, as we have stated already, was summarily dismissed by the High Court by its order, dated December 14, 1956.5.	None
The learned Advocate for the appellant has contended before us that the finding of the Tribunal that there was no omission or failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment was based on surmises and conjectures and there were no materials on which the Tribunal could come to such a conclusion therefore, it has been argued that a question of law arose out of the Tribunals order and the High Court was wrong in summarily rejecting the petition made by the appellant under S. 66(2) of the Incometax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	None
First of all, it must be pointed out that the question which the appellant suggested should be referred to the High Court in his petitions under S. 66 (1) and S. 66 (2) of the Incometax Act is different from the question which is now raised by the learned Advocate for the appellant.	None
The question now raised for the first time before us by the learned Advocate for the appellant is that the Tribunal had no materials on which to find that there was no omission or failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment and that the finding of the Tribunal was based on surmises and conjectures.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, however, was not the question which was suggested for reference to the High Court at the stage when the petitions under S. 66 were made.	None
At that stage the question suggested was whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and having particular regard to the return made by the assessee and the statements accompanying it, the assessee did not indicate that he had obtained a bank draft for Rs. 1,10,000.	None
We agree with the view expressed by the Tribunal that the question suggested was misconceived, because what the Tribunal had to consider was whether the proceeding under S. 34 (1) (a) was properly initiated by the Incometax Officer in the year 1954.	None
It must be remembered that the original assessment was completed on September 13, 1946 and more than four years had passed, and at the relevant time the period during which the Incometax Officer could take action under S. 34 (1) (a) was eight years.	None
It is true that the eight years had not expired on March 24. 1954 when the notice under S. 34 (1) (a) was issued.	None
But the prerequisite condition for the initiation of a proceeding under S. 34 (1) (a) is that the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment etc.	None
That condition must be fulfilled before the Incometax Officer can take action under S. 34 (1) (a).	None
(See Calcutta Discount Co. Ltd. v. Incometax Officer, Companies District I, Calcutta, 196141 ITR 191 (AIR 1961 SC 372 ))	None
.Therefore, what the Tribunal had to consider was whether the assessee had fully and truly disclosed all material facts necessary for the assessment.	None
The Tribunal examined all the relevant materials produced by the assessee at the time of the original assessment and came to the conclusion that there was no omission or failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment.	Reasoning
The Tribunal referred to the account books produced by the assessee and particularly to the report of the Examiner of Accounts who submitted a report to the Incometax Officer with regard to the bank account of the assessee in the Exchange Bank of India and Africa Ltd.	Reasoning
In our opinion, in the circumstances of this case the question whether the assessee had or had not failed to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment was a question of fact and we are unable to accept the argument of the learned Advocate for the appellant to the contrary.6.	Reasoning
In the result we hold that no question of law arose in this case and the High Court of Bombay rightly rejected the petition under S. 66 (2) of the Incometax Act.	Decision
Both the appeals, therefore, fail and are dismissed.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs.7.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
