Thakker, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and order dated July 3, 2001 in First Appeal No.758 of 1988 by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay partly allowing the appeal of the claimants for grant of enhanced compensation.	Issue
The brief facts of the case are that the respondentclaimant, the Indian Standard Metal Company Limited (Company for short) owned various pieces of land admeasuring about 21 hectres and 31.5 acres (2,13,150 Sq.Mtrs.)	Facts
located at village Wadghar in Taluka Panvel of District Raigard in Maharashtra.	Facts
Those lands were acquired by the State Government for New Bombay Project by issuing notification dated February 3, 1970 under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) which was published in Government Gazette on February 4, 1970.	Facts
Corrigendum dated September 5, 1970 was published in Government Gazette on September 7, 1970.	Facts
Thereafter, notification under Section 6 of the Act was issued on October 25, 1972 which was published in Government Gazette on December 7, 1972.	Facts
Notices under Section 9(1) and 9(2) of the Act were issued on May 10, 1973 and were published in Government Gazette on May 21, 1973 and May 10, 1973 respectively.	Facts
Individual notices under Section 9(3) and 9(4) were also issued on October 10, 1975 which came to be served on respondentCompany on October 16, 1975.	None
RespondentCompany claimed compensation Rs. 20/ per square yard for nonagricultural land and Rs. 15/ per square yard for agricultural land.	None
The Special Land Acquisition Officer, Metro Centre No.1, Panvel passed an award under Section 11 of the Act on February 22, 1985 and fixed the market value of the land including trees, construction, solatium and additional compensation etc. as Rs. 7,40,832.67 ps thereby fixing the market value of the land at Rs. 1.10 ps per sq.mtr.	Facts
An amount of Rs. 7,40,832.75 was paid to the claimants on February 25, 1985 and possession of the entire land was taken over.4.	Facts
After receipt of notice under Section 12(2) of the Act, being dissatisfied with the award, the claimantrespondentCompany filed a Land Reference being LAR No. 189 of 1986 under Section 18 of the Act before the Special Land Acquisition Officer requesting him to forward the same to the Civil Court for adjudication and claimed compensation for entire land at the uniform rate of Rs. 15/ per sq. meter.	Facts
Thus, additional amount of Rs.	None
29,58,790/ was claimed.	None
The appellantState filed its written statement before the Civil Judge, Senior Division Bench, Raigad at Alibag in the Reference.	Facts
In the Land Reference, respondentCompany examined its Power of Attorney holder Balchandra Shantaram Sule as C.W.1 as also Jeewan Naraya Kulkarni as C.W.2, valuer who visited the land in AugustSeptember, 1986.	Facts
The Civil Judge, Raigad by an order dated April 18, 1987 awarded compensation Rs. 1.80 per sq.meter.	Facts
Thus, additional amount of Rs. 5,09,103.60 together with interest 9 for first year and 15 for subsequent years was granted.5.	Facts
Dissatisfied with the quantum of compensation, the respondentCompany preferred First Appeal No. 758 of 1988 before the High Court of Bombay and claimed compensation at the uniform rate of Rs. 15/ per sq. meter.	Facts
Claimantrespondent also filed Civil Application No. 930 of 1992 in pending First Appeal No. 758 of 1988 seeking permission to produce additional evidence and also sought amendment by claiming enhanced compensation Rs. 45/ per sq. meter.	Facts
The High Court by the impugned order dated July 3, 2001 awarded enhanced compensation of the acquired land Rs. 12.50 per sq. meter for entire land by deducting development charges 20.	Facts
It was observed by the High Court that location of the land was near several important places and assessing the market value of those lands compensation had to be awarded in consonance with the industrial growth in the vicinity.	Facts
The Court stated that N.A. potentiality of the land was also required to be considered.	Facts
The Court further observed that valuation report of Expert Valuer was ignored by the trial Judge without assigning reasons.	Facts
The Court noted that a consistent view has been taken in such cases that development aspect has to be considered.	Facts
It observed We may further note that this court has taken consistent view in the case involving the lands in the same area in respect of the compensation to be awarded and while dealing with the land situated in the adjacent villages, it was held the development factor for consideration of the market value was on the basis of their proximity to various factors such as National Highway, State High Highways and other infrastructural facilities.	Facts
Therefore, if we are to follow the same rule consistent with other decisions of this court, and taking into account all the relevant aspects in respect of the location of the impugned land along with its potentiality, we are of the view that the proper rate of compensation for this land would be Rs. 12.50 ps.	Facts
per sq.mtr.	Facts
Being dissatisfied with the order of the High Court, the Special Land Acquisition Officer has preferred this appeal by special leave.	Facts
Notice was issued pursuant to which the respondent appeared.	None
A counter affidavit and affidavit in rejoinder have been filed.	None
We have heard learned counsel for the parties.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that the High Court has committed an error of law as well as of jurisdiction in allowing the appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the relevant date for deciding the quantum of compensation was Notification under Section 4 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said Notification was issued in February, 1970.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, on the basis of that date that the amount of compensation was required to be determined.	Arguments of Petitioner
Development of the area was subsequent to and post of 1970 and the amount of compensation could not be fixed considering the development of area after 1970.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court by considering such development committed an error in enhancing the amount of compensation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that the Reference Court considered the evidence of two witnesses of the claimant in its proper perspective.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the said evidence, it was clear that most of the development was post 1970.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as the evidence of Jeewan Naraya Kulkarni, the valuer is concerned, it was urged that he had admitted that he was entrusted with the work of valuation of acquired land by the claimants only in August, 1986, i.e. after more than 15 years of issuance of notification under Section 4 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He visited the land thereafter, i.e. in the end of 1986 and prepared his report on that basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
Obviously, therefore, he had no knowledge as to what happened between 1970 and 1986 except what he had heard from other persons or socalled information received by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel further submitted that the land in question is a large track of land admeasuring more than 2 kilometers.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sale instances sought to be relied upon by the claimants in respect of small pieces of lands, therefore, were not much relevant and not comparable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Deduction of development charges would have been more comparing the development of recent past.	Arguments of Petitioner
In calculating development charges 20, an error on the face of the record has been committed by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Serious grievance voiced by the learned counsel for the appellant was that the High Court has not considered extremely important material, namely, that a part of the land was acquired by the Government for the Company as also the fact that the Company had purchased some land by private negotiations in or about 196465.	Arguments of Petitioner
In spite of insistence by the appellant, no documentary evidence was furnished nor saledeeds were produced by the Company.	None
All those facts ought to have been appreciated by the High Court before allowing the appeal and granting enhancement of compensation.	Arguments of Petitioner
By not doing so, the High Court acted illegally and the order allowing the appeal by the High Court deserves to be set aside by restoring the order passed by the Reference Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gopal Subramaniam, senior advocate appearing for the respondentCompany on the other hand, supported the order passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel submitted that in undoubted exercise of appellate jurisdiction, the High Court considered all points argued by the parties and recorded a finding that the land was developed land and such development was there even in 1970 when the Notification under Section 4 of the Act was issued.	Arguments of Respondent
It also took into account potential nonagricultural use of land which was indeed a relevant and vital fact.	Arguments of Respondent
The valuers report was considered in the light of substantive evidence of the valuer wherein he had stated about the development of land in or about 1970.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel also submitted that though the deduction of development charges 20 per cent was on higher side, the High Court has reduced the amount of compensation by depriving the appellantCompany of substantial amount.	Arguments of Respondent
The order of the High Court has not caused prejudice to the Government and the appeal deserves to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Having given our thoughtful consideration to the rival contentions of the parties, in our opinion, the appeal deserves to be partly allowed.	Reasoning
The High Court allowed the appeal of the Company and granted enhancement in the amount of compensation by deducting development charges 20 per cent.	Reasoning
To us, however, it appears that the learned counsel for the appellant is right in submitting that the High Court had not appreciated the evidence of witnesses for the claimants properly.	Reasoning
From the evidence of Balchandra S o Shantaram Sule, ClaimantWitness No.1 it appears that the entire developments was not prior to or in or about 1970 and such development was after the said period.	Reasoning
Moreover, the evidence of architectcumvaluer ClaimantWitness No.2 also relates to the period of August, 1986 and thereafter.	None
In his examinationinchief itself, he had stated that in August, 1986, he was entrusted with the work of valuation of acquired land by the Company.	Reasoning
He thereafter visited the acquired land.	Reasoning
He also admitted that he visited the place four times.	Reasoning
Afterwards, he studied the development in neighbouring area and its effect on the acquired land.	Reasoning
He visited the office of Talathi and collected necessary information regarding sale transactions and valuation of land by studying the sale transactions from 1967 to 1972.	Reasoning
In crossexamination, the witness admitted that he did not know that the acquired land was purchased by the claimant in 1967.	None
He also admitted that he did not feel to see sale transactions in respect of the land in question.	None
He denied that he ignored those transactions because otherwise valuation could not be enhanced.	None
He had to admit that there was no industry in Wadghar village and no commercial zone was formed in Wadghar village before 1970.	None
There was no residential colony except college campus quarters.	None
So far as acquired land is concerned, he admitted that in 1970, it was partly agricultural land and partly uncultivable.	None
All the sale instances except the award of NIDC were on the eastern side of the Bombay Highway and the acquired land was about 2 kilometers away from BombayPune Highway and by road it was 2.5 kilometers.	Reasoning
All the sale instances were between 500 meters and 1 kilometer from BombayPune Highway.	Reasoning
The sale deeds were in respect of minimum area of 500 sq. mtrs.	Reasoning
and maximum of 1500 sq.mtrs.12.	Reasoning
It is clear from the record and also from the crossexamination of ClaimantWitness No.1 that the Government had acquired some land (12 acres) for the respondentCompany.	None
The Government gave possession of the land to the Company in April, 1967.	None
The witness then stated that he was not aware what was the price paid to the Government for acquisition of the land.	Reasoning
He also stated that he could not trace the record in the office.	Reasoning
He could not say as to whether the Company had papers when the representation was made to the Government.	Reasoning
He could not give the name of the officer who dealt with the purchase of the land.	Reasoning
He stated that he had no personal knowledge in the matter.	Reasoning
He admitted that though some land was purchased by the Company thereafter, he was unable to produce sale deeds in respect of the said land.	Reasoning
He also stated that he had not procured sale transactions of the land nearby.	Reasoning
He had not made any enquiry about those transactions.	Reasoning
He had flatly stated that he was not going to produce any sale deed.	Reasoning
In further crossexamination he admitted that all the industries mentioned by him were towards the north of Panvel.	Reasoning
There was no industry near about the acquired land.	Reasoning
He admitted that he did not know whether prior to 1970 there was any commercial or industrial area and residential activities within the vicinity of the acquired land.	Reasoning
He also did not know the situation of the acquired land in or before 1970.	None
From the evidences of the two witnesses of the claimant as also from other evidence, the Reference Court observed that admittedly some land was purchased in the year 1964 by the Company itself and yet witness No.1 stated that he was not knowing anything about the purchase price.	None
The Court noted that the transactions were of 19641965 and thus not so much immemorial so as to treat the record evidence lost.	None
In the circumstances, those documents ought to have been produced by the company.	None
In our opinion, by making the above observations, the Reference Court has not committed any illegality.	None
The High Court, unfortunately, has not considered this aspect in its proper perspective.	Reasoning
Again, the Reference Court was right in stating that when the claimant itself has purchased some land, purchase price of the land was an important factor in determining the value of the acquired land.	Reasoning
The Reference Court also observed that according to the Government, some land was subject matter of purchase by the Company in 196465 and price paid by the Company was much lower ranging from 0.45 paise to 0.75 paise per sq.mtr.	None
The State also relied upon Index Extracts (Ex.37) showing the price paid by the Company in 196465.	None
In view of nonproduction of documentary evidence of the land purchased by the Company, the Reference Court observed It cannot be ignored that the price that was actually paid for a particular piece of land by the claimants in the year 196465 is within their knowledge and obviously it is a company viz.	None
Indian Standard Metal Company Ltd. that has kept accounts and has furnished extensive list of machinery that was required to be purchased at the time of starting factory on the acquired land and must be presumed to be in possession of the record and the 11 sale deeds that were executed.	None
The year 196465 is not so much immemorial so as to treat the record as lost and therefore, obviously it looks that the claimants are not willing to put forth the relevant record and for one reason or the other they want to suppress the fact viz.	None
the price that was paid for the acquired pieces in the year 196465.	None
It is thus clear that a relevant and germane consideration has not been taken into account by the High Court in deciding the appeal and enhancing the amount of compensation.	None
To us, the submission on behalf of the appellant is also wellfounded that in the instant case, the acquisition of land is on a large scale of more than 2 kilometers, and as such, the instances of small pieces of land would not be of much assistance to the claimant.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, the High Court ought not to have given undue importance to sale instances.	Reasoning
Since the High Court failed to consider documentary evidence as also the fact of nonproduction of sale deeds by the Company and also the evidence of two witnesses for the claimants in its proper perspective, it would be appropriate if we set aside the decision of the High Court and remit the matter to the High Court so that the Court may consider the matter afresh in the light of the evidences before it and in the light of observations made by us hereinabove.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal deserves to be partly allowed and is allowed and is allowed by setting aside the order passed by the High Court.	Decision
We remit the matter to the High Court for taking an appropriate decision afresh in accordance with law.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
