 Sikri, CJ.	None
1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta (D.N. Sinha, C.J., and A. K. Mukherjee, J.) dismissing the appeal of the appellants from the judgment of B.C. Mitra, J., dismissing an application under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution made by the appellant.	Issue
The Division Bench followed the decision of this Court in M.M. Parikh v. Navanagar Transport and Industries, 63 ITR 663 (AIR 1967 SC 823 ).	Issue
2.	None
The order impugned in the application is dated May 13, 1964.	Facts
By this order the Incometax Officer stated thaton scrutiny of the records for the year of account relevant to the assessment year 195556 it has been noticed that the Company did not declare any dividends at its general meeting, even though there were sufficient profits available for doing so and that there were no losses incurred in the earlier years.	Facts
He also noticed that during the relevant period the Company was one in which the public were not substantially interested in terms of subsec.	None
(9) of section 23A.	Facts
He concluded that the provisions of Section 23A are, therefore, applicable and the Company is liable to pay additional SuperTax as per provisions of law.	Facts
The Incometax Officer thereupon called upon the Company to show cause in writing why an order under section 23A be not passed.	Facts
The appellant company protested that an order under S.23A would be an order of assessment or reassessment within S.34 (3) of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, and, therefore, would be barred.	Facts
3.	None
A Bench of five Judges gave special leave.	Facts
A Division Bench of this Court (Hegde and Grover, JJ.) has referred the case to a larger Bench.	None
4.	None
In 63 ITR 663 (AIR 1967 SC 823 ), it was held thatan order under section 23A of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, as amended by the Finance Acts of 1955 and 1957, made by the Incometax Officer directing payment of additional supertax is not an order of assessment within the meaning of S.34 (3) of the Act, and to such an order the period of limitation prescribed under section 34 (3) does not apply.	None
5.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant, Mr. Chagla, said that the judgment in M. M. Parikhs case, 63 ITR 663 (AIR 1967 SC 823 ) was clearly erroneous and it should be overruled and relief granted to his client.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. B. Sen, learned counsel for the respondents, contended that this Court should decline to review its earlier judgment because it cannot be said that the earlier decision was clearly erroneous.	Arguments of Respondent
He drew our attention to the judgment of a Bench of seven Judges in Keshav Mills v. Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay, 19652 SCR 908 (AIR 1965 SC 1636 ) where Gajendragadkar, C.J., speaking for the Court observed at page 921When this Court decides questions of law, its decisions are, under Art. 141, bidning on all courts within the territory of India, and so, it must be the constant endeavour and concern of this Court to introduce and maintain an element of certainty and continuity in the interpretation of law in the country.	None
Frequent exercise by this Court of its power to review its earlier decisions on the ground that the view pressed before it later appears to the Court to be more reasonable, may incidentally tend to make law uncertain and introduce confusion which must be consistently avoided.	Reasoning
This is not to say that if on a subsequent occasion, the Court is satisfied that its earlier decision was clearly erroneous, it should hesitate to correct the error, but before a previous decision is pronounced to be plainly erroneous, the Court must be satisfied with a fair amount of unanimity amongst its members that a revision of the said view is fully justified.	Reasoning
6. Gajendragadkar, C.J., pointed out, among other considerations, the following considerations to be borne in mindOn the earier occasion, did some patent aspects of the question remain unnoticed, or was the attention of the Court not drawn to any relevant and material statutory provision or was any previous decision of this Court bearing on the point not noticed?	Reasoning
These observations are binding on us and, therefore we must consider the arguments of Mr. Chagla in the light of these observations.	None
7.	None
We may first point out that this point is not likely to arise under the Incometax Act, 1961, as S.106 thereof specifically provides a period of limitation regarding orders under S.104, which is equivalent to S.23A of the Incometax Act, 1922.Mr.	Reasoning
Chagla was not able to show us that any vital point was not considered.	Reasoning
He has not been able to convince us that the judgment is clearly erroneous.	None
Accordingly we must decline to review the case.	None
8.	None
We may, however, add that one point which was noticed by this Court in M. M. Parikhs case, 63 ITR 663 (AIR 1967 SC 823 ) or in the judgment of the High Court of Gujarat, appealed from in that case (Navanagar and Industries Ltd. v. Incometax Officer, Special Investigation Circle, Ahmedabad, 54 ITR 271 (AIR 1965 Guj 105) tends to show that the case was correctly decided.	Reasoning
It seems to us that the words after the expiry of four years from the end of the year in which the income, profits or gains were first assessable in S.34 (3) are not really apposite to cover the order made under S.23A, as it stood before its amendment by the Finance Act II of 1957.	Reasoning
Section 34 (3), without the proviso, at the relevant time read as follows34 (3) No order of assessment or reassessment, other than an order of assessment under section 23 to which clause (c) of subsection (1) of S.28 applies or an order of assessment or reassessment in cases falling within clause (a) of subsection (1) or subsection (1A) of this section shall be made after the expiry of four years from the end of the year in which the income, profits or gains were first assessable.	Reasoning
9.	None
In our view an order under S.23A does not assess income, profits or gains as such but what it does is to levy super tax on a certain portion of the undistributed profits and gains.	Reasoning
The section gives indications how this amount is arrived at and it is not necessary to deal with those matters.	Reasoning
Further, this order is made following the expiry of the previous year as the Incometax Officer has to take into consideration the dividend distributed within 12 months following the expiry of the previous year the profits and gains of which are being considered.	Reasoning
In other words the taxable event is nondistribution of some part of profits, which have already been assessed.	Reasoning
They were not only first assessable but assessed.	Reasoning
It would be odd to start the beginning of the limitation period from the time when the profits were actually first assessed.	None
10.	None
Mr. Setalvad, on behalf of one of the interveners, said that the judgment of this court in M.M. Parikhs case, 63 ITR 663 (AIR 1967 SC 823 ) has been interpreted in some cases to mean that the order under S.23A is not even an order of assessment for the purposes of rectification and for other purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
We are not concerned with that question in this case and we do not express any opinion on that point.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
12.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
