 P. Wadhwa, J. Appellant, an employer, is aggrieved by judgment dated March 25, 1992 of the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court affirming in appeal the judgment dated December 15, 1992 of the learned Single Judge.	Issue
By this judgment the learned single Judge negatived the challenge of the appellant to the validity of the notification issued by the State Government under Section 10(1)(d) 10.	None
Reference of disputes to Boards, Courts or Tribunals.  	None
(1) Where the appropriate Government is of opinion that any industrial dispute exists or is apprehended, it may at any time, by order in writing, (a)  (b)  	None
(c)  (d) refer the dispute or any matter appearing to be connected with, or relevant to, the dispute, whether it relates to any matter specified in the Second Scheduled or the Third Schedule, to a Tribunal for adjudication Provided that where the dispute relates to any matter specified in the Third Schedule and is not likely to affect more than one hundred workmen, the appropriate Government may, if it so thinks fit, make the reference to a Labour Court under clause (c) Provided further Provided also read with Section 12(5) 12.	Facts
Duties of conciliation officers.  	Facts
(1) Where any industrial dispute exists or is apprehended, the conciliation officer may, or where the dispute relates to a public utility service and a notice under Section 22 has been given, shall, hold conciliation proceedings in the prescribed manner.	Facts
The conciliation officer shall, for the purpose of bringing about a settlement of the dispute, without delay, investigate the dispute and all matters affecting the merits and the right settlement thereof and may do all such things as he thinks for the purpose of inducing the parties to come to a fair and amicable settlement of the dispute.	Facts
If a settlement of the dispute or of any of the matters in dispute is arrived at in the course of the conciliation proceedings the conciliation officer shall send a report thereof to the appropriate Government or an officer authorised in this behalf by the appropriate Government together with a memorandum of the settlement signed by the parties to the dispute.	Facts
If no such settlement is arrived at, the conciliation officer shall, as soon as practicable after the close of the investigation send to the appropriate Government a full report, setting forth the steps taken by him for ascertaining the facts and circumstances relating to the dispute and for bringing about a settlement thereof, together with a full statement of such facts and circumstances, and the reasons on account of which, in his opinion, a settlement could not be arrived at.	Facts
If, on a consideration of the report referred to in subsection (4), the appropriate Government is satisfied that there is a case for reference to a Board, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, it may make such reference.	Facts
Where the appropriate Government does not make a such a reference it shall record and communicate to the parties concerned its reasons therefor.	Facts
A report under this section shall be submitted within fourteen days of the commencement of the conciliation proceedings or within such shorter period as may be fixed by the appropriate Government Provided that, subject to the approval of the conciliation officer, the time for the submission of the report may be extended by such period as may be agreed upon in writing by all the parties to the dispute of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (for short, the Act) to adjudicate the disputes between the appellant and the National Engineering Industries Workers Union (for short, the Workers Union) in respect of the demands raised by the Workers Union.	Facts
This notification is as under Government of Rajasthan Department of Labour No. P1(1) (14171) LE/86 Jaipur dated 17th March, 1989 Notification 33Whereas an industrial dispute (k) industral dispute means any dispute or difference between employers and employers, or between employer and workmen, or between workmen and workmen, which is connected with the employment or nonemployment or the terms of employment or with the conditions of labour, of any person as described below has arisen between the Management of National Engineering Industries Ltd., Jaipur and President, National Engineering Industries Workers Union, B4, M.L.A. Quarters, Jaipur.	Facts
Whereas the Conciliation Officer, Jaipur has reported that no settlement was arrived at Whereas the State Government after considering the report of the above Conciliation officer satisfied that the matter is fit to be referred to the Industrial Tribunal.	None
Therefore, now the State Government under powers conferred on it under section 10 subsection (1) clause (d) read with section 12 subsection (3) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Act 4 of the year 1947) hereby refers the above dispute for adjudication to Industrials Tribunal Rajasthan Jaipur duly constituted by the State Government under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Act 4 of the year 1947).	None
Dispute In the 24point charter of demands made by the President National Engineering Industries Workers Union, B4, M.L.A. Quarters before the Management of National Engineering Industries Ltd., Jaipur (Charter of demands annexed) is fair and proper.	None
If not to what the workmen are entitled ?	None
Annexed Charter of demands By Order of the Governor P. Tiwari) Special Secretary to the Government.	Facts
It would be appropriate at this stage to know the background under which the reference came to be made.	Facts
Appellant is a company registered under the Companies Act with its registered officer at Calcutta.	Facts
One of its factories is located at Khatipura Road, Jaipur in the State of Rajasthan.	Facts
There are three unions with which we are concerned and these are (1) National Engineering Industries Labour Union (for short, the Labour Union)	Facts
(2) National Engineering Industries Staff Union (for short, the Staff Union) and (3) the Workers Union referred to above.	Facts
It is stated that Labour Union has majority of the workers on its roll is recognised, and is the representative union and registered as such under the provisions of the Act as amended by the Rajasthan Industrial Disputes Amendment Act, 1958.	Facts
In 1983 all the three unions made their character of demands.	Facts
A tripartite settlement 2(p) settlement means a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceeding and includes a written agreement between the employer and workmen arrived at otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceeding where such agreement has been signed by the parties thereto in such manner as may be prescribed and a copy thereof has been sent to an officer authorised in this behalf by the appropriate Government and the conciliation officer arrived at between the management, Labour Union and the Staff Union.	Facts
In respect of demands made by the Workers Union failure report was submitted.	Facts
Workers Union made representation to the State Government for referring their disputes for adjudication.	Facts
This request was, however, declined by the State Government in view of the tripartite settlement already reached between the representative union, the Staff Union and the management.	Facts
The settlement was to remain valid and operative till September, 1986.	Facts
All the three unions made fresh charter of demands in 1986 which were identical in almost all respects.	Facts
Conciliation proceedings were initiated and though failure report was submitted by the Conciliation Officer in respect of the proceedings regarding the Workers Union, conciliation settlement was arrived at with the Labour Union and the Staff Union.	Facts
It was a conciliation settlement and was to be in operation for a period of three years ending September 30, 1089.	Facts
It is not disputed that all the employees of the appellant including the members of the Workers Union accepted the benefits under this tripartite settlement.	Facts
On the character of demands raised by the Workers Union and on which the Conciliation Officer had submitted a failure report, the State Government did not make any order for reference of the disputes nor did it refuse to make reference.	Facts
Workers Union then filed a writ petition in the High Court requiring the State Government to make reference of their disputes to the Industrial Tribunal under the provisions of the Act.	Facts
This writ petition was decided by a Division Bench of the High Court on March 23, 1989 whereby it was directed to the State Government to decide the question on the failure report of the Conciliation Officer whether to make or not to make the reference.	Facts
The State Government was required to decide the question within two months from the date of the judgment, i.e., March 23, 1989.	Facts
High Court also observed that it would be open to the appellant to raise all the contentions before the State Government and the State Government would or would not make a reference only after hearing the parties.	Facts
However, before the decision of the High Court, the State Government, in the meantime, issued the notification dated March 17, 1989 for reference of the disputes relating to the demands raised by the Workers Union.	Facts
We have already set out above the notification dated March 17, 1989 making reference of the disputes to the Industrial Tribunal.	Facts
Appellant thereafter submitted a representation dated April 3, 1989 to the State Government drawing its attention to the decision of the High Court and requesting that the State Government might withdraw the reference and take a fresh decision after hearing the appellant.	Facts
This, it appears, was not acceded to.	Facts
The fact that the State Government had already made a reference on March 17, 1989 was not brought to the notice of the High Court when it decided the writ petition of the Workers Union on March 23, 1989.	Facts
Since the State Government did not accept the request of the appellant, it filed a writ petition in the High Court challenging the validity of the reference.	Facts
As noted above, the writ petition was dismissed by the learned single Judge.	Facts
The appeal filed by the appellant before the Division Bench also met the same fate.	Facts
That is how the matter has come before us, after this Court granted leave to appeal against the judgment of the High Court.	Facts
Appellant has challenged the notification on the following counts There was no dispute pending at the time which could be the subject matter of the reference inasmuch as under the tripartite settlement the members of the Workers Union had also already taken advantage of the benefits thereunder.	None
State Government had thus no jurisdiction to make the reference.	Arguments of Petitioner
Workers Union was not a representative union within the meaning of Section 9E 9E. Registration of Union  (1) On receipt of an application from a Union for registration under Section 9D and on payment of the fee prescribed, the Registrar shall, if, after holding such inquiry as he deems fit he comes to the conclusion that the conditions requisite for registration specified in the said section are satisfied and that the Union is not otherwise disqualified for registration, enter the name of the union in the appropriate register in such from as Section 9C and issue a certificate in such form as may be prescribed Provided that  where two or more Unions fulfilling the conditions necessary for registration under this Act apply for registration in respect of the same unit of an industry, the Union having the largest membership of employees employed in the unit of the industry shall be registered and the Registrar shall not register any Union if he is satisfied that application for its registration is not made bona fide in the interest of the workmen but is made in the interest of the employers to the prejudice of the interest of the workmen.	None
Once a union has been registered as a representative union under this Act the registration of the union shall be held valid for a period of two years from the date of its registration and shall continue to hold valid unless the registration is cancelled under Section 9F of this Act or another union is registered in its place according to Section 9G of this Act of the Rajasthan Act, 34 of 1958 as amended by the Rajasthan Act 14 of the 1970.	Arguments of Petitioner
Charter of demands by the Workers Union contained as many as 24 demands, most of which were already covered by the tripartite settlement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference could not have been made in respect of those very demands.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, the State Government failed to consider that the Workers Union was not representing the majority of workers and could not have given notice in view of Section 19(7) 19.	Arguments of Petitioner
Period of operation of settlements and awards.  	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) A settlement shall come into operation on such date as is agreed upon by the parties to the dispute, and if no date is agreed upon, on the date on which the memorandum of the settlement is signed by the parties to the dispute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such settlement shall be binding for such period as is agreed upon by the parties, and if no such period is agreed upon, for a period of six months from the date on which the memorandum of settlement is signed by the parties to the dispute, and shall continue to the binding on the parties after the expiry of the period aforesaid until the expiry of two months from the date on which a notice in writing of an intention to terminate the settlement is given by one of the parties to the other party or parties to the settlement.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) (4) (5) (6) No notice given under subsection (2) or subsection (6) shall have effect, unless it is given by a party representing the majority of persons bound by the settlement or award, as the case may be of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was nonapplication of mind by the State Government in making the reference.	Arguments of Petitioner
In spite of the judgment of the High Court, no opportunity was granted to the appellant to place its case before the State Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
The order of the State Government making reference could not be termed as administrative order inasmuch as there was a direction by the High Court that appellant be heard.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State Government should have brought to the notice of the High Court the reference having already been made when the matter was still pending before the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was contended by the Workers Union that The tripartite settlement was invalid inasmuch as it was entered into on a Sunday.	None
All the demands raised by the Workers Union had not been covered in the tripartite settlement and reference could have been made in respect of those demands.	Arguments of Respondent
Tripartite settlement was not entered into during the course of conciliation proceedings and, thus, a bar could not have been raised against the reference.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection reference be made to Section 18(1) 18.	Arguments of Respondent
Persons on whom settlements and awards and binding.  	Arguments of Respondent
(1) A settlement arrived at by agreement between the employer and workman otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceeding shall be binding on the parties to the agreement.	Arguments of Respondent
Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), an arbitration award which has become enforceable shall be binding on the parties to the agreement who referred the dispute to arbitration.	Arguments of Respondent
A settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings under this Act or an arbitration award in a case where a notification has been issued under subsection (3A) of Section 10A or an award of a Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal which has become enforceable shall be binding on  (a) all parties to the industrial dispute (b) all other parties summoned to appear in the proceedings as parties to the dispute, unless the Board arbitrator, Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, as the case may be, records the opinion that they were so summoned without proper cause (c) where a party referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) is an employer, his heirs, successors or assigns in respect of the establishment to which the dispute relates Where a party referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) is composed of workmen, all persons who were employed in the establishment or part of the establishment, as the case may be, to which the dispute relates on the date of the dispute and all persons who subsequently become employed in that establishment or part of the Act.	None
In support of his submissions, Mr. G.B. Pai, learned counsel for the appellant, said that it was not open to the State Government to invoke its power of reference under Section 10 of the Act during the pendency of the tripartite settlement dated 4.10.1986 arrived at during the conciliation proceedings.	None
The settlement was binding on the members of the Workers Union as well under Section 18(3) of the Act who had in fact taken advantage of the benefits under the settlement.	Arguments of Respondent
It could not be said that any industrial dispute existed or was even apprehended at the time the State Government invoked its power under Section 10(1) of the Act in making the impugned reference of the alleged dispute between the management and the Workers Union.	Arguments of Respondent
The State Government lacked jurisdiction in making the reference and that was the question which was not addressed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The Industrial Tribunal to whom the reference was made could not have gone into the question of jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
High Court erred in leaving the issue of settlement being just and fair to be decided by the Industrial Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
Elaborating Mr. Pai submitted that the impugned reference was destructive of the industrial peace and defeated the very purpose and objective of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Once a conciliation settlement is entered into, there is no scope under the Act for further investigation by an Industrial Tribunal about the justness or fairness again of the settlement and no individual workman or even a union representing few workmen not party to conciliation proceedings could question the validity of settlement during its pendency.	None
This was particularly so in the present case as the charter of demands raised by the Workers Union was itself claimed by it to be identical to the charter of demands raised by the recognised representative Labour Union.	None
Reference by the State Government was not only ex facie bad and incompetent but the demands in respect of which the reference was made had already been settled during the course of conciliation proceedings by way of the tripartite settlement between the recognised representative Labour Union and the Staff Union.	None
This settlement was binding on all the workers of the appellant.	None
The State Government before making the reference did not examine whether there was a genuine dispute between the workmen and the management.	None
The State Government was under a legal obligation to see that the reference was not opposed to any other provision of the Act.	None
The State Government by making the reference dated March 18, 1989 rendered ineffective and inoperative the directions issued by the High Court by its order dated March 23, 1989 to give an opportunity to the appellant of hearing before taking a decision as to whether or not any reference should be made at the instance of the Workers Union.	None
The order of reference was made during the pendency of writ petition by the Workers Union and only six days before the High Court passed the order.	None
In these circumstances the State Government was not justified in directing the appellant to raise the issue of contravention of the direction of the High Court before the Industrial Tribunal.	None
The State Government should have recalled its order of reference and heard the appellant before taking final decision to make the reference or not.	None
Mr. Pai further submitted that the conciliation settlement has been equated with an award by various judgments of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
A settlement being conciliation settlement was, thus, fully binding on the members of the Workers Union.	Arguments of Petitioner
The settlement could be challenged on the grounds of fraud, undue influence or it being mala fide.	None
There was no such plea raised by the Workers Union.	None
Industrial Tribunal could not examine the justness and fairness of the settlement entered into during the conciliation proceedings.	None
As a matter of fact, a perusal of the comparative charter of demands that raised by the Labour Union and the Workers Union would show that what had been demanded by the Labour Union on either being the same, similar or identical to the demands raised by the Workerss Union.	None
Rather the Labour Union had raised some additional demands not raised by the Workers Union.	None
There was total nonapplication of mind by the State Government in making the reference.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was not proper or legal which was made after two and a half years of the settlement dated October 4, 1986 by the order dated March 17, 1989.	None
By entertaining the reference, Industrial Tribunal would be acting beyond its jurisdiction inasmuch as any award or reference would be directly and substantially against the conciliation settlement which is binding on all the workmen.	None
The High Court failed to consider that the very purpose of creating a machinery under the Act is for establishing industrial peace and harmony.	None
It is in consonance with the said aim and object of the Act that the settlement arrived at in between the parties during the course of conciliation proceedings are kept at the highest pedestal and the courts have been consistently taking a view that when a particular charter of demands is decided by means of conciliation proceedings then the same would not be allowed to be satisfied on any ground whatsoever including the ground of conflict between the various unions.	None
High Court was not correct in observing that disputed questions of fact were involved in the present case.	None
There are no disputed questions of fact because both the charter of demands raised by the Labour Union and that raised by the Workers Union were on record.	None
The authority assigned with the duty of finding as to whether any industrial disputes exists between the parties was required to see both the charter of demands and to come to a conclusion as to whether the same, similar or identical demands have been raised by both the unions for which the tripartite settlement had been arrived at during the course of conciliation proceedings.	None
As stated earlier, the Workers Union has itself stated in their writ petition that its demands were of similar and identical nature to the demands of the Labour Union.	None
There was, thus, no disputed question of fact involved and the High Court failed to exercise its jurisdiction envisaged under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
All through this period since 1972, appellant has entered into more than six settlements with the Labour Union which is recognized and representative Union.	None
Substantial number of workers of the appellant are members of the representative Labour Union which fact has not been denied by the Workers Union.	None
It is not necessary to give any notice to the Workers Union for entering into any settlement when settlement is with the recognised representative union.	None
Charter of demands of the Workers Union cannot be termed as a notice under Section 19 of the Act.	None
Thus concluded Mr. Pai.	None
In the counter affidavit filed by the Workers Union, the fact that the charter of demands of the Workers Union was identical to that of the Labour Union has been denied though if we refer to the writ petition filed by the Workers Union, it has been so stated.	None
This is how Workers Union said in its writ petition The petitioner union was also not asked to participate in that conciliation proceedings though the demand charter was identical in almost all the respects.	None
The learned single Judge in his judgment which was upheld by the Division Bench, however, stated that it is also borne out from the charter of demands submitted by respondent No. 3 (Workers Union) and the settlement dated October 4, 1986 that all the demands raised by respondent No. 3 are not covered by the settlement.	None
It is submitted by the Workers Union that its demands at serial numbers 5, 6, 11, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 23 of its charter of demands dated July 24, 1986 were not raised in the charter of Demands dated June 16, 1986 of the Labour Union and, thus, they were not covered by the settlement dated October 4, 1986.	None
It was in these circumstances that the Workers Union requested the Conciliation Officer to treat its charter of demands as notice of two months in terms of Section 19(2) of the Act for termination of the earlier settlement dated November 11, 1983.	None
Tripartite settlement dated November 11, 1983 was valid for three years with the Labour Union and the Staff Union while again ignoring the demands of the Workers Union submitted earlier to November 11, 1983.	None
It is admitted by the Workers Union that at that time it did not challenge the settlement dated November 11, 1983.	None
It was further submitted by Mr. Aman Hingorani, learned counsel for the Workers Union, that when the Conciliation Officer gave notice to the appellant in pursuance to its charter of demands dated July 24, 1986, appellant company by its letter dated September 10, 1986 said that the Workers Union has no locus standi to give the notice under Section 19(2) of the Act.	None
It was on this account that the Conciliation Officer on October 1, 1986 gave his failure report and then, at the same time, appellant entered into negotiations with Labour Union and the Staff Union and entered into the settlement dated October 4, 1986 again ignoring the Workers Union.	None
It was on this account that the Workers Union approached the High Court for a direction to the State Government to make a reference of the industrial dispute raised by it to the Industrial Tribunal which writ petition was allowed by order dated March 23, 1989 but before that the State Government itself made the reference which was impugned by the appellant and is the subject matter of the present appeal.	None
We may now refer to the decisions of this Court cited at the Bar.	None
In the Management of Express Newspapers Ltd. v. Workers Staff Employed under it and others, 1963(3)	None
SCR 540 the State Government made reference to the Industrial Tribunal under Section 10(1)(d) of the Act on the following two items of dispute  Whether the transfer of the publication of Andhra Prabha and Andhra Prabha Illustrated Weekly to Andhra Prabha Private Ltd. in Vijayawada is justified and to what relief the workers and the working Journalists are entitled ?	None
Whether the strike of the workers and working Journalists from 27th April, 1959 and the consequent lockout by the management of the Express Newspapers Private Ltd. are justified and to what relief the workers and the working Journalists are entitled ?	None
This was challenged by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the Madras High Court.	None
While the learned Single Judge held in favour of the appellant, the Division Bench in appeal filed by the respondents reversed the same.	None
This Court said that the true legal position in regard to the jurisdiction of the High Court to entertain the appellants petition even at the initial stage of the proceedings proposed to be taken before the District Tribunal was not in dispute.	None
It said that there was no dispute that in law, the appellant was entitled to move the High Court even at the initial stage to seek to satisfy it that the dispute is not an industrial dispute and so, the Industrial Tribunal has no jurisdiction to embark upon the proposed enquiry.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court in appeal was, however, of the view that having regard to the nature of the enquiry involved in the decision of the preliminary issue, it would be inappropriate for the High Court to take upon itself the task of determining the relevant facts on affidavits.	None
A proper and a more appropriate course to adopt would be to let the material facts be determined by the Industrial Tribunal in the first instance.	None
This was the question which was before this Court if the view taken by the Division Bench was erroneous in law.	None
This Court after examining the facts of the case was of the opinion that having regard to the nature of the dispute, the Division Bench was right in taking the view that the preliminary issue should be more appropriately dealt with by the Industrial Tribunal.	None
This Court noticed that the Division Bench had made it clear that any party who felt aggrieved by the finding of the Industrial Tribunal on this plea of the issue might move to the High Court in accordance with law.	None
Then this Court said as under It is hardly necessary to emphasise that since the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunal in dealing with industrial disputes referred to it under section 10 is limited by Section 10(4) to the points specifically mentioned in the reference and matters incidental thereto, the appropriate Government should frame the relevant orders of reference carefully and the questions which are intended to be tried by the Industrial Tribunal should be so worded as to leave no scope for ambiguity or controversy.	None
An order of reference hastily drawn or drawn in a casual manner often gives rise to unnecessary dispute and thereby prolongs the life of industrial adjudication which must always be avoided.	None
In the Sirsilk Ltd. others v. Government of Andhra Pradesh another, 1964(2)	None
SCR 448 industrial disputes were referred for adjudication.	None
The Industrial Tribunal gave its award and forwarded the same to the State Government for publication as required under Section 17 of the Act.	None
Before, however, the publication of the award.	None
The State Government, however, did not accede to this request as, according to it, it was mandatory provision of law to publish the award.	None
A writ petition was filed in the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution praying that the Government might be directed to withhold the publication of the award.	None
This was dismissed as the High Court was also of the view that the provisions of Section 17 of the Act were mandatory and no writ, therefore, could be issued.	None
The matter then came to this Court.	None
The Court rejected the argument that the provisions of Section 17 of the Act were directory and not mandatory.	None
This Court then noticed the provisions of Section 2(p), section 18(1) and (3) and Section 19 of the Act.	None
It was contended that the main purpose of the Act was to maintain peace between the parties in an industrial concern and where, therefore, parties to industrial disputes had reached a settlement which was binding under Section 18(1), the dispute between them really came to an end.	None
It was submitted that the settlement arrived at between the parties should be respected and industrial peace should not be allowed to be disturbed by the publication of the award which might be different from the settlement.	None
The Court observed that there was no doubt that the settlement of disputes between the parties themselves was to be preferred, where it could be arrived at, to industrial adjudication, as the settlement was likely to lead to more lasting peace than an award, as it is arrived at by the free will of the parties and is a pointer to there being goodwill between them.	Reasoning
The Court said that even though that might be so, still the provisions of Section 17(1) which are mandatory requiring publication of the award has to be reconciled with the equally mandatory character of the binding nature of the settlement arrived at between the parties as provided under Section 18(1) of the Act.	None
Then the Court went to hold as under Difficulty, however, arises when the matter has gone beyond the purview of the tribunal as in the present case.	None
That difficulty in our opinion has to be resolved in order to avoid possible conflict between S. 18(1) which makes the settlement arrived at between the parties otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceeding binding on the parties and the terms of an award which are binding under S. 18(3) on publication and which may not be the same as the terms of the settlement binding under S. 18(1).	None
The only way in our view to resolve the possible conflict which would arise between a settlement which is binding under S. 18(1) and an award which may become binding under S. 18(3) on publication is to withhold the publication of the award once the Government has been informed jointly by the parties that a settlement binding under S. 18(1) has been arrived at.	None
It is true that S. 17(1) is mandatory and ordinarily the Government has to publish an award sent to it by the tribunal but where a situation like the one in the present cases arises which may lead to a conflict between a settlement under S. 18(1) and an award binding under S. 18(3) on publication, the only solution is to withhold the award from publication.	None
This would not in our opinion in any way affect the mandatory nature of the provision in S. 17(1), for the Government would ordinarily have to publish the award but for the special situation arising in such cases.	None
3r3The Court also examined the issue from another angle and said The reference to the tribunal is for the purpose of resolving the dispute that may have arisen between employers and their workmen.	None
Where a settlement is arrived at between the parties to a dispute before the tribunal after the award has been submitted to Government but before its publication, there is in fact no dispute left to be resolved by the publication of the award.	None
In such a case, the award sent to Government may very well be considered to have become infructuous and so the Government should refrain from publishing such an award because no dispute remains to be resolved by it.	None
This Court also said that in case there is a dispute regarding the bona fide nature of the settlement that would be yet another industrial dispute which the Government may refer to for adjudication.	None
In Barauni Refinery Pragatisheel Shramik Parishad v. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., 1991(1) SCC 4, the appellant was a trade union representing a faction of workmen in the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL).	None
There were two divisions in the IOCL, namely, (1) the Marketing Division and (2) Refinery and Pipe Lines Division.	None
The age of superannuation of the staff in the Marketing Division was 60 years whereas the age of superannuation for the Refinery and Pipe Lines Division was fixed at 58 years.	None
Clause (20) of the standing orders framed under the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 concerning the Barauni Refinery provided that every employee shall retire from service on completing the age of 58 years.	None
Extension of service could be granted for a maximum period of five years subject to the employee being certified to be fit by the companys Medical Officer.	None
Fourteen recognised unions representing the employees of the IOCL working in different refineries by their letter dated December 15, 1981 submitted the Charter of Demands and one of such demands was that the superannuation age be enhanced to 60 years.	None
Barauni Telshodhak Mazdoor Union also raised the similar demand in its charter of demands addressed to the General Manager, IOCL, Barauni Refinery.	None
Meetings swere held between the management and the recognised union and in the result a settlement arrived at on May 24, 1983.	None
Under clause (21) of the settlement they shall not raise any demand having financial burden on the IOCL.	None
The settlement was to remain in force from May 1, 1982 to April 30, 1986.	None
A separate settlement on similar lines was signed between IOCL and its workmen represented by Barauni Telshodhak Mazdoor Union under Section 12(3) and 18(3) of the Act in the conciliation proceedings.	None
In spite of the specific demand made in the charter of demands for the upward revision of the age of superannuation, no specific provision was made in that behalf in the settlement.	None
Rather under a clause in the settlement, it was provided that the terms and conditions of service which are not changed under the settlement shall remain unchanged and operative during the period of settlement.	None
Subsequent to the settlement, another union served a notice on the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) under Section 10(2) of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 for modification of clause (20) of the Standing Orders of Barauni Refinery for 58 years to 60 years.	None
The Regional Labour Commissioner after hearing both the parties by his order dated October 11, 1984 directed modification of clause (20) of the Standing Orders not fixing the retirement age of the workmen at 60 years.	None
IOCL filed an appeal against that order before the appellate authority.	None
Its appeal though dismissed but it was ordered to that every workmen shall generally retire on attaining the age of 58 years and if the workmen is found medically fit, he shall be retained in service up to the age of 60 years.	None
Both IOCL as well as the union filed two different writ petitions in the Delhi High Court.	None
IOCL challenging the modification of clause (20) of the Standing Orders and the union challenging the condition of medical fitness.	None
One of the questions raised was thus Whether the settlement arrived at under Section 18(3) and Section 19(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, between the petitioner and the workmen represented by their recognised majority union and which settlement was in force when the impugned orders were made, had put any bar on the rights of the workmen to approach the authorities under the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 for seeking modification of the Standing Orders with regard to the fixation of the age of superannuation of the workmen ?	None
The High Court came to the conclusion that the settlement arrived at in conciliation proceedings was binding on the workmen and one of the clauses of the settlement kept the service conditions intact and another clause did not permit raising of any demands throwing an additional financial burden on the IOCL, it was not permissible to modify the certified Standing Order by an amendment as that would alter the service conditions and increase the burden on the management.	None
High Court, therefore, quashed the orders amending the Standing Orders.	None
Aggrieved the union approached this Court.	None
This Court analysed the provisions of Sections 2(p), 18(1) and 18(3) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and it also refers to the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 and held as under It may be seen on a plain reading of subsections (1) and (3) of Section 18 that settlements are divided into two categories, namely, (i) those arrived at outside the conciliation proceedings, and (ii) those arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings.	None
A settlement which belongs to the first category has limited application in that it merely binds the parties to the agreement but the settlement belonging to the second category has extended application since it is binding on all parties to the industrial dispute, to all others who were summoned to appear in the conciliation proceedings and to all persons employed in the establishment or part of the establishment, as the case may be, to which the dispute related on the date of the dispute and to all others who joined the establishment thereafter.	Reasoning
Therefore, a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings with a recognised majority union will be binding on all workmen of the establishment, even those who belong to the minority union which had objected to the same.	Reasoning
To that extent it departs from the ordinary law of contract.	None
The object obviously is to uphold the sanctity of settlements reached with the active assistance of the Conciliation Officer and to discourage an individual employee or a minority union from scuttling the settlement.	Reasoning
There is an underlying assumption that a settlement reached with the help of the Conciliation Officer must be fair and reasonable and can, therefore, safely be made binding not only on the workmen belonging to the union signing the settlement but also on others.	None
That is why a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings is put on par with an award made by an adjudicatory authority.	None
This Court upheld the judgment of the High Court.	None
In K.C.P. Limited v. Presiding Officer others, 1996(10) SCC 446 1996(4) SCT 725 (SC) a labour dispute had erupted at the engineering unit of the appellant employing about 500 workmen.	None
The workmen were demanding higher amount of bonus.	None
There were strike and lockout.	None
Appellant dismissed 29 workmen on the charges of misconduct after holding enquiries.	None
An agreement was reached between the appellant and the union representing all the workmen on the quantum of increase of wages etc.	None
It was further agreed that the issue of nonemployment of 29 dismissed workmen would be discussed separately.	None
On that basis all the workmen except the 29 dismissed workmen agreed to resume work.	None
Subsequently, a settlement was arrived at between the appellant and the respondent union under Section 12(3) of the Act that the issue of nonemployment of 29 dismissed workmen would be discussed at proceedings to be initiated by the Joint Labour Commissioner.	None
Meetings were held by the Joint Labour Commissioner but no settlement could be reached.	None
Report of the failure of conciliation proceedings was submitted to the State Government which referred issue of nonemployment of 29 workmen for adjudication to the Labour Court.	None
This Court noticed that the industrial dispute was referred for adjudication pursuant to the demand espoused by all the workmen and raised by the second respondent union under Section 2(k) of the Act and that of the said 29 workmen who were members of the respondent union had authorised the second respondent to represent them before the Conciliation Officer whereafter reference was made before to the Labour Court.	None
This Court noticed that none of the said 29 workmen raised industrial dispute in their individual capacity under Section 2A 2A. Dismissal, etc. of an individual workman to be deemed to be an industrial dispute.  	None
Where any employer discharges, dismisses, retrenches or otherwise terminates the services of an individual workman, any dispute or difference between that workman and his employer connected with, or arising out of, such discharge, dismissal, retrenchment or termination shall be deemed to be an industrial dispute notwithstanding that no other workman nor any union of workmen is a party to the dispute of the Act.	None
During the pendency of the dispute before the Labour Court, appellant and the respondentunion held discussions regarding nonemployment of 29 workmen and ultimately understanding was reached that option would be given to the 29 workmen either to accept reinstatement without back wages or a lump sum amount of Rs. 75,000/ with other monetary benefits.	None
Some of the workmen out of these 29 workmen did not accept the proposed settlement.	None
Nevertheless, respondentUnion entered into a settlement with the appellant under Section 18(1) of the Act on behalf of the 29 workmen.	None
A joint memorandum was signed between them and it was filed before the Labour Court before whom the industrial dispute was pending.	None
It was requested that award in terms of the settlement may be passed.	None
First respondent who was presiding over the Labour Court declined to do so on the ground that some of the workmen had not approved settlement and, therefore, industrial dispute in respect qua them would continue.	None
The Order of the Labour Court not to make the award in terms of the settlement was challenged by the appellant in a writ petition before the Madras High Court.	None
High Court did not agree with the contention raised by the appellant and dismissed the writ petition.	None
Aggrieved, appellant came to this Court.	None
This Court held that terms of the settlement could not be considered to be in any way ex facie, unjust or unfair and the settlement consequently must be held to be binding on the workmen who did not accept the settlement.	None
This Court referred in great detail to the provisions of Sections 2(k), 2(p) and 18(1) of the Act and noticed the decision of this Court in Herbertsons Ltd. v. Workmen, 1976(4) SCC 736 where this Court had said that when a recognised Union negotiates with an employer the workers as individuals do not come into the picture.	None
It is not necessary that each individual worker should know the implications of the settlement since a recognised Union, which is expected to protect the legitimate interests of labour enters into a settlement in the best interests of labour.	None
This would be the normal rule.	None
There may be exceptional cases where there may be allegations of mala fides, fraud or even corruption or other inducements.	None
But in the absence of such allegations a settlement in the course of collective bargaining is entitled to due weight and consideration.	None
This Court then observed as under It has to be kept in view that under the scheme of labour legislations like the Act in the present case, collective bargaining and the principle of industrial democracy permeate the relations between the management on the one hand and the Union which resorts to collective bargaining on behalf of its members workmen with the management on the other.	None
Such a collective bargaining which may result in just and fair settlement would always be beneficial to the management as well as to the body of workmen and society at large as there would be industrial peace and tranquility pursuant to such settlement and which would avoid unnecessary social strife and tribulation on the one hand and promote industrial and commercial development on the other hand.	None
Keeping in view the aforesaid salient features of the Act the settlement which is sought to be impugned has to be scanned and scrutinised.	None
Settlement of labour disputes by direct negotiation and collective bargaining is always to be preferred for it is the best guarantee of industrial peace which is the aim of all legislations for settlement of labour disputes.	None
In order to bring about such a settlement more easily and to make it more workable and effective it may not be always possible or necessary that such a settlement is arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings which may be the first step forwards resolving the industrial dispute which may be lingering between the employers and their workmen represented by their unions but even if at that stage such settlement does not take place and the industrial dispute gets referred for adjudication, even pending such disputes, the parties can arrive at amicable settlement which may be binding to the parties to the settlement unlike settlement arrived at during conciliation proceedings which may be binding not only to the parties to the settlement but even to the entire labour force working in the organisation concerned even though they may not be members of the Union which might have entered into settlement during conciliation proceedings.	None
This Court then referred to the difference between the settlement arrived at under the Act during conciliation proceedings by the parties and the settlement arrived at otherwise than during conciliation proceedings as pointed out in Barauni Refinery Pragatisheel Shramik Parishads case, 1991(1) SCC 4.	None
In P. Virudhachalam others v. Management of Lotus Mills another, 1998(1)	None
SCC 650 1998(1) SCT 262 (SC) the point for consideration was Whether an individual workman governed by the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 can claim lay off compensation under Section 25C of the Act despite a settlement arrived at during conciliation proceedings under Section 12(3) of the Act by a union of which he is not a member, though the union of which he is a member had taken part in the conciliation proceedings but had refused to sign the settlement and when such settlement seeks to restrict the right of layoff compensation payable to such workman as per the first proviso to Section 25C of the Act.	None
Labour Court had held in favour of the workmen.	None
It was challenged by the respondent in a writ petition in the Madras High Court.	None
The High Court by its impugned judgment held that the settlement arrived at during conciliation proceedings under Section 12(3) was binding on all the workmen being parties to industrial dispute as per Section 18(3) of the Act and consequently the said settlement could be treated as an agreement arrived at between all the workmen as per the first proviso to Section 25C and, therefore, the appellants could not claim anything more than what was permissible and payable to them as per the binding terms of the settlement dated 5.5.1980.	None
The writ petition of Respondent 1 was, therefore, allowed and the claim petition under Section 33C(2) as moved by the appellants was dismissed.	None
To answer the question so raised, this Court had a look at the statutory scheme of the Act in depth and observed The aforesaid relevant provisions of the Act, therefore, leave no room for doubt that once a written settlement is arrived at during the conciliation proceedings such settlement under Section 12(3) has a binding effect not only on the signatories to a settlement but also on all parties to the industrial dispute which would cover the entire body of workmen, not only existing workmen but also future workmen.	None
Such a settlement during conciliation proceedings has the same legal effect as an award of Labour Court, or Tribunal or National Tribunal or an arbitration award.	None
They all stand on a par.	None
It then held On the aforesaid scheme of the Act, therefore, it must be held that the settlement arrived at during conciliation proceedings on 5.5.1980 between respondent 1management on the one hand and the four out of five unions of workmen on the other, had a binding effect under Section 18(3) of the Act not only on the members of the signatory unions that also on the remaining workmen who were represented by the firth union which, though having taken part in conciliation proceedings, refused to sign the settlement.	None
It is aximotic that if such settlement arrived at during the conciliation proceedings is binding on even future workmen as laid down by Section 18(3)(d), it would ipso facto bind all the existing workmen who are all parties to the industrial dispute and who may not be members of unions and are signatories to such settlement under Section 12(3) of the Act.	None
The Court stressed the principle of collective bargaining in these words It has to be kept in view that the Act is based on the principle of collective bargaining for resolving industrial disputes and for maintaining industrial peace.	None
Thus principle of industrial democracy is the bedrock of the Act.	Reasoning
The employer or a class of employers on the one hand and the accredited representatives of the workmen on the other are expected to resolve the industrial dispute amicably as far as possible by entering into the settlement outside the conciliation proceedings or if no settlement is reached and the dispute reaches the conciliator even during conciliation proceedings.	None
In all these negotiations based on collective bargaining the individual workman necessarily recedes to the background.	Reasoning
The reins of bargaining on his behalf are handed over to the union representing such workman.	None
The unions espouse the common cause on behalf of all their members.	None
Consequently, settlement arrived at by them with management would bind at least their members and if such settlement is arrived at during conciliation proceedings, it would bind even nonmembers.	None
Thus, settlement are the live wires under the Act for ensuring industrial peace and prosperity.	None
In Ram Pukar Singh others v. Heavy Engineering Corporation others, 1994(6) SCC 145 1995(1) SCT 17 (SC) this Court said that a settlement arrived at between the management and the sole recognised union of workmen under Section 12(3) read with Section 18 of the Act would be binding on all the workmen whether members of the union or not.	None
This is how the this Court considered this question A settlement was, however, arrived at between the management and the Union thereafter, whereunder it was among other things, agreed that the employees who were holding the post of Office Superintendent (NonSupervisory) would be deemed to have been appointed to the post of Assistant Personnel Officer from the date they were appointed as Officer Superintendent (NonSupervisory) and that the services rendered by them both in the post of Office Superintendent (NonSupervisory) as well as in the post of the Junior Executive Officer.	None
It was further agreed that the employees concerned would not, however, claim any arrears of pay.	None
This was done because the respondentCorporation was in a bad financial shape.	None
The contention that the settlement of 13.9.1990 is not binding on the appellants because they were in a Supervisory category and were not workmen and hence the Union had no right to represent them, has no substance in it for two reasons.	None
Firstly, in the settlement of 14.5.1987 arrived at with the Union they had not only received the benefit of the arrears of salary of Rs. 1600 but also of the revised pay scales since then.	None
They could not have had this benefit if they were not workmen and, therefore, considered themselves as belonging to the NonSupervisory category.	None
They had continued to be workmen, i.e., in NonSupervisory category till the next settlement of 13.9.1990.	None
Admittedly, there was only one Union representing all workers during all the relevant period.	None
The settlement dated 13.9.1990 was admittedly under Section 12(3) read with Section 18 and other provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
The settlement was, therefore, binding on all the workmen whether they were members of the Union or not.	None
In Workmen Employed by Hindustan Lever Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. 1984(4) SCC 392 this Court said as under Section 10(1) confers power on the appropriate Government to refer an existing or apprehended industrial dispute, amongst others, to the Industrial Tribunal for adjudication.	None
The dispute, therefore, which can be referred for adjudication, of necessity, has to be an industrial dispute which would clothe the appropriate Government with power to make the reference, and the Industrial Tribunal to adjudicate it.	None
It will be thus seen that High Court has jurisdiction to entertain a writ petition when there is allegation that there is no industrial dispute and none apprehended which could be subject matter of reference for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal under Section 10 of the Act.	Reasoning
Here it is a question of jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunal, which could be examined by the High Court in its writ jurisdiction.	Reasoning
It is the existence of the industrial tribunal which would clothe the appropriate Government with power to make the reference and the Industrial Tribunal to adjudicate it.	Reasoning
If there is no industrial dispute in existence or apprehended appropriate government lacks power to make any reference.	Reasoning
A settlement of dispute between the parties themselves is to be preferred, where it could be arrived at, to industrial adjudication, as the settlement is likely to lead to more lasting peace than an award.	Reasoning
Settlement is arrived at by the free will of the parties and is a pointer to there being goodwill between them.	Reasoning
When there is a dispute that the settlement is not bona fide in nature or that it has been arrived at on account of fraud, misrepresentation or concealment of facts or even corruption and the inducements it could be subject matter of yet another industrial dispute which an appropriate Government may refer for adjudication after examining the allegations as there is an underlying assumption that the settlement reached with the help of the Conciliation Officer must be fair and reasonable.	Reasoning
A settlement which is sought to be impugned has to be scanned and scrutinized.	None
Subsections (1) and (3) of Section 18 divide settlements into two categories, namely, (1) those arrived at outside the conciliation proceedings, and (2) those arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings.	None
A settlement which belongs to the first category has limited application in that it merely binds the parties to the agreement but the settlement belonging to the second category has extended application since it is binding on all the parties to the industrial disputes, to all others who were summoned to appear in the conciliation proceedings and to all persons employed in the establishment or part of the establishment, as the case may be, to which the dispute related on the date of the dispute and to all others who joined the establishment thereafter.	Reasoning
A settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings with a recognized majority union will be binding on all workmen of the establishment, even those who belong to the minority union which had objected to the same.	Reasoning
Recognized union having majority of members is expected to protect the legitimate interest of labour and enter into a settlement in the best interest of labour.	Reasoning
This is with the object to uphold the sanctity of settlement reached with the active assistance of the Conciliation Officer and to discourage an individual employee or minority union from scuttling the settlement.	Reasoning
When a settlement is arrived at during the conciliation proceedings it is binding on the members of the Workers Union as laid down by Section 18(3)(d) of the Act.	Reasoning
It would ipso facto bind all the existing workman who are all parties to the industrial dispute and who may not be members of unions that are signatories to such settlement under Section 12(3) of the Act.	Reasoning
Act is based on the principle of collective bargaining for resolving industrial disputes and for maintaining industrial peace.	Reasoning
This principle of industrial democracy is the bedrock of the Act, as pointed out in the case of P. Virudhachalam and others v. Management of Lotus Mills and another, 1998(1) SCC 650.	Reasoning
In all these negotiations based on collective bargaining individual workman necessarily recedes to the background.	Reasoning
Settlement will encompass all the disputes existing at the time of the time of the settlement except those specifically left out.	None
There can be many splinter groups each forming a separate trade union.	None
Under Section 4 of the Trade Union Act, 1926 any seven or more members of a trade union can get the trade union registered under that Act.	Reasoning
If every trade union having few members is to go on raising a dispute and the State Government making reference again and again the very purpose of settlement is defeated.	Reasoning
Once there is a representative union, which in the present case, is the Labour Union, it is difficult to see the role of the Workers Union.	Reasoning
If there are number of trade unions registered under the Trade Union Act, 1926 not entitled to be registered as representative unions and they raise disputes, industrial peace would be a far cry.	Reasoning
Under Section 2(oooo) 2(oooo) Representative Union means a Union for the time being registered as a representative Union under this Act of the Rajasthan Act representative union means a union for the time being registered as a representative union under the Rajasthan Act (Rajasthan Act XXXIV of 1950).	Reasoning
Under Section 9D 9D. Application for registration.  	None
Any Union which has for the whole of the period of at least three months during the period of six months immediately proceeding the calendar month in which is so applies under this section a membership of not less than fifteen per cent of the total number of workmen employed in unit of an industry may apply in the prescribed from to the Registrar for registration as a Representative Union of the aforesaid Rajasthan Act any Union which has for the whole of the period of at least three months during the period of six months immediately preceding the calendar month in which it so applies under this Section a membership of not less than fifteen per cent of the total number of workman employed in unit of an industry may apply in the prescribed form to the Registrar for registration as a Representative Union.	Reasoning
Then under Section 9F 9F. Cancellation for registration.  	None
The Registrar shall cancel the registration of a Union  (a) if after holding such an inquiry, if any, as he deems fit he is satisfied  (i) (ii) that the registered Union is being conducted not bona fide in the interests of workmen but in the interest of employers to the prejudice of the interest of workmen or (iv) If its registration under the Indian Trade Unions Act, 1926 (Central Act XVI of 1926) is cancelled registration of a representative union can be cancelled on various grounds mentioned therein and one of such grounds is if, after holding such an inquiry, if any, as the Registrar deems fit he is satisfied that the registered union is being conducted not bona fide in the interest of the workman but in the interest of the employees to the prejudice of the interest of the workman.	Reasoning
We have already quoted Section 9E as to how a representative union is to be registered.	Reasoning
Proviso to that Section makes it clear that if there are two are more unions fulfilling the criteria laid down in Section 9D and apply for registration then the union having the largest membership of the employee has to be registered.	Reasoning
As to what is representative union is not defined in the Act but in common parlance it would mean that it represents all the workers.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the Workers Union that registration of the Labour Union is liable to be cancelled on any ground whatsoever.	Reasoning
Notice given by Workers Union under subsection (2) of Section 19 of the Act is obviously invalid as it did not represent majority of the persons bound by the settlement nor it is a representative union.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter it is not necessary for us to consider what were the demands raised by the Workers Union in its charter which were not covered by the tripartite settlement.	Reasoning
It has not been shown to us as to how a settlement arrived at on a holiday would be invalid.	Reasoning
We do not think there is any bar in having conciliation proceedings on a holiday and to arrive at a settlement.	Reasoning
On a holiday atmosphere is rather more relaxed.	Reasoning
Learned single Judge in his judgment did not examine with reference to each of the demands raised by the Workers Union as to why it was not covered under the tripartite settlement and even the earlier settlement of 1983.	Reasoning
Industrial Tribunal is the creation statute and it gets jurisdiction on the basis of reference.	Reasoning
It cannot go into the question of validity of the reference.	Reasoning
Question before the High Court was one of jurisdiction which it failed to consider.	Reasoning
A tripartite settlement has been arrived at among the management, Labour Union and the Staff Union.	Reasoning
When such a settlement is arrived at it is a package deal.	Reasoning
In such a deal some demands may be left out.	Reasoning
It is not that demands, which are left out, should be specifically mentioned in the settlement.	Reasoning
It is not the contention of Workers Union that tripartite settlement is in any way mala fide.	Reasoning
It has been contended by the Workers Union that the settlement was not arrived at during the conciliation proceedings under Section 12 of the Act and as such not binding on the members of the Workers Union.	Reasoning
This contention is without any basis as the recitals to the tripartite settlement clearly show that the settlement was arrived at during the conciliation proceedings.	Reasoning
State Government failed to give due consideration to the direction of the High Court in its judgment dated March 23, 1989.	Reasoning
State Government also failed in its duty to bring to the notice of the High Court of its notification dated March 17, 1989 making the impugned reference.	Reasoning
It appears to us that the reference had occasioned while the judgment had been reserved by the High Court.	Reasoning
In any case it was expected on the State Government to bring to the notice of the High Court before making a reference its decision to make the reference.	Reasoning
After the judgment had been announced and directions issued by the High Court to hear the appellant it was incumbent of the State Government, in the circumstances of the case, to recall the reference.	Reasoning
It could not direct the appellant to raise its objection to reference before the Industrial Tribunal for which Industrial Tribunal certainly lacked jurisdiction.	Reasoning
State Government before making the reference did not consider all the relevant considerations which would clothe it with the power to make the reference under Section 10 of the Act.	Reasoning
We find substance in the submissions of Mr. Pai.	Reasoning
Wholesale reference of all the disputes in the charter of demands of Workers Union for adjudication was also bad inasmuch as many of such disputes were already the subject matter of tripartite settlement.	Reasoning
This also shows nonapplication of mind by the State Government in making the reference.	None
When notice was issued on the special leave petition proceedings on the reference were stayed.	Reasoning
Earlier also during the pendency of the writ petition before the High Court, which led to the impugned judgment proceedings, had been stayed.	Reasoning
There has not been any progress before the Industrial Tribunal and all these years have passed.	Reasoning
During the course of hearing we have been told that there have been even two more settlements and also that President of the Workers Union is now himself the President of the Labour Union.	Reasoning
Even otherwise it would be futile to allow the reference to continue after lapse of all these years.	Reasoning
This is apart from the fact that in our view reference in itself was bad as the tripartite settlement did bind the members of the Workers Union as well.	Reasoning
This appeal is accordingly allowed.	Decision
Impugned judgment of the High Court is set aside and the Notification dated March 17, 1989, issued by the State Government under Section 10(1) read with Section 12(5) of the Industrial Disputes Act, is quashed.	Decision
In the circumstances there will be no order as to costs.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
