 Gajendragadkar, J. (On behalf of himself, Sarkar and Das Gupta JJ.)1.	None
On a writ petition filed by the respondent K. Rangachari in the Madras High Court under Art.	None
226 of the Constitution a writ of mandamus has been issued by the said High Court restraining the appellants, the General Manager, Southern Railway, and the Personnel Officer (Reservation), Southern Railway, from giving effect to the directions of the Railway Board ordering reservation of selection posts in Class III of the railway service in favour of the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and in particular the reservation of selection posts among the Court Inspectors in Class III one of which is held by the respondent.	None
After the writ was thus issued the appellant applied for and obtained a certificate from the said High Court under Art. 132	None
(1) of the Constitution as it involved a substantial question of law, namely, the scope of Art. 16 (4) of the Constitution.	None
It is with this certificate that the appeal has been brought to this court, and the only question which it raises for our decision is about the scope and effect of Art. 16 (4).	Issue
This question is of considerable public importance though the dispute raised by it lies within a very narrow compass.2.	None
In the railway services there are four grades of Court Inspectors included in Class III, (1) Court Inspectors on Rs. 200300, (2) Court Inspectors.	Facts
on Rs. 260  350, (3) Chief Court Inspectors on Rs. 300400, and (4).	Facts
Chief Court Inspectors on Rs. 360  500.	Facts
It appears that Inspectors of the first category are recruited partly directly and partly by selection from other categories of railway services.	Facts
To the remaining three grades appointments are made by promotion and they are classified as selection posts.	Facts
Selection to these grades is made by a committee of officers constituted for the purpose.	Facts
In respect of nonselection posts seniority in service is the qualification but in regard to selection posts seniority is only one of the qualifications for promotion to such posts suitability to promotion is considered on other relevant grounds as well.3.	Facts
The respondent was initially recruited to the grade of Rs. 200300 and was confirmed in that grade on November 21, 1956.	Facts
Between May 23, 1958 and August 22, 1958 as well as between December 8, 1958 and December 31, 1958 he was promoted to officiate in the grade of Rs. 260350.	Facts
He got a chance of another similar promotion to officiate on April 8, 1959.	Facts
These promotions were in the nature of ad hoc promotions and were consequently of temporary duration.	Facts
Later, on June 16, 1959 he was interviewed by the selection committee and his promotion to the said higher grade was regularised and an order was passed in that behalf on June 30, 1959.	Facts
By this order he was allowed to continue to officiate in the said grade.	Facts
Since then he has been officiating in that grade.4.	Facts
On April 27,1959 and on June 12, 1959 the two impugned circulars were issued by the Railway Board and addressed to the General Managers.	Facts
As a result of the said circulars, the selection committee decided to consider the case of Hiriyanna for promotion to the grade of Rs. 260350, Hiriyanna being a member of the Schedule Castes.	Facts
The record shows that at the time when the respondent was interviewed and selected he was placed as Number One by the selection committee and one Parthasarthy was placed as Number Two.	Facts
On the said occasion Hiriyanna was not selected and put in the panel.	Facts
The selection committee desired to examine the case of Hiriyanna in order to decide whether he was suitable for promotion to higher grade in the light of the two directives issued by the Railway Board and so a meeting of the selection committee was called on November 18, 1959.	Facts
The respondent thought that the proceedings of, the said proposed meeting may result prejudicially to his interest and so on November 16, 1959 he filed the present Writ Petition No. 1051 of 1959.	Facts
In this petition he applied for a writ in the nature of mandamus and also prayed for an interim injunction restraining the holding of the meeting of the selection committee proposed to be held on November,18,1959.	Facts
An interim injunction as prayed for by the respondent was issued by the High Court and in consequence the proposed meeting has not been held.5.	Facts
According to the respondent the two directives issued by the appellants under the two impugned circulars were ultra vires, illegal, inoperative and unconstitutional in that they were not justified by Art, 16 (4).	Arguments of Respondent
He alleged that a reading of Arts.16, 335, 338 and 339 would show that the Constitution draws a clear distinction between Scheduled Castes or Tribes on the one hand and backward classes on the other and so it was urged by him that the impugned circulars were illegal.	Arguments of Respondent
The petition further urged that the safeguard provided by Art. 16 (4) applied only to reservation of posts at the stage of appointment and not for reservation of posts for promotion after appointment and so the circulars were outside the provisions of Art. 16 (4) and as such contravened Art. 16 (1).	Arguments of Respondent
The petition expressed the apprehension that if the circulars are implemented the respondent would be reverted and that would cause great loss both financially and in status to him.	None
It is on these allegations that the respondent prayed for the issue of a writ in the nature of mandamus directing the appellants to forbear from implementing the two impugned circulars.6.	None
These pleas were denied by the appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was alleged by them that the expression backward class appearing in Art 16 (4) would include not only the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes but all backward communities who could not stand on their own legs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore the reservations made by the impugned circulars were fully covered by Art. 16 (4).	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants case was that the safeguards provided by Art. 16 (4) would extend not only to initial appointment but also to promotions made by selection and that clearly brought the impugned circulars within the protection of Art. 16 (4).	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants categorically denied that the respondent would suffer any loss or prejudice because persons who had already been promoted on the basis of earlier regular selections were not intended to be reverted as a consequence of the implementation of the impugned circulars.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellants the petition filed by the respondent was premature and on the merits no case had been made out for the issue of a writ of mandamus.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
At this stage it would be material to set out the relevant portions of the impugned circulars.	None
The circular issued by the Railway Board on April 27, 1959 contained, inter alia, the following directions There are different grades of Class III posts.	None
Some of these posts are nonselectionposts, promotion to which is made on senioritycumsuitability basis, while in the case of others which are Selection posts, promotion is made by a positive act of selection.	None
There will be no quota for scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates in respect of promotion to non selection posts.	None
For promotion to Selection posts, however, there will be the prescribed quota of reservation.	None
The field of consideration in the case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates should be four times the number of posts reserved without any condition of qualifying period of service in their case, subject to the condition that consideration should not normally extend to such staff beyond two grades immediately below the grade for which selection is held.8.	None
There is one more direction given by the said circular which must be read.	None
The decision of the Railway Board providing reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in promotion vacancies as laid down above comes into effect from January 4, 1957.	None
It will, therefore, be necessary to calculate the number of posts that should have been made available to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes during 1957 and 1958 these should be carried forward to be filled in 1959.	None
Thus it would be noticed that the effect of this circular was to prescribe a quota of reservation for selection posts and to give effect to this reservation retrospectively from January 4, 1957.	None
In a sense it is this retrospective operation of the circular which appears to be the main cause of the present dispute.910.	None
On June 12, 1959, another circular was issued giving guidance and directions as to how the earlier circular should be implemented.	None
This circular directed, inter alia, by paragraphs 2 (ii) and 2 (iii) as follows 2(ii).	None
The Special Rosters in force for S.C. and S.T, indirect recruitment categories are to be followed to work out the number of posts to be reserved for S.C. and S.T. in promotions made in Selection Grades and for promotion from Class IV to Class III.2(iii).	None
As the Boards orders have retrospective effect from 4th January, 1957, it is necessary that the promotions made in each selection grade on your Division Office from 4th January 1957 are reviewed and the number of posts due to S.C. and S. T. worked out applying the Roster referred to in item (ii) above.11.	None
It appears certain doubts were raised in regard to the manner in which the reservation circulars had to be implemented and so on September 11, 1959 the Railway Board issued a letter clarifying the doubts raised.	None
One of the points thus clarified was whether the instructions issued in the Boards letter contemplated reversion of staff already promoted to selection posts after January 4, 1957 to accommodate S. Cs. and S. Ts. (which stand for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) according to percentage basis.	None
The clarification issued was that the said orders did not contemplate such reversion.	None
It was, however, desired that the shortfalls should be made good against the existing as well as the future vacancies.	None
It is by virtue of this clarification that the respondent was assured by the appellants during the proceedings before the High Court that he need not entertain any apprehension of reversion as a result of the implementation of the impugned circulars.12.	None
We would now briefly summarise the findings and conclusions of the High Court on the points raised before it by the contentions of the parties in the present writ proceedings.	None
The High Court has found that the equality of opportunity guaranteed by Art.16(1) and the prohibition against discrimination embodied in Art.	None
16(2) apply also to promotions of civil servants from one post to another when both are included in the same service.	None
It was clearly of opinion that promotions are within the ambit of Cls.	None
(1) and (2) of Art.16.	None
The High Court rejected the respondents contention that the Scheduled Castes and Tribes did not belong to backward classes and so it held that the expression backward class in Art, 16 (4) includes members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
The High Court, however, was inclined to take the view that the expressions appointments or posts are virtually terms of art which have to be interpreted and understood in the light of the legislative history of the constitutional enactments that preceded the Constitution, and thus construed it came to the conclusion that posts in Art.16(4) are confined to civil posts other than civil posts included in any of the civil services.	None
Appointment to a specified service, according to the High Court can take place only once in the case of every person and so promotions could not be denoted by the word appointments and posts were outside service posts, and so promotion to posts inside the service could not be said to be covered by Art. 16 (4).	None
It appears from the judgment of the High Court that if the word posts had been construed by the High Court as including posts in civil services then it might have come to a different conclusion on the question about the validity of the impugned circulars.	None
It, however, held that the word posts was a term of art and it definitely excluded the posts in civil services.	None
That is how the High Court felt that the impugned circulars which authorised reservation of posts falling inside civil services were not covered by Art.	None
16(4).	Arguments of Petitioner
Since they were not covered by Art. 16 (4) .	None
they clearly contravened Art.	None
16 (1) and (2) and as such ultra vires.	None
That in brief is the result of the findings recorded by the High Court.13.	None
The first question which falls to be considered is whether Art. 16(1) and (2) refer to promotion or whether they are confined to the initial appointment to any post in civil service.	None
In the appeal before us the appellants and the respondent both conceded that cases of promotion fell within Art.	None
16(1) and (2) though they differed as to whether they were included in Art.16(4).	None
It would be immediately noticed that the respondents petition postulates the inclusion of promotion in Art.16(1) and (2) for it is on that assumption that he challenges the validity of the impugned circulars.	None
Similarly, the appellants defence postulates that Art. 16 (1) and (2) as well as Art. 16(4) refer to cases of promotion for it is on the basis that Art. 16 (4) includes promotion that they seek to support the validity of the impugned circulars.	None
When this appeal was argued before the Constitution Bench on the first occasion it became clear that neither party was interested in contending that the guarantee afforded by Art.16 (l) and (2) is confined only to initial appointment and does not extend to promotion, and so notice was ordered to be issued to the AttorneyGeneral.	None
In response to the notice the Attorney General has appeared and is represented by Mr. Sen. He has also taken the same stand as the appellants have done and so in the result nobody before us is interested in challenging the inclusion of promotion within Art.	None
16 (1) and (2).	None
However, we would briefly indicate our reasons for accepting the concession made by the parties that promotion is included in Art 16(1) and (2).14.	None
Article 16(1) reads thus There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.	None
In deciding the scope and ambit of the fundamental right of equality of opportunity guaranteed by this Article it is necessary to bear in mind that in construing the relevant Article a technical or pedantic approach trust be avoided.	Reasoning
We must have regard to the nature of the fundamental right guaranteed and we must seek to ascertain the intention of the Constitution by construing the material words in a broad and general way.	Reasoning
If the words used in the Article are wide in their import they must be liberally construed in all their amplitude.	Reasoning
Thus construed it would be clear that matters relating to employment cannot be confined only to the initial matters prior to the act of employment.	Reasoning
The narrow construction would confine the application of Art.	Reasoning
16 (1) to the initial employment and nothing else but that clearly is only one of the matters relating to employment.	Reasoning
The other matters relating to employment would inevitably be the provision as to the salary and periodical increments therein, terms as to leave, as to gratuity, as to pension and as to the age of superannuation.	Reasoning
These are all matters relating to employment and they are, and must be, deemed to be included in the expression matters relating to employment in Art.16 (1).Similarly, appointment to any office which means appointment to an office like that of the AttorneyGeneral or Comptroller and Auditor General must mean not only the initial appointment to such an office but all the terms and conditions of service pertaining to the said office.	Reasoning
What Art.16 (1) guarantees is equality of opportunity to all citizens in respect of all the matters relating to employment illustrated by us as well as to an appointment to any office as explained by us.15.	Reasoning
This equality of opportunity need not be confused with absolute equality as such.	Reasoning
What is guaranteed is the equality of opportunity and nothing more.	Reasoning
Art.16 (1) or (2) does not prohibit the prescription of reasonable rules for selection to any employment or appointment to any office.	Reasoning
Any provision as to the qualifications for the employment or the appointment to office reasonably fixed and applicable to all citizens would certainly be consistent with the doctrine of the equality of opportunity but in regard to employment, like other terms and conditions associated with and incidental to it, the promotion to a selection post is also included in the matters relating to employment, and even in regard to such a promotion to a selection post all that Art. 16 (1) guarantees is equality of opportunity to all citizens who enter service.16.	Reasoning
If the narrow construction of the expression matters relating to employment is accepted, it would make the fundamental right guaranteed by Art.16 (1) illusory.	None
In that case it would be open to the State to comply with the formal requirements of Art.	None
16 (1) by affording equality of opportunity to all citizens in the matter of initial employment and then to defeat its very aim and object by introducing discriminatory provisions in respect of employees soon after their employment.	None
Would it, for instance, be open to the State to prescribe different scales of salary for the same or similar posts, different terms of leave or superannuation for the same or similar posts ?	None
On the narrow construction of Art.16 (1), even if such a discriminatory course is adopted by the State in respect of its employees that would not be violative of the equality of opportunity guaranteed by Art.	None
16 ( 1).	Reasoning
Such a result could not obviously have been intended by the Constitution.	Reasoning
In this connection it may be relevant to remember that Art. 16 (1) and (2) really give effect to the equality before law guaranteed by Art.	Reasoning
14 and to the prohibition of discrimination guaranteed by Art. 15 (1).	Reasoning
The three provisions form part of the same constitutional code of guarantees and supplement each other.	Reasoning
If that be so, there would be no difficulty in holding that the matters relating to employment must include all matters in relation to employment both prior, and subsequent, to the employment which are incidental to the employment and form part of the terms and conditions of such employment.17.	Reasoning
Article 16 (2) provides that no citizen shall, on grounds only of religion.	None
race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or discriminated against in respect of, any employment or office under the State.	None
This subArticle emphatically brings out in a negative form what is guaranteed affirmatively by Art.	None
16 (1).Discrimination is a doubleedged weapon it would operate in favour of some persons and against others and Art.	None
16 (2) prohibits discrimination and thus assures the effective enforcement of the fundamental right of equality of opportunity guaranteed by Art, 16 (1).	None
The words in respect of any employment used in Art. 16(2) must, therefore, include all matters relating to employment as specified in Art, 16 (1).	None
Therefore, we are satisfied that Mr. Sen is right when on behalf of the AttorneyGeneral he conceded that promotion to selection posts is included both under Art.16 (1) and (2).	None
Broadly stated the Bombay and the Patna High Courts support the concession made by Mr. Sen(Vide Pandurang Kashinath More v. Union of India, ILR (1958)	None
Bom 1266 (AIR 1959 Bom 134 )	None
Sukhnandan v. State, ILR 35 Pat I. ( (S) AIR 1957 Pat 617 )), whereas the Allahabad High Court is against it (vide Moinuddin v. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1960 All 484 ).18.	None
In this connection we ought to add that Union of India v. Pandurang Kashinath More, Civil Appeal No. 579 of 1960, in which the Union of India challenged the correctness of the Bombay decision was set down for hearing along with this appeal, and in the judgment which we are pronouncing in the said appeal today we are accepting the appellants contention that the question about the invasion of the fundamental right guaranteed by Art. 16 (1) was not properly raised by the respondent in his plaint in that case and had in fact not been proved accordingly we are holding that the High Court was in error in proceeding to deal with the dispute on the basis that violation of Art.	None
16 (1) had been admitted by the Union.	None
In the result we are allowing the said appeal and setting aside the decision of the High Court on this narrow ground,19.	None
Article 16 (3) provides for one exception to the provisions of Art.	None
(1) and (2) in that it authorises Parliament to make any law prescribing, in regard to a class or classes of employment or appointment to an office under the Government of, or any local or other authority within, a State or Union territory, any requirement as to residence within that State or Union territory prior to such employment or appointment.	None
We are not concerned with this provision in the present appeal.20.	None
That takes us to Art.	None
16 (4).	Arguments of Petitioner
It reads thus Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which, in the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services under the State.	None
In construing Art. 16 (4) the respondent is no doubt entitled to contend that this subarticle in substance provides for an exception to the fundamental rights guaranteed by Art.16 (1) and (2) and as such it must be strictly construed.	None
On the other hand, the appellants may well urge that in construing its provisions the Court should not lose sight of the fact that the Constitution has, if we may say so wisely, showed very great solicitude for the advancement of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	None
Article 15 (4) which provides, inter alia, for an exception to the prohibition of discrimination on grounds specified in Art. 15 (1) lays down that nothing contained in the said Article shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.	None
Similarly, Art. 335 requires that the claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State.	None
For historical reasons which are well known the advancement of socially and educationally backward classes has been treated by the Constitution as a matter of paramount importance and that may have to be borne in mind in construing Art.	None
16 (4).21.	None
On one point in relation to the construction of Art.16 (4) the parties are in agreement.	None
It is common ground that Art. 16 (4) does not cover the entire field covered by Art.	None
16 (1) and (2).	None
Some of the matters relating to employment in respect of which equality of opportunity has been guaranteed by Art. 16 (1) and (2) do not fall within the mischief of nonobstante clause in Art. 16 (4).	None
For instance, it is not denied by the appellants that the conditions of service relating to employment such as salary increment, gratuity, pension and the age of superannuation there can be no exception even in regard to the backward classes of citizens.	Reasoning
In other words, these matters relating to employment are absolutely protected by the doctrine of equality of opportunity and they do not form the subjectmatter of Art. 16 (4).	Reasoning
That is why we have just observed that part of the ground covered by Art. 16 (1) and (2) is admittedly outside the scope of Art. 16 (4).	Reasoning
The point in dispute is Is promotion to a selection post which is included in Art.	Reasoning
16 (1) and (2) covered by Art.	Reasoning
16 (4)	Reasoning
or is it not ?	Reasoning
It is on this point that there is a sharp controversy between the parties.22.	None
Before construing Art. 16 (4) it would be convenient to deal with the question as to whether posts specified by it are posts inside the services or outside them.	None
As we have already seen the High Court has taken the view that the posts in the context must necessarily mean posts outside the services and that in fact is the sole basis of the decision of the High Court against the appellants.	None
The High Court has held that the legislative history of the words appointments and posts justifies the conclusion that posts are excadre posts.	None
Is that really so ?	None
In our opinion, the answer to this question must be in the negative.	None
The argument that legislative history about the use of the relevant words is decisively in favour of excluding service posts from the purview of Art.	Reasoning
16 (4) ignores the fact that there can be no legislative history for the provisions of Art.	Reasoning
16 (4) which have found a place in the Constitution for the first time.	Reasoning
Besides, it is not correct to assume that even the legislative history shows that posts always and inevitably meant posts outside services though it may be conceded that in the majority of corresponding constitutional provisions they do refer to exservice posts.23.	Reasoning
Let us look at the relevant provisions of the Constitution itself.	None
Article 309 empowers the appropriate Legislature to regulate the recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State.	None
In the context posts means posts outside services.	None
Similarly Art. 310 (1) refers to every person who is a member of a defence service or of a civil service of the Union or of an allIndia service or holds any post connected with defence or any civil post under the Union.	None
The word post in the context means an excadre post.	None
Likewise the expression civil post in Art.	None
311(1) means a civil post outside the services.	None
Article 335 to which we have referred uses the word posts in the same sense.	None
But, when we go to Art.	None
336 the word post in the context means posts in the services therein enumerated.	None
The position disclosed by the corresponding provisions of the Constitution Act of 1935 is substantially the same.	None
Sections 240 and 241 for instance use the word posts in the sense of exservice posts whereas S. 246 refers to civil posts in the sense of posts inside the services.	None
In our opinion, it would, therefore, be unreasonable to treat the word posts as a term of art and to clothe it inexorably with the meaning of excadre posts.	None
It is the context in which the word posts is used which must determine its denotation.24.	None
What does the context of Art. 16 (4) indicate?	None
That is the next question which we must consider.	None
Article 16 (4) clearly shows that the power conferred by it can be exercised in cases where the State is of the opinion that any backward class of citizens is not adequately represented in the services under it.	None
In other words, the opinion formed by the State that the representation available to the backward class of citizens in any of the services is inadequate is a condition precedent for the exercise of the power conferred by Art. 16 (4), and so the power to make reservation as contemplated by Art. 16 (4) can be exercised only to make the inadequate representation in the services adequate.	None
If that be so, both appointments and posts to which the operative part of Art. 16 (4) refers and in respect of which the power to make reservation has been conferred on the State must necessarily be appointments and posts in the service.	None
It would be illogical and unreasonable to assume that for making the representation adequate in the services under the State a power should be given to the State to reserve posts outside the cadre of services.	None
If the word posts means excadre posts reservation of such posts cannot possibly cure the imbalance which according to the State is disclosed in the representation in services under it.	None
Therefore, in our opinion, the key clause of Art. 16 (4) which prescribes a condition precedent for invoking the power conferred by it itself unambiguously indicates that the word posts cannot mean excadre posts in the context.	None
In fairness to Mr. Kumaramangalam, who appeared for the respondent, we ought to add that he did not resist the contention of Mr. Chatterjee, for the appellants, that the context requires that posts should be deemed to be posts inside services and not outside them.	None
Therefore, the main, if not the sole, reason given by the High Court in support of its conclusion does not appear to us to be well founded, and so Art. 16 (4) must be construed on the basis that both appointments and posts to which its operative clause refers are appointments and posts in the services under the State.	Reasoning
Incidentally, we may repeat what we have already pointed out that the tenor of the judgment under appeal shows that if the High Court had construed the word posts as posts inside the services, it would not have issued the writ in favour of the respondent.25.	None
Having in substance conceded that posts does not mean posts outside services Mr. Kumaramangalam presented a very plausible argument in support of his case that the impugned circulars fall outside Art.	None
16 (4).	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the key clause on which Mr. Chatterjee relies in construing the word posts as meaning posts in the services itself shows that direct promotion to selection posts by reservation is not permissible under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
16 (4).	Arguments of Petitioner
His argument is that if it is discovered that any backward class of citizens is notadequately represented in the services under the State the State may no doubt seek to introduce the balance by giving adequate representation to the backward class by making reservations for initial appointments.	None
It may decide the proportion of the said reservation in order to introduce the, balance and then give effect to it by making adequate number of appointments by reservation at the initial stage.	None
If this process by itself appears to the State to be slow and tardy it may even reserve selection posts but this reservation can be given effect to again by promoting suitable backward candidates to the said posts after they fall vacant and making a proportionately larger number of appointments at the initial stage.	None
In any case reservation must work from the bottom and reservation cannot be permitted to allow direct appointment to selection posts as the impugned circulars seek to do.	None
It may be conceded that reservation of appointments or posts may be made in the manner suggested by Mr. Kumaramangalam.	Reasoning
It may also be assumed that giving retrospective effect to reservations may well cause heartburning or dissatisfaction amongst the general class of employees and in that sense it would be an act of wisdom not to give effect to reservation retrospectively.	Reasoning
But, with the propriety or the wisdom of the policy underlying the circulars we are not directly concerned.	Reasoning
Even if it be assumed that it would be open to the State to adopt the method suggested by Mr. Kumaramangalam to give effect to the power of reservation in order to make the representation of the backward classes adequate in its services does it follow that it is the only method permissible under Art.	Reasoning
16 (4) ?	Reasoning
We are inclined to hold that the answer to this question cannot be in favour of the respondent.	Reasoning
If it is conceded that selection posts can be reserved it is difficult to see how it would be open to the respondent to contend that these reserved selection posts must be filled only prospectively and not retrospectively.	Reasoning
The concession that selection posts can be reserved on which the argument is based itself provides the answer to the argument that if the said posts can be reserved the reserved posts can be filled either prospectively or retrospectively.	Reasoning
In adopting the latter course there can be no violation of the constitutional provision contained in Art. 16 (4).26.	None
The condition precedent for the exercise of the powers conferred by Art. 16 (4) is that the State ought to be satisfied that any backward class of citizens is not adequately represented in its services.	None
This condition precedent may refer either to the numerical inadequacy of representation in the services or even to the qualitative inadequacy of representation.	None
The advancement of the socially and educationally backward classes requires not only that they should have adequate representation in the lowest rung of services but that they should aspire to secure adequate representation in selection posts in the services as well.	None
In the context the expression adequately represented imports considerations of size as well as values, numbers as well as the nature of appointments held and so it involves not merely the numerical test but also the qualitative one.	None
It is thus by the operation of the numerical and a qualitative test that the adequacy or otherwise of the representation of backward classes in any service has to be judged and if that be so, it would not be reasonable to hold that the inadequacy of representation can and must be cured only by reserving a proportionately higher percentage of appointments at the initial stage.	None
In a given case the State may well take the view that a certain percentage of selection posts should also be reserved, for reservation of such posts may make the representation of backward classes in the services adequate, the adequacy of such representation being considered qualitatively.	None
If it is conceded that posts in the context refer to posts in the services and that selection posts in the services and that selection posts may be reserved but should be filled only in the manner suggested by the respondent then we see no reason for holding that the reservation of selection posts cannot be implemented by promoting suitable members of backward class of citizens to such posts as the circulars intend to do.27.	None
We must in this connection consider an alternative argument that the word posts must refer not to selection posts but to posts filled by initial appointments.	None
On this argument reservation of appointments means reservation of certain percentage in the initial appointments and reservation of posts means reservation of initial posts which may be adopted in order to expedite and make more effective the reservation of appointments themselves.	None
On this construction the use of the word posts appears to be wholly redundant.	None
In our opinion, having regard to the fact that we are construing the relevant expression reservation of appointments in a constitutional provision it would be unreasonable to assume that the reservation of appointments would not include both the methods of reservation, namely, reservation of appointments by fixing a certain percentage in that behalf as well as reservation of certain initial posts in order to make the reservation of appointments more effective.	Reasoning
That being so, this alternative argument which confines the word posts to initial posts seems to us to be entirely unreasonable.	Reasoning
On the other hand, under the construction by which the word posts includes selection posts the use of the word posts is not superfluous but serves a very important purpose.	Reasoning
It shows that reservation can be made not only in regard to appointments which are initial appointments but also in regard to selection posts which may fall to be filled by employees after their employment.	Reasoning
This construction has the merit of interpreting the words appointments and posts in their broad and liberal sense and giving effect to the policy which is obviously the basis of the provisions of Art. 16 (4).	Reasoning
Therefore, we are disposed to take the view that the power of reservation which is conferred on the State under Art. 16 (4) can be exercised by the State in a proper case not only by providing for reservation of appointments but also by providing for reservation of selection posts.	Reasoning
This construction, in our opinion, would serve to give effect to the intention of the Constitutionmakers to make adequate safeguard for the advancement of backward classes and to secure for their adequate representation in the services.	Reasoning
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the High Court was in error in holding that the impugned circulars do not fall within Art. 16 (4).28.	Reasoning
It is true that in providing for the reservation of appointments or posts under Art.	Reasoning
16 (4) the State has to take into consideration the claims of the members of the backward classes consistently with the maintenance of the efficiency of administration.	Reasoning
It must not be forgotten that the efficiency of administration is of such paramount importance that it would be unwise and impermissible to make any reservation at the cost of efficiency of administration.	Reasoning
That undoubtedly is the effect of Art. 335.	Reasoning
Reservation of appointments or posts may theoretically and conceivably mean same impairment of efficiency but the risk involved in sacrificing efficiency of administration must always be borne in mind when any State sets about making a provision for reservation of appointments or posts.	Reasoning
It is also true that the reservation which can be made under Art. 16 (4) is intended merely to give adequate representation to backward communities.	Reasoning
It cannot be used for creating monopolies or for unduly or illegitimately disturbing the legitimate interests of other employees.	Reasoning
In exercising the powers under Art. 16 (4) the problem of adequate representation of the backward class of citizens must be fairly and objectively considered and an attempt must always be made to strike a reasonable balance between the claims of backward classes and the claims of other employees as well as the important consideration of the efficiency of administration but, in the present case, as we have already seen, the challenge to the validity of the impugned circulars is based on the assumption that the said circulars are outside Art.	Reasoning
16 (4) because the posts referred to in the said Article are posts outside the cadre of services and in any case, do not include selection posts.	Reasoning
Since, in our opinion, this assumption is not well founded we must hold that the impugned circulars are not unconstitutional.29.	Reasoning
In the result the decision of the High Court under appeal is reversed and the respondents application for a writ is dismissed.	Decision
There would be no order as to costs.	None
Wanchoo, J.30.	None
I have read the judgment just delivered by my learned brother Gajendragadkar J., and I agree with him as to the scope of Art.	None
16 (1) of the Constitution.	None
I also agree with him that the scheduled castes and the scheduled tribes are included in the words backward class of citizens in Art.	None
16 (4) and that the word posts in that Article refers to posts in the services and not to posts outside the services.	None
I regret however that I have not been able to persuade myself that Art, 16 (4) permits reservation even in grades within a particular service in case the service has various grades in its cadre, and proceed to give my reasons for the same.31.	None
Before I construe the words of Art, 16 (4), 1 may state that I am not unmindful of the fact that Art. 16 (4) is a constitutional provision and that constitutional provisions are not to be interpreted in any narrow or pedantic sense.	None
At the same time it cannot be forgotten that Art. 16 (4) is in the nature of an exception or a proviso to Art.	None
16 (1) which is a fundamental right providing equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.	None
This aspect of Art. 16 (4) in my opinion inevitably requires that the proviso or the exception should not be interpreted so liberally as to destroy the fundamental right itself to which it is a proviso or exception.	None
The construction therefore of Art. 16 (4) cannot ignore this aspect of the matter.32.	None
I now read Art.	None
16 (4) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which, in the opinion of the State is not adequately represented in the services under the State.	None
Before I turn to the actual words used in the Article I must refer to what I consider is implicit in that Article.	None
The Article provides for reservation of appointments or posts and it seems to me obvious that it is implicit in the Article that the reservation of appointments or posts cannot go to the length of reserving all appointments or posts or even to the length of reserving a majority of them.	None
The reason why I say that all appointments or posts cannot be reserved under Art. 16 (4)  (though that would be the result if the widest possible interpretation is given to the words used in the Article)  is that if all appointments or posts could be reserved under Art. 16 (4) it would mean complete destruction of the fundamental right guaranteed under Art.	None
16	None
(1).	None
It could not be the intention of the Constitutionmakers that the proviso or exception in Art. 16	None
(4) should be so used as to destroy, completely the fundamental right enshrined in Art. 16 (1).	None
Nor do I think that it is permissible under Art.	None
16 (4) to reserve a majority of appointments or posts, for that again, in my opinion, though it may not completely destroy the fundamental right guaranteed under Art, 16 (1) will certainly make it practically illusory.	None
Again it could not be the intention of the Constitutionmakers that Art. 16 (4) should be so interpreted as to make the fundamental right guaranteed under Art.	None
16 (1) illusory.	None
I may in this connection refer to Art. 535 which occurs in Part XVI dealing with Special Provisions relating to certain Classes, which reinforces what I have said above.	None
That Article provides thatthe claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State.	None
Now the scheduled tribes and the scheduled castes are included in the words backward class of citizens used in Art. 16 (4).	None
Therefore in considering the claims of, at any rate, a part of, those included in Art. 16 (4) (and I presume the same will apply to the whole) the maintenance of efficiency of administration must be kept in mind, for the reservation provided in Art.	None
16 (4) is to meet the claims of the members of the scheduled castes and the scheduled tribes.	None
Reservation, therefore, of all appointments or posts or even a majority of them is certain to result in the impairment of efficiency of administration and therefore what I consider as implicit in Art, 16 (4) is borne out also by the provision in Art.	None
335.	None
It is in this background that the interpretation of Art. 16 (4) falls to be considered.33.	None
Turning now to the words in Art. 16 (4), it appears to me that the key words in that Article are not adequately represented in the services under the State.	None
Obviously, reservation can be made under this Article only if the State comes to the conclusion that any backward class of citizens is not adequately represented in the services under it.	None
If, for example, the State is of opinion that backward classes are adequately represented in the services it can make no reservation under Art, 16 (4).What then is the meaning of these key words in this Article ?	None
What these words require is that reservation may be made in order to make the representation of any backward class of citizens adequate in the services.	None
Does the word adequate imply only numerical representation in the services or does it imply something more than that?	None
The three meanings of the word adequate given in the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary are (i) equal in magnitude and extent (ii) commensurate in fitness sufficient, suitable and (iii) fully representing (logic).	None
It seems to me that it is the second meaning (namely, sufficient) which properly applies to the words adequately represented as used in this Article.	None
Sufficient has two meanings (i) Sufficing, adequate, esp.	None
in amount or number to the need (ii) enough adequate quantity.	None
Therefore, when Art. 16 (4) says that reservation may be made in order that any backward class of citizens may be adequately represented in the services it means that reservation may be made in order to make the number of any backward class sufficient in the services under the State.	Reasoning
These words do not in my opinion convey any idea of quality and can only mean sufficient quantitative representation in the services under the State.	None
If the intention of the Constitutionmakers was that there may also be reservation in various grades in a particular service where there are grades in the service, I should have expected different words being used in Art.	None
16 (4) to convey that meaning.	None
These key words used in this Article further convey the idea of representation in the services as a whole, for there are no words which suggest that the service should be broken up in case there are grades in it for the purposes of adequate representation.	None
The conclusion therefore at which I arrive is that these key words convey the idea of adequate numerical representation for any backward class of citizens in a particular service as a whole and it is for this purpose alone that reservation can be made of appointments or posts in the services.34.	None
This brings me to the question as to how the reservation is to be made.	None
Art. 16	None
(4) tells us that it may be made either by reserving appointments to the services or reserving posts in the services.	None
Appointments in my opinion clearly mean the initial appointments to a service, for a person is appointed only once in a service and thereafter there is no further appointment.	None
Therefore when the Article speaks of reservation of appointments it means reservation of a percentage of initial appointments to the service.	None
Posts refer to the total number of posts in the service and when reservation is by reference to posts it means reservation of a certain percentage of posts out of the total number of posts in the service.	None
The reason why these two methods are mentioned in this Article is also to my mind plain.	None
The method of reservation of appointments would mean that the goal of adequate representation may be reached in a long time.	None
Therefore, in order that the goal may be reached in a comparatively shorter period of time, the Article also provides for the method of reservation of posts.	None
This will be clear from an example which I may give.	None
Suppose there are 1,000 posts in a particular service and the backward classes have no representation at all in that service.	None
The State considers it necessary that they should have adequate representation in that service.	None
Suppose also that the annual appointments to be made to the service in order to keep it at full strength is thirty.	None
Now the State if it chooses the method of reservation of appointments will reserve a percentage of appointments each year for backward classes.	None
Now suppose that that percentage is fixed at ten per centum.	None
In order therefore to reach the ten per centum of the total number of posts in the service by the method of reservation of appointments, the period taken would be roughly 34 years.	None
This period may be considered too long and therefore the State may decide to adopt the other way, i.e., the reservation of posts and suppose it is decided to reserve ten per centum of the posts, i.e., 100 in all.	None
It will then be open to the State having reserved 100 posts in this particular service for backward classes to say that till these 100 posts are filled up by backward classes all appointments will go to them provided the minimum qualifications that may be prescribed are fulfilled.	None
Suppose further that it is possible to get annually the requisite number of qualified members of backward classes equal to the annual appointments, the representation of the backward classes will be made adequate in about four years.	None
Once the representation is adequate there will be no power left for making further reservation.	None
Thus by the method of reservation of appointments the representation is made adequate in a long period of time while by the method of reserving posts the representation is made adequate in a much shorter period.	None
That seems to be the reason why the Article speaks of reservation of appointments as well as of posts.35.	None
It is however said that this construction of Art. 16 (4) makes the use of the word posts therein superfluous, and that the same result of making the representation adequate quickly could have been achieved if the word appointments only had been used therein.	None
I am of opinion that this is not so and the use of the word appointments only in Art.	None
16 (4) would not have made it possible for the State to make the representation of backward classes adequate in a short space of time.	None
In the example I have given the representation of backward classes was made adequate in four years by the method of reservation of posts it would however not have been possible to make the representation adequate in this hypothetical case in such a short time if the Article only provided for reservation of appointments.	None
I have already said that it is implicit in the Article that reservation cannot be of all appointments or even of a majority of them, for that would completely destroy the fundamental right enshrined in Art.	None
16 (1) to which Art. 16 (4) is in the nature of a proviso or an exception or at any rate make it practically illusory.	None
Therefore, it would not be open to the State to reserve all or even a majority of the appointments for backward classes, if the word appointments only had been used in Art. 16 (4).	None
Even if a larger percentage than ten per centum were reserved for backward classes in the matter of appointments in the hypothetical case given by me it would not be possible to reach the total of 100 posts for the backward classes in the service in less than twice or thrice the time taken by the method of reservation of posts, for the State could not reserve all or even the majority of appointments in any particular year, in view of what is implicit in Art. 16 (4), if the word appointments only had been there.	None
It seems to me therefore that the use of the word posts in that Article was with a purpose, namely, that by the method of reservation of posts the inadequate representation may be made adequate within a short space of time and the objection, that could be raised to the reservation of all appointments, if only the word appointments had been used in the Article, would no longer be available.	None
It cannot therefore be said that on the interpretation I have placed on Art. 16 (4) the use of the word posts) therein becomes superfluous.36.	None
I have already said that if the intention was not only to make reservation in the service as a whole whether by the method of reserving appointments or by the method of reserving posts but also to include reservation in various grades in which a service may be divided, the words of Art, 16 (4) would have been different.	None
I may in this connection refer to Art.	None
335 again, which lays down that the claims of the scheduled castes and the scheduled tribes (which are part of backward classes of citizens) shall be considered consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration.	None
It seems to me that reservation of posts in various grades in the same service is bound to result, for obvious reasons, in deterioration in the efficiency of administration and reading Art.	None
335 along with Art.	None
16 (4) which to my mind is permissible on the principle of harmonious construction (see M. S. M. Sharma v. Sri Krishna Sinha, 1959 Supp (1) S C R 806 at pp.	None
85960(A	None
I R 1959 SC 395 at p. 410)), it could not be the intention of the Constitutionmakers that reservation in Art.16 (4), for at any rate a part of those comprised therein, should result in the impairment of the efficiency of administration.	None
It also seems to me equally obvious that what applies to a part of those comprised in the words any backward class of citizens also applies to the whole.	None
Therefore, in the absence of clear words in Art. 16 (4) which would compel one to hold that reservation was meant to apply not only to the service taken as a whole but also to various grades in which the service might be divided, I feel that an interpretation should not be given which would result in the impairment of efficiency of administration, which is zealously safeguarded even when considering the claims of the scheduled castes and the scheduled tribes.	None
I am therefore of opinion that giving the words used in Art.16 (4) as liberal an interpretation as is possible without destroying or making illusory the fundamental right guaranteed in Art.16 (1) to which Art. 16 (4) is in the nature of an exception or a proviso, Art.16 (4) can only mean that the State has the power thereunder to reserve numerically a certain percentage of appointments or posts in the manner I have indicated above and it has no power to split the service into various grades which might exist in it and make reservation in each grade because of the use of the word posts therein.	None
I would therefore dismiss the appeal but for different reasons.	None
Ayyangar, J.37.	None
I regret that I cannot share the view of my learned brethren expressed by Gajendragadkar, J. that the appeal should be allowed and I agree with Wanchoo, J. that the appeal should be dismissed and the order of the High Court maintained.38.	None
The facts of the case have been set out in great detail in the judgments already delivered and it is unnecessary to repeat them.39.	None
Mr. Chatterji when he opened the appeal appeared to claim that the scope and content of Art.16 (1) and of subArt.	None
(4) thereof were identical and that if Art. 16 (1) guaranteed by the use of the wide expression matters relating to employment, equality of opportunity in relation to promotions also, Art. 16 (4) should he construed to have the same width.	None
But this argument however be abandoned at a later stage.	None
The point therefore does not call for any consideration and the judgments now delivered proceed on the basis that the scope of the limitation on the equality of opportunity which is provided in.	None
Art. 16 (4) is not coextensive with the freedom guaranteed by Art, 16 (1).	None
The only question therefore is in what respect is Art.	None
16 (4) narrower than Art, 16 (1).	None
In considering this the rule of construction should be borne in mind that a restriction on a guaranteed freedom should be narrowly construed to as to afford sufficient scope for the freedom guaranteed.40.	None
The judgment of the learned Judge now under appeal proceeds on the basis that the expression posts in Art. 16 (4) was a reference to what are termed in service parlance ex cadre posts and not posts in the service.	None
Mr. Chatterjis submission was that the learned Judge had no basis for importing the nomenclature and the classifications to be found in Part XIV into Part III dealing with fundamental rights.	None
In particular, Mr. Chatterji quarrelled with the statement by the learned Judge that the expression appointments and posts occurring in Art.16 (4) were virtually terms of art which had to be interpreted and understood in the light of the legislative history of the constitutional enactments that preceded the Constitution, and in consonance with the scheme that underlies the provisions of the Constitution, which have reference to the civil services and civil servants in this country.	None
Mr. Chatterji further pointed out that the learned Judge went wrong in observing that The expressions appointments and posts in Art. 16(4) have really to be read as appointments to services and appointments to posts on the ground that the words used in Art. 16 (4) were merely appointments and posts and not appointments to services etc., the latter occurring only in Part XIV.	None
It was, however, common ground that if the learned Judge was right in considering that appointments in Art.	None
16 (4) meant appointments to services, the notification now impugned should be held, to be unconstitutional.41.	None
Mr. Chatterji did not dispute that when the expressions appointments to services and appointments to posts occurred in Ch. XIV vide for instance in Arts, 309, 311 etc., being phrases borrowed from statutory provisions of the Government of India Act,1935 the expression appointment to a post designated an ex cadre post.	None
The submission, however, of learned Counsel was that there was no justification for importing the phraseology employed in Part XIV in Art. 16 (4), notwithstanding that Art.	None
16 dealt with equality of opportunity for employment in the services of the State and subart.	None
(4) was concerned with the reservation of appointments in Services under the State.	None
His submission was that Art. 16 (4) had no legislative precedent in the previous constitutional enactments to justify the importation of service rules and service jargaon as in aid to its construction.42.	None
My learned Brothers have acceded to this submission of Mr. Chatterji.	None
With great respect to them I consider that the view of the learned Judge of the High Court is correct.	None
In the first place, the Article being one concerning the right to be employed in the Services of the State, one has necessarily to turn on the relevant provisions in relation to the Services to discover the precise import of the expressions used in relation to the Services.	None
Besides, we are not left in doubt as to the interconnection between Art.	None
16 and Part XIV dealing with Services, because Art. 335 forms, as it were, the link between part XIV and the provisions for reservation in favour of the backward communities in Art.	None
16 (4) setting out as it does the principles that should guide the State in the matter of reservation in the Services which could obviously be only a reference to that provided for by Art. l6 (4).	None
Art. 335 runs ,The claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State.	None
In this Article, at any rate, it cannot be contended, and I did not understand Mr. Chatterji to contend, that posts had any reference to posts in the services.	None
If it were so then in my judgment it would follow that the phraseology, employed in this Article which deals with the same subject as that dealt with by Art, l6 (4) throws light on and explains the meaning of the expression posts in Art.16 (4).	None
It is only necessary to add that Art. 320 (4) which runsNothing in cl.	None
(3) shall require a Public Service Commission to be consulted as respects the manner in which any provision referred to in cl.	None
(4) of Art.	None
l6 may be made or as respects the manner in which effect may be given to the provisions of Art.	None
335.to which learned Counsel for the respondent drew our attention indicates, if other indications were necessary, that Arts. 16(4) and 335 have to be read together and not as if the posts referred to in Art.	None
335 indicated a different idea or connoted a different concept from the same word used in Art. 16(4).43.	None
Even if the above view were wrong and the expression posts were intended to designate not ex cadre posts but posts in the service, I am unable to hold that the appellant derives any advantage.	None
As my learned brother Wanchoo, J. has pointed out, the crucial words in Art. 16 (4), and which form as it were the key to its interpretation, from which the power of the State to make the reservation stems, are that a class of citizens is not adequately represented in the Services of the State.	None
The action permitted to be taken to redress this inadequacy is by reservation of appointments and posts.	None
If by the expression posts are meant posts in the service itself, I feel unable to attribute to the expression posts any special significance beyond an appointment to the service.	None
Every appointment in a service must be to a post in a service, because there cannot be an appointment in the air but can only be to a post in a service.	None
In that sense, in my view, the expression post would be really redundant unless, of course, as I have said earlier, it meant not posts in a service but ex cadre posts.44.	None
There is also one other aspect to which I might advert.	None
In some of the top grades there are single posts in the Service.	None
If at any point of time the incumbent is not a member of the backward class, it would certainly be a case of inadequate representation as regards that post which would mean that such posts which are single may be reserved for all time to be held by members of the backward classes, because it at any moment such a person ceases to hold the post there would be inadequate representation in regard to that post.	None
I have drawn attention to this because it pointedly demonstrates that the correct view is that when inadequacy of representation is referred to in Art. 16 (4) as justifying a reservation, the only rational and reasonable construction of the words are that it refers to a quantitative deficiency in the representation of the backward classes in the service taken as a whole and not to an inadequate representation at each grade of service or in respect of each post in the service.45.	None
Besides, even on the footing that posts mean posts in the Services, Art.16 (4) properly construed in the light of Art. 335 of the Constitution whose inter action has been discussed in great detail by Wanchoo, J. in the judgment just now pronounced with which I entirely agree, contemplates and permits reservation only in respect of appointments to Services at the initial stage and not at each stage even after the appointment has taken place.46.	None
There is one other matter also which I consider relevant in this context.	None
Under Art. 16 (4) the State is enabled to make provision for the reservation of appointments if in their opinion certain backward classes of citizens are not adequately represented in the Service.	None
The Article therefore contemplates action in relation to and having effect in the future when once the State forms the opinion about the inadequacy of the Service.	None
If an inadequacy exists today, to give retrospective effect to the reservation, as the impugned notification has done, would be to readdress an inadequate representation which took place in the past by an order issued today.	None
In my judgment that is not contemplated by the power conferred to reserve which can only mean for the future.	None
As this point however has not been argued I do not desire to rest my judgment on it, but have mentioned it to draw attention to another feature of the notification which deserves consideration.47.	None
I would therefore dismiss the appeal with costs.	None
ORDERBY THE COURT48.	Decision
In accordance with the opinion of the majority the appeal is allowed the decision of the High Court under appeal is reversed and the respondents application or a writ is dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.49.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
