 K. Thakker, J. The present review petition is filed against an order dated January 31, 2006 passed in Arbitration Petition No. 1 of 2005, in Shin Satellite Public Co. Ltd. v. M s. Jain Studios Ltd., (2006) 2 SCC 628.	Issue
The prayer is to review the said order and restore the Arbitration Petition to the file for reconsideration.	Issue
A further prayer is made to permit the applicant to nominate Honble Mr. Justice Satpal, Retd.	Issue
Judge, High Court of Punjab and Haryana as one of the arbitrators.2.	Facts
Notice was issued by me on May 4, 2006 by making it returnable on May 11, 2006.	Facts
On returnable date, the parties were heard.	Facts
It is not necessary to narrate the facts in detail in the present review petition since they had been stated in the main order.	None
It was submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that there were two obvious errors in the order wherein it was observed as if the applicant (respondent in the Arbitration Petition) submitted that arbitration may be held in London or in Singapore where arbitration proceedings were going on between the parties and the applicant had no objection if the matter was referred to arbitration in London or in Singapore.	Arguments of Petitioner
On merits, it was submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that the dispute between the parties under the agreement was to be finally resolved by arbitration under the rules of UNCITRAL.	None
Article 5 relates to composition of arbitral tribunal and provides that if the parties had not previously agreed to the number of arbitrators and if within fifteen days after the receipt by the respondent of the notice of arbitration, the parties had not agreed that there should be only one arbitrator, three arbitrators should be appointed.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the applicant, Shin Satellite, through its advocate, served a notice and called upon the applicant herein to appoint an arbitrator but no appointment was made by the applicant.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that eventuality, submitted the counsel, three arbitrators ought to have been appointed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not disputes that the applicant contested the matter urging that there was no legal and valid arbitration agreement between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also not disputed that in the light of the objection by the applicant herein, an application was made by Shin Satellite to the Honble the Chief Justice of India for appointment of arbitrator under subsection (6) of Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (Act for short) and as a nominee of the Honble the Chief Justice of India, by an order dated January 31, 2006, I allowed the application and appointed Honble Mr. Justice M.L. Pendse, Retd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Judge as the sole arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel, however, submitted that as per UNCITRAL Model, three arbitrators ought to have been appointed.	Arguments of Petitioner
To that extent, therefore, the order deserves to be reviewed and an appropriate order requires to be passed for appointment of three arbitrators.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondent contested the review petition.	Arguments of Respondent
He raised a preliminary objection that review petition is not maintainable and it is liable to be dismissed on that ground alone.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that there is no inherent power of review in a Court or in any other authority.	Arguments of Respondent
Such power must be conferred expressly by a statutory provision.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also submitted that the judgment of a larger Bench of this Court in SBP Company v. Patel Engineering Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618 makes it clear that the power exercised by the Chief Justice of a High Court or his nominee or by the Chief Justice of India or his nominee under subsection (6) of Section 11 of the Act is judicial.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on subsection (7) of Section 11 of the Act, the counsel submitted that the decision of the Chief Justice or his nominee is final and no review lies against such order.	Arguments of Respondent
On merits, it was submitted that the applicant seeks to re agitate the same point which was advanced at the time of hearing.	None
A prayer was made when the main matter was argued that the applicant may be granted time to make the appointment of an arbitrator but the prayer was rejected.	Arguments of Respondent
By invoking review jurisdiction, virtually the same prayer has been made, which was expressly negatived earlier.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel submitted that the review is yet another dilatory tactic adopted by the applicant who is not interested in speedy resolution of dispute between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
He, therefore, submitted that the review application may be dismissed with costs.7.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as the maintainability of review petition is concerned, in my opinion, the preliminary objection raised by the learned counsel for the respondent is not wellfounded.	Reasoning
In Patel Engineering Ltd., this Court by majority of 61 held the function performed by the Chief Justice of a High Court or his nominee or by the Chief Justice of India or his nominee to be a judicial one.	Reasoning
Once the function performed by the Chief Justice of India or his nominee is held to be judicial, it cannot be contended that an application for review of an order passed by the Chief Justice of India or his nominee is not maintainable.	Reasoning
In any opinion, the learned counsel for the applicant is right in relying upon Article 137 of the Constitution which reads thus Review of judgments or orders by the Supreme Court.	None
Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or any rules made under article 145, the Supreme Court shall have power to review any judgment pronounced or order made by it.	None
An order passed by the Chief Justice of India or his nominee under Section 11(6) of the Act is indeed an order within the meaning of Article 137 of the Constitution and is subject to review under the aforesaid provision.	None
I accordingly hold the review petition to be maintainable and proceed to consider it on merits.	None
Regarding correction of errors shown by the applicant, the learned counsel for the opponent does not dispute the position and accordingly the submission is accepted by observing that it was not the case of the applicant herein (respondent in the main matter), that arbitration be held in London or in Singapore.	Reasoning
The mistake is ordered to be corrected accordingly.	None
So far as the grievance of the applicant on merits is concerned, the learned counsel for the opponent is right in submitting that virtually the applicant seeks the same relief which had been sought at the time of arguing the main matter and had been negatived.	None
Once such a prayer had been refused, no review petition would lie which would convert rehearing of the original matter.	Reasoning
It is settled law that the power of review cannot be confused with appellate power which enables a superior Court to correct all errors committed by a subordinate Court.	Reasoning
It is not rehearing of an original matter.	Reasoning
A repetition of old and overruled argument is not enough to reopen concluded adjudications.	Reasoning
The power of review can be exercised with extreme care, caution and circumspection and only in exceptional cases.	None
When a prayer to appoint an arbitrator by the applicant herein had been made at the time when the Arbitration Petition was heard and was rejected, the same relief cannot be sought by an indirect method by filing a review petition.	Reasoning
Such petition, in my opinion, is in the nature of second innings which is impermissible and unwarranted and cannot be granted.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons, the limited prayer to the extent of clarification of the order as to the stand taken by the applicant and the statement made on its behalf is granted.	Decision
The larger prayer for reconsideration of the order passed in the Arbitration Petition and allowing the applicant to nominate Honble Mr. Justice Satpal, Retd.	Decision
Judge of the High Court of Punjab Haryana as one of the arbitrators, however, is rejected.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
