 K. Das, J. (For himself and Kapur, Gajendragadkar, K. Subba Rao, Wanchoo and N. Rajagopala Ayyanger JJ.)	None
1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave granted by this Court on September 17, 1956.	Issue
The Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay City I, is the appellant before us.	None
The respondent is Bai Shirinbai K. Kooka, who will be referred to in this judgment as the assesses.	None
2.	None
The assesses is a Parsi lady who held by way of investment a large number of shares of different companies.	Facts
These shares were purchased before the end of and after 193940 at a cost price which was much less than their market value on April 1, 1945 Her dividend income was assessed to incometax for several years prior to April 1, 1945 but in the assessment year 194647, the relevant accounting year being financial year 1945 46, the Incometax Officer found that the assessee had converted her shares into her stock intrade and carried on a trading activity, viz.	Facts
a business in shares.	Facts
Her income for the assessment year 194647 was therefore computed on the basis of the profits which she made by the sale of her shares as a trading activity, the profits being calculated on the difference between the market price at the beginning of the account year and the sale proceeds.	Facts
For the assessment year 1947 48, the relevant accounting year being the financial year 194647, it was found by the Incometax Officer that the sale proceeds of the shares which the assessee had sold amounted to Rs.	Facts
5,49,487.	Facts
The Incometax Officer calculated the profits in the following manner Sale Proceeds Rs.	None
5,49,487 Cost Calculated on the basis of the market price of the shares at the beginning of the account year	Facts
Rs. 4,50,822	None
Rs. 98,655 Less Forward business loss Rs. 25,344 Net profit Rs. 73,321 The assesses then appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who enhanced the income of the assessee by a sum of Rs. 2,91,307 including a capital gain of RS.	Facts
37,590.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner proceeded on the footing that the profit earned by the assesses on the sale of the shares was the difference between the original cost price of the shares and the sale proceeds.	Facts
He further held that some of the shares which were sold in the account year 194647 were the assessees stockin trade, while some other shares were her investment shares.	Facts
Then there was an appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal and the principal point taken before the Tribunal related to the question as to how the profits of the assessee on the sale of her shares should be calculated.	Facts
The Judicial Member of the Tribunal accepted the view expressed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and held that the original cost price of the shares must he taken in order to find out the profits which the assessee had made on the sale of the shares.	Facts
The Accountant member agreed, however, with the view of the Incometax Officer and held that the market value of the shares as on the date when they were converted into stockintrade by the assessee should be taken into consideration for the purpose of ascertaining the profits made by the assesses on the sale of those shares.	Facts
On this difference between the two Members of the Tribunal, the matter was referred to the President of the Tribunal.	Facts
The President agreed with the view of the Accountant Member.	Facts
The Tribunal was then moved by the appellant to state a case to the High Court of Bombay on the question of law which arose out of the Tribunals order, namely, what should be the basis of computation of the profits made by the assessee by the sale of her shares in the relevant year.	Facts
The Tribunal came to the conclusion that the question as to when the assessee became a dealer in shares or when the assessee turned her investment shares into her stockintrade, was a question of fact, and the only question of law that arose was as to how the profit was to be computed.	Facts
Accordingly, the Tribunal framed the question of law in the following termsWhether the assessees assessable profit on the sale of shares is the difference between the sale price and the cost price or the difference between the sale price and the market price prevailing on 141945?	None
3.	None
The aforesaid question of law was then referred to the High Court of Bombay under S. 60(1) of the Indian Incometax Act,1922 (XI of 1922).	Facts
This was Incometax Reference No. 49 of 1955.	None
The reference was heard by a Division Bench consisting of Chagla, C. J. and Tendolkar, J. By its judgment and order dated March 6, 1956 the High Court answered the question in favour of the assessee and held that the assessees assessable profit on the sale of shares was the difference between the sale price and the market price prevailing on April 1, 1945.	Facts
The appellant having unsuccessfully moved the High Court for a certificate under S. 66A(2) of the Incometax Act, applied for special leave to this Court.	Facts
Such leave was granted by this Court by an order dated September 17, 1956.	Facts
4.	None
This appeal was heard in part by Bench of three Judges presided over by the learned Chief Justice, who directed that it be posted for hearing before a Bench consisting of seven Judges, presumably because one of the points urged before the Bench was whether the majority decision of this Court in Sir Kikabhai Premchand v. Commissioner of Incometax (Central), Bombay, 1954	Facts
SCR 219.	Facts
(AIR 1953 SC 509 ) required reconsideration.	Facts
It may be here stated that the learned Judges of the High Court had before them the decision in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) and they considered that decision carefully and held that the decision could be distinguished firstly on the ground that the problem which the High Court had before it in the present case was the content of taxable profits in a commercial sense out of the amount actually received by the assesses by a sale of her shares whereas the problem in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR SC 509) was of a different nature, namely, whether it was open to the department to tax an assesses on a fictional sale or potential profits and secondly, on the ground that the principle laid down in Kikabhais case.	Facts
1954	Facts
SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) had no application to case where real or actual profits, as distinguished from fictional profits, have to be allocated or attributed to the trading activity.	Facts
One of the points which we have to consider in this appeal is whether, on principle, the distinction drawn by the High Court is correct or whether the ratio of Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) should govern the present case.	Facts
5.	None
As we have stated earlier, the problem is how should the profit made by the assessee by a sale of her shares as a trading activity be computed, it being not in dispute that there was in this case a real sale resulting in actual profits.	Facts
The High Court first emphasised the point, which has not been controverted before us, that in order to arrive at real profits one must consider the accounts of the business on commercial principles and construe profits in their normal and natural sense, a sense which no commercial man will misunderstand.	Facts
It then pointed out that what the shares cost originally to the assessee at a time when she had no business or trading activity, could not, in a commercial sense be said to be the cost of the shares to the business which started on April 1, 1945 the original cost was really a matter of historical record and it had no relevance in the determination or ascertainment of profits which the business made.	Facts
Obviously, the whole of the sale proceeds or receipts could not be treated as profits and made liable to lax, for that would make no sense a portion only of the receipts can be treated as profit but what portion?	Facts
Normally, the commercial profits out of the transaction of a sale of an article is the difference between what the article costs the business and what it fetches on sale.	Facts
The High Court pointed out that when the assessee purchased the shares at a lesser price, that is what they cost her, and not the business but so far as the business was concerned, the shares cost the business nothing more or less than their market value on April 1,1945.	None
6.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General who has appeared on behalf of the appellant in this case has contested the correctness of the above line of approach.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has submitted, firstly, that the distinction drawn by the High Court between Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) and the present case is not warranted on principle secondly he has contended that the ratio in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 )) should apply in the present case also and thirdly, he has contended that in holding that the price of the shares should be the market price as on April 1,1945, when the shares were converted into stockintrade, the High Court in effect held by a legal fiction that the assessee had realised the potential profits on the said shares on that date, which she had not actually done and hence the very basis of the judgment of the High Court is vitiated by the assumption of a fiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Additional Solicitor General has also submitted that there was no warrant for the High Court to introduce a legal fiction that there was a notional sale of the shares on April 1, 1945, by the assesses and that the gains which accrued to the assesses on that sale were capital gains this notional sale, it is submitted, violates the basic principle that a man cannot sell to himself nor can he make a loss or profit out of transactions with himself.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
We propose now to examine these arguments in some detail.	Reasoning
The question raised is a short question but a difficult one to order to examine the arguments urged on behalf of the appellant, it is necessary first to refer to the decision of this Court in Kikabhais case 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509).	Reasoning
The facts of that case were these.	None
The assesses there was a dealer in silver and shares and he maintained his accounts according to the mercantile system and valued his stock at cost price both in the beginning and at the end of the year.	Reasoning
During the relevant accounting year he withdrew some silver bars and shares from the business and settled them on certain trusts in which he was the managing trustee and in his books of account he credited the business with the cost price of the silver bars and shares so withdrawn.	Reasoning
The incometax authorities assessed him to tax on the basis of the difference between the cost price of the silver bars and shares and their market value at the date of their withdrawal from the business.	Reasoning
The High Court of Bombay upheld the action of the incometax authorities.	None
The Court, however, by a majority decision came to the conclusion that the assessee was entitled to value the silver bars and shares withdrawn at cost price and was not bound to credit the business with their market value at the close of the year for ascertaining the assessable profits for the year.	Reasoning
Bhagwati, J. who expressed the dissentient view said that so far as the business was concerned, it made no difference whether the stockintrade was realised or withdrawn from the business and the business was entitled to be credited with the market value of the assets withdrawn as at the date of the withdrawal, whatever be the method employed by the assessee for the valuation of its stockintrade on hand at he close of the year.	Reasoning
The majority view was expressed by Bose, J., who dealt with the two contentions of the learned Attorney General who appeared for the Revenue (respondent) in that case.	Reasoning
The Attorney Generals first contention was that as the silver bars and shares were brought into the business, any withdrawal of them from the business must be dealt with along ordinary and wellknown business lines, namely, that if a person withdraws an asset from a business must account for it to the business at the market rate prevailing at the date of the withdrawal.	Reasoning
This contention was repelled y the majority on the ground that the transaction of withdrawal was not a business transaction and by the act of withdrawal the business made no profit or gain nor did it sustain a loss and the assessee derived no income from it.	None
It was pointed out that the assessee might have stored up a future advantage for himself but as the transactions of withdrawal were not business transactions and as the assesses derived no immediate pecuniary gain, the State could not tax them for under the Incometax Act the State has no power to tax a potential future advantage all it can tax is income, profits and gains made in the relevant accounting year.	None
In other words, the ratio of the decision as respects the first contention of the learned Attorney General was that there was no general principle of taxation under incometax law under which the State could assess a person on the basis of business profits that he might have made but had not chosen to make.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also pointed out that it was unreal and artificial to separate the business from its owner and treat them as if they were separate entities trading with each other and then by means of a fictional sale introduce a fictional profit which in truth and in fact was nonexistent.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that a man could not trade with himself nor could he make profit or loss out of transactions with himself.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second contention of the learned Attorney General was that if the act of withdrawal was at a time when the market price was higher than the cost price then the State was deprived of a potential profit.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention was dismissed as unsound because, for incometax purposes, each year is self contained accounting period and one must take into consideration income, profits and gains made in that year and the assessing authority was not concerned with potential profits which might be made in another year.	None
8.	None
From what has been stated above it would at once appear that Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) was the converse of the present case.	Reasoning
In Kikabhais case 1954 SCR 219(AIR l953 SC 509) a part of the stockintrade was withdrawn from business there was no sale nor any actual profit.	Reasoning
The ratio of the decision was simply this under the Incometax Act the State has no power to tax a potential future advantage and all it can tax is income, profits and gains made in the relevant accounting year.	Reasoning
In the case under our consideration the admitted position is that there has been a sale of the shares in pursuance of a trading or business activity and actual profits have resulted from the sale.	Reasoning
The question in the present case is not whether the State has a power to tax potential future advantage, but the question is how should actual profits be computed when admittedly there has been a sale in the business sense and actual profits have resulted therefrom.	Reasoning
We agree with the High Court that in this respect there is a vital difference between the problem presented by Kikabhais case 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) and the problem in the present case.	Reasoning
We further agree with the view expressed by the High Court that the ratio in Kikacabhais case 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) need not necessarily be extended to the very different problem presented in the present case, not only because the facts are different, but because there is an appreciable difference in principle.	Reasoning
The difference lies in this in one case there is no question of any business sale or actual profits and in the other admittedly there are profits liable to tax, but the question is how the profits should be computed.	Reasoning
We must, therefore, overrule the first two arguments of the learned Additional Solicitor General that the distinction draws by the High Court between Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) and the present case is not warranted on principle and that the ratio of the decision in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) must necessarily apply to the present case also.	Reasoning
9.	None
While we are on this question we must refer to a decision of the House of Lords in Sharkey v. Wernher, (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275 to which our attention has been drawn.	None
Briefly put, the facts of that case were these, the wife of the assessee there carried on a stud farm, the profits of which were agreed to be chargeable to incometax under Case I of Schedule D.	None
She also carried on the activities of horse racing and training, which were agreed not to constitute trading.	None
Five horses were transferred from the stud farm to the racing stables.	None
The cost of breeding these horses was debited to the stud farm accounts.	None
On the question of the amount to be credited as a receipt the assessee contended before the Special Commissioners that the proper figure to be brought in respect of the transferred horses was the cost of breeding.	None
The Crown contended that the market value of the animal, which was considerably higher, was the proper figure.	None
The Commissioners decided in favour of the assessee and the Crown demanded a case.	None
The case was first heard by Vaisey, J., who following the decision in Watson Bros. v. Hornby, (1942) 24 Tax Cas 506 held that the market value of the five horses transferred from the stud farm was the proper figure that should be credited in the accounts.	None
Vaisey, J., based his decision on the ground that the case was indistinguishable in principle from an earlier decision, namely, that of Macnaghten, J. in (1942) 24Tax Cas 506.	None
We may here state that in (1942) 24 Tax Cas 506 the assessee carried on the business of poultry breeders and dealers.	None
In addition to keeping birds on their farm for laying purposes, they had a hatchery which produced chicks primarily for sale as day old chicks.	None
Some of these chicks were transferred to brooder houses and became part of the stock on the farm.	None
The assessees were assessed to income tax under Schedule D in respect of the profits of the hatchery part of their business and under Schedule B in respect of the profits of the farm.	None
10.	None
The question that arose in that case was whether the dayold chicks transferred to the farm should be credited as stock at the average price at which they were sold and could have been bought in the open market, namely, 4d.	None
per chick, and that the difference between that price and the admitted cost of production of each saleable dayold chick, 7d., was an allowable loss.	None
The Crown contended that the hatchery and the farm were two activities of the same person who could not make a loss by transferring from one department to the other and therefore the chicks should be credited to the hatchery account at production cost.	None
It was held by Macnaghten, J., that in the notional sale between the hatchery and the farm, which should be treated as separate entities, the price to be credited was the reasonable price laid down by S. 8 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1893 and that on the admitted evidence this reasonable price must be the market price of 4d.	None
per chick.	None
This was the decision which Vaisey, J. followed.	None
From the decision of Vaisey, J. there was an appeal to the Court of Appeal.	None
The Court of Appeal referred to two of its own decisions, namely, Laycock v. Freeman.	None
Hardy and Wills, (1939)	None
22 Tax Cas 288 and Briton Ferry Steel Co. Ltd. v. Barry, (1940) 23	None
Tax Cas 414 and held that the principle stated and the reasoning underlaying the judgment of Sir Wilfrid Greene, M. R. in (1940) 23	None
Tax Cas 414 were inconsistent with the conclusion in (1942) 24 Tax Cas 506.	None
The Court of Appeal accordingly allowed the appeal.	None
Sir Raymond Evershed, M.R., (as he then was) said, however, that if the matter were res integra, he would have been inclined to hold that for the purpose of the stud farm account if one were seeking to put a value on the animals transferred, the value must be that which the animals were in fact worth.	None
He expressed the view, however, that the matter was not res integra and as a result of the authorities referred to above which expounded the general principle to be applied, he allowed the appeal.	None
The case was then taken to the House of Lords.	None
The House of Lords decided in favour of the Crown, Lord Oaksey dissenting.	None
Viscount Simonds thus expressed his views in his speech at page 299 of the reportBut it appears to me that when it has been admitted or determined that an article forms part of the stockintrade of the trader, and that upon his parting with it so that it no longer forms part of his stockintrade some sum must appear in his trading account as having been received in respect of it, the only logical way to treat it is to regard it as having been disposed of by way of trade.	None
If so, I see no reason for ascribing to it any other sum than that which he would normally have received for it in the due course of trade, that is to say, the market value.	None
As I have already indicated, there seems to me to be no justification for the only alternative that has been suggested, namely, the cost of production.	None
The unreality of this alternative would be plain to the taxpayer, if, as well might happen, a very large service fee had been paid so that the cost of production was high and the market value did not equal it.	None
11.	None
Lord Radcliffe pointed out that when a horse was transferred from the stud farm to the owners personal account, there was a disposition of trading stock, though the disposition might not be by way of trade.	None
He then referred to three methods of recording the result of the disposition in the stud farm trading accounts.	None
One of them was that there might be no entry of a receipt at all and Lord Radcliffe pointed out that this method would give the selfsupplier an unfair tax advantage.	None
The second method would be to enter the cost price this again would be fictional because, no sale in the legal sense had taken place, nor had there been any actual receipt.	None
The third method was to enter as a receipt a figure equivalent to the current realisable value of the stock item transferred.	None
Lord Radcliffe gave two grounds in favour of the third method.	None
The first ground was that it gave a fairer measure of assessable trading profit as between one taxpayer and another, for it eliminated variations which were due to no other cause than any one taxpayer decision as to what proportion of his total product he would supply to himself.	None
The second ground was that it was better economics to credit the trading owner with the current realisable value of any stock which he had chosen to dispose of without commercial disposal than to credit him with an amount equivalent to the accumulated expenses in respect of that stock.	None
12.	None
It is worthy of note that the facts in (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275, were similar to the facts of Kikabhais case, AIR 1953 SC 509 .	None
In both those cases what had happened was that a part of the stock intrade was withdrawn and the question was at what figure in the trading accounts the withdrawal should be accounted for.	Reasoning
In Kikabhais case.	Reasoning
AIR 1953 SC 509 this Court came to the conclusion that the withdrawal should be at the cost price.	Reasoning
In (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275, the House of Lords held that the proper figure should be the market value which gave a fairer measure of assessable trading profit it is significant that the House of Lords reached that conclusion not without dissent.	Reasoning
If the facts of the case which we are now considering were similar to the facts of Kikabhais case, AIR 1953 SC 509 it might have been necessary for us to reexamine the ratio of that decision.	Reasoning
It is necessary to state here, however, that the decision of the House of Lords in (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275, is not an authority which is binding on us.	Reasoning
It is only an authority of persuasive value entitled to great respect.	None
13.	None
In an earlier part of this judgment we have taken pains to point out the distinction between Kikabhais case, AIR 1953 SC 509 and the case under our consideration.	None
In view of that distinction, we do not think that it is really necessary in the present case to reexamine the ratio of the decision in Kikabhais case.	Reasoning
AIR 1953 SC 509 .	Reasoning
What then is the basis for computing the actual profits in the present case?	Reasoning
We think that the basis must be, as the High Court has put it, the ordinary commercial principles on which actual profits are computed.	Reasoning
We think that the approach of the High Court was correct and normally the commercial profits out of the transaction of sale of an article must be the difference between what the article cost the business and what it fetched on sale.	Reasoning
So far as the business or trading activity was concerned, the market value of the shares as on April 1, 1945 was what it cost the business.	Reasoning
We do not think that there is any question of notional sale here.	Reasoning
The High Court did not create any legal fiction of a sale when it took the market value as on April 1, 1945 as the proper figure for determining the actual profits made by the assessee.	Reasoning
That the assessee later sold the shares in pursuance of a trading activity was not in dispute that sale was an actual sale and not a notional sale that actual sale resulted in some profits.	Reasoning
The problem is how should those profits be computed?	Reasoning
To adopt the language of Lord Radcliffe, the only fair measure of assessing trading profits in such circumstances is to take the market value at one end and the actual sale proceeds at the other, the difference between the two being the profit or loss as the case may be.	Reasoning
In a trading or commercial sense this seems to us to accord more with reality than with fiction.	None
14.	None
For these reasons we hold that the answer given by the High Court to the question of law referred to it was correct.	Decision
The appeal accordingly fails and is dismissed with costs.	None
Sarkar, J. 15.	None
Two questions arise in this Appeal The first is whether the judgment of the Court below is against the decision of this Court in 1954 SCR 219.	None
(AIR 1953 SC 509).	Issue
The second is, if so, does the decision in Kikabhais case 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 require reconsideration?	None
It appears that in 1956 AC 58 36 Tax Cas 275, where the question was the same as in Kikabhais case 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), and which was decided a little later than that case, the House of Lords took a view contrary to the taken in Kikabhais case.	None
It was on the basis of the reasoning on which Sharkeys case, 1956 AC 58 36 Tax Cas 275, was founded that the learned advocate for the respondent contended that Kikabhais case require reconsideration.	Facts
16.	None
The assessee in the present case is a lady of some means.	None
For many years past she had been holding various shares by way of investment on the dividends of which she was being charged to incometax.	Facts
In assessing the tax for the assessment year 194647, the accounting period of which was the financial year 194546, it was found that the assessee had been carrying on business with some of the same shares since April 1945.	Facts
It is not in dispute that in the accounting year 194647 also, which is the year with which we are concerned, she carried on business with various such shares.	Facts
17.	None
A question arose in connection with the assessment of tax for 1946 47 as to how the profits of her trading activities were to be ascertained.	None
The trade was one of purchase and sale of shares.	None
It is common ground that the profits of such a trade are the difference between what the thing sold fetched	None
and what it cost to acquire.	None
The question arose because difficulty was felt in fixing the cost of acquisition.	None
In regard to shares acquired by the assessee for her trade after she started it, the position was not in controversy, for the cost in respect of such shares was admittedly what she bought them for.	None
The controversy concerned the shares with which she traded in this year and which, prior to April 1, 1945 she had been holding as investment, having acquired them, it may be, quite a few years ago.	None
The assessee contended that the cost of acquisition of this latter variety of shares  and with these alone we are concerned in this appealwas their market value on the date when she started her business and thereby converted them from investment into stockintrade of her business.	None
The State contended that the cost of acquisition of these shares would be what she bought them for, no matter when she bought them and for what purpose.	None
The Tribunal accepted by a majority the contention of the assessee.	None
At the instance of the State the Tribunal then referred the following questions to the High Court at Bombay under S. 66(1) of the Incometax ActWhether the assesss assessable profits on the sale of shares is the difference between the sale price and the cost price, or the difference between the sale price end the market price prevailing on 141945.	None
18.	None
The High Court held that the assessable profits were the difference between the sale price and the market value of the shares prevailing on April 1, 1945.	None
The State has filed this appeal against the decision of the High Court.	None
19.	None
The State contends that the High Courts decision is against the judgment of this Court in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
That is the first question which I propose to discuss.	None
The assessee in Kikabhais case was a dealer in shares and silver.	Reasoning
The method employed by him in keeping his accounts was to enter the cost price of his stock at the beginning of the year, to credit the sale proceeds of the stock sold during the year and value the unsold stock at the end of the year at cost price, these latter being carried forward as the opening entries of the next years accounts.	Reasoning
It appeared that the assessee had withdrawn some silver and shares from his business and settled these upon certain trusts.	Reasoning
In the accounts he entered the silver and shares so withdrawn at their cost price.	Reasoning
The State contended that these should have been entered in the accounts at their market value on the date they were withdrawn from the business.	Reasoning
This Court found this contention unacceptable and held that the entry should be of the cost price and not of the market value on that date.	Reasoning
20.	None
It has been contended on behalf of the State that As this is a business, any withdrawal of the assets is a business matter and the only feasible way of regarding it in a business light is to enter the market price at the date of the withdrawal, and that if a person withdraws an asset from a business, he must account for it to the business at the market rate prevailing at the date of the withdrawal.	Arguments of Petitioner
In dealing with these contentions this Court observed, It is impossible to get away from the fact that the business is owned and run by the assessee himself.	None
In such circumstances we are of opinion that it is unreal and artificial to separate the business from its owner and treat them as if they were separate entities trading with each other and then by means of a fictional sale introduce a fictional profit which in truth and in fact is nonexistent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cut away the fictions and you reach the position that the man supposed to be selling to himself and thereby making a profit out of himself which on the fact of it is not only absurd but against all canons of mercantile and incometax law.	None
21.	None
The decision in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), was however by a majority, Bhagwati J. having taken a contrary view.	None
For the purpose of the present question I will have to confine myself to the judgment of the majority.	None
22.	None
It seems to me that the argument of the respondent in the present case is the same as that of the AttorneyGeneral in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), She says that she is entitled to debit the accounts of her business with the market value of the shares as on the date of their conversion into stockintrade, that is, April 1, 1945.	Arguments of Respondent
She can no doubt do that if she had acquired them on that date, from the market.	Arguments of Respondent
But this she did not do.	None
So she is compelled to rely on a fictional purchase by her from herself at the market rate of that date to sustain her contention.	None
Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 ( AIR 1953 SC 509 ), definitely held that no one can be supposed to be trading with himself for the purpose of ascertaining taxable profits.	None
A fiction therefore that one has done so is not permissible.	None
To hold that the assessee is entitled to enter in the accounts of her business, the market value of the shares on April 1, 1945 would be to go directly against the decision in Kakabhais case and the ratio on which it was based.	None
23.	None
It was said that Kikabhais case 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), dealt with a fictional sale and potential or notional profits whereas in the present case there was actual trading in the shares and the problem here is to ascertain the profits of that trade.	None
I am not sure that the distinction so sought to be made is really possible.	None
Both the cases dealt with the assessement of the profits of an entire trading activity of a person.	None
There were real profits in both cases and the question in each was, how to assess them.	None
The difficulty in one case arose because a particular stock acquired for the trade had been withdrawn from it and in the other, because a particular stock not acquired for the trade had been used for its purposes.	None
The question in each case was, what value was to be put on the stock concerned for assessing the profits of the trade as a whole.	None
It would be incorrect to split up the entire trade and to treat the deal in each stock separately and I do not think Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), did so.	None
So considered the State would have no basis for any claim in Kikabhais case 1954 SCR 219 ( AIR 1953 SC 509 ), for then there would have been no business at all to tax.	None
It was therefore that in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), the State contended that the stock had been brought into the business and on that basis only could it advance any argument.	None
It was this argument advanced on that basis that this Court considered and rejected.	None
The Court did not consider the profits of a particular item of trade by itself.	None
So the Court did not consider notional profits in the sense indicated by the distinction now sought to be made between the two cases.	None
The present case is the same, for here also the question is what are the profits of the assessees entire trade, that is, how is the cost price to be calculated for that propose?	None
Here also, if the sale of the investment shares by themselves was concerned there would in all probability have been no trading and no question of asssessing the profits of such trading would have arisen.	None
Therefore both cases dealt with the assessment of actual profits none was concerned with assessment of notional profits.	None
24.	None
But suppose the two cases are different as suggested, that does not seem to me make any distinction in kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219(AIR 1953 SC 509 ), it had been held that the withdrawal was not trading because a man could not trade with himself.	None
In the present case the assessee did no doubt trade by selling her shares to a stranger.	None
There was no fiction in this trade.	None
But when (then?)	None
the assessee contends that in ascertaining the profits of a trading transaction actually done by her she should be permitted to value the stock involved in that trading activity which she had not acquired in the course of her trade at the market value of the date of the commencement of that trade.	None
25.	None
She really says that she should be allowed to proceed on the basis of a fiction that she had purchased from herself on that date for she had not then purchased it at all.	None
She would be asking us to hold that which Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), refused to hold.	None
I am unable to agree that in the case of a reel sale Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), does not forbid a dichotomy between the owner of a business and the business itself for ascertaining the profits of that sale as the assessee wants us to do.	None
26.It was also said that to apply the principle that one cannot trade with himself to the present case would be overlooking the actual fact that moneys worth was brought into the business.	None
I am unable to appreciate this contention.	Reasoning
There is no overlooking of the moneys worth brought in, for that moneys worth is value at the cost at which the stock concerned was actually acquired from the market, may be as an investment and not as a stock in trade.	Reasoning
I am unable to appreciate how it can be said that any moneys worth would be overlookedwhich, I will assume, no businessman will do in calculating his profits if the share are not valued at the market value of the day on which they are brought into the trade but are valued at the price at which actually they had been previously acquired by the assessee.	Reasoning
The real question is what were the shares worth in money for calculating the profits.	Reasoning
The contention of the respondent assumes that the moneys worth must be calculated as on the date of the commencement of the trade and hence really begs the question.	None
27.Chagla C. J. who delivered the judgment of the High Court, said that he did not understand Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1955 SC 509), to mean that even for the purpose of accountancy or for the purpose of ascertaining commercial profits it is not open to the court to value the shares at the market price of the date on which they were brought into the business.	None
I am unable to agree.	None
Accountancy, I suppose is not based on fiction but deals with realities.	None
We are concerned with accountancy only for the purpose of ascertaining commercial profits, and it was only for that purpose that this Court held that you cannot enter in your accounts the market value of goods on the fictional basis that you sold them to yourself	None
Chagla C. J. thought that Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), was not dealing with commercial profits.	None
I think that since that case was considering profits for incometax purpose it was not dealing with anything else.	None
I am also unable to agree with the view of Chagla C.J. that the ratio in the decision of Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), has no application to the present case.	Reasoning
That ratio was that for the purpose of ascertaining taxable profits it is not possible to conceive of one trading with himself and it would apply here, for here also taxable profits are being ascertained.	None
28 Chagla C.J. observed that what has to be ascertained is what an article costs the business and not the owner, but in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), it was expressly said that when the business is unreal to separate the business from its owner and treat them as if they were different entities trading with each other.	None
29 Chagla C.J. also said that for incometax purpose profits of a business have to be understood in a way that a man of business would understand it.	None
I am not aware that a commercial man must compute profits on the basis of a fiction that he has bought from himself and cannot compute his profits by deducting from the sale proceeds the price for which he had actually acquired the goods.	None
27.Kikabhais case 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), said that you cannot assess taxable profits on the basis of a fictional sale.	None
If you cannot do that, neither do I think can you assess such profits on the basis of a functional purchase in the market.	None
And that is what the assessee wants us to do.	None
I am for myself entirely unable to make any distinction between Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ), and the present case.	None
28.I have now to refer to Sharkeys case, (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275, and examine whether on the reasoning on which it was based it is necessary to reconsider Kikabhais case.	None
That is the second question which arises in this case.	None
I do not find the reasoning of that case so strong as to lead me to the opinion that the decision in Kikabhais case was wrong.	None
I first note that one of the learned Judges Lord Oaksey, took the same view as was taken by this Court in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ).	None
In dealing with Sharkeys case, (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275, I will only be referring to the judgment of the majority.	None
29.Now, Sharkeys case, (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275, also dealt with the withdrawal of assets from a taxable business.	None
There a lady owned two enterprises, one a stud farm the income of which was liable to tax and another, a racing establishment, which was recreational and therefore not liable to tax.	None
The lady transferred some horses from the stud farm to the racing establishment.	None
In assessing the income of the stud farm a question arose as to what value should be put in its accounts for the horses transferred to the racing establishment.	None
It will be noticed that by the transfer to the racing establishment of which she was the owner, the lady had only withdrawn the horses from her taxable undertaking.	None
The problem there was therefore just the same as in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ).	None
30.t has held by the House of Lords that the value to be put on the horses withdrawn from the stud farm was their market value at the date of the transfer and not the cost incurred on them for breeding and otherwise till the transfer.	None
The House of Lords observed that in incometax law a dichotomy between the owner of a business and the business is possible and presumably therefore trading between the two could be conceived for tax purposes in certain cases and referred to some English authorities in support of this view.	None
I will assume that such a dichotomy is possible in some cases but the question is whether it is possible in a case line Sharkey case, (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275.	None
On that question I do not find the House of Lords giving any special reason to make that dichotomy.	None
I also note that the House of Lords did not dispute that as a general rule the dichotomy cannot be made.	None
31.Apart from the general observation mentioned above the House of Lords based its decision on two grounds.	None
What the House of Lords thought strongly supported its view was first that since it was conceded before them that some entry had to be made in respect of the horses withdrawn, and that whether the entry was of the cost incurred for breeding the horses transferred or of their market value on the date of the transfer, the entry would either case be fictional for they were not in fact transferred at any of these prices and therefore it was more real to enter the market value.	None
Now, as Lord Radcliffe himself noted, the entry of the cost price would really be cancelling the entry of the cost in breeding the horses which had been made in the accounts of the farm.	None
He however found no explanation why cancellation should take place.	None
I think it can be legitimately said that there is an explanation and as was said in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) that is, that the cancellation had to take place because assets were withdrawn from the trade, unless entries were made cancelling the cost of items of stock brought into the trade when they were taken out of the trade, the accounts would not give the real picture of the profits of the actual trade.	None
32	None
A second reason which appears only in the judgment of Lord Radcliffe is that if the market value on the date of withdrawal is not entered, there will be an inequitable distribution of the burden of tax.	None
This is not very clear to me.	Reasoning
Learned advocate for the assessee said that Lord Radcliffe was contemplating the case of two traders who started their business on the same day one of whom bought his stock in trade from the market on that date, of course at the market value, and the other started his business by converting what he was earlier holding for his personal purpose, into stock in trade.	Reasoning
It was said that unless the latter was permitted to value his stock in trade at the market rate on the date of conversion, he would be subjected to a tax different in amount from that of the tax on the former and this would result in inequitable distribution of the burden of taxation.	Reasoning
Again, I am not convinced that this reasoning is conclusive.	Reasoning
Take the case of two traders.	Reasoning
One by his shrewd business method or by friendly contacts, or may be by means not very creditable may on the same day acquire goods necessary for his trade at a much cheaper rate than the other.	Reasoning
The profits of the two would then be different.	Reasoning
I do not imagine that any incometax law would find this objectionable.	None
Furthermore, I am not sure that this anxiety for an equitable distribution of the burden of tax justifies departure from a cardinal rule which is accepted in many cases in England also, that a man cannot be said to trade with himself so as to make taxable profits.	Reasoning
33.Lord Radcliffe realised the difficulty of the problem which he had to solve and said so.	None
I do not think I will be wrong in saying that he put his decision on the ground of the best practical solution of that difficulty.	Reasoning
The majority judgment in Sharkeys case does not lead me to the conclusion that our decision in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) was wrong.	Reasoning
I respectfully prefer the view taken in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) and by Lord Oaksey in Sharkeys case, (1955) 36 Tax Cas 275.	Reasoning
Bhagwati J. in his minority judgment in Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) based himself on the arguments of the Attorney General.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to specifically deal with his views for they have been dealt with in that case and with what has been said there I am in complete agreement.	None
34.Before leaving Sharkeys case it would be of some interest to point out that Lord Simonds did not think that any distinction was Possible between the case that he had before him and a case like the one now before us for he	Reasoning
saidAnd so also, as I have more than once pointed out in this case, it is conceded by the taxpayer that some figure must appear in the stud farm accounts as receipt in respect of the transferred horses, though Lady Zia in her capacity as transferee did not carry on a taxable activity.	Reasoning
In the same way, it would I suppose, be claimed that, if Lady Zia were to transfer or retransfer a horse from her racing establishment to her stud farm some figure would have to appear in the stud farm accounts in respect of that horse though it cost her nothing to make the transfer.	Reasoning
If it were not so and she subsequently sold the transferred horse and the proceeds of sale were treated as receipts of the stud farm, she could justly complain that she had been charged with a fictitious profit.	Reasoning
35.In the course of arguments a case was suggested of a man who had inherited or received by way of gift a certain commodity with which after a lapse of sometime be started a trade.	Reasoning
It was said that it would be impossible in such a case to say that the cost of acquisition of his stockintrade was nil and the entire sale proceeds received by him in respect of that thing in his trade were his profits.	Reasoning
Now, it seems to me that even if it were so, it would not follow that his stockintrade had to be valued at the date on which he started his trade with that.	None
So to hold would be against Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ).	Reasoning
That being so, this illustration would only beg the question and not prove that Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) is wrong.	Reasoning
I think a businessman would in such a case enter into his accounts as the price for which he acquired his stockintrade its value in the market on the date on which he received it free That would not involve going against Kikabhais case, 1954 SCR 219 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) for it would not be based on a fictional trading by a man with himself.	Reasoning
If you cannot distinguish a business from its proprietor, then the cost of a thing for the purpose of the business would be its value at the time the proprietor of the business acquired it.	Reasoning
Such value from a businessmans point of view would in my opinion be the value for which he acquired it when did so for value, or its market value on the date of acquisition, when he paid no value for it.	Reasoning
36.I would therefore allow this appeal and answer the question framed by the Tribunal by saying that the assesses taxable profits on the sale of the shares earlier held as investment are the difference between the sale price and the cost price, that is, the price at which she had actually bought those shares.	Decision
37.Order By the Court	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority, this appeal is dismissed with costs.	None
38 Appeal dismissed.	None
