 K. Agrawal	None
, J. These appeals have been filed against the orders dated 07.11.2008 and 16.12.2008 passed by the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi in RFA No. 406 of 2007 and	Issue
R.P. No. 415 of 2008 respectively.	None
Vide order dated 07.11.2008, the High Court allowed the appeal filed by M s J.K. Lakshmi Cement Ltd. respondent herein and set aside the judgment and decree dated 14.03.2007, passed by the Additional District Judge, Delhi in Suit No. 125 of 2004, while restoring the suit filed by M s Rohini Traders  appellant herein for trial afresh as per the observations made in the judgment.	Issue
Brief Facts2)	Facts
(a) The appellant claims itself to be a sole proprietorship concern working as third party commission agent of the respondentCompany.	None
The appellant claimed a sum of Rs.	None
12,05,231/ as dues to be payable by the respondentCompany as on 31.03.2004.	None
Several requests were made to the respondentCompany to pay the amount due but to no effect.	Facts
Even after serving a legal notice dated 09.04.2004 to the respondentCompany, it remained uncomplied with.	None
The appellant filed a suit praying for decree of Rs.	None
14,21,250/ including the principal amount as also interest at the rate of 18 per cent per annum.	None
The suit was contested by the respondentCompany on the ground that it was barred by limitation as also on merits.	None
The claim of the appellant was denied and it was stated that as per the record of the respondentCompany, a sum of Rs. 4,62,000/ is liable to be paid by the appellant to the respondentCompany.	Facts
Other claims made by the appellant were also denied.(b)	None
During the pendency of the suit, the appellant served a notice dated 05.07.2006 under Order XII Rule 8 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (in short the Code) calling upon the respondentCompany to produce and show to the Court on the first date of hearing of the suit the following documents, viz., Purchase Orders pertaining to the order placed by the plaintiff2.	Facts
Original record of the TDS Certificate issued by the company to the plaintiff3.	Facts
Details of the payment made to the plaintiff4.	Facts
Details of the payment received from the party whom order was placed by the plaintiff5.	Facts
Copy of the Ledger of the company related to the plaintiff from the Financial Year 1997 to 2004 and6.	Facts
Copies of the Balance Sheets filed in the Income Tax Department and ROC for the years 1997 to 2004.	None
It appears that the documents were not produced on the first date of hearing.	None
However, during the course of the hearing one Shri R.K. Gupta, General Manager of the respondentCompany (DW1) appeared before the Court and produced the documents mentioned at Item Nos. 36 and also stated that Item Nos. 1 and 2 would be available with the appellant.	Facts
The appellant did not make any endeavor to get the documents produced by the respondentCompany on record and to mark them and exhibited.(d)	Facts
The trial Court, vide judgment dated 14.03.2007, decreed the suit in favour of the appellant herein for a sum of Rs.	Facts
14,21,250/ along with the interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum from the date of institution of the suit till the date of its realization.	None
The trial Court held that the respondentCompany had failed to explain as to why it had not placed on record its books of accounts and other related papers as asked for in the notice under Order XII Rule 8 of the Code and drew an adverse inference.(e)	Facts
Feeling aggrieved, the respondentCompany preferred an appeal before the High Court of Delhi.(f) The High Court, after considering the material on record, came to the finding that the witness of the respondentCompany (DW1) was crossexamined in support of the documents produced by him in the Court pursuant to the notice under Order XII Rule 8 of the Code.	Facts
However, since the documents were neither exhibited nor brought on record, the High Court felt it proper in the interest of justice to restore the suit for further trial with certain directions.(g)	Facts
An application seeking review of the judgment and order dated 07.11.2008 was filed whereupon the High Court resummoned the trial Court record and reperused the testimony of DW1 from which it gathered that the witness had brought all the documents pertaining to the notice dated 05.07.2006 with respect to Item Nos. 36 and the other documents were with the appellant and the witness was also cross examined in respect of the documents so produced.	Facts
The review application was, therefore, dismissed.(h)	Facts
Against the said orders, the appellant has preferred these appeals before this Court.	Facts
Heard Shri Sunil Kumar, learned senior counsel for the appellant and Shri M.L. Lahoty, learned counsel for the respondentCompany.	None
Contentions Learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that the respondentCompany had not filed any document before the trial Court in support of its claim made in the written statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it had not complied with the notice dated 05.07.2006 under Order XII Rule 8 of the Code requiring it to place certain documents before the Court at the time of first date of hearing and, therefore, an adverse inference ought to have been drawn and which was rightly drawn by the trial Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the High Court ought not to have remanded the matter for fresh trial only on the ground that such documents were produced before the Court by DW1.	None
Learned senior counsel has relied upon a decision of the Lahore High Court in Badri Parshad and Another vs. Shanti Lal Seth and Others AIR 1941 Lahore 228 and submitted that the documents so produced are to be given in evidence and must be admitted in toto.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further relied on a decision of the Allahabad High Court in Union of India vs. Firm Vishudh Ghee Vyopar Mandal AIR 1953 All.	Arguments of Petitioner
689 wherein it was held that the provision of Order XII Rule 8 of the Code refers to notice to produce documents at the time of the hearing, so that if they are not produced, the party calling for them may give secondary evidence of the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, as the respondentCompany has failed to produce the documents mentioned in the notice dated 05.07.2006 under Order XII Rule 8 of the Code, the trial Court had rightly drawn an adverse inference and decreed the suit on the basis of the evidence on record.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondentCompany, however, submitted that even though the respondentCompany had not filed any document before the trial Court yet it produced the same before the Court as asked for in the notice dated 05.07.2006 and DW1 was also crossexamined by the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the trial Court ought not to have discarded the documents so produced by the respondentCompany.	None
The High Court had rightly remanded the matter for fresh trial.	None
Discussion We have gone through the materials on record and find that even though the respondentCompany had not brought on record any document before the trial Court	None
yet it had produced certain documents mentioned at Item Nos. 36 in the notice dated 05.07.2006 and DW1 was also crossexamined with regard to the same.	None
The relevant portion of the statement made by Shri R.K. Gupta (DW1) in the crossexamination is as under However, I have brought the documents required by the plaintiff in terms of the notice dated 05.07.2006 vide Item Nos. 3 to 6 and the record in terms of Item Nos. 1 and 2 of the said notice would be available with the plaintiff.	None
I cannot say if payment to M s Rohini Traders was being made on transaction to transaction basis or consolidatedly.	None
I have seen the statement of account from which it is clear that payments have been made both ways i.e., transaction to transaction as well as month to month.	None
It is correct that the last entry in the statement of account is dated 30.04.2003.	None
It is correct that till date we have not filed any suit against the plaintiff for recovery.	None
The claim of the appellant is that if the facts mentioned in the said documents are taken into consideration, it may just be possible that the claim of the appellant may not stand.	None
At this juncture, it is relevant to quote Order XII Rule 8 of the Code which is as under Notice to produce documents.	None
Notice to produce documents shall be in Form No. 12 in Appendix C, with such variations as circumstances may require.	None
An affidavit of the pleader, or his clerk, of the service of any notice to produce, and of the time when it was served, with a copy of the notice to produce, shall in all cases be sufficient evidence of the service of the notice, and of the time when it was served.	None
From a reading of the aforesaid provision as also the law settled on this aspect, we are of the view that it was the duty of appellant herein to get the documents produced by the respondentCompany under Order XII Rule 8 of the Code exhibited in the suit proceedings so that a true and correct finding either way could have been recorded by the trial Court.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that the appellant did not take any step to get those documents marked and exhibited before the trial Court.10)	Reasoning
The object of Order XII Rule 8 of the Code is to facilitate the plaintiff or any other party to get a document on record which is not in their possession or in possession of the other party.	Reasoning
If a document has been produced then it is the duty of the party who has asked for such production to get it placed on record.	Reasoning
If, however, the said document is not placed on record, then adverse inference against the party who has produced the same cannot be drawn, more so, when the party who has produced the said document before the Court has been crossexamined visvis that document.11)	Reasoning
In our considered opinion, the High Court was right in setting aside the judgment and decree passed by the trial Court and remanding the matter for fresh decision.	Reasoning
The directions given by the High Court do not call for any interference.12)	Reasoning
In view of the above discussion, the appeals fail and are hereby dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
