 P. JEEVAN REDDY J. These appeals are preferred against the judgment of the Bombay High Court rejecting an application under section 256(2) of the Incometax Act, 1961.	Facts
The Revenue had applied for referring the following two questions for the opinion of the High Court.	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the professional charges paid by the assesseecompany to its solicitors for effecting the amalgamation of Nawrosjee Wadia Ginning and Pressing Company with it, was of revenue nature and should be allowed as a deduction in the computation of its total income ?(ii) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the assesseecompany was entitled to a deduction for a sum of Rs. 2, 25, 000 in respect of the contribution made by it to the Maharashtra Housing Board towards the construction of tenements for its workers ?	Facts
The facts concerning the first question are the following a company named Nawrosjee Wadia Ginning and Pressing Company was amalgamated with the assesseecompany.	Facts
In that connection an expenditure of Rs. 10, 350 was incurred by the assesseecompany towards the professional charges paid to the firm of solicitors.	Facts
In the assessment proceedings the said amount was claimed as a revenue expenditure.	Facts
The assessees case was that Nawrosjee Wadia Ginning and Pressing Company was engaged in the same business as the assessee.	Facts
In other words, the businesses of both the companies were complementary.	Facts
The directors of both the companies thought that it would be advantageous if both the companies are amalgamated.	Facts
Accordingly, a scheme of amalgamation was evolved.	Facts
It was submitted that the legal expenses incurred in connection with the said amalgamation are in the nature of revenue expenditure.	Facts
The Incometax Officer did not agree nor did the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
On further appeal, the Tribunal upheld the assessees contention.	Facts
It disagreed with the Revenues contention that inasmuch as the said amalgamation resulted in the acquisition of the other company by the assessee, which acquisition was in the nature of acquisition of a capital asset, the legal expenses incurred in that behalf partake of the nature of capital expenditure.	Facts
The Tribunal was of the opinion that as both the companies were carrying on complementary business and their amalgamation was necessary for the smooth and efficient conduct of the business, it is an expenditure laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business of the assessee.	Facts
In view of the said finding and also in view of the decision of this court in Bombay Steam Navigation Co. (1953) Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT, we are of the opinion that the Tribunal was right in its conclusion.	Facts
The decision in Bombay Steam Navigation 1956 (56) ITR 52 also pertains to amalgamation of two shipping companies.	Facts
The assesseecompany took over the assets of the other company and part of the price was treated as a loan secured by a promissory note and hypothecation of all movable properties of the assesseecompany.	Facts
The loan was to carry simple interest at six per cent.	Facts
The question that arose in the said case was whether the interest paid upon the said loan was deductible as revenue expenditure.	Facts
It was held by this court that it was an expenditure deductible under section 10(2)(xv) of the Incometax Act.	Facts
It was held that the transaction of acquisition of the asset was closely related to the commencement and carrying on of the assessees business and, therefore, interest paid on the unpaid balance of the consideration for the assets acquired had, in the normal course, to be regarded as expenditure for the purpose of the business which was carried on in the accounting periods.	Facts
In the course of the judgment, this court referred to the earlier decision of this courtin State of Madras v. G. J. Coelho, wherein it was held that the interest on the amount borrowed for acquiring a capital asset is deductible as revenue expenditure.	Facts
It is true, that in the said decision, this court reaffirmed the wellestablished principle that any expenditure laid out for acquiring an asset of a permanent character would be capital expenditure, held at the same time that inasmuch as the acquisition of the other company was in the course of carrying on of the assessees business, the interest paid thereon was deductible under section 10(2)(xv) of the Act.	Facts
In this case too, the Tribunal has recorded a finding that the acquisition of Nawrosjee Wadia Ginning and Pressing Company was necessary for the smooth and efficient conduct of the assessees business.	Facts
Following the ratio of the aforementioned decisions of the court, we hold that the expenditure incurred towards professional charges of the solicitors firm for the services rendered in connection with the said amalgamation was in the course of carrying on of the assessees business and, therefore, deductible as a revenue expenditure.	Facts
In this view of the matter, it is not necessary for us to deal with the other decisions cited before us on this questionNow, coming to the second question, the finding of the Tribunal is that the amount of Rs. 2, 25, 000 was contributed by the assessee to the Maharashtra Housing Board towards construction of tenements for the companys workers.	Facts
It was contended by the assessee that the said expenditure was incurred wholly and exclusively on the welfare of the employees and, therefore, constitutes legitimate business expenditure.	Facts
The Incometax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner rejected the plea, The Tribunal, however, upheld the assessees contention holding that the expenditure in question brought into existence no capital asset to the assesseecompany as the tenements remained the property and the assets of the Housing Board.	Facts
The assesseecompany acquired no ownership rights in the said tenements, it held.	Facts
The Tribunal found further that there was no obligation on the assesseecompany to provide its workers tenements constructed by the Housing Board and that the benefit of better and cheaper housing in this case obtained by the industrial workers of the assesseecompany did not constitute a direct benefit of an enduring nature to the assessee.	Facts
The expenditure, it observed, was incurred merely with a view to carry on the business of the assesseecompany more efficiently by having a contented labour force.	Facts
Dr. V. Gaurishankar, learned counsel for the Revenue, places strong reliance upon the decision of this court in TravancoreCochin Chemicals Ltd. v. CIT.	None
The facts of the case are the following The assesseecompany was receiving and despatching material required for its purposes through trucks.	None
The approach road to its premises was not a pucca road and was causing difficulties and inconvenience on several occasions.	None
Along with three other public undertakings, the assessee approached the Kerala Government for laying a new road to that area.	None
While the Government bore the cost of acquisition of land and part of the cost of construction of the road, the remaining cost was met by four companies including the assessee.	None
The question was whether the said expenditure is allowable as a revenue expenditure.	None
This court held that by having the new road constructed for the improvement of transport facilities, the appellant had acquired an enduring advantage for its business and, therefore, the expenditure incurred by the assessee was of a capital nature.	None
Dr. Gauri Shankar says the principle of the said decision is equally applicable herein inasmuch as provision for better housing to the assessees workers was ultimately a benefit and an enduring benefit to the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for the assessee brought to our notice a later decision of this court in L. H. Sugar Factory and Oil Mills (P.) Ltd. v. CIT where, after discussing the facts and the principle of the decision in TravancoreCochin Chemicals case (SC), it has been held that the ratio of the said decision must be confined to the peculiar facts of that case alone for reasons assigned in that behalf.	Arguments of Respondent
The decision in L. H. Sugar Factory and Oil Mills case was also a case where certain expenditure was incurred towards part of the cost of construction of the roads in the area around the factory and it was held that it was a business expenditure.	None
Our attention is also invited to an order of this court in CIT v. T. V. Sundaram Iyengar and Sons Pvt. Ltd., wherein it has been held that the amount advanced by the assessee for construction of houses under a subsidised industrial scheme for its employees is in the nature of a revenue expenditure.	Reasoning
In this case too, the amount was advanced to the Government which purchased the land in its own name and the buildings constructed thereon became the property of the Government and not of the assessee.	Reasoning
Having regard to the facts of the appeals before us and in the light of the findings recorded by the Tribunal, we think that the principle of L. H. Sugar Factory and Oil Mills case (SC) and CIT v. T. V. Sundaram Iyengar and Sons P. Ltd. (SC) is more appropriate than the principles in TravancoreCochin Chemicals case (SC)We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was justified in rejecting the application under section 256(2) of the Incometax Act.	Reasoning
The appeals are dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
