 DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, J Delay condoned.	None
Admit.	None
This appeal arises from a judgment and order dated 23 February 2016 of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission .	Issue
The NCDRC rejected the complaint of the appellant alleging a deficiency of service in the rejection of a claim under an insurance policy.4.	Issue
The appellant was undertaking the resurfacing, metalling and asphalting of roads in Nashik.	Facts
An insurance policy was obtained by the appellant.	Facts
The insurance cover encompassed material damage.	None
Section 1 of the insurance policy was in the following terms SECTION1 MATERIAL DAMAGEThe Company hereby agrees with the insured (subject to the exclusions and conditions contained herein or endorsed hereon) that if, at any time during the period of insurance stated in the said Schedule, or during any further period of extension thereof the property (except packing materials of any kind) or any part thereof described in the said Schedule be lost, damaged or destroyed by any cause, other than those specifically excluded hereunder, in a manner necessitating replacement or repair the Company will pay or make good all such loss or damage upto an amount not exceeding in respect of each of the items specified in the Schedule the sum set opposite thereto and not exceeding in the whole the total sum insured hereby.	Facts
The Company will also reimburse the insured for the cost of clearance and removal of debris following upon any event giving rise to an admissible claim under this Policy but not exceeding in all the sum (if any) set opposite thereto in the Schedule.	Facts
However, the exclusions to Section 1, inter alia, were to the following effect EXCLUSIONS TO SECTION 1The Company shall not, however, be liable forc) normal wear and tear, gradual deterioration due to atmospheric conditions or lack of use or obsolescence or otherwise, rust scratching of painted or polished surfaces or breakage of glass There were specific conditions applicable to Section 1.	Facts
Among the major perils Act of God perils described in Memo 8 was Flood Inundation.	None
The appellant submitted a claim on the ground that between 25 June 2007 and 5 July 2007, it had suffered a loss and damage to the roads which had been worked upon due to abnormal rainfall and water logging.	None
By its letter dated 14 September 2007, the appellant stated that due to heavy rains on 29 June 2007, the roads were inundated and the top layer had been washed out.7.	Facts
By a communication dated 28 March 2008, the insurer rejected the claim, inter alia, on the ground that the damage had been caused by defective workmanship and materials and due to the failure to provide an alternative route for traffic.	Facts
Subsequently, after further correspondence, the insurer informed the appellant on 13 May 2008 that the loss or damage to the roads had been caused due to (i) monsoon rains and (ii) damage peeling off of the top surface of the asphalt due to the plying of vehicular traffic on wet roads, resulting in wear and tear.	Facts
The exclusion in the insurance policy of damage due to normal wear and tear or due to gradual deterioration as a result of atmospheric conditions was relied upon.8.	Facts
The report of the Surveyor, B.P. Shah Associates, dated 21 March 2008, was in the following terms, insofar as is material PROBABLE CAUSEAccording to the insured loss was caused due to heavy abnormal rains etc.	Facts
Copy of their letter dated 28 th July 2007 is enclosed herewith (Encl.4).What was observed was surface damages neither any rain cuts nor erosion of base soil of the roads by flowing floodwater were seen.	Facts
Top surface of the asphalt had peeled off got damaged due to movement of traffic over a period of time on wet roads and normal wear tear which also crerated few pot holes.	Facts
Policy excludes normal wear tear, gradual deterioration due to atmospheric conditions (Exclusion C under Section1) also damage due to movement of traffic, which is by no means fortuitous.	Facts
The NCDRC rejected the consumer complaint on several grounds.	Facts
It held that The appellant had initially stated in its claim form that the loss had occurred between 25 June 2007 and 5 July 2007.	Facts
In its letter dated 14 September 2007, the appellant claimed that due to heavy rains on 29 June 2007, the roads were inundated and the top layers were washed out.	Facts
The report of the Surveyor indicated that the stand taken before it was that the damage had occurred on 2/3 July 2007.	Facts
Thus, the appellant had not been consistent in the date of the allaged damage(ii) In breach of the obligation contained in the insurance policy which required that the damage should be immediately notified, intimation was furnished only on 9 July 2007 and there was no explanation for the delay in reporting the damage to the insurer(iii) According to the Surveyor, there was no evidence of any damage on account of flood water and only surface damage was found.	Facts
The data of the Meteorological Department indicated minimal rains on the alleged dates of damage(iv)	Facts
No expert had been examined by the appellant in support of its claim that rainfall, to the extent that had occurred, would have resulted in severe damage to the road.	Facts
Mr. Anirudha Joshi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, submits that the insurance policy covered damage due to any cause whatsoever.	None
Hence, it was urged that whether or not the damage had been caused by excessive rainfall was really not material at all since the appellant was entitled to be indemnified for the damage which was sustained to the roads.	None
In this regard, Section 1 of the insurance policy was relied upon, which has been extracted earlier.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the alleged failure of the appellant to intimate the insurer of the cause of the loss or damage, learned counsel submitted that Clause 5 of the General Conditions stipulated that the insurer shall not be liable, in any case, when no notice has been received within fourteen days of the occurrence.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the present case, it was submitted that the notice on 9 July 2007 was within a period of fourteen days.	Arguments of Petitioner
On these grounds, it has been submitted that the reasons which have weighed with the NCDRC in dismissing the complaint are unsustainable.	None
On the other hand, it was urged on behalf of the insurer by Mr. Abhishek Mishra, learned counsel that the specific ground on which the claim was filed under the terms of the insurance policy was that there was abnormal rainfall and water logging.	Arguments of Respondent
This was evidently in pursuance of the provisions of the insurance policy under which flood inundation constituted the major perils which were within the purview of the insurance cover.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel has adverted to the claim form, the letter dated 14 September 2007 and the Surveyors report dated 21 March 2008.	Arguments of Respondent
The basis of the claim was found to be false.	Arguments of Respondent
While analyzing the rival submissions, it must, at the outset, be noted that the basis of the claim which was submitted by the appellant was that there was abnormal rainfall and water logging between 25 June 2007 and 5 July 2007.	Reasoning
Subsequently, in its letter dated 14 September 2007, the appellant claimed that it was due to heavy rains on 29 June 2007 that the roads were inundated and the top layer had been washed out.	Reasoning
While dealing with this submission, the NCDRC has made the following findings As per the data quoted from the Meteorological Department, the rainfall was 15.2 mm on 25.6.2007, 9.2 mm on 26.6.2007, 0 mm on 27.6.2007, 5mm on 28.06.2007, 0 mm on 29.6.2007, 0 mm on 30.6.2007, 10.6 mm on 01.7.2007, 49.2 mm on 02.7.2007 and 116.6 mm on 30.7.2007.	None
Upon analysing the data which was placed before it, the NCDRC observed In fact, there was no rain at all on 29.6.2007 or even on 30.6.2007.	Reasoning
In fact, the rainfall from 25.6.2007 to 01.7.2007 was nil or nominal.	Reasoning
The rainfall on 02.7.2007 was 49.2 mm, whereas the rainfall on 03.7.2007 was 111.6 mm.	None
But, it has been urged on behalf of the appellant that, whether or not, there was abnormal rain and water logging is irrelevant because the appellant was entitled to claim in terms of Section 1 of the insurance policy where damage had been caused by any cause other than what was specifically excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this background, it is necessary to note that among the exclusions provided in the insurance policy was normal wear and tear and gradual deterioration due to atmospheric conditions.	Reasoning
The case of the appellant was that it was due to excess rainfall that the roads were damaged.	Reasoning
By necessary implication, the submission was that this would not constitute normal wear and tear in terms of the exclusions contained in the policy.16.	Reasoning
We have adverted to the report of the Surveyor, which found that there was only surface damage and no evidence of the road having been washed out as a result of excessive monsoon rain or inundation.17.	Reasoning
That apart, as we have noted from the findings of the NCDRC, the dates on which the alleged damage is stated to have occurred had not witnessed excessive rainfall and the rain was within normal parameters.	Reasoning
The failure of the appellant to examine any expert in regard to the cause of the damage is a significant omission which has been correctly relied upon by the NCDRC.	Reasoning
The insurance policy specifically excluded normal wear and tear.	Reasoning
In order to establish that this was not a case involving normal wear and tear, the appellant sought to rely upon what it described as abnormal rainfall and water logging.	Reasoning
The evidence on the record did not sustain the basis of such a claim.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter and for the reasons we have indicated, we are unable to come to the conclusion that the order pased by the NCDRC suffered from any error.	Decision
We accordingly do not find any reason to entertain the appeal.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed.19.	Decision
Pending application, if any, stands disposed of.	Decision
