 GOWSAMI, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat, of October 8, 1976.	Issue
Although it is a composite award disposing of two references by the State Government, we are concerned in this appeal with Reference (IT) No. 11 of 1975 as per the State Government notification of January 21, 1975 and even out of the two questions referred to therein only with regard to one of these regarding dearness allowance.	Issue
2. The relevant, issue which arises for consideration in this appeal may be quoted belowAll workmen should be paid dearness allowance at the rate of 100 dearness allowance paid to the workers of the Cotton Textile Mills at Ahmedabad.	Issue
3.	None
Before we advert to the submission of Mr. H.R. Gokhale, appearing on behalf of the appellant, it will b e appropriate to indicate that there is no dispute about granting of dearness allowance of the pattern , of what is known as the Ahmedabad Textile D.A.	Facts
The question to be determined by the Tribunal was only with regard to the percentage , of the Textile D.A. to be paid to the employees of the company.	None
4.	None
The Tribunal has noticed thatthe recent trend in the several industries textile, engineering and others, in Ahmedabad, Baroda and in some other parts of the State of Gujarat, is to make a demand for dearness allowance on the lines of the dearness allowance paid to the workers of the cotton textile mills at Ahmedabad, with a varying percentage.	None
The Tribunal describes this as what in ordinary parlance is called the Textile D.A. and reckons it as before the revision of the basic wage in the mills prior to 111974.	None
The company is manufacturing high precision ball and roller bearings in collaboration with a West German company.	Facts
It has its plant in the district of Baroda with a manufacturing capacity of 24 lakh pieces of bearings per annum upto 1973 and 28.82 lakh pieces per annum from 1974.	Facts
The company was incorporated in April, 1962 and went into commercial production from June 1965.	Facts
Its registered office is in Bombay and has its sales offices in Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi. , and Madras.	Facts
The plant is being operated almost to full capacity from June 1965 onwards.	Facts
The production has also increased progressively.	Facts
The number of workers on 3181974 was about 630.	Facts
The company is said to be the third largest unit in the ball bearing industry in thecountrythe other two concerns being Antifriction Bearings and the Associated Bearings, the next one to the company being Shriram Bearings.	Facts
5.	None
Two questions are raised before us by Mr. Gokhale.	None
Counsel is, conscious of his limitations in an appeal by special leave under Artic le 136 of the Constitution and has, therefore, fairly enough confined his, submissions within narrow bounds and we fully appreciate this stand.	None
The first submission of Mr. Gokhale in the forefront of his argument is that the Industrial Tribunal has failed to consider the impact of the rise in dearness allowance granted by it on the financial capacity of the appellant to bear the burden.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that in considering the question of dearness allowance, the capacity to pay of the company is one of the most important considerations.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gokhale has pointed out that the additional liability as a result of the award would be Rs. 8, 29, 312 in 1975, Rs. 7, 42, 563 in 1976, and Rs. 12, 42, 395 in 1977 and the percentage increase over the annual wage b ill will respectively be 3 6.76 , 32.91 and 5 5.07 for the said three years.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has also pointed out that the company was able to declare 8 dividend for the first time in the year 197071 and had been incurring loss for the earlier years from 196263.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also points out that although dividends have been progressively increasing from 8 to 12, from 197071 to 197475, only 8 dividend was declared in the year 197576.	Arguments of Petitioner
Besides, the, company has to, spend huge sums for replacement costs which, according to counsel, the Tribunal has not properly taken into account.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that the Tribunal has mentioned in the award that this could be done in a phased manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gokhale submits with some justification that this was purely a management function and the Tribunal should have taken the figures as furnished by the management in making reservefor replacement costs.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have, however, seen that although a substantial sum was kept as reserve towards the replacement costs, only a fraction of it was actually utilised.	Reasoning
The company, therefore, cannot make any grievance about the manner in which the Tribunal has, dealt with this aspect.	Reasoning
Mr. Garg, on behalf of the respondents, also drew our attention to paragraph 4 of the companys written statement (page 62, Volume 1) where after having referred to certain offers made by it the company was prepared to the increase of about Rs. 15 lacs in the employee cost in the very first year. . . . .	Reasoning
.We find that the Tribunal has exhaustively gone into the wholes matter with care and kept in view the five principles laid down by this Court in the Bengal Chemical Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. v. Its Workmen(1969 2 S.C.R. 113.), the 5th one being additional financial burden which dearness allowance would impose upon the employer and his ability for bear such burden.	Reasoning
We are unable to find any infirmity in the Tribunal dealing with the point of the financial capacity of the employer to bear the burden.	Reasoning
The Tribunal finally observed as follows On a careful consideration of all the relevant factors, in my opinion, the dearness allowance paid to the PBI (Precision Bearings India) workmen at the minimum level of basic pay from Rs.	None
26upto	None
Rs.	None
100should be from 80 per cent, of the textile D.A. to 89 per cent, of the textile D.A. phased over a period of three years, The dearness allowance in the higher pay scale of R s. 101to Rs.	None
200should be 40 per cent and.	None
in the still higher slab of Rs. 201 and above, should be 20 per cent, the percentage for the higher two slabs remaining the same.	None
The 40 per cent and 20 per cent of the basic wages in the higher slab s were in addition to the Ahmedabad Textile Dearness Allowance granted in the award.	None
This takes us to the second objection of Mr. Gokhale.	None
6.	None
It is submitted that in the charter of demands of the union there were two specific demands with regard to dearness allowance.	None
These were as follows1 1.	None
It is demanded that the existing minimum dearness allowance of Rs. 146/ should be modified and that all the workers including workers known as staff should be paid minimum dearness allowance at the rate of full dearness allowance that is being paid to Textile workers at Ahmedabad, i.e. 100 of Ahmedabad Textile rate.1 2 With the above minimum dearness allowance the workers and workers known as staff should be further continued the higher dearness allowance as under Below Rs.	None
1 00 pay100 Ahmedabad Textile Dearness Allowance.	None
Pay range between Rs. 100 to Rs. 200100	None
Ahmedabad Textile DA40 of basic Pay above Rs.	None
200/100 Ahmedabad Textile DA 20 of basic.	None
7.	None
Even though the demand for dearness allowance was as above, the State Government referred the dispute only in the form set out at the outset.	None
The Government did not entertain the claim of dearness allowance in addition to the 100 D.A. paid to the workers of the cotton textile mills at Ahmedabad.	Reasoning
In other words, while the claim of the union was Ahmedabad Textile D.A. plus, the Government did not entertain the dispute between the parties in that form.	Reasoning
We find great force in the above submission of Mr. Gokhale.	Reasoning
The Tribunal in view of the content of the dispute referred to it had no jurisdiction in this reference to grant anything more then 100 of the Ahmedabad Textile D.A. on the outside.	Reasoning
Since, the Tribunal after having given appropriate consideration to all aspects of the matter granted varying percentage from 80 to 89 phased in a particular way, it had virtually rejected the unions claim for 100 of the Textile D.A. Having done so, there was no scope for allowing to the higher brackets of wage earners in addition 40 and 20 of basic wages as dearness allowance.	Reasoning
This part of the award is, therefore, beyond the scope, of the reference and must be quashed which we hereby do.	Reasoning
If the Government at a future time intends to entertain a dispute of this nature with regard to higher brackets of wage earners that will be a different dispute but such a claim could not be entertained by the Tribunal in the present reference.	None
We may observe that during the course of the proceedings before the Tribunal the clerical and the supervisory staff seem to have withdrawn from the reference and even an application was filed by some of them before the Tribunal to confine the dispute a s pertaining to the, manual and technical workers.	None
The Tribunal however, did not accede to this request and proceeded on the footing that all the members of thestaff were included in the reference.	None
8.	None
We should not be taken to suggest that the 4 0 and 20 plus is either wrong or excessive by way of high cost allowance.	None
Indeed, we even felt that the lowest bracket upto Rs. 100/ needed full neutralisation of the rise in the cost of living as has been held in Killick Nixon Limited v. Killick Allied Companies Employees Union.	Reasoning
(1) Nor do we fail to see the force of Shri Gargs submission that social justice perspectives being integral to industrial jurisprudence.	Reasoning
the high cost allowance as a component of D.A. is not impermissible in principle.	Reasoning
It is a legitimate item.	Reasoning
But we disallow because there is I deliberate omission to make a reference, of that item and so, falls outside the jurisdiction of the tribunal.	Reasoning
That is why we have expressly observed that such a dispute may well be referred by Government, if it considers fit, and this decision will not bar such a course.	None
9.	None
In the result the appeal is partly allowed.	Decision
The award of the Tribunal with regard to the 40 and 20 for the higher two slabs is set aside In all other aspects the award of the Tribunal stands.	Decision
The appellant will pay the costs (one set) of the respondents as ordered at the time of granting the special leave and will also pay interest as ordered therein.	Decision
The arrears calculated in terms of the Award now upheld will be paid to the respondents in two equal installments, the first installment within three months from today and final installment within three months thereafter.	Decision
10.	None
Appeal partly allowed.	Decision
