Madan Mohan Punchhi, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal is virtually against the judgment and order of a learned single Judge of the Bombay High Court dated 9111993 passed in Writ Petition No. 2949 of 1993 against which Letters Patent Appeal No.1 of 1994 was dismissed summarily by a Division Bench of that Court on 1411994.	Issue
The learned single Judge was spared the order of recounting the checkered history of the litigation between the parties because of the reasonable stand taken by both the sides.	Facts
We assume that we too have been spared likewise and the parties continue to be reasonable.	Facts
It so happens that there is a building known as Great Social Building situate at 60.	Facts
Sir P.M. Road, Fort, Bombay, which once belonged to	Facts
the Great Social Life Insurance Co. Ltd.	Facts
It appears that M s. Interseas Corporation had taken on rent the fourth floor of the said building sometime in the year 1944.	Facts
A portion carved out therefrom by a wooden partition was apparently sublet by M s. Interseas Corporation to the appellant M s. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. in July 1951.	Facts
It also appears that M s. S.M. Enterprises also became sublessees of M s. Interseas Corporation of another portion of the property.4.	Facts
On the setting up of the Life Insurance Corporation of India under the Life Insurance Corporation of India Act, 1956 all the assets and liabilities of the said Great Social Life Insurance Company were taken over by the Life Insurance Corporation of India.	Facts
It is appellants case that in consequence thereof, M s. Interseas Corporation became the tenant of the Life Insurance Corporation and the appellantCompany became the subtenant by operation of law in relation to the premises in question.	Facts
Further it is the case of the appellantCompany that it has become a deemed tenant under the respondentLife Insurance Corporation because of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance of 1959.5.	Facts
Legal proceedings were initiated by the Life Insurance Corporation of India, the respondent herein against the appellantCompany and one of its shareholderscumDirectors, for possession of the premises in question under the provisions of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 (for short the Act).	Facts
The Estate Officer after conducting the requisite inquiry as contemplated under the Act passed an order of eviction of the original tenants as also the appellantCompany holding it as unauthorised occupant being unlawful subtenant of the original tenant.	Facts
The Estate Officer also passed an order for damages to the tune of about Rs.12 lakhs.6.	Facts
Being aggrieved against the said order of eviction as well as damages, appeals were preferred by the appellantCompany as well as the original tenant before the Principal Bench, City Civil Court, Bombay.	Facts
The appellate Court upheld the order of eviction but reversed the order relating to damages, coming to the conclusion that there was no evidence in support of the order.	Facts
The said order of eviction was thus challenged by the appellantCompany before the High Court of Bombay.	Facts
But the respondentLife Insurance Corporation of India, did not choose to file any Writ Petition challenging those orders whereby its claim for damages had been negatived by the appellate Court.7.	Facts
The learned single Judge of the High Court examined the files relating to the cases and entertained the belief that the Estate Officer had not dealt with the matter satisfactorily inasmuch as material from the earlier litigation, which had been fought prior to the instant proceedings, had per se been inducted into the files and there was hardly any effective or clear discussion on the issue whether the appellantCompany was an unlawful subtenant and, therefore, in unauthorised occupation.	Facts
On the basis thereof, the learned single Judge expressed his views that the interest of justice required that the matter be remanded to the Estate Officer for fresh decision.	Facts
It is at that juncture that the learned Counsel appearing for the Life Insurance Corporation took exception to such course and yet at the same time bargained that if remand be considered necessary, it should open an opportunity to the Life Insurance Corporation to raise its claim for damages in accordance with law.	Facts
This plea was objected to by learned Counsel appearing for the appellants on the procedural plea that when the appellate Court had quashed the order of damages and there had not been any petition preferred by the Life Insurance Corporation before the High Court, the matter could not be raked up all the more when it concerned the original tenant as well, who had been deleted from the array of parties before the learned single Judge, by consent.	Facts
In the result, the learned single Judge held as follows I am of the clear view that if at all the matter is to be remanded to offer opportunity to the petitioner to prove their case of lawful subtenancy, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the interest of justice also require that the Corporation as a public body should get an opportunity to press its claim for the damages, in the event of it succeeding to prove that the petitioners were unlawful subtenants and, therefore, in unauthorised occupation of public premises.	Facts
(Emphasis ours)	None
As a result, both the orders of the Estate Officer dated 1731992 passed in Cases Nos.187/187A of 1991 in proceedings under Sections 5 and 7 of the Act and the appellate order of the Principal Judge, City Civil Court, Bombay, in Miscellaneous Appeal No. 85 of 1992 were quashed in putting the matter back on the file of the Estate Officer, to be dealt with in accordance with law.	Facts
It was made clear that the orders were set aside only insofar as the appellantCompany was concerned and not in respect of other parties.	Facts
This order, as said, before, was left uninterfered with by the Letters Patent Bench.	Facts
The aggrieved appellantCompany maintains that the High Court could not have deprived it of the advantage gained by the order of the Principal Judge, City Civil Court, in rejecting the petition under Section 7 of the Act relating to the question of damages.	None
It is asserted that the High Court has deprived the appellantCompany a validly accrued right, gained under the processual law of the country.	Reasoning
Under the Act, Section 2(f) defines rent in relation to any public premises, to mean the consideration payable periodically for the authorised occupation of the premises, together with certain inclusions.	Reasoning
Sections 4 and 5 provide for issuance of notice to show cause against an order of eviction and the ultimate eviction of the unauthorised occupant.	Reasoning
Section 7 confers power on the Estate Officer to require payment of rent or damages in respect of public premises.	Reasoning
If a person is an authorised occupant, he can be required to pay the rent within such time and in such instalments as may be specified in the order.	Reasoning
Likewise, an unauthorised occupant of any public premises may be required by the Estate Officer to pay damages within such time and in such instalments as may be stipulated in the order.	Reasoning
Of course, the Estate Officer in assessing damages would have regard to such principles of assessment of damages as may be prescribed as also to assess damages on account of use and occupation of such premises.	Reasoning
It is thus plain and clear that unless the occupant is first adjudged as an unauthorised occupant, his liability to pay damages does not arise.	Reasoning
In other words, if he is an authorised occupant, he may be required to pay rent but not damages.	Reasoning
The quality of occupation and the quality of recompense for the use and occupation of the public premises go hand in hand and are interdependent.	Reasoning
Such is the scheme of the Act.	None
The inherent temper of restraint of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution was posed and pressed into service by learned Counsel for the appellants contending that the High Court should not have opened up a finalised litigation relatable to damages to barter a remand on the question of the quality of occupation of the appellantCompany, i.e. whether it was authorised or unauthorised.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was maintained that by conduct, the Life Insurance Corporation, respondent, had submitted to those orders and had not put them to challenge in proceedings under Article 226 and or Article 227 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
On that axis it was asserted that the direction on remand to resettle the question of damages may be quashed, maintaining the other direction and order with regard to the nature of occupation.	Arguments of Respondent
Regretfully we are not persuaded to adopt such course.11.	None
It is well settled that the High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution can take cognizance of the entire facts and circumstances of the case and pass appropriate orders to give the parties complete and substantial justice.	Reasoning
This jurisdiction of the High Court, being extraordinary, is normally exercisable keeping in mind the principles of equity.	Reasoning
One of the ends of the equity is to promote honesty and fair play.	Reasoning
If there be any unfair advantage gained by a party priorly, before invoking the jurisdiction of the High Court, the Court can take into account the unfair advantage gained and can require the party to shed the unfair gain before granting relief.	Reasoning
What precisely has been done by the learned single Judge, is clear from the above emphasised words which be reread with advantage.	Reasoning
The question of claim to damages and their ascertainment would only arise in the event of the Life Insurance Corporation, respondent, succeeding to prove that the appellantCompany was an unlawful subtenant and, therefore, in unauthorised occupation of public premises.	Reasoning
If the finding were to go in favour of the appellantCompany and it is proved to be a lawful subtenant and hence not an unauthorised occupant, the direction to adjudge the claim for damages would be rendered sterile and otiose.	Reasoning
It is only in the event of the appellantCompany being held to be an unlawful subtenant and hence an unauthorised occupant that the claim for damages would be determinable.	Reasoning
We see, therefore, no fault in the High Court adopting such course in order to balance the equities between the contestants especially when it otherwise had power of superintendence under Article 227 of the Constitution in addition.	Reasoning
We cannot be oblivious to the fact that when the occupation of the premises in question was a factor in continuation the liability to pay for the use and occupation thereof, be it in the form of rent or damages, was also a continuing factor.	Reasoning
The cause of justice, as viewed by the High Court, did clearly warrant that both these questions be viewed interdependently.	Reasoning
For those who seek equity must bow to equity.12.	Reasoning
Besides, it is noteworthy that the Principal Judge of the City Civil Court, had negatived the claim of damages on taking a technical view of the matter because in his view the assessment had been made more on assumptions than on concrete evidence which was required to be adduced.	Reasoning
Nowhere was the finding recorded by that Court that damages were altogether not due or that the appellantCompany was not liable the period involved therein being from 131979 to 2821992.	Reasoning
Much time has elapsed thereafter.	Reasoning
The respondentCompany continues to be in possession of the premises in question.	Reasoning
It would in any case be liable to pay for the use and occupation thereof and that liability was only required to be given a legal character, depending upon the quality of occupation.	Reasoning
The High Court, in our view, committed no wrong in putting the negated claim of damages on the scale of justice as a balance, before granting relief, in setting aside the orders of eviction and effecting a remand, for fresh disposal in accordance with law.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, we find no case is made out for our interference.	Decision
As a result, this appeal fails and is hereby dismissed, with costs.	Decision
