 Vaidialingam, J.1.	None
This appeal, by special leave, by the workmen is against the award dated October 20, 1967, of the Industrial Tribunal, Madras, in I. D. No. 65 of 1966 in so far as it declined to grant additional bonus for the years 1962 and 1963.2.	Issue
The respondent, Dunlop Rubber Company of India Limited, which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of types and tubes for light and heavy vehicles, has a factory in Calcutta, besides one at Ambattur in Madras, which was started in or about 1959.	Facts
At the time of the award, the company was employing about 1200 workmen but, during the years 1962 and 1963, it was employing about 800 workmen.	Facts
The company paid to its workmen for each of these two years, 1962 and 1963, 12 weeks basic wages as annual bonus.	Facts
The workmen were not satisfied with the said payment and demanded additional bonus of three months basic wages for each of these years.	Facts
According to the workmen, the company has made a net profit of about 3.30 crores in each of these years.	Facts
The company, however, declined to meet the demand with the result that the Government of Madras by its order dated October15, l966, referred the dispute regarding the additional bonus to the Industrial Tribunal, Madras.	Facts
There was also another dispute referred regarding the alteration of the gratuity scheme.	Facts
But we are not concerned with this dispute.3.	Facts
The case of the workmen, as disclosed by their written statement before the Tribunal, was as followsThe company, according to their published profit and loss account has made a net profit of Rs. 3.30 crorers and Rs. 3.27 crores for the years l962 and 1963 respectively.	Facts
The management have made various deductions from their gross profit, which were not justified according to the Full Bench Formula.	Facts
The management in their work sheet claimed Rs. 2.49 crores as rehabilitation and this huge amount has been claimed to purposely defeat the just demands of the workmen.	Facts
Having due regard to the profits earned by the company, the demand of three months basic wages as additional bonus was justified.4.	Facts
The company resisted the claim of the union.	Facts
The case of the company was as follows In each of these two years, 1962 and 1963, it has paid to its workmen in India bonus equivalent to fifteen weeks basic wages.	Facts
All the workmen, except the workmen at Ambattur, who represent only about 12 per cent of the total number of employees, have accepted the payment and they are fully satisfied with the amount paid voluntarily by the company.	Facts
The company made proper deductions and additions according to the Full Bench Formula and arrived at the available surplus.	Facts
Out of the said available surplus, the company has paid nearly 60 or 63 per cent as bonus to the workmen which represents fifteen weeks basic wages.5.	Facts
Before the Tribunal, the company as well as the workmen filed charts in respect of their pleas.	Facts
The union objected to the deductions made by the company in respect of the commission received out of the sales made by the Dunlop United Kingdom as well as the royalties receivable out of the sales made by the London firm.	Facts
There were also objections taken by the union in respect of certain deductions and claims made by the company.	Facts
As those contentions have been raised before us also, we will refer to those matters later.	Facts
There was also controversy regarding the rehabilitation claimed by the company.	Facts
The Tribunal, on a consideration of the materials placed before it by both the parties, ultimately accepted the case of the management and held that the bonus already paid to the workmen was sufficient and that they are not entitled to any additional bonus for these two years.6.	Facts
Mr. M. K. Ramamurthi, learned counsel for the appellant workmen attacked the view of the Tribunal accepting the claims made by the company in respect of several items.	Facts
The company had filed before the Tribunal a statement, Ext. M3, extracted below, showing the available surplus for the years 1962 and 1963(Ext.	Facts
M3)	None
The Dunlop Rubber Co. (India), Limited Available Surplus Computations for the years 1962 and 1963.TABLENote 1.	Facts
Commission receivable arises out of sales made by Dunlop U.K. of their products to India either through the Indian High Commissioners Purchasing Commission in London or to direct importers.	None
Note 2.	None
Royalties receivable arise out of sales made by Dunlop U. K., of their products to Afghanistan, Burma and Pakistan.	None
xx	Facts
xx	Facts
xx	Facts
xx	Facts
xx	Facts
xx	Facts
8.7.	None
According to the company, it has paid more than 60 per cent of the available surplus as bonus to the workmen and that they are not entitled to any additional bonus.	Facts
The first item that was challenged by Mr. Ramamurthi was regarding the deductions made by the company in the sum of Rs. 3,94,964 and Rs. 3,94,973 for the years 1962 and 1963 respectively as commission as well as the sums of Rs. 59,191 and 50,582 as royalties for the years 1962 and 1963 respectively received from Dunlop, United Kingdom.	Facts
According to the counsel, the workmen have also contributed to enable the company to earn these amounts and, therefore, they will be entitled to a share in the said profits.	Facts
In this connection, Mr. Ramamurthi referred to the decision of this Court in Tata Oil Mills Co., Ltd. v. Its Workmen, (1960)	Facts
SCR 1 (AIR 1959 SC 1065 ).	Facts
In that decision certain items were claimed by the company as extraneous income obtained by them without any contribution by labour.	Facts
While allowing the claim of the company in respect of two items, regarding the rest it was held by this Court that they had been earned by the company in the normal course of its business and that there was no reason why the labour should be excluded from its share in the profit.	Facts
It was no doubt observed by this court that normally there must be contribution of the workmen in earning profits before they are entitled to profit bonus but it is not necessary that a direct connection between the efforts of the workmen and a particular item of profit earned has to be established before the profit can be taken into account for the purpose of arriving at the available surplus.8.	Facts
Mr. B. Sen, learned counsel for the company, on the other hand, referred us to notes 1 and 2 in Ext. M3, which has he been extracted by us earlier Notes.	Facts
1 and 2 clearly explain the circumstances under which the said amounts are earned by the company and they show that the labour has made no contribution whatsoever in the companys earning either in the commission or the royalties.	Facts
Mr. Sen also drew our attention to the evidence of MW1, the Deputy Chief Accountant of the company, who has explained the circumstances under which the said amounts were received.9.	Facts
We are of the opinion that the Tribunal was justified in accepting the contention of the company that the amounts received as commission and royalties need not he added back.	Reasoning
MW1, the Deputy Chief Accountant of the company, has deposed to the nature of these amounts received by the company.	None
According to him, the commission is received from the parent company in United Kingdom for sales made by them through the High Commission in London or sales effected as against orders received directly by the company from the Indian customers.	None
The amounts due to the company were credited by the London office.	None
Similarly, royalties were also received out of sales of Dunlop products made to Afghanistan, Burma and Pakistan.	None
No canvassing for orders in those countries is done by the company.	None
Apart from the fact that Notes 1 and 2 in Ext. M3, have not been challenged, we also find that there is no crossexamination by the union of MW1 when he has referred to the nature of these receipts, which go to show that the workmen in India have not at all contributed, in any measure, in earning those amounts.	None
In our opinion, the amounts received by the company, by way of commission and royalties are analogous to the home delivery commission, which was held by this Court in Workmen of Hindustan Motors, Ltd. v. M s. Hindustan Motors, Ltd. (1968) 2	None
SCR 311 (AIR 1968 SC 963 ), to be extraneous income.	None
The Hindustan Motors Limited, which was manufacturing cars in collaboration with a foreign concern, was entitled to commission on the sales made in India by the foreign concern, even though the company was not a party to those transactions.	None
This amount was called home delivery commission.	None
The company claimed that the said commission should be deducted while calculating the surplus out of the profits available for distribution of bonus.	None
The workmen challenged the said deduction.	None
This Court, however, rejected the contention of the workmen and held that the amount received as home delivery commission has to be treated as extraneous income, which was earned by the company without any activities in which the workmen participated or contributed their labour.	None
The decision relied on by Mr. Ramamurthi in the Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd. (1960) 1	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1959 SC 1065 ) was referred and it was held that the situation therein was entirely different.	None
But the principle laid in	None
the Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd.	None
that if any income was earned in the course of the normal business of a company in which the workmen were also engaged, that income must be included in the profits for calculation of surplus available for distribution of bonus, was approved in the Hindustan Motors case, (1968) 2	None
SCR 311 (AIR 1968 SC 963 )	None
.Applying the said principle to the case on hand, we are of the opinion that the commission and royalties received by the company did not require any contribution or work or labour on the part of the workmen and it accrued to the company in view of the arrangements spoken to by MW1.	None
In the circumstances, the deduction of these amounts from the profits by the company was fully justified.10.	None
It may be mentioned that the company had deducted from the profits the provision made for retirement gratuities written back.	Reasoning
Mr. Sen has quite fairly accepted that the deduction is not justified.	Reasoning
Therefore, this item need not be discussed further.11.	None
The company had claimed Rs. 4,20,000 for each of these years being return of 6 on the share premium of 70 lakhs.	None
The company had also claimed a sum of Rs. 27 lakhs for each of these years being 6 return on ordinary share capital.	None
The claim for return made in respect of ordinary share capital is not challenged.	None
But the claim made for return on the share premium of 70 lakhs is attacked by Mr. Ramamurthi on the ground that the share premium does not represent paidup capital.	None
The Tribunal did not accept this contention advanced on behalf of the workmen.12.	None
MW1 has again spoken regarding the share premium amount.	None
From his evidence it is clear that when a company makes a Rights issue, the Government, while giving consent, fixes a certain amount of premium to be charged for those shares.	None
Those shares are issued only to the shareholders, who ask for it and who pay the premium amount in addition to the nominal value of the share.	None
A capital introduced by the shareholders in the company is shown as part of share capital according to the Companies Act upto 1956.	None
When the said Act was amended, it had to be shown in accordance with Schedule VI as a separate item, as it was only available for issue to shareholders and could not be distributed as dividend.	None
The said share premium amount had no bearing as general reserves and they were really the share capital of the company and, therefore, the company was justified in claiming 6 return on this amount.	None
The share premium is not undistributed profit and cannot be distributed as dividend.	None
We are satisfied, in the circumstances, that the contention of the union that no return should be allowed on the share premium amount, has been rightly rejected by the Tribunal.13.	None
The third item relates to the deductions made by the respondent out of the profits of two items of donations made in 1962.	None
No donations were claimed as deduction in 1963.	None
As a substantial part of the donations was for the National Defence Fund, the Tribunal held that the expenditure was properly incurred and the company was justified in deducting the donations from the profits.	Reasoning
Mr. Sen accepted that the deduction made by the management under this head is not justified.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the company is not entitled to deduct those amounts, as is clear from the decision of this Court in Voltas Ltd. v. Its Workmen, 1961 (3) SCR 167 (AIR 1961 SC 941).14.	None
The fourth item, which is contested by the appellant, is the return of 4 on reserves employed as working capital.	Arguments of Petitioner
The company claimed Rs. 23,35,009 and Rs. 24,90,563 as 4 return on reserves employed as working capital in 1962 and 1963 respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Ramamurthi, this claim has not been established in accordance with the decisions of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred us to the decisions in Oriental Gas Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, (1971) 2 Lab LJ 657 (1972 Lab IC 1256 SC) and Bareilly Electricity Supply Co. Ltd. v. The Workmen, (1972) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 241 (AIR 1972 SC 330.	None
In both these decisions, the nature of the evidence to sustain a claim for return on working capital has been discussed and laid down.	None
In particular, in the second decision cited above, the various decisions bearing on the point have been exhaustively reviewed.	Reasoning
The position emerging from the decisions of this Court is that mere production of a balancesheet by a company cannot be taken as proof of a claim as to what portion of the reserves has been actually used as working capital.	Reasoning
The utilization of any amount from the reserves as working capital has to be proved by an employer by adducing proper evidence by way of affidavit or otherwise, after giving an opportunity to the workmen to contest the correctness of the same in crossexamination.	Reasoning
The company will have to satisfactorily prove that the amount on which return is claimed has been actually used as working capital.15.	None
The question is whether the criticism of Mr. Ramamurthi that the company has not properly established its claim for return on working capital in accordance with the decisions of this Court, is justified?	None
The company has filed Ext. M8 containing particulars regarding the amount used as working capital for the years 1962 and 1963.	None
It has also filed Ext. M9, the certificate of the Chartered Accountant, that reserves of Rs. 5,83,75,228 and Rs.	Reasoning
6,22,64,083 have been used as working capital in the years 1962 and l963 respectively.	Reasoning
MW l has spoken to the contents of Exts.	None
M8 and M9.	None
The Chartered Accountant of the auditors, who issued the certificate, Ext. M9, has also given evidence as MW2.	None
When they have spoken about the amounts used as working capital, there is absolutely no crossexamination by the union regarding these matters.	None
This is not a case where merely the profit and loss account alone has been filed without any further evidence adduced by the management.	Reasoning
Mr. Ramamurthi no doubt attempted to satisfy us by a reference to the profit and loss account for the two years that the entire amount claimed by the company could not have been used as working capital.	Reasoning
We have gone through the balance sheet and profit and loss account.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that the Tribunal has rightly accepted the claim of the management for 4 return on the working capital.16.	Reasoning
The fifth and the last item that is in controversy between the parties is the claim for rehabilitation made by the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before we consider that question, we must refer to a contention raised by Mr. Ramamurthi that the management had no claim for rehabilitation and, therefore, no claim for rehabilitation should be allowed.	Arguments of Respondent
In particular, Mr. Ramamurthi referred us to the statement in Ext. M3, which we have adverted to earlier, to the effect available surplus subject to rehabilitation claim and stressed that the company itself has made a calculation without claiming any rehabilitation.	Arguments of Respondent
We are not inclined to accept this plea of Mr. Ramamurthi.	None
On the other hand, Ext. M3 shows that the company was prepared to take a stand that even without any claim for rehabilitation being allowed in its favour, the available surplus shown in Ext. M3 will establish that the workmen have been paid more than 60 to 62 of the available surplus as bonus for each of the two years.	Reasoning
Ext. M3 does not and cannot be put against the company if it can properly establish a claim for rehabilitation.	None
Before we discuss further the claim for rehabilitation, it is now necessary to work out the figures on the basis of the findings recorded by us earlier.	Reasoning
We have accepted the claim for deduction of commission and royalties in favour of the company.	Reasoning
We have also accepted its claim for return on the share premium amount of Rupees 70 lakhs.	Reasoning
We have disallowed the claim of the company regarding the amount paid by them as donation in 1962.	Reasoning
We have allowed the companys claim for return on the working capital on the above basis, two chart have been prepared of the available surplus for the years 1962 and 1963.	Reasoning
They are as follows (For Charts see page No. 2400)17.	None
In both the charts no claim for rehabilitation has been taken into account.	None
Out of the available surplus in 1962, the company paid nearly 66 as bonus for that year.	None
Similarly out of the available surplus in 1963, the company has paid nearly 60 to 62 as bonus.	None
Prima facie, we are of the view that even if the claim of the company for rehabilitation is rejected completely, still on the basis of the figures worked out in the above charts, after taking into account the rebate in Incometax that will be received by the company, the workmen have been paid bonus at a rate which has been accepted as correct by this Court and as such they cannot have any grievance.18.	None
Regarding the claim for rehabilitation, the company had filed three statements.	None
Exts.	None
M15, M16 and M17 are charts relating to the buildings, plant and machinery and moulds.	None
The company has also adduced evidence in respect of the claims made in these statements.	None
Mr. Ramamurthi has attacked the claim for rehabilitation made by the company.	None
When the charts prepared by the management regarding rehabilitation were before the Tribunal, we find that several matters spoken to by the witnesses regarding the charts do not appear to have been seriously challenged by the workmen.	None
Regarding the multipliers and divisor for plant and machinery, including moulds, these have been spoken to by the factory Engineer, MW3.	None
Regarding the buildings, the Architect, MW4, has also given evidence.	None
Regarding all these matters, the Chartered Accountant attached to the auditors of the respondent company, has given evidence as MW2.	None
The appellant has not objected to the data adduced as well as the documents produced by the company.	None
No suggestions have been made to these witnesses that the figures on the basis of which the rehabilitation claim was made, were in any way erroneous.	None
It is before us for the first time that Mr. Ramamurthi has urged that the evidence of these witnesses is not sufficient to justify the claim for rehabilitation made by the company.	None
Mr. Ramamurthi has referred us to the various decisions regarding the nature of the evidence that is required to be produced by a company when it makes a claim for rehabilitation.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. B. Sen invited our attention to the award dated February 5, 1960 of the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, Ext. M26, which related to the claim of the workmen of the respondent company in Calcutta for bonus for the year 1957.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that award, the Tribunal has very elaborately gone into the evidence adduced by the company and has allowed a sum of Rupees 2,18,36,983, as calculated by the company, as rehabilitation charges.	Arguments of Petitioner
When once a Tribunal has considered a similar claim and has adopted on the basis of the evidence adduced by the parties, normally the amount awarded towards rehabilitation claim should be adopted.	None
We do not say that it is conclusive.	None
But that award is certainly entitled to due consideration at our hands.	None
In that award the Tribunal has worked out the rehabilitation claim for the year 1957.	None
The charts filed by the company regarding rehabilitation, though for the years 1962 and 1963, were worked out only on the basis of the replacement cost of the year 1958.	None
We are mentioning this aspect because if the appellants case was that the Tribunal, when working out the claim for 1957 in Ext. M26, has not properly appreciated evidence, it should have elicited from the witnesses, who deposed on behalf of the company, that the figures furnished by them are not correct and cannot be accepted.	None
No such attempt has been made by the. appellant.	None
Mr. Sen, learned counsel, relied on the decision of this Court in M s. Hindustan Motors Ltd. case (1968)	None
2	None
SCR 311 (AIR 1968 SC 963 ) and pointed out that according to that amount decision, the only permissible deduction from the total amount claimed as required for rehabilitation by the appellant can be the depreciation amounting to Rs. 5.17 crores and Rupees 5.75 crores in 1962 and 1963 respectively.	None
He further pointed out that if the amount representing depreciation reserved is taken out of the total reserves, which is established by the evidence, then the balance has been utilised in raw material and hence there were no available liquid assets towards rehabilitation.19.	None
We do not propose to go into the details of the claim for rehabilitation made by the respondentcompany, as well as the objections now made on behalf of the workmen to the said claim.	None
The reason is that when evidence, oral and documentary, was adduced by the company before the Tribunal, the appellant has not objected to the data adduced and the documents produced by the management and they have not put any questions to the witnesses to establish that the calculation made by the company is erroneous.	Reasoning
There is also the additional fact that from two charts of available surplus for the years 1962 and 1963, reproduced earlier, even without allowing any claim far rehabilitation, the workmen have been paid bonus for the two years in question at rates higher than 60 .	Reasoning
Allowing for the benefit that the management will get by way of tax rebate on the amount of bonus paid, the payment of bonus already made is in accordance with the proportion accepted by this Court vice M s. Gannon Dunkerley and Co. Ltd. v. Workmen, AIR 1971 SC 2567 .	Reasoning
Even on the basis of the calculation to be made, according to the appellant, in respect of the rehabilitation claim, the company will be entitled to some amount at least in that regard.	Reasoning
Even if the amount, as contended by Mr. Ramamurthi, is taken into account, the available surplus, as shown in the charts, will be reduced further.	Reasoning
The result will be that even the amount paid as bonus already by the company, will be more than what the workmen will be entitled to according to the decisions of this Court.	Reasoning
As pointed out earlier, even without making any provision for rehabilitation, the percentage of bonus paid is amply sufficient.	Reasoning
Considering the matter from any point of view, there is no question of the workmen being entitled to any additional bonus over and above what has already been paid.20.	Reasoning
To conclude, we are satisfied that the award of the Tribunal holding that the workmen are not entitled to any additional bonus for the years in question, is correct.	Decision
The appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.21.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
