 Shah, J.1.	None
This case is a sequel to the judgment pronounced by this Court on December 3, 1965 Commissioner of Incometax, Madhya Pradesh v. Straw Products Ltd., 19662 SCR 881 (AIR 1966 SC 1113 ).2.	Issue
The assessee was incorporated in August, 1935 with its Head Office in the Indian State of Bhopal, and commenced business as a manufacturer of wrapping paper in 1939.	Facts
The assessee entered into an agreement with the Ruler of Bhopal under which the assessee was exempted from payment of all taxes to the State for a period of ten years expiring on October 31, 1948.3.	Facts
The State of Bhopal merged with India on August 1, 1949.	Facts
The territory was constituted into a Chief Commissioners Province, and was later merged with the State of Madhya Pradesh under the States Reorganization Act, 1956.	Facts
The GovernorGeneral of India issued the Taxation Laws (Extension to Merged States)	Facts
Ordinance 21 of 1949 to make certain taxation laws applicable to the merged States.	Facts
By C1.	Facts
3 of the Ordinance, amongst other Acts, the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 and all the orders and rules issued thereunder were extended to the merged States, and by Cl. 7 the corresponding laws in force in the merged States were repealed.	Facts
By Cl. 8 the Central Government was invested with the power to make provisions or give directions, which appeared to the Government to be necessary, for removing any difficulty arising in giving effect to the provisions of the Ordinance.4.	Facts
Ordinance 21 of 1949 was repealed and replaced by the Taxation Laws (Extension to Merged States and Amendment) Act 67 of 1949.	Facts
Section 3 of the Act extended with effect from April 1, 1949, to the merged States, amongst other Acts, the Indian Incometax Act and the orders and rules made thereunder, and by S. 7 the laws in force in the merged States corresponding to the Acts mentioned in S. 3 stood repealed.	Facts
Section 6 provided If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of any Act, rule or order extended by Section 3 to the merged States, the Central Government may, by order, make such provisions or give such directions as appear to it to be necessary for removal of the difficulty.5.	Reasoning
The relevant provisions of the Indian Incometax Act 1922 which have a bearing on the determination of depreciation in respect of buildings, machinery, plant and furniture used by the assessee in carrying on business were these S. 10.	None
(1) The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation in respect of the profit or gains of any business, profession or vocation, carried on by him.(2) Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely  (vi) in respect of depreciation of such buildings, machinery, plant, or furniture being the property of the assessee, a sum equivalent, where the assets are ships other than ships ordinarily plying on inland waters to such percentage on the original cost thereof to the assessee as may in any case or class of cases be prescribed and in any other case, to such percentage on the written down value thereof as may in any case or class of cases be prescribed Provided that(a) (b) (c) the aggregate of all such allowances made under this Act or any Act repealed hereby, or under the Indian Incometax Act, 1886, shall, in no case, exceed the original cost to the assessee of the buildings, machinery, plant, or furniture, as the case may be6.	None
The expression written down value was defined in S. 10 (5) which in so far as it is material provided In subsection (2) written down value means(a) in the case of assets acquired in the previous year, the actual cost to the assesseeProvided (b) in the case of assets acquired before the previous year the actual cost to the assessee less all depreciation actually allowed to him under this Act or any Act repealed thereby or under executive orders issued when the Indian Incometax Act 1886, was in forceProvided Provided 7.	None
The taxation laws in the merged State were not repealed by the Indian Incometax Act they stood repealed by the Taxation Laws Extension to Merged States and Amendment) Act 67 of 1949.	Facts
In the application of the scheme of the Incometax Act 1922 for computing the depreciation allowance difficulties clearly arose.	Facts
On the plain words of the Incometax Act in the computation of the taxable income of an assessee the depreciation actually allowed under the Act, or Acts repealed thereby or under executive orders issued under the Indian Incometax Act, 1886, could alone be taken into account depreciation allowed under the State laws could not be taken into account.	Facts
The Central Government therefore in exercise of its authority under cl. 8 of Ordinance 21 of 1949 issued the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1949.	Facts
By Cl. 2 of that Order, it was provided In making any assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a merged State relating to incometax and supertax, shall be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance referred to in subclause (c) of the proviso to clause (vi) of subsection (2), and the written down value under clause (b) of subsection 10 of the said Act.	Facts
Provided that where in respect of any asset, depreciation has been allowed for any year both in the assessment made in the merged State and in British India, the greater of the two sums allowed shall only be taken into account.8.	Facts
Ordinance 21 of 1949 was repealed by subs.	Facts
(1) of S. 34 of the Taxation Laws (Extension to Merged States and Amendment) Act 67 of 1949 but by virtue of subs.	Facts
(2) of that Section, the Removal of Difficulties Order remained in force.	Facts
The Order was clearly intended to provide that depreciation actually allowed under the Merged State Acts was to be taken into account for determining the written down value of assets of an assessee in bringing into effect the Indian Incometax Act to the assessees in the merged States.	Facts
In computing the profits and gains of the business carried on by the assessee for determining the tax payable by him for the assessment year 194950,depreciation allowed under S. 10 (2) (vi) was taken as a percentage of the original cost to the assessee of the buildings, machinery, plant and furniture, and in the four subsequent assessment years the written down value of the assets admissible for depreciation was determined on that footing.	Facts
The Incometax Officer, Bhopal thereafter commenced proceedings for reassessment under S. 34 (1) (b) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, against the assessee in respect of the assessment years 195253 and 195354 and by order dated March 3, 1958, recomputed the taxable income on the footing that since the commencement of the business the assessee must be deemed notionally to have been allowed depreciation under the Bhopal Incometax Act.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Incometax Appellate Tribunal disagreed with the Incometax Officer and restored the original assessment.	Facts
On a reference made by the Appellate Tribunal, the High Court of Madhya Pradesh held in favour of the assessee.9.	Facts
During the pendency of an appeal filed by the Commissioner of Incometax in this Court, the Central Government in exercise of the power conferred by S. 6 of Act 67 of 1949 issued an Order called the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Amendment Order, 1962, and added the following Explanation to Cl. 2 of the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1949 Explanation.	None
For the purpose of this paragraph, the expression all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Merged State means and shall be deemed always to have meant (a) the aggregate allowance for depreciation taken into account in computing the written down value under any laws or rules in force in a merged State or carried forward under the said laws or rules, and(b) in cases where income had been exempted from tax under any laws or rules in force in a merged State or under any agreement with a Ruler, the depreciation that would have been allowed had the income not been so exempted.10.	Facts
This Court held in the appeal filed by the Commissioner of Incometax that the expression actually allowed in the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1949, meant allowance actually given effect to, but by virtue of the Explanation added by the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Amendment Order, 1962, the correct basis for computing the written down value of the depreciable assets for the relevant period was the one adopted by the Incometax Officer.	Facts
Counsel for the assessee challenged the validity of the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Amendment Order, but the Court declined to consider that plea holding that an authority or court administering the Act cannot permit a challenge to be raised against the vires of the Act K. S. Venkataraman and Co. (P) Ltd. v. State of Madras, 19662 SCR 229 (AIR 1966 SC 1089 ).11.	Facts
The assessee then moved in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh a petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution, inter alia, for a writ declaring the 1962 Order ultra vires the Central Government, and for injunction restraining enforcement of the Order.	Facts
The High Court rejected the petition, and the assessee has appealed to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court.12.	Facts
In this appeal counsel for the assessee raised the following contentions (1) that S. of Act 67 of 1949 makes the arising of difficulty a condition of the exercise of the power to issue an order contemplated thereby, and since no difficulty in fact is proved to have arisen, the Central Government had no power to issue the impugned Order (2) that under S. 6 of Act 67 of 1949, the Central Government is authorised to make an order which is consistent with the scheme and the essential provisions of the Incometax Act, l922, and since the impugned Order operates to amend the scheme and essential provisions of the Incometax Act, it is ultra vires the provisions of S. 6 of, the Act(3) that if S. 6 is construed to invest a power authorising the Central Government to make orders amending or altering the Incometax Act, it is void, for it amounts to excessive delegation of legislative power(4) that after the repeal of the Incometax Act, 1922, by the Incometax Act 43 of 1961, the power to remove difficulties arising in the application of the former Act can be exercised only under subs.	Issue
(2) of S. 298 of the Incometax Act, 1961 and(5) that the orders of assessment made by the Incometax authorities or intended to be made by them are violative of Art.	Issue
14 of the Constitution.	None
Since we are of the view that the 1962 Order is invalid, because no difficulty is proved to have arisen justifying the invocation of the power under S. 6 of Act 67 of 1949, we do not propose to express our opinion on the remaining contentions.13.	Issue
By Cl. 8 of the agreement with the Ruler of Bhopal, the assessee was excluded from the operation of the taxation laws of the State.	None
Accordingly no return was filed by the assessee, no proceedings for assessment were taken, and no depreciation was allowed to the assessee for the purpose of the Bhopal Incometax Act.	None
This Court in 19662 SCR 881 (AIR 1966 SC 1113 ) observed that the expression all depreciation actually allowed under the laws or rules of a Merged State in paragraph 2 of the 1949 Order could not be given an artificial meaning.	None
It did not mean depreciation allowable under the provisions of any law or rules it connoted an idea that the allowance was actually given effect to.15.	None
By the extension of the Incometax Act, 1922, the rules and the orders made thereunder to the areas of the merged States, undoubtedly numerous difficulties arose, for the Incometax Act, the rules and the orders made thereunder contemplated situations peculiar to the conditions prevailing in British India which were not and could not be prevailing in the merged States.	None
It was necessary therefore to devise machinery for removing those difficulties.	None
This was sought to be achieved by conferring power upon the Central Government to make orders for that purpose.	None
The power was, however, to be exercised by making provisions or giving directions as may appear to be necessary for removal of difficulties and no more.	None
By S. 10 (2) (vi) proviso (c) read with S. 10 (5) of the Incometax Act, 1922, the depreciation allowable in computing the profits and gains of an assessee from business carried on by him had to be computed by aggregating all such allowances made under the Indian Incometax Act, or under any Act repealed thereby or under executive orders issued when the Indian Incometax Act, 1886 was in force.	None
On the express terms of the Act, for determining the written down value in any assessment year only that much depreciation was to be taken into account as was actually allowed under the Indian Incometax Act, or under any Act repealed thereby or under executive orders issued under the Indian Incometax Act, 1886, and since the Incometax Acts of the merged States were repealed not by the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, but by Ordinance 21 of 1949 and by Act 67 of 1949, in computing the written down value of the buildings, machinery, plant and furniture of an assessee in a merged State, allowances of depreciation under the Merged States Acts could not be taken into account.	None
This gave a benefit to the assessees in the merged States which was inconsistent with the scheme of the Incometax Act.	None
The Central Government therefore issued the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1949, and thereby all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a merged State relating to incometax and supertax was to be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance referred to in subcl.	Facts
(c) of the proviso to Cl.	None
(vi) of subs.	None
(2).	None
The language of the Order was clear.	None
If under the laws of a merged State relating to incometax and supertax any depreciation was actually allowed, it was to be taken into account in determining the written down value.	None
The depreciation actually allowed did not connote depreciation which might, if the assessed had been subjected to tax under the State law, have been allowed, but was not in fact allowed.	None
It was so held by this Court in (1966) 2	None
SCR 881 (AIR 1966 SC 1113 ).	None
The expression depreciation actually allowed was also so interpreted in a case in which an assessee who under an agreement with the Ruler of a Part B State was exempted from payment of incometax, and the Central Government after the merger of the State gave effect to the agreement by a notification under S. 80 A of the Incometax Act, 1922 Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay v. Dharampur Leather Cloth Co. Ltd., 19662 SCR 859 (AIR 1966 SC 1117 ).	Facts
It has also been held by the Courts in Indiaand in our judgment the view is rightthat in determining the written down value of assets, the depreciation not allowable but actually allowed was to be taken into account under S. 10 (2) (vi) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, after that clause was amended by Act 23 of 1941 Commissioner of Incometax v. Kamala Mills Ltd., 194917 ITR 130 (AIR 1952 Cal 383 ) V. Lakshminarayana v. Commissioner of Incometax, Andhra Pradesh, 196143 ITR 526 (AP).16.	None
The expression depreciation actually allowed therefore connotes under S. 10(2) (vi) of the Incometax Act, under Cl.	Reasoning
(2) of the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1949, and the notification under S. 60A of the Incometax Act, depreciation taken into account in assessing the income of an assessee arising from carrying on business, and does not mean depreciation merely allowable or applicable under the taxing provision.17.	Reasoning
But the impugned Order seeks to alter the connotation of that expression.	None
The assessee contends that no difficulty arose or could arise in giving effect to the provisions relating to the allowance of depriciation under the Indian Incometax Act to the merged States after the promulgation of the Taxation Laws (Merged States)	Arguments of Petitioner
(Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1949, and the Central Government assumed, in issuing the Impugned Order under Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949, powers which were not invested by the Act, and on that account the Order is invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Union of India resists that plea.	None
The High Court of Madhya Pradesh held that the Central Government having issued the 1962 Order, it must be deemed to he held that difficulties had arisen in giving effect to the provisions of Act 67 of 1949 and the opinion of the Central Government in that behalf was conclusive.	Reasoning
The Court observed The language of the Section clearly shows that it is for the Central Government to decide, as a pure act of administration, whether an obstacle or impediment exists in giving effect to the provisions of the Act, Rule or Order referred to in Section 6 which calls for an order for surmounting the obstacle or removing the impediment.	Reasoning
No doubt Section 6 does not expressly say that the Central Government should be satisfied as to the existence of any difficulty for the removal of which the making of an Order is necessary.	Reasoning
But it is implicit in the language of Section 6 that the Central Government should be satisfied that a difficulty exists in giving effect to the provisions of any Act, Rule or Order extended by Section 3 to the Merged States.	Reasoning
If the existence of any difficulty depends on the satisfaction, of the Central Government, then it follows that the condition about the existence of any difficulty, for the removal of which the Central Government is empowered to make an Order, is a subjective condition incapable of being determined by any one other than the Central Government which has to take action in the matter.	Reasoning
In so observing, in our judgment, the High Court plainly erred.	None
Exercise of the power to make provisions or to issue directions as may appear necessary to the Central Government is conditioned by the existence of a difficulty arising in giving effect to the provisions of any Act, rule or order.	Reasoning
The Section does not make the arising of the difficulty a matter of subjective satisfaction of the Government it is a condition precedent to the exercise of power and existence of the condition if challenged must be established as an objective fact.18.	Reasoning
The observations made by this Court in Commissioner of Incometax, Hyderabad v. Dewan Bahadur Ramgopal Mills Ltd., (1961) 2 SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ), on which reliance was placed by the High Court do not support the view that the arising of a difficulty is a matter for the subjective satisfaction of the Central Government.	Reasoning
In Dewan Bahadur Ramgopal Mills case, (1961) 2 SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ) this Court was called upon to consider the validity of paragraph 2 of the Taxation Laws (Part B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950.	Reasoning
On behalf of the assessee it was contended in that case that the notification No. S. R. O. 1139 dated May 8, 1956 issued under Section 12 of the Finance Act of 1950, which was couched in terms substantially the same as Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949, was invalid.	None
This Court rejected the contention observing that in applying the provisions of Clause (b) of subsection (5) of Section 10 of the Incometax Act to an assessee in a Part B State there was an initial difficulty, because the laws in force in the Part B States were repealed not by the Indian Incometax Act, but by the Finance Act, 1950, and to remove that difficulty the Taxation Laws (Part B States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950, was passed.	Reasoning
That Order was amended by an Explanation issued by the Central Government in exercise of the powers under Section 60A of the Incometax Act, but the amendment was declared ultra vires by the High Court of Hyderabad, and thereafter another Removal of Difficulties Order was issued in 1956 reenacting the Explanation.	Reasoning
This Court held that by the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1950 an anomalous result followed, and the depreciation allowance allowed to the assessee under the Indian Incometax Act was more than the depreciation allowance under the Hyderabad Incometax Act, and it was necessary to issue the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1956.	Reasoning
In the view of the Court, in that case the condition precedent to the exercise of the power did exist.	Reasoning
After recording that a difficulty requiring removal by an Order under Section 12 of the Finance Act had arisen, the Court proceeded to observe at p. 327	Reasoning
Furthermore, the true scope and effect of section 12 seems to be that it is for the Central Government to determine if any difficulty has arisen and then to make such order, or give such direction, as appears to it to be necessary to remove the difficulty.	Reasoning
Parliament has left the matter to the executive but that does not make the notification of 1956 bad.	None
The High Court of Madhya Pradesh held, relying upon these observations, that the decision of the Central Government that a difficulty had arisen was a matter of subjective satisfaction of the Government and that it was not open to the Courts to investigate that question.	Reasoning
We are unable to hold that the observations made by this Court are susceptible of that interpretation.	Reasoning
It is clear from the sequence of the observations made by this Court that the Court was satisfied that in fact a difficulty had arisen and that difficulty had to be removed and for removing the difficulty the Order of 1956 was issued.19.	None
It was expressly averred in the petition filed by the assessee that no difficulty had arisen in giving effect to the provisions of either the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, or the provisions of the First Order and as such there was no question of the exercise of any power under Sec.	Arguments of Petitioner
6 of the Merged States Act for the purpose of passing the Second Order.	Arguments of Petitioner
The only reply to this plea in the affidavit filed on behalf of the respondent was that the contention raised on behalf of the petitioner is unsound and is therefore denied.	None
The learned SolicitorGeneral appearing on behalf of the respondents read out before us a noting made by the Secretary of the Finance Department on which the Central Government was persuaded to issue the 1962 Order.	Arguments of Respondent
But that noting merely recited that the High Courts in India had not accepted the contention of the Incometax Department that in cases where the depreciation had to be computed in respect of buildings, machinery, plant and furniture used for the purpose of the business by an assessee who had, under an agreement with the Ruler of an Indian State, been exempted from payment of incometax, a notional computation of depreciation which would have been allowed, if he had been assessed to pay the tax, should be taken into account for determining the written down value of the assets at the date on which the Incometax Act was made applicable.	Reasoning
Refusal of the Courts to accept a contention raised on behalf of the Revenue arising contrary to the plain words of the statute cannot be regarded as a difficulty arising in giving effect to the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
The difficulty contemplated by the Order is not merely the inability of the Central Government to collect tax which the taxpayer could, in the view of the Government, have been made to pay but which has not been imposed by adequate legislation.20.	Reasoning
The SolicitorGeneral contended that on the terms of Section 10 subsection (5) (b) a difficulty arose in the application of the Incometax Act to merged States, because no written down value of the assets acquired by assessees in the merged States before the previous year relevant to the year in which the Indian Incometax Act was applied for the first time could be determined.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying upon the definition of assessee in section 2 (2) and Section 10 (1) under which tax is payable by an assesses under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation in respect of the profit or gains of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him, counsel submitted that since under Clause (a) of subsection (5) of Section 10 in respect of the assets acquired in the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee would be the written down value, and under Clause (b) in the case of assets acquired before the previous year the actual cost to the assessee less all depreciation actually allowed to him under the Act would be the written down value, a person to be entitled to claim depreciation allowance in the computation of his taxable income must have been an assessee under the Incometax Act prior to the previous year in which he was being assessed under the Indian Incometax Act if he was not an assessee no written down value under Clause (b) of subsection (5) of Section 10 could be determined.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that the impugned Order was issued by the Central Government to remove that difficulty in the administration of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In our judgment, the argument is wholly misconceived.	None
Subsection (5) of Section 10 is merely a definition clause it does not deal with the determination of the quantum of depreciation.	Reasoning
Depreciation in respect of specific assets is allowed under S. 10 (2) (vi) of the Incometax Act.	Reasoning
That clause was applied to the merged States subject to the modification made by the 1949 Order, and the amount actually allowed under the law of the merged State was to be taken into account in determining the written down value, and the depreciation allowance referred to in Clause (c) of the proviso to Cl.	Reasoning
(vi) of Section 10 (2).	Reasoning
It is impossible, on the words used in S. 10 (5) Cl.	Reasoning
(b) read with the 1949 Order, to hold that the written down value of the assets of the assessee in a merged State could not be determined and with a view to remove that difficulty the impugned Order was promulgated.	Reasoning
The fact that the assets were acquired by a person at a time when he was not an assessee under the Indian Incometax Act or under the State Act will not disable him when he is assessed to tax on the profits of the business, from claiming the benefit of the depreciation allowance on those assets if used for the purpose of the business.21.	Reasoning
Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949 authorises the Central Government to make provisions or to give directions as may appear to be necessary for removal of difficulties which had arisen in giving effect to the provisions of any Act, rule or order extended by Section 3 to the merged States.	Reasoning
By the application of the Indian Incometax Act to the merged States a difficulty did arise in the matter of determining the depreciation allowance under Section 10 (2) (vi).	Reasoning
That difficulty was removed by the enactment of the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1949.	Reasoning
Even by that Order all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a merged State relating to incometax was to be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance.	Reasoning
Thereafter there survived no difficulty in giving effect to the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act or the rules or orders extended by Section 3 to the merged States.22.	Reasoning
To sum up the power conferred by Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949 is a power to remove a difficulty which arises in the application of the Incometax Act to the merged States it can be exercised in the manner consistent with the scheme and essential provisions of the Act and for the purpose for which it is conferred.	Reasoning
The impugned Order which seeks, in purported exercise of the power, to remove a difficulty which had not arisen was, therefore, unauthorised.23.	Reasoning
We do not in the circumstances think it necessary to determine to what extent, if any, it would be open to the Central Government by an order issued in exercise of the power conferred by Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949 to make a provision which is inconsistent with the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act.	Reasoning
We also need not express any opinion on the other contentions raised by the assessee, i. e., whether the Order, if any, should have been issued under Section 298 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1961 or whether by reason of the enactment of the impugned order the guarantee of equality before the law was violated.24.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed and the order passed by the High Court is set aside.	Decision
It is declared that Clause (b) of the Explanation in the Taxation Laws (merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1962, is ultra vires the Central Government when exercising the power under Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949 and the Revenue authorities are not entitled to levy tax on the basis of depreciation allowance computed in accordance with that clause in the Order.	Decision
The assessee will get its costs from the respondents in this Court and the High Court.25.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
