 	None
P. Jeevan Reddy, J. Leave granted.	None
The Bihar Legislature enacted the Bihar Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Areas for Consumption.	Decision
Use or Sale Therein Act, 1993 providing for levy of tax on entry of scheduled goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein at a rate, not exceeding five per cent, as may be specified by the State Government.	Decision
The goods mentioned in the Schedule are (i) motor vehicles, (ii) tobacco products excluding beeris, (iii) Indian made foreign liquor, (iv) vegetable and hydrogenated oils, (v) cements and (vi) crude oil.	Decision
The Act replaced Bihar Ordinance No. 19 of 1993.	Decision
Indeed, the said Ordinance was preceded by yet another Ordinance.	Decision
The expression Local Areas is defined in clause (f) of Section 2 to mean the areas within the limits of a (i) Municipal Corporation, (ii) Municipality, (iii) Notified Area Committee, (iv) Cantonment Board, (v) Town Board, (vi) Mines Board, (vii) Municipal Board, (viii) Gram Panchayat and (ix) any other local authority by whatever nomenclature called constituted or continued under any law for the time being in force.3.	Facts
Section 3 is the charging section.	Decision
The levy is upon the entry of scheduled goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein.	Decision
The proviso to subsection (3) empowers the Government to specify different rates of tax for different goods mentioned in the Schedule.	Decision
SubSection (2) of Section 3 says that the tax under the Act shall be paid by every dealer liable to pay tax under the Bihar Finance Act, 1981 (Sales Tax Act).	Decision
Section 5 provides for registration of dealers under the Act while Section 6 empowers the State Government to exempt from levy of tax any class of dealers, persons or importers, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be imposed in that behalf.	Decision
Section 7 provides for punishment in case of contravention of the provisions of the Act.	Facts
Section 8 says that the machinery under the Bihar Finance Act, 1981 shall be the machinery for assessment and collection of the tax.	Decision
Section 9 confers the rule making power upon the State Government.4.	Facts
A number of writ petitions were filed by dealers in the Patna High Court questioning the constitutional validity of the Ordinance Act.	Issue
Several grounds were urged in support of the said challenge.	Facts
The High Court has, however, struck down the act on the following grounds the State has failed to place any material before the Court to show that the impugned tax is either compensatory or regulatory in nature the levy must, therefore, be held to be impeding the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse guaranteed by Article 301 of the Constitution the State cannot also invoke the protection of clause (b) of Article 304 for the reason that it has not established that the said tax constitutes a reasonable restriction imposed in public interest within the meaning of the said clause though it is true that the President has assented to the Bill the entire Act is void and inoperative on the score.	Facts
The High Court has also held that the proviso to Section 3(1) and Section 6 of the Act are void being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Facts
It has held that both the said provisions confer an unguided and uncanalised power upon the Government.	Facts
The High Court declined to consider the submission made by the petitioners based upon the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 hereinafter referred to as A.D.E. Act in view of the fact that it had already declared the Act void for violation of Article 301.5.	Facts
The State of Bihar has filed Special Leave Petition (C) Nos. 1463614644 of 1995 against the said judgment.	Facts
The I.T.C. Limited, one of the writ petitioners before th High Court, has filed Special Leave Petition (C) No. 23172 of 1995 challenging the correctness of the judgment of the High Court insofar as it has negatived its contentions concerning the validity of the Act.	Decision
Special Leave Petition (C) No.23303 of 1995 is preferred by Vazir Sultan Tobacco Industries Limited and another.	Facts
Sri M. Chandrasekharan, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the State of Bihar urged the following contentions The High Court was in error in holding that the impugned tax is not established either to be compensatory or regulatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, it is both.	Decision
The Act was enacted by the Bihar Legislature to offset, at least partly, the loss of revenue to the State resulting from the decision of this Court in India Cement Limited v. State of Tamil Nadu (1990) 1 SCC 12.	Arguments of Petitioner
The finances of the State will be spent on public welfare and to carry out the welfare schemes meant for the people of Bihar.	Arguments of Petitioner
The entire State of Bihar is divided into local areas of one or the other category.	Decision
The money raised under the Act will naturally be spent for the welfare of the State which necessarily means for the benefit of the local areas.	None
Even if it is held, for some reason that the levy is not established to be compensatory or regulatory in nature, even then the challenge to the Act cannot succeed because it has obtained the assent of the President as contemplated by clause (b) of Article 304 read with Article 255 of the Constitution.	None
The impugned levy constitutes a reasonable restriction upon the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse guaranteed by Article 301 imposed in public interest.	Decision
It satisfies all the requirements of clause (b).	Arguments of Petitioner
Every tax imposed must be presumed to be in the interest of the public.	Decision
Further, the very fact of grant of assent by the President as contemplated by Article 304 (b) read with Article 255 gives rise to the presumption that the tax constitutes a reasonable restriction conceived in public interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court was in error in holding otherwise.	Decision
The impugned judgment insofar as it invalidates Section 3(1) and Section 6 is contrary to several decisions of this Court which have sustained similar provisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Where a ceiling is prescribed and the executive is empowered to prescribe the rate of tax subject to the said ceiling, the conferment of the power cannot be characterised as unguided, particularly where the power is conferred upon the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Conferment of power of exemption, as it conferred by Section 6, has also been upheld by this Court on the ground that the Act itself provides the requisite guidance.	None
Sri S. Ganesh and Sri Pawan Kumar, learned counsel for respondentswrit petitioners, while disputing the correctness of the contentions urged by the learned Additional Solicitor General, urged the following further contentions in support of their challenge to the validity of the impugned Act The A.D.E. Act was enacted by the Parliament to replace the levy of sales tax and all other taxes by the State on the commodities mentioned in the First Schedule to that Act.	None
Tobacco is included in the First Schedule.	Decision
The State of Bihar has been provided an appropriate share in the revenues raised under the A.D.E. Act.	Decision
It, therefore, follows that so far as tobacco is concerned, the State cannot levy any impost thereon including entry tax.	Decision
If it does, it will be deprived of its share in the revenues raised under the A.D.E. Act.	Arguments of Respondent
By sharing the revenues under the A.D.E. Act, the State of Bihar must be presumed to have agreed not to levy any type of tax or impost on tobacco.	Decision
The levy of entry tax under the impugned Act, therefore, is incompetent and void.	Decision
The report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission on the basis of which the said Act was enacted and the practice and understanding of the various States at the Centre since the enactment of the said Act clearly establish that while sharing the revenues under the A.D.E. Act, the States have agreed not to impose any tax cess of fee on tobacco under whatever name.	Decision
As a matter of fact, entry tax is a tax similar to the sales tax.	None
The impugned Act does not indicate either expressly or by necessary implication that the revenue raised thereunder will be utilised for the purposes of local areas.	Arguments of Respondent
Entry 52 in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution has been understood in a particular manner right from 1920.	Decision
The entry tax is a substitute for octroi.	Decision
Octroi was levied by the local authorities on consumption, use or sale of goods within their areas.	Decision
The revenues so raised were meant for the purpose of such local authorities.	Decision
The character of entry tax is no different.	Decision
Even though levied by the State, it is levied (a) on the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein and (b) for the purposes of such local areas.	Decision
Since the impugned act does not indicate in any manner that the revenues raised thereunder will be passed on to the local authorities for being used for their own purposes, the tax imposed cannot be treated as a tax contemplated by Entry 52.	Arguments of Respondent
For this reason too, the impugned Act is beyond the legislative competence of the Bihar Legislature.	Decision
Needless to add that the learned Additional Solicitor General disputed the correctness of the above contentions.	Decision
From the contentions urged before us, the following questions arises for consideration Whether the impugned tax has been established to be compensatory in nature or whether it can be called a regulatory measure?	Issue
In case the impugned tax is not established to be compensatory  or as a measure of regulation  whether it is saved by virtue of the provision contrained in Article 304(b) read with Article 255 of the Constitution.	Issue
In other words, (a) whether the Act has received the assent of the President as alleged by the State, (b) whether the levy of the said tax constitutes a reasonable restriction and (c) whether the said levy is conceived in public interest?	None
Whether the Bihar Legislature is deprived of its legislative competence to enact the impugned Act on account of the enactment of A.D.E. Act and or because the State of Bihar is getting a portion of the taxes levied and collected under the A.D.E. Act.	Decision
Whether the impugned enactment is outside the purview of Entry 52 in ListII of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and, therefore, beyond the legislative competence of the Bihar Legislature for the reason that it does not provide for the revenues raised thereunder to be passed on to the local authorities for being used for the purposes of the respective local areas?	Reasoning
Whether the proviso to Section 3(1) and Section 6 are void for the reasons assigned by the High Court?	Reasoning
Question No.1 Whether the impugned tax has been established to be compensatory or whether it can be treated as a regulatory measure?	Decision
Article 301 declares that subject to the other provisions in part XIII, trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India shall be free.	Reasoning
Certain exceptions are provided to the said Rule by Part XIII itself, one of them being clause (b) of Article 304.11.	Reasoning
This Court has held that tax laws are not outside the purview of Article 301 and that taxes which directly and immediately restrict trade and interfere with the flow of trade and commerce do offend Article 301.	Reasoning
Similarly, nonfiscal measures which have the above effect are equally hit by Article 301.	Reasoning
It has, therefore, been held by a seven Judge Constitution Bench of this Court in Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Limited v. State of Rajasthan (1963) 1	Decision
SCR 491 that regulatory measures or measures imposing compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities do not come within the purview of the restrictions, contemplated by Article 301 and such measures need not comply with the requirements of the proviso to Article 304(b) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is held that regulatory measures do not really impede the trade, commerce or intercourse but rather facilitate it.	Reasoning
Similarly, it is held that compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities are outside the purview of Article 301.	Decision
Since the impugned Act is not a regulatory measure but a taxing enactment and the tax is levied upon the entry of goods into a local area, i.e, upon the movement of goods, the question is whether the impugned tax is compensatory in nature for the use of trading facilities provided by the State.	Decision
The High Court has observed that the State has failed to adduce any material to establish the compensatory nature of the tax.	Decision
The only averment in the counteraffidavit in the High Court is the following one counteraffidavit filed by Sri Binoy Krishan, Deputy Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Bihar The Entry Tax Ordinance was thought to be promulgated in view of the loss of revenues on cess due to the decision rendered by the Honble Supreme Court in the case of India Cement Ltd. reported in AIR 1990 Supreme Court 85 as well as several decisions of the Honble Patna High Court following the decisions.	Reasoning
The learned Additional Solicitor General, however, contended that the following indisputable facts do establish the compensatory nature of the tax, viz., the entire State of Bihar is divided into local areas of one or the other kind and that the Government and the local authorities do provide several trading facilities to promote trade and commerce with and within the State in the form of laying and maintenance of roads, establishment and maintenance of markets, establishment and operation of market yards for agricultural commodities and a host of other facilities.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the impugned tax will naturally help in providing the above facilities and, therefore, it must be held to be compensatory.	Decision
He requested us to take notice of these undeniable facts and to hold, on that basis, that the impugned tax is compensatory.	Decision
The learned Additional Solicitor General further submitted that when the entire State is divided into local areas  when no part of the State is left uncovered by a local area  and when the impugned tax is levied for the purposes of the State including the welfare schemes being undertaken by it, the tax cannot but be compensatory in nature.	Decision
The impugned tax will help the State in providing and improving the trading facilities since the interest of the State lies in promoting trade and commerce in goods and commodities with and within the State of Bihar.	Decision
Reliance is placed upon the following observations at page 549 (of 1963) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 491 ) of Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Limited, which read Licensing system with compensatory fees would not be restrictions but regulatory provisions for without it, such as roads, waterways and airways cannot effectively be maintained and the freedom declared may in practice turn out to be an empty one.	Decision
So too, regulations providing for necessary services to enable the free movement of traffic, whether charged or not, cannot also be described as restrictions impeding the freedom.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not possible to deny the force of this submission.	Decision
Where the local areas contemplated by the Act cover the entire State, the distinction between the State and the local areas practically disappears.	Decision
The situation would, no doubt, be different if the local areas are confined to a few cities or towns in the State and the levy is upon the entry of goods into those local areas alone.	Decision
This is an important distinction which should be kept in mind while appreciating this aspect and also while examining the decisions of this Court rendered in fifties and sixties.	Decision
The facilities provided in the State are the facilities provided in the local areas as well.	Decision
Interests of the State and the interests of the local authorities are, in essence, no different.	Decision
It is not and it cannot be stipulated that for the purpose of establishing the compensatory character of the tax, it is necessary to establish that every rupee collected on account of the entry tax should be shown to be spent on providing the trading facilities.	Decision
It is enough if some connection is established between the tax and the trading facilities provided.	Decision
The connection can be a direct one or an indirect one as held by this Court in Bhagatram Rajeev Kumar v. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh (1995) 96	Decision
STC 645.	None
The concept of compensatory nature of tax has been widened and if there is substantial or even some link between the tax and the facilities extended to such dealers, directly or indirectly, the levy cannot be impugned as invalid.	Decision
Though not stated in the counteraffidavit, we can take notice of the fact that the State does provide several facilities to the trade including laying and maintenance of roads, waterways and markets, etc.	None
As a matter of fact, since the levy is by the State, we must also look to the facilities provided by the State for ascertaining whether the State has established the compensatory character of the tax.	Decision
On this basis, it must be held that the State has established that the impugned tax is compensatory in nature.	Decision
This finding is by itself sufficient to negative the attack based on Article 301 but even if we assume that the State has not established the said fact, even so the result is no different.	Decision
We proceed to elaborate.	None
Question No.2	Decision
In case the impugned tax is not established to be compensatory  or as a measure of regulation  whether it is saved by virtue of the provision contained in Article 304(b) read with Article 255 of the Constitution.	Decision
In other words, (a) whether the Act has received the assent of the President as alleged by the State, (b) whether the levy of the said tax constitutes a reasonable restriction and (c) whether the said levy is conceived in public interest?	None
The impugned tax is a tax on entry  on movement of goods into a local area.	Reasoning
If it is assumed to be neither compensatory, nor regulatory, as mentioned above it may be said to be offending Article 301, unless, of course, it is saved by virtue of the provisions contained in Article 304(b) read with Article 255 of the Constitution, as contended by the learned Additional Solicitor General.	Decision
Article 304 and Article 255 read as follows Restrictions on trade, commerce and intercourse among States  Notwithstanding anything in Article 301 or Article 303, the Legislature of a State may by law  (a) Omitted as unnecessary.	Decision
(b) impose such reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse with or within the State as may be required in the public interest.	Decision
Provided that no Bill or amendment for the purposes of clause (b) shall be introduced or moved in the Legislature of a State without the previous sanction of the President.255.	Decision
Requirements as to recommendations and previous sanctions to be regarded as matters of procedure only  No Act of Parliament or of the Legislature of a State and no provision in any such Act, shall be invalid by reason only that some recommendation or previous sanction required by the Constitution was not given, if assent to that Act was given (a) Where the recommendation required was that of the Governor, either by the Governor or by the President(b) Where the recommendation required was that of the Rajpramukh, either by the Rajpramukh or by the President (c) Where the recommendation or previous sanction required was that of the President, by the President.	Reasoning
For, the exception in Article 304(b) to come to the rescue of the State, three requirements have to be satisfied, viz., (a) that the Bill was introduced or moved in the Legislature with the previous sanction of the President of India or that the Bill has been assented to by the President as contemplated by Article 255, (b) that the levy of the impugned tax constitutes a reasonable restriction and (c) that the said reasonable restriction is required in public interest?	Reasoning
In this case, the Bill was not introduced or moved in the Assembly with the previous sanction of the President as required by Article 304(b) but the contention of the State is that the Bill has been assented to by the President and hence, the requirement is satisfied.	Reasoning
The writ petitioners deny the same.	Decision
They point out that the impugned Act does not recite the said fact.	Decision
It cannot, however, be said that in the absence of such recital, the said fact cannot be established aliunde.	Decision
In support of its contention, the State relies upon Para 11 of the supplementary counteraffidavit filed in the High Court and upon the telegram sent from Sri M. L. Gupta, Director (Home), New Delhi bearing No. 17/36/93JUDL, dated 2281993 addressed to Sri P. S. Cheema, Commissioner and Secretary to the Governor, Bihar, Raj Bhawan, Patna.	Reasoning
Para 11 of the counteraffidavit reads That thereafter the Bill was introduced in the Assembly and it was passed on getting assent communication on 22nd August, 1993 and same was published in Bihar Gazette on 22nd August, 1993.	Reasoning
The telegram reads thus REF.	None
YOUR LETTER NO. 1414/GS(I) DATED 1811993(.)	Reasoning
PRESIDENT ASSENTED TO THE BIHAR TAXES ON ENTRY OF GOODS INTO LOCAL AREAS CONSUMPTION.	Reasoning
USE OR SALE THEREIN BILL, 1993 ON 2181993 (.)	Reasoning
LETTER WITHOUT COMMENTS FOLLOWS(.)	None
In the absence of any material to the contrary, we accept the averment of the State and hold that the requirement of prior consent has been satisfied in the case of the impugned Act.	Decision
The next question is whether the impugned tax constitutes a reasonable restriction and whether it is imposed in public interest?	Decision
In other words, the question is whether the interference with and the restriction upon the freedom guaranteed by Article 301 in the form of the impugned tax is a reasonable one and and whether it is required in public interest.	Decision
The learned Additional Solicitor General says that both the requirements are satisfied in this case.	Decision
He says that in view of the sudden loss of revenue from the cess upon minerals as a result of the judgment of this Court in India Cement Limited AIR 1990 Supreme Court 85 and other judgments of the Patna High Court following it, public interest required the State to find alternative sources of revenue to keep its various welfare programmes and other governmental functions going and that the impugned tax was conceived as one of the alternate sources.	Decision
He relies upon the statement in the counteraffidavit of Sri Binoy Krishan, filed on behalf of the State, referred to hereinbefore, in support of his submission.	Decision
He also relies upon the Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill, which are to the following effect To collect funds for various public welfare schemes and to implement various financial recommendations of the State Government, taxation according to the existing financial condition is highly essential.	Decision
With a view to fulfil the above object and to make the provisions of the Bihar Finance Act more workable, it is essential that tax is levied and collected on certain goods entertaining the local areas of the State for consumption, use or sale Bihar tax on Entry of Goods into Local Areas for Consumption, Use or Sale Therein Second Ordinance, 1993 (Bihar Ordinance 19 of 1993) has been promulgated incorporating aforesaid provisions.	Decision
The Object of this Bill is to get the essential provisions of the Bihar Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Areas for Consumption.	Decision
Use or Sale Therein Ordinance, 1993 substituted by an Act of the Legislature.	Decision
On the basis of the Statement of Objects and Reasons, the learned Additional Solicitor General contends that the levy of impugned tax was found essential to raise funds for various public welfare schemes, to implement various financial recommendations of the State Government and to make the Bihar Sales Tax Law more effective.	Decision
It is suggested that public interest demanded that alternate and new sources be found for raising the money to meet the needs of the State and that, therefore, the levy was required in the public interest.	Decision
The learned Additional Solicitor General relies upon the following holding in State of Karnataka v. M s. Hansa Corporation (1981) 1	Decision
SCR 823 at 843 a levy which appears to be quite reasonable in its impact on the movement of goods and is imposed for the purpose of augmenting municipal finances which suffered a dent on account of abolition of octroi cannot be said to impose an unreasonable restriction on the freedom of inter State trade, commerce and intercourse.	Decision
In this connection, it would be useful to recall the observations of this Court in Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. case that the power conferred on this Court to strike down a taxing statute if it contravenes the provisions of Articles 14, 19 or 301 has to be exercised with circumspection, bearing in mind that the power of the State to levy taxes for the purpose of governance and for carrying out its welfare activities is a necessary attribute of sovereignty and in that sense it is a power of paramount character.	Decision
It is, therefore, idle to contend that the levy imposed an unreasonable restriction on the freedom of trade and commerce.	Decision
The above observation is relied upon to show not only that the impugned tax was required in the public interest but that it is also reasonable.	Reasoning
To demonstrate the reasonable character of levy, the learned Additional Solicitor General relies upon a few more circumstances.	Decision
He points out that so far as motor vehicles, India  made foreign liquor, vegetable and hydrogenated oil and cements Items 1, 3, 4 and 5 in the Schedule to the Act are concerned, the entry tax levied and collected thereon is given credit towards the sales tax payable on the sale of the said goods, which means that no additional burden is created on the dealers by the impugned levy.	Decision
It is pointed out that entry tax is levied and collected mainly from the dealers in the said good commodities and that a dealer brings the said goods into a local area only for the purpose of sale.	Decision
Such sale attracts sales tax which is levied at a far higher rate than the entry tax.	Decision
Once the entry tax paid in respect of a commodity goods is given credit towards the sales tax, there is in effect no levy of entry tax on these goods.	Decision
Thus, no extra burden is cast by the impugned Act insofar as four out of six commodities mentioned in its Schedule are concerned.	Decision
These facts are not disputed by anyone before us.	Decision
No such credit is, of course, given in respect of crude oil and tobacco products, which means that, in effect, the entry tax is being levied only upon two commodities, viz., tobacco production and crude oil.	Decision
But there is a good reason, says the learned Additional Solicitor General, for not providing for such credit in the case of the said two commodities.	Decision
The reason given for not making a similar provision giving credit in the case of tobacco products is that no sales tax is levied on tobacco products by the State of Bihar.	Reasoning
Since no sales tax is levied on the sale of tobacco products, the question of giving credit to the entry tax against the sales tax does not arise, says the Additional Solicitor General.	Decision
This, no doubt, means that so far as tobacco products are concerned, there is an additional levy of three per cent by virtue of the impugned Act and to that extent it may be said to impede the freedom guaranteed by Article 301.	Reasoning
The learned Additional Solicitor General, however, submits that the levy represents a reasonable restriction because of the negligible additional burden it creates and also because of the inherent harmful nature of tobacco products.	Reasoning
It may be remembered that the nature of the activity is relevant in the matter of judging the reasonableness of the restriction imposed  a well settled proposition under Article 19 and which proposition is equally relevant under Article 304(b) We are inclined to agree with the submission.	Decision
It is stated by Sri S. Ganesh, learned counsel for the I.T.C., who is the main party said to have been affected by this levy, that the percentage of excise duties on tobacco products duties of excise levied under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 and the A.D.E. Act read with notifications issued in that behalf is between 250 to 300 per cent of their value.	Decision
Can it be said that an additional of three per cent to the said level of taxation is unreasonable when the tax so levied and collected is going to serve the interest of the public in that State ?	Decision
Can it be reasonably suggested that this addition of three per cent is impeding the trade, commerce or intercourse in tobacco products directly and immediately or to any appreciable degree ?	Decision
We think not.	Decision
In this connection, it is not irrelevant to take into consideration the harmful nature of the tobacco products.	Decision
Though it may not have been recognised in 1957 when A.D.E. Act was enacted, it is now recognised by one and all that tobacco is injurious to health.	Decision
A warning to the above effect is statutorily required to be printed on all packets and cartons containing the tobacco products.	Decision
The extraordinary high level of excise duties on tobacco is meant precisely to discourage its consumption.	Decision
In our opinion, therefore, it is not possible to say that the addition of three per cent is either an unreasonable restriction on the freedom of trade and commerce or that it is not required in public interest.	Reasoning
In this connection, it is necessary to notice a few decisions brought to our notice.	Decision
In Bhagatram Rajeev Kumar, (1995 (96) STC 654 ), a three Judge Bench of this Court has rejected the argument that to be compensatory, the tax must facilitate the trade.	Decision
The reason is obvious if a measure facilitates the trade, it would not be a restriction of trade but an encouragement to it.	Decision
It was observed The submission of Shri Ashok Sen, learned Senior Counsel, that compensation is that which facilitates the trade only does not appear to be sound.	Decision
The concept of compensatory nature of tax has been widened and if thee is substantial or even some link between the tax and the facilities extended to such declares directly or indirectly the levy cannot be impugned as invalid.	Decision
The stand of the State that the revenue earned is being made over to the local bodies to compensate them for the loss caused, makes the impost compensatory in nature, as augmentation of their finance would enable them to provide municipal services more efficiently, which would help or ease free flow of trade and commerce, because of which the impost has to be regarded as compensatory in nature, in view of what has been stated in the aforesaid decisions, more particularly in Hansa Corporations case (1981)	Decision
1	None
SCR 823.	Reasoning
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Shakti Kumar M. Sancheti v. State of Maharashtra (1995) 96 STC 659 , the very same Bench has opined (at p.5009 of AIR SCW)	None
A very perusal of these objects and reasons would indicate that this legislation was brought in order to compensate loss of revenue by consumers who avoid payment of the sales tax or purchase tax on the vehicle payable in the State by purchasing it in another State where the rate was lesser than the State of Maharashtra and then to bring the vehicle inside the State.	Reasoning
The legislature, therefore, clearly intended to avoid any loss of legitimate sales tax revenue by the State.	Decision
But the levy cannot be held to be bad because the Legislature intended to avoid any loss of sales tax in the State so long as it is not found to be invalid because of any constitutional or statutory violation.	Decision
It is not the intention or propriety of a legislation but it is legality or illegality which renders it valid or invalid.	Reasoning
Both these decisions deal with entry tax levied by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra States respectively.	None
Now, coming to the crude oil (Indian Oil Corporation is also party before us), it is explained by the learned Additional Solicitor General that inasmuch as there is no sale of crude in the State of Bihar, a provision for giving credit of entry tax against sales tax was thought to be unnecessary.	None
It is explained that the crude from the oil fields in Assam is pumped to Barauni Oil Refinery, located in Bihar, through a pipeline.	None
The crude is refined here and petroleum and other products produced therefrom are sold.	None
It is, therefore, submitted that while an entry tax is levied on the entry of crude in a local area, no provision has been made for giving credit setoff of such tax against the sales tax payable inasmuch as no crude is ever sold in Bihar and no tax is levied or collected thereon, as a fact.	None
Reliance is placed by the learned Additional Solicitor General upon the decision of the Constitution Bench in Khyerbari Tea Company Ltd. v. State of Assam (1964) 5	None
SCR 975 where it has been recognised that a tax levied by the State must be presumed to be a reasonable restriction inasmuch as taxes are levied to raise money in order to carry on the functions of the Government and to sustain the manifold activities undertaken by it.	None
This decision also point out that the fact that President has given assent to the Bill also raises a presumption that the President Central Government had applied his mind to the problem and had come to the conclusion that the proposed tax constitutes a reasonable restriction and is required to be imposed in public interest.	None
It is true that these are only presumptions but taken together with other material, referred to above, they do firmly establish the said requirement in Article 304(b).	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General also relied upon the following holding in Hansa Corporation AIR 1981 Supreme Court 463 at p. 475	None
The next question is whether this levy is in public interest.	None
As has been pointed out earlier, the levy was to compensate the loss suffered by abolition of octroi.	None
These very people were paying octroi without a demur.	None
After removing the obnoxious features of octroi a very modest impost is levied on entry of goods in a local area and that too not for further augmenting finances of the municipalities but for compensating the loss suffered by the abolition of octroi is certainly a levy in public interest.	None
As has been repeatedly observed by this Court, the taxes generally are imposed for raising public revenue for better goverance of the country and for carrying out welfare activities of our welfare State envisaged in the Constitution and, therefore, even if a tax to some extent imposes an economic impediment to the activity taxed, that by itself is not sufficient either to stigmatise the levy as unreasonable or not in public interest.	None
Sri Ganesh, learned counsel for the I.T.C., points out that in Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. AIR 1964 Supreme Court 925, this Court did not rest its decision merely upon the presumptions aforementioned and that as a fact, specific material was produced before the Court, by the State, that the funds in question were being utilised for keeping the roads in order and in maintaining the waterways in the State.	None
The statement filed by the State in that case did establish that the expenditure incurred by it in maintaining the waterways was more than the revenue received from the carriage tax.	None
It is because of the said material.	None
Sri Ganesh says, that the levy was held to be a reasonable restriction.	None
It is true that no such specific statement is contained in the counteraffidavit of the State in the cases before us but this circumstances is of no consequences herein for the reason that on the material brought to the notice of the Court and for the reasons recorded hereinabove, the requirements of Article 304 (b) must be held to have been satisfied in this Case.	None
The attack upon the validity of the impugned Act on the ground of violation of Act 301 accordingly fails.	None
Question No.3 Whether the Bihar Legislature is deprived of its legislative competence to enact the impugned Act on account of enact of A.D.E. Act and or because the State of Bihar is getting a portion of the taxes levied and collected under the A.D.E. Act?	Decision
The submission of Sri Ganesh on this count runs thus the A.D.E. Act was enacted by Parliament in lieu of levy of sales tax and all other taxes and imposts by the States on tobacco and other commodities mentioned in the First Schedule thereto.	Decision
This Act was enacted by the Parliament based on an understanding with the States that they will not levy sale or purchase tax or any other kind of impost upon the scheduled commodities and that the Union will collect additional duties of excise under the Act and make over a portion of the same in specified proportion to the several States in the Country.	None
The Report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission (195354) is the basis of this Act.	None
The Report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission states inter alia that various duties imposed by certain States upon tobacco are casting an unduly heavy burden on tobacco and on tobacco manufacturers and that there is need for ensuring proper coordination between the taxes on tobacco levied by the Central Government, the States and the local authorities.	None
For this purpose, the report stated We consider that such coordination would be best evolved through the machinery of the interState Taxation Council to which we have already alluded Para 23 at Page 136 of the Report.	None
At a meeting of the National Development Council held in December, 1976, the Centre and all the States agreed unanimously that Sales Tax levied in States on millmade textiles, tobacco including manufactured tobacco and sugar should be replaced by surcharge on the central excise duties on these articles, the income derived therefrom being distributed among States on the basis of consumption, subject to the then income derived by States being assured.	None
Pursuant to the said agreement and the decision to levy additional excise duties on three commodities including tobacco, the Second Finance Commission was requested to recommend a suitable basis for distribution of the proceeds of the additional excise duties among the States and the Union Territories.	None
The Second Finance Commission made a thorough enquiry and submitted its proposals.	None
On the basis of the N.D.C. resolution and the recommendations of the Second Finance Commission, the A.D.E. Act was enacted.	None
On the basis of the above material, Sri Ganesh submits that the A.D.E. Act was intended to prevent the levy of all forms of taxes on the goods mentioned in the Schedule thereto and that this understanding was adhered to, respected and followed all these years by all the States.	None
Pursuant to the said understanding, he says, certain States which had levied one or the other form of impost on tobacco withdrew the same.	None
The decision of this Court in A.B. Abdul Qadir v. State of Kerala, (1976) 2	None
SCR 690 , he says, refers to the fact that the State of Kerala has withdrawn the licence fee on tobacco after the coming into force of the A.D.E. Act.	None
The learned counsel places strong reliance upon a letter dated May 4, 1957 from the then Finance Minister, Sr. T.T. Krishnamachary, addressed to the Chief Ministers of the States stating, inter alia, that it is proposed to correlate the principles of distribution to the existence of a complete exemption from sales tax or purchase tax or any other impost by whatever name called on these commodities under the respective State laws.	None
In other words, the State which does not exempt completely all these three commodities from the sales tax Act or any other similar legislation will not be entitled to partake in the distribution of the proceeds of the additional excise duty.	None
Learned counsel points out that Bihar has been receiving its due share from the additional duties of excise collected by the Centre on the basis of the recommendations made by the Finance Commissions from time to time.	None
Indeed, he goes to the extent of submitting that the entry tax contemplated by Entry 52 in ListII of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution is a tax similar to sales tax inasmuch as it is a tax levied upon the entry of goods into a local area for the purposes of consumption, use or sale therein.	None
It is not possible to agree with Sri Ganesh.	Reasoning
Entry tax is a tax levied at the point of entry of goods into a local area for the purpose of consumption, use or sale therein.	Reasoning
It is not a tax on sale.	Reasoning
It is a tax on the entry of goods into a local area and it is precisely because of this that the petitioners say, Articles 301 is attracted.	Reasoning
They cannot, at the same time, say that it is not a tax on entry but a tax in the nature of a tax on sale  apart from the fact that such a contention is wholly misconceived.	Reasoning
Taxes on sale and purchase of goods are provided by Entry 52 in ListII.	None
Moreover, Entry 52 has been the subjectmatter of several decisions of this Court which say that the tax is upon the entry of good into a local area, i.e. upon entry of goods for the purpose of consumption, use or sale therein.	Reasoning
Neither mere entry of goods is enough to attract the levy nor the mere sale thereof within the local area.	Reasoning
What attracts the levy under Entry 52 and under the impugned enactment is the entry of goods into a local area for consumption or for use or for sale within that local area for the purpose of consumption or use within that local area.	Reasoning
Indeed, when it was contended by one of the States, State of Karnataka, that the expression sale occurring in Entry 52 should be given its full and normal meaning and should not be confined to sale of goods in a local area for consumption or use therein, the contention was rejected by this Court with reference to the earlier decisions of this Court See Entry Tax Officer, Bangalore v. Chandanmal Champalal (1994) 42 SCC 463.	Reasoning
The said decision refers to and follows the earlier decisions of this Court on the point.	Reasoning
Secondly, it is abundantly clear from the material, which we shall presently refer to, that the A.D.E. Act was meant as a substitute for the taxes on the sale or purchase of scheduled commodities alone and not for all kinds of taxes, cesses and fees which the States are entitled to impose by virtue of the entries in ListII or for that matter ListIII of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill reads thus If it is a tax as sale, Article 301 is not attracted.	None
The object of the Bill is to impose additional duties of excise in replacement of the sales taxes levied by the Union and States on sugar, tobacco and millmade textiles and to distribute the net proceeds attributable to Union Territories, to the States.	None
The distribution of the proceeds of the additional duties broadly follows the pattern recommended by the Second Finance Commission.	Reasoning
Provision has been made that the States which levy a tax on the sale or purchase of these commodities after the 1st April, 1958 do not participate in the distribution of the net proceeds.	Reasoning
Provision is also being made in the Bill for including these three goods in the category of goods declared to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce so that, following the imposition of uniform duties of excise on them, the rates of sales tax if levied by any State are subject from 1st April, 1958 to the restrictions in Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	Reasoning
Section 3 provides for levy and collection of additional duties.	Reasoning
Section 4 provides for distribution of additional duties among the States.	Reasoning
It says that during each financial year, there shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of India to the States, in accordance with the provisions of the Second Schedule, such sums, representing a part of the net proceeds of the additional duties levied and collected during that financial year, as are specified in the Schedule.	Reasoning
Section 5 says that any expenditure incurred under the Act shall be charged to the Consolidated Fund of India.	Reasoning
Section 6 confers the rulemaking power upon the Central Government.	Reasoning
The proviso to Rule (2) in the Second Schedule to the Act is of crucial relevance to us.	Reasoning
Rule (2) along with its proviso reads thus During each of the financial years commencing on and after the 2st day of April, 1974, there shall be paid to each of the States specified in column 1 of the Table below such percentage of the net proceeds after deducting therefrom a sum equal to 1.41 per cent of the said proceeds as being attributable to Union Territories, as is set out against it in column 2.	Reasoning
Provided but if during the financial year there is levied and collected in any State a tax on the sale or purchase of sugar, tobacco, cotton fabrics, woollen fabrics, rayon or artificial silk fabrics or one or more of them by or under any law of that State, no sums shall be payable to that State under this paragraph in respect of that financial year unless the Central Government by special order otherwise directs.	Reasoning
The proviso states that if during a given financial year, a State levies and collects a tax on the sale or purchase of scheduled goods or on any one or more of the scheduled goods by or under a law of that State, no sums shall be payable to that State under this paragraph in respect of that financial year, unless the Central Government by special order directs otherwise.	Reasoning
There is no reference in the Act  or in the Statement of Objects and Reasons  to any tax other than the tax on sale or purchase of goods.	Reasoning
There is no ambiguity in the language of the proviso to Rule (2), which is a part of the statute.	Reasoning
The A.D.E. Act is enacted by the Parliament with reference to Entry 84 in List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution whereas the impugned enactment is made by the State with reference to Entry 52 in ListII.	Reasoning
The power to levy taxes on sale or purchase of goods is conferred upon the States and the States alone by Entry 52 in ListII.	None
The Parliament cannot make a law either with reference to Entry 52 or for that matter with reference to Entry 54.	None
The A.D.E. Act is also not a law made under and with reference to Article 252 of the Constitution, which article empowers the Parliament to make a law with respect to any matter mentioned in ListII, if two or more States pass resolutions requesting the Parliament to make a law in that behalf.	Reasoning
The impugned Act is also not relatable to any of the Articles 249 to 253 which are in the nature of exceptions to the normal rule that Parliament can make no law with respect to the entries in ListII.	Reasoning
If so, it follows that the State Legislatures are not denuded or deprived of their power to make a law either with reference to Entry 52 or with reference to Enry 54 in ListII.	None
That power remains untouched and unaffected.	None
All that the Parliament has said by enacting the A.D.E. Act is that it will levy additional duties of excise and distribute a part of the proceeds among the States provided the States do not levy taxes on sale or purchase of the scheduled commodities.	Reasoning
The Parliament has also provided the consequence that follows if any States levies tax on sale or purchase of scheduled commodities all that happens is that the State will be deprived of its share in the proceeds of additional duties of excise for that financial year.	Reasoning
Even this is subject to the power of the Central Government to direct otherwise.	Reasoning
The Parliament could not, and did not, prohibit any State from making any law or levying any tax which a State can levy by virtue of the entries in ListII.	None
The decision of this Court in State of Kerala v. M s. Attesee Agro Industrial Corporation (1989 Suppl (1) SC 73 does bear out our understanding.	None
At page 744 (of Supp (1) SCC), this Court observed The 1957 Act also has a bearing on the sales tax levy of various States.	Reasoning
By levying sales tax on an item covered by the schedule to the 1957 Act, the State will have to forego its share on distribution of the proceeds of the additional excise duty levied.	Reasoning
Whether it should impose sales tax on an item of declared goods, limited by the restrictions in Section 15 of the CST Act and at the risk of losing a share in the additional excise duty levied in respect of those very items, is for the State to determine.	Reasoning
As pointed out by Sri Poti, it was open to the Kerala Legislature to decide  and it did so also  that on some items there should be one or other of the levies or both of them and to modify these levies depending upon its financial exigencies.	None
But these factual or periodical variations do not detract from the basic reality that the policy of sales tax levy on declared goods has to keep in view and be influenced by the provisions of the CST Act and the 1957 Act.	Reasoning
To the same effect is the decision of a Division Bench of the Madras High Court in Nemichand Parasmal and Co. v. Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Evening Bazaar Assessment Circle, Madras (1984) 55 STC 47 where this aspects has been elaborately dealt with.	Reasoning
We agree with their reasoning on this score.	None
We are also of the opinion that the scope of the A.D.E. Act cannot be extended by reference to anterior reports or correspondence between the Centre and the States, as the case may be, apart from the fact that the material referred to is not unambiguous.	Reasoning
Para 32 at Page 126 of the Taxation Enquiry Commission 195354, the relevant portion whereof we have extracted hereinbefore, is more in the nature of a statement of fact coupled with a recommendation.	Reasoning
All that it says is that the States had imposed several duties and other imposts upon tobacco which were casting an unduly heavy burden upon it and that, therefore, there should be coordination between different taxes on tobacco levied by the Central Government, the States and the local authorities.	Reasoning
For that purpose, the Commission recommended the constitution of an InterState Taxation Council.	None
Admittedly, no such Council has ever been constituted.	Reasoning
Similarly, the letter of the then Finance Minister, Sri. T.T. Krishnamachary, relied upon by Sri Ganesh, which we have set out hereinabove, is also not quite clear.	Reasoning
The extract speak, in the first instance, of a complete exemption from sales tax or purchase tax or any other impost by whatever name called on these commodities under the respective State laws but then it immediately proceeds to explain, what it means by the said expression, by saying, In other words, the State which does not exempt completely all these commodities from its sales tax Act or any other similar legislation will not be entitled to partake in the distribution of the proceeds of the additional excise duties.	Reasoning
Again, the fact that subsequent to the A.D.E. Act, certain States withdrew certain enactments providing for levy of taxes fees other than sales tax on the scheduled commodities, in the light of the enactment of the A.D.E. Act  assuming that it was for that reason alone  is not relevant on the meaning and interpretation of the A.D.E. Act or for that matter, the proviso to Rule (2) in the Second Schedule thereto, So long as the language of the enactment is clear and unambiguous, it is not permissible to refer to the kind of material relied upon by Sri Ganesh for altering, expanding or modifying the meaning or scope of the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, unable to say that by agreeing to take a share in the proceeds of the additional duties of excise, the State of Bihar has deprived itself of its power to levy entry tax under and by virtue of Entry 52 in List II in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
Indeed, it has not even forsaken its power to levy taxes on sale or purchase of tobacco or any other scheduled commodity if it does so, all that would happen is that the consequence provided in the proviso to Rule (2) in the Schedule to the A.D.E. Act will follow and nothing more.	Reasoning
The A.D.E. Acts does not affect the legislative competence of the State Legislature to make a law with reference to any of the entries in ListII.	None
The contention of Sri Ganesh on this score is accordingly rejected.	None
Pausing here, we may mention a particular submission made by Shri Ganesh on this score.	Reasoning
He submitted that this very question considered by us under Question No.3 has been referred by a Bench of this Court to the Constitution Bench by its Order dated January 2, 1995, a copy of which has been placed before us.	Reasoning
The order does not support the submission of the learned counsel.	Reasoning
It does not say that the reference to the Constitution Bench was on this point.	Reasoning
Shri Ganesh submitted that this is one of the points arising in the said matter.	Reasoning
However, in the absence of any indication in the order of reference that this particular question was referred to the Constitution Bench, we declined to accede to this request to tag these matters to Special Leave Petition (C) No. 21476 of 1994 for being heard by the Constitution Bench.	Reasoning
It should also be noticed that the main ground upon which the High Court has invalidated the impugned Bihar Act, or certain provisions thereof, as the case may be, is in no way relatable to the A.D.E. Act.	Reasoning
The High Court has indeed refused to go into this question in view of its finding on other issues.	Reasoning
Even before us, the contention was not that the Bihar Legislature had no competence to enact the impugned Bihar Act but only that it ought not have done so in view of the decision of the National Development Council to which the State of Bihar was a party and which agreement led to the enactment of the Act.	Reasoning
Since the question before us is one of legislative competence and not one of desirability of making such an enactment, the submission of the learned counsel was unacceptable to us.	Reasoning
Question No.4	Reasoning
Whether the impugned enactment is outside the purview of Entry 52 in ListII of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and, therefore, beyond the legislative competence of the Bihar Legislature for the reason that it does not provide for the revenues raised thereunder to be passed on to the local authorities for being used for the purposes of such local authorities?	Reasoning
The next submission of Shri Ganesh is that inasmuch as the impugned Bihar Act does not contain any provision or any indication that the taxes collected under the Act will be passed on to the local authorities, it cannot be said to be a tax contemplated by Entry 52 in ListII.	Reasoning
Counsel submitted, on the basis of certain decisions of this Court to which we shall presently refer, that the said tax is essentially in the nature of octroi which was being levied by the local authorities prior to the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
Octroi was levied by the local authorities to raise money for their own purposes.	Reasoning
It was meant to meet the financial needs of the local authorities and not for supplementing or augmenting the general finances of the State.	Reasoning
The impugned Bihar Act, however, seeks to do precisely that which is not contemplated by Entry 52.	Reasoning
It has levied the impugned tax for the purpose of supplementing and augmenting the finances of the State and not the finances of the local authorities and hence, outside the purview of Entry 52 in ListII, says Shri Ganesh.	Reasoning
Shri Ganesh relied upon the following decisions In Central India Spining and Weaving and	Reasoning
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.	Reasoning
The Empress Mills, Nagpur v. The Municipal Committee, Wardha, 1958 SCR 1102 , this Court observed The Legislative history of this tax thus shows that octroi was leviable on the entry of goods in a local area when the goods were for consumption, use or sale therein In the absence of clear intention to the contrary, the incidence of the tax leviable under item 8 of Schedule II of the Schedule Tax Rules is incapable of having a different complexion from that which is had before 1920 or that which was clearly given after 1935.	Reasoning
In Diamond Sugar Mills Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1961) 3	None
SCR 242 , this Court referred to the previous legislative history including the position obtaining under the Government of India Act, 1991, Notification No.	None
311/8 dated December 18, 1920 and Entry 49 of ListII of the Government of India Act, 1935 and observed It was with the knowledge of the previous history of the legislation that the Constitutionmakers set about their task in preparing the list in the seventh schedule.	None
There can be little doubt therefore that in using the words tax on the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein, they wanted to express by the words local area primarily area in respect of which an octroi was leviable under item 7 of the Schedule Tax Rules, 1920  that is, the area administered by a local authority such as a municipality, a district Board, a local Board or a Union Board, a Panchayat or some body constituted under the law for the governance of the local affairs of any part of the State In Burma Shell Oil Storage Distributing Company India Ltd. v. The Belgaum Borough Municipality 1963 Suppl (2) SCR 216, this Court again traced legislative history of octroi and terminal taxes and held that octroi was always understood as a tax leviable on the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein.	Reasoning
We find it difficult to agree with the submission of Shri Ganesh, Entry 49 of ListII of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935 as well as Entry 52 in ListII in our Constitution speak of local areas and not local authorities.	None
The tax, by whatever name called, is levied upon the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein.	Reasoning
The decisions relied upon by Shri Ganesh too use the same words.	Reasoning
Entry 52 empowers the State Legislature to levy tax.	Reasoning
The local authorities cannot themselves levy this tax.	Reasoning
The power is that of the State Legislature and of none else.	Reasoning
So long as the tax is levied upon the entry of goods into a local area for the purpose of consumption, use or sale therein, the requirement of Entry 52 is satisfied.	Reasoning
The character of the tax so levied is that of entry tax  by whatever name it is called.	Reasoning
The decisions relied upon by Shri Ganesh do not say that the State must levy the tax and make over the collection part of it to local authorities nor do they say that after collecting it, the State must make over the proceeds to the local authorities.	Reasoning
The Highest that Shri Ganesh can legitimately put his submission is that the tax is meant for and must be utilised for the purpose of the local areas.	Reasoning
It cannot further be stipulated that this utilisation should be through or by the concerned local authorities.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the relevant requirement is satisfied in this case.	Reasoning
As stated hereinabove, the entire State of Bihar is divided into local areas.	Reasoning
From the point of view of the entry tax, one may say that the State is a compendium of local areas.	Reasoning
Spending for the purposes of the State is thus spending for the purposes of local areas.	Reasoning
Situation may perhaps be different where the local areas are confined to a few cities or towns in the State.	Reasoning
But where the local areas span the entire State, it cannot be argued that money spent for welfare schemes for improvement of roads, rivers and other means of transport and communication is not spent on or for the purposes of local areas.	Reasoning
The purposes and needs of local areas are no different from the purposes and needs of the State  not at any rate to any appreciable degree.	None
In this context, it is relevant to notice that the Maharashtra Entry Tax Act, considered by this Court in Shakti Kumar, (1995 (96) STC 659 ), was also meant for augmenting the general revenues of State, to wit, to make up the loss of revenue the State was suffering on account of reduction of sales tax on motor vehicles in the adjoining States.	Reasoning
The following observations in the said decision tend to support our reasoning, though, it is true, this particular question was not raised therein A very perusal of these objects and reasons would indicate that this legislation was brought in order to compensate loss of revenues by consumers who avoid of payment of the sales tax or purchase tax on the vehicle payable in the State by purchasing it in another State where the rate was lesser than the State of Maharashtra and then to bring the vehicle inside the State.	Reasoning
The Legislature, therefore, clearly intended to avoid any loss of legitimate sales tax revenue by the State.	Decision
But the levy cannot be held to be bad because the Legislature intended to avoid any loss of sales in the State so long it is not found to be invalid either because of any constitutional or statutory violation.	Reasoning
It is not by intention or propriety of a Legislation but it is legality or illegality which renders it valid or invalid.	Reasoning
Question No.5	Reasoning
Whether the proviso to Section 3(1) and Section 6 are void for the reasons assigned by the High Court?	Reasoning
Lastly, we may deal with the correctness of the judgment under appeal insofar as it holds that the proviso to Section 3(1) and Section 6 are violative of Article 14 inasmuch as they confer upon the State Government an unguided and uncanalised power.	Reasoning
The proviso to Section 3(1) and Section 6 read as follows Charge of Tax  (1) There shall be levied and collected a tax on entry of scheduled goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein at such rate not exceeding five percentum of the import value of such goods as may be specified by the State Government in a notification published in an official gazettee subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.	Reasoning
Provided different rates for different scheduled goods and different local areas may be specified by the State Government.6.	Reasoning
Exemption from Tax  The State Government may be notification and subject to such conditions restriction as it may impose exempt from tax any class of dealer, persons or importers.	Reasoning
The proviso to Section 3(1) empowers the State Government to specify different rates of entry tax for different commodities mentioned in the Schedule to the Act.	Reasoning
This is, however, subject to the ceiling of five per cent specified in Section 3(1) itself.	Reasoning
In such a situation, it cannot be held that the power conferred upon the State Government to specify the rate of tax is unguided.	Reasoning
In Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Birla Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills, Delhi, (1968) 3 SCR 251 , it was held that where the power is given to a responsible elected body like the municipal corporation to prescribe the rates of tax subject to a ceiling prescribed and where the rates fixed have to be submitted to the Government for its sanction, it cannot be held to be a case of excessive delegation of legislative power.	Reasoning
In this case, the delegation is to the State Government and a ceiling is also prescribed.	Reasoning
The State Government must be deemed to be aware of the needs of the State and the interest of its people.	Reasoning
It is the State Government that prepares the budget for every year.	Reasoning
The very provisions of the Act and its scheme coupled with the above factors provide sufficient guidance to the Government in the matter of specification of the rates.	Reasoning
It cannot, therefore, be held that the proviso confers an unguided power upon the State Government.	Reasoning
Now, coming to Section 6, it confers upon the State Government the power to grant exemption to any class of persons from the operation of the Act.	Reasoning
Such a power has consistently been upheld by this Court in a number of decisions commencing from P.J. Irani v. State of Madras, (1962) 2	Reasoning
SCR 169.	Reasoning
In fact, such a provision is a common feature in all the taxing enactments and many other enactments.	Reasoning
It has been held that the very scheme and the provisions of the Act do provide the necessary guidance.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we hold that the High Court was in error in declaring Section 6 to be void for being violative of Article 14.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, the appeals arising from Special Leave Petition (C) Nos. 1463614644 of 1995 (preferred by the State of Bihar) are allowed and the judgment of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The appeals arising from special Leave Petition (C) No. 23172 of 1995 (preferred by I.T.C. Limited and Ors.) and Special Leave Petition (C) No. 23303 of 1995 (preferred by V.S.T. Industries and Anr.) are dismissed.	Decision
No order as to costs.	Decision
Order accordingly.	None
