 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Appellant  National Insurance Company is before us, aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment and order dated 14th July, 2003, passed by a learned Single Judge of the Karnataka High Court in M.F.A. No. 7788/2002 dismissing the appeal preferred against an award dated 17.9.2002 passed by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (Tribunal for short) in M.V.C No.124/2000.	Issue
The fact of the matter relevant for the purpose of disposal of this appeal is as under The vehicle involved in the accident was a Matador Van bearing registration No. KA23/2890.	None
It had a Goods Carriage permit granted in terms of Form No.7 of the Motor Vehicles Act.	Facts
It was insured with the appellant.	Facts
The said vehicle met with an accident on 9.12.1999 causing death of one Gangawwa wife of the respondent No.1 herein.	Facts
A contention was raised on behalf of the appellant that the driver of the said vehicle did not possess an effective licence to drive a transport vehicle.	Facts
An issue (being Issue No.3), inter alia, was framed in that behalf before the Tribunal, which reads as under Whether the R3 proves that driver of offending vehicle was not an authorised person to drive the same?	None
The learned Tribunal in support of its award on Issue No.3, held DW1 in this cross examination admitted that offending vehicle is authorised to transport 3500 kgs.	None
goods.	None
Further, in this crossexamination stated that LMV means transport vehicle which unladen weight does not exceed 7500 kgs.	None
Ex.D2 at Column No.12 clearly shows that the unladen weight of the offending vehicle is 3500 kgs.	None
Thereby it is very much clear that said unladen weight of the offending vehicle is much less than 7500 kgs.	None
as admitted by DW1 in his crossexamination which is also the effect as defined in the MV Act.	None
So when the unladen weight of the offending vehicle is less than 7500 kgs.	None
the RW1 driver who is having DL as per Ex.D3 is certainly authorised to drive the offending vehicle.	None
The decision relied upon by Adv.	None
for petitioners at serial No.2 ruling reported in 2000(5) KLJ 473 (DB) or own Honble High Court had clearly held that where offending vehicle is weighing 4960 kgs.	None
driven by a person having DL to drive the LMV, there is breach of issuance policy, as statute classifies vehicle weighing below 7500 kgs.	None
as LMVs and Insurer is liable to satisfy award in respect of accident that occurred when the vehicle was being driven by driver holding such licence.	None
So in view of the decision of Division Bench of our own Honble High Court and also the decision of Supreme Court referred at Sl. No.1 Adv.	None
for petitioners it is very much clear that RW1 is having valid DL as per Exh.D3 and the offending vehicle unladen weight is 3500 kgs.	None
is certainly was having effective and valid DL and so R3 has failed to prove the issue No.3 and accordingly I answer the same in the negative.	None
The High Court on an appeal preferred by the appellant herein opined Counsel for the appellantInsurance Company, questioning the liability, contended that the driver did not possess a valid licence to drive LMV.	None
According to the respondents, the driver had driving licence to drive LMV, a transport vehicle.	None
According to the appellant, the vehicle in question involved in the accident is a transport vehicle.	None
The said contention cannot be accepted by this Court, in view of the fact that claimants are third parties even on the ground that there is violation of terms and conditions of policy, the insurance company cannot be permitted to contend that it has no liability.	None
Accordingly, I do not see any merit in this appeal.	None
Mr. Vishnu Mehra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant would submit that the High Court committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment in so far as it failed to take into consideration that a light motor vehicle cannot be a transport vehicle within the meaning of the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that for the purpose of grant of licence for driving a vehicle, an application has to be filed in Form No.4, where after only a licence is granted in Form No.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel contended that the said forms have been prescribed in terms of Rules 14 and 16 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, and on a perusal thereof as also the aforementioned Forms, it would be clear that a light motor vehicle does not answer the description of a transport vehicle.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S.N. Bhat, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, submitted that the contention raised herein by the appellant has neither been raised before the Tribunal nor before the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, it was urged, that keeping in view the definition of the light motor vehicle as contained in Section 2(21) of the Motor vehicles Act, 1988 (Act for short), a light goods carriage would come within the purview thereof.	Arguments of Respondent
A light goods carriage having not been defined in the Act, the definition of the light motor vehicle clearly indicates that it takes within its umbrage, both a transport vehicle and a nontransport vehicle.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance has been placed in this behalf by the learned counsel in Ashok Gangadhar Maratha vs. Oriental Insurance Company Ltd., 1999 (6) SCC 620 .	Arguments of Respondent
The Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, which was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to motor vehicles, is a complete code.	None
Section 2 of the Act provides for interpretation of the terms contained herein.	Reasoning
It employs the words unless the context otherwise requires.	Reasoning
Section 2(16) of the Act defines heavy goods vehicle to mean any goods carriage the gross vehicle weight of which, or a tractor or a roadroller the unladen weight of either of which, exceeds 12,000 kilograms.	Reasoning
Section 2(21) defines light motor vehicle and Section 2(23) defines medium goods vehicle as under Light motor vehicle means a transport vehicle or omnibus the gross vehicle weight of either of which or a motor car or tractor or roadroller the unladen weight of any of which, does not exceed 7500 kilograms.	Reasoning
Medium goods vehicle means any goods carriage other than a light motor vehicle or a heavy goods vehicle.	Reasoning
Section 3 of the Act is in the following terms Necessity for driving licence.	Reasoning
(1) No person shall drive a motor vehicle in any public place unless he holds an effective driving licence issued to him authorising him to drive the vehicle and no person shall so drive a transport vehicle other than a motor cab or motor cycle hired for his own use or rented under any scheme made under subsection (2) of section 75 unless his driving licence specifically entitles him so to do.	Reasoning
The Central Government has framed Rules known as The Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989.	None
The word Form has been defined in Rule 2(e) to mean a Form appended to the rules.	None
I Apply for a licence to enable me to drive vehicles of the following description Light motor vehicle Medium goods vehicle Heavy goods vehicle Motor vehicles of the following description After amendment the relevant portion of Form 4 reads as under I Apply for a licence to enable me to drive vehicles of the following description Light motor vehicle Transport vehicle Motor vehicles of the following description Rule 14 prescribes for filing of an application in Form 4, for a licence to drive a motor vehicle, categorizing the same in nine types of vehicles.	None
Clause (e) provides for Transport vehicle which has been substituted by G.S.R. 221(E) with effect from 28.3.2001.	None
Before the amendment in 2001, the entries medium good vehicle and heavy goods vehicle existed which have been substituted by transport vehicle.	None
As noticed hereinbefore, Light Motor Vehicles also found place therein.	None
Light Motor Vehicle is defined in Section 2(21) and, therefore, in view of the provision, as then existed, it included a light transport vehicle.	None
Form 6 provides for the manner in which the licence is to be granted, the relevant portion whereof read as under Authorisation to drive transport vehicle Number Date Authorised to drive transport vehicle with effect from Badge number Signature Designation of the licensing authority Name and designation of their authority who conducted the driving test.	None
From what has been noticed hereinbefore, it is evident that transport vehicle has now been substituted for medium goods vehicle and heavy goods vehicle.	Reasoning
The light motor vehicle continued, at the relevant point of time, to cover both, light passenger carriage vehicle and light goods carriage vehicle.	Reasoning
A driver who had a valid licence to drive a light motor vehicle, therefore, was authorised to drive a light goods vehicle as well.	Reasoning
The amendments carried out in the Rules having a prospective operation, the licence held by the driver of the vehicle in question cannot be said to be invalid in law.	None
For the reasons aforementioned there is no merit in this appeal and it is dismissed with costs which we quantify at Rs.25,000/(Rupees Twenty Five Thousand only).	Decision
