 Raghubar Dayal, J.1.	None
This petition under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution raises the question of the validity of R. 16 of the Madras General Sales Tax (Turnover and Assessment) Rules, 1939, hereinafter called the rules.	Issue
The impugned rule was published on September 7, 1955, and was substituted in the place of old R. 16.	None
The new rule was to be effective from April 1, 1955.2.	None
The petitioner is a dealer in hides and skins.	Facts
He sells hides and skins tanned outside the State of Madras, as well as those tanned inside the State.	Facts
The Deputy Commercial Tax officer, I Moore Market Division, Madras, assessed the petitioner to sales tax for the year 195556 on a turnover of Rs. 29,89,6241511.	Facts
Out of this a turnover of Rs. 28,10,62520 represented sales of tanned hides and skins which had been obtained from outside the State of Madras.3.	Facts
Sales tax was levied on hides and skins under the provisions of the Madras General Sales Tax Act,, 1939 (Act IX of 1939), hereinafter called the Act.	None
Section 3 is the charging section and its relevant portions read 3.	None
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act,(a)	None
every dealer shall pay for each year a tax on his total turnover for such year, and(b) the tax shall be calculated at the rate of three pies for every rupee in such turnoverX X X XSection 5 of the Act provides for exemptions and reductions of tax in certain cases.	None
Clause (vi) thereof provides that the sale of hides and skins, whether tanned or untanned, shall be liable to tax under S. 3, subs.	Reasoning
(1), only at such single point in the series of sales by successive dealers as may be prescribed.4.	None
Section 19 empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act.5.	None
The new rule 16, whose validity is challenged for the petitioner, reads16.	None
(1) In the case of untanned hides and or skins the tax under Section 3(1) shall be levied from the dealer who is the last purchaser in the State not exempt from taxation under Section 3 (3) on the amount for which they are bought by him.(2) (i) In the case of hides or skins which have been tanned outside the State the tax under Section 3(1) shall be levied from the dealer who in the State is the first dealer, in such hides or skins not exempt from taxation under Section 3(3) on the amount for which they are sold by trim.(ii)	None
In the case of tanned hides or skins which have been tanned within the State, the tax under Section 3(1) shall be levied from a person who is the first dealer in such hides or skins not exempt from taxation under Section 3(3) on the amount for which they are sold by himProvided that, if he proves that the tax has already been levied under subrule (1) on the untanned hides and skins out of which the tanned hides and skins had been produced, he shall not be so liable.(3)	None
The burden of proving that a transaction is not liable to taxation under this rule shall be on the dealer.6.	None
It is contended for the petitioner that the effect of this rule is that tanned hides or skins imported from outside the State and sold within the State are subject to a higher rate of tax than the tax imposed on hides or skins tanned and sold within the state, inasmuch as sales tax on the imported hides or skins tanned outside the State is on their sale price while the tax on hides or skins tanned within the State, though ostensibly on their sale price, is, in view of the proviso to cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) of subr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) of R. 16, really on the sale price of these hides or skins when they are purchased in the raw condition and which is substantially less than the sale price of tanned hides or skins.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further for similar reason, hides or skins imported from outside the State after purchase in their raw condition and then tanned inside the State are also subject to higher taxation than hides or skins purchased in the raw condition in the State and tanned within the State, as the tax on the former is on the sale vice of the tanned hides or skins and on the latter is on the sale price of the raw hides or skins.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a discriminatory taxation is said to offend the provisions of Art. 304 (a) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similar are the contentions for the interveners in the case.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contentions for the respondents are (1) sales tax does not come within the purview of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
304 (a) as it is not a tax on the import of goods at the point of entry.	Arguments of Respondent
(2) the impugned rule is not a law made by the State Legislature.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) The impugned rule, by itself, does not impose the tax, but fixes the single point at which the tax imposed by Ss. 3 and 5 of the Act is to be levied.	Arguments of Respondent
(4) The impugned rule was not made with an eye on the place of origin of the goods but as a matter of necessity, in view of the requirements of the statutory provisions to the effect that hides or skins, raw or tanned, came within one category and that the tax on them could be levied at a single point only.	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned rule, therefore, fixed that single point with respect to the sale of raw hides or skins at the last purchase by the dealer in the State and with respect to the sale of tanned hides or skins at the first sale of such tanned hides or skins by the dealer in the State.	Arguments of Respondent
In the former case, the tax was levied on the price the purchaser paid while in the latter case t was on the price at which the seller sold.8.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 301 of the Constitution which provides for trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India to be free subject to the other provisions of Part XIII, has been construed by this Court in Atiabari Tea Co. Ltd. v. State of Assam, 19611 SCB 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ) and in Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1962 SC 1406 .9.	None
The majority view in the Atiabari Tea Co. Case, 19611 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), which has been accepted in the Automobile Transport Case, AIR 1962 SC 1406 .	None
is, as expressed by Gajendragadkar J., at p. 860 (of SCR) (at p. 254 of AIR)Thus considered we think it would be reasonable and proper to hold that restrictions freedom from which is guaranteed by Art.	None
301, would be such restrictions as directly and immediately restrict or impede the free flow or movement of trade.	None
Taxes may and do amount to restrictions but it is only such taxes as directly and immediately restrict trade that would fall within the purview of Art.	None
301 We are therefore satisfied that in determining the limits of the trade with and amplitude of the freedom guaranteed by Art.	None
301 a rational and workable test to apply would be Does the impugned restriction operate directly or immediately on trade or its movement?	None
Our conclusion therefore is that when Art. 301 provides that trade shall be free throughout the territory of India it means that the flow of trade shall run smooth and unhampered by any restriction either at the boundaries of the States or at any other points inside the States themselves.	None
It is the free movement or the transport of goods from one part of the country to the other that is intended to be saved, and if any Act imposes any direct restrictions on the very movement of such goods it attracts the provisions of Art.	None
301.	None
And its validity can be sustained only it it satisfies the requirements of Art .302 or Art.	None
304 of Part	None
XIII.In	None
the majority judgment in the Automobile Transport Case, AIR 1962 SC 1406 , it was said at p. 1424	None
The interpretation, which was accepted by the majority in the Atiabari Tea Co. Case, 19611 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), is correct but subject to this clarification.	None
Regulatory measures or measures imposing compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities do not come within the purview of the restrictions contemplated by Art.	None
301.Earlier in the judgment it was observed, at p. 1422	None
Such regulatory measures as do not impede the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse and compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities are not hit by the freedom declared by Art.	None
301.	None
They are excluded from the purview of the provisions of Part XIII of the Constitution for the simple reason that they do not hamper trade, commerce and intercourse but rather facilitate them.	None
Subba Rao, J., concurred in this view and said at p. 1436	None
(1) Art.	None
301 declares a right of free movement of trade wit out any obstructions by way of barriers, interState or intraState, or other impediments operating as such barriers.	None
(2) The said freedom Is not impeded, but, on the other hand promoted, by regulations creating conditions for the free movement of trade, such as, police regulations, provisions for services, maintenance of roads, provision for aerodromes, wharfs etc., with or without compensation.10.It is therefore now well settled that taxing laws can be restrictions on trade, commerce and intercourse, if they hamper the flow of trade and if they are not what can be termed to be compensatory taxes or regulatory measures.	Reasoning
Sales tax, of the kind under consideration here, cannot be said to be a measure regulating any trade or a compensatory tax levied for the use of trading facilities.	Reasoning
Sales tax, which has the effect of discriminating between goods of one State and goods of another, may affect the free flow of trade and it will then offend against Art.	Reasoning
301 and will be valid only if it comes within the terms of Art. 304 (a).11.	Reasoning
Article 304 (a) enables the Legislature of a State to make laws affecting trade, commerce and intercourse.	Reasoning
It enables the imposition of taxes on goods from other States if similar goods in the State are subjected to similar taxes, so as not to discriminate between the goods manufactured or produced in that State and the goods which are imported from other States.	Reasoning
This means that if the effect of the salestax on tanned hides or skins imported from, outside is that the latter becomes subject to a higher tax by the application of the proviso to subr.	Reasoning
(2) of R. 16 of the Rules, then the tax is discriminatory and unconstitutional and must be struck down.12.	Reasoning
We do not agree with the contentions for the respondents.	Reasoning
The contention that Art. 304 (a) is attracted only when the impost is at the holder, i.e., when the goods enter the State on crossing the border of the State, is not sound.	Reasoning
Art. 304 (a) allows the Legislature of a State to impose taxes on goods imported from other States and does not support the contention that the imposition must be at the point of entry only.13.	Reasoning
Section 5 (vi) provides that the sale of hides or skins, whether tanned or untanned, shall be liable to tax under S. 3 (1) only at such single point in the series of sales by successive dealers as may be prescribed.	Reasoning
Prescribed means prescribed by rules made under the Act.	Reasoning
Rule 16 prescribes such single point.	Reasoning
This rule was made by the Governor in the exercise of power conferred on him under S. 19 of the Act and would therefore have statutory force, in fact subs.	Reasoning
(5) of S. (i) provides that the rules shall have effect as if enacted in the Act.	Reasoning
We therefore do not agree that R. 16 is not a law which would fall within a law made by the State Legislature.14.	Reasoning
It is true that the impugned rule, by itself, does not impose the tax, but fixes the single point at which the tax imposed by Ss. 3 and 5 is to be levied.	Reasoning
What the rule provides is a step necessary for the imposition of the tax, and in view of Ss. 3 and 5 therefore the impugned rule is a part of the enactment which imposes the tax.15.	Reasoning
The fact that the impugned rule was made in order to prescribe the single point in the series of sales by successive dealers at which the tax on sale of hides or skins was to be levied, in view of Ss. 3 and 5 of the Act, does not justify the making of such a rule which discriminates between the tax imposed on goods imported from outside the State and the goods produced or manufactured in the State.16.	Reasoning
Now, the only question that remains for consideration is whether this rule discriminates between hides or skins imported from outside the State and those manufactured or produced in the State.17.	Issue
Subrule (1) of the rule deals with the sale of raw hides and skins.	None
The tax is levied from the dealer who is the last purchaser in the State.	None
Its vires is not challenged.	None
Clause (i) of subR. (2) provides for the levying of tax on the sale of hides and skins which had been tanned outside the State.	None
The tax is levied form the dealer who, in the State, is the first seller of such hides or skins.	None
The result is that a dealer in hides or skins which have been tanned outside the State has to pay the tax on the amount for which such hides or skins are sold by him.	None
Clause (ii) of this subrule is in identical terms with respect to the sale of tanned hides or skins which have been tanned within the State.	None
The tax is to be levied from the person who is the first dealer in such hides or skins and is levied on the amount for which they are sold.	None
The discrimination, it is argued, comes in on account of the proviso to this subcl.(ii).The proviso is to the effect that if the dealer of hides or skins which had been tanned within the State proves that tax had already been levied on those hides or skins in their raw condition, in accordance with subR. (1), he will not be liable to the tax under subcl.	None
(ii) of subR. (2).	Arguments of Petitioner
the result therefore is that the sale of hides or skins which had been purchased in the State and then tanned within the State is not subject to any further tax.	None
Hides and skins tanned within the State are mostly those which had been purchased in their raw condition in the State and therefore on which tax had already been levied on the price paid by the purchaser at the time of their sale in the raw condition.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the quantum of tax had been the same, there might have been no case for grievance by the dealer of the tanned hides and skins which had been tanned outside the State.	None
The grievance arises on account of the amount of tax levied being different on account of the existence of a substantial disparity in the price of the raw hides or skins and of those hides or skins after they had been tanned, though the rate is the same under S.3 (1) (b) of the Act.	None
If the dealer has purchased the raw hide or skin in the State, he does not pay on the sale price of the tanned hides or skins he pays on the purchase price only.	None
If the dealer purchases raw hides or skins from outside the State and tans them within the State, he will be liable to pay salestax on the sale price of the tanned hides or skins.	None
He too will have to pay more for tax even though the hides and skins are tanned within the State, merely on account of his having imported the hides and skins from outside, and having not therefore paid any tax under subrule (1).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that dealers, though few, selling hides and skins which had been tanned within the State will also have to pay similar tax if no tax had been paid previously, they having not purchased the raw hides and skins at all as they were from the carcases of animals owned by them but this does not affect the discriminatory nature of the tax as already indicated.18.	None
It is urged for the respondent State that to consider discrimination between the imported goods and goods produced or manufactured in the State, circumstances and situations at the taxable point must be similar and that the circumstance of hides or skins tanned within the State and on which tax had been paid earlier at the time of their purchase in the raw condition is sufficient to consider such hides or skins to be different from the hides or skins which had been tanned outside the State.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not consider that the mere circumstance of a tax having been paid on sale of such hides or skins in their raw condition justifies their forming goods of a different kind from the tanned hides or skins which had been imported from outside.	None
At the time of sale of those hides or skins in the tanned state, there was no difference between them as goods and the hides or skins tanned outside the State as goods.	Reasoning
The similarity contemplated by Art. 304 (a) is in the nature of the quality and kind of the goods and not with respect to whether they were subject of a tax already or not.19.We are therefore of opinion that the provisions of R. 16 (2) discriminate against the imported hides or skins which had been purchased or tanned outside the State and that therefore they contravene the provisions of Art. 304	Reasoning
(a) of the Constitution.20.	None
It has been urged for the respondent that if the impugned rule be held to be invalid, old R. 16 gets revived and that the tax assessed on the petitioner will be good.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not agree once the old rule has been substituted by the new rule, it ceases to exist and it does not automatically get revived when the new rule is held to be invalid.21.	Reasoning
Lastly, we may refer to the preliminary objection raised on behalf of the respondent to the maintainability of this petition, in view of the decision of this Court in Ujjam Bai v. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1962 SC 1621 .	Reasoning
This petition does not come within that decision.	Reasoning
This is not a case in which the tax has been levied by The Deputy Commercial Tax officer by misconstruing certain.	Reasoning
provisions of a valid Act, but is a case where the taxing officer had no jurisdiction to assess the tax on account of the invalidity of the rule under which the tax was assessed.22.	Reasoning
We therefore allow this petition with costs holding the impugned Rule 16 (2) invalid and order the issue of a writ of mandamus to the State of Madras and the Sales Tax Authorities under the Act to refrain from enforcing any of the provisions of R. 16 (2) and direct them to refund the tax illegally collected from the petitioner.23.	Decision
Petition allowed.	None
