 Bhagwati, J.1.	None
This appeal, by special leave, is directed against a judgment of a single Judge of the Calcutta High Court declaring arbitration agreement contained in certain contracts between the parties to be invalid on the ground that the contracts were illegal under Section 15, subsection (3A) of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the Forward Contracts Act).2.	Issue
The appellants and the respondents were both at all material times members of the East India Jute and Hessian Exchange Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the Exchange).	Facts
On 13th June, 1969, the appellants entered into two contracts with the respondents agreeing to purchase 12,00,000 yeards of hessain cloth at the price of Rupees 70.50P. per hundred yards and 6,00,000 yards of hessain cloth at the price of Rs. 70/ per hundred yards on the terms and conditions set out in the respective contract notes which were in the printed contract form prescribed in Appendix IV to the byelaws of the Exchange.	Facts
These two contracts were transferable specific delivery contracts for jute goods in the city of Calcutta.	Facts
It was stated in the body of each of the two contract notes within the cage that the contract was one for delivery alongside export vessel in the port of Calcutta.	Facts
The other terms and conditions set out in the two contract notes were identical but it is not necessary to refer to all of them.	Facts
We may reproduce only a few which are material.3.	Facts
Goods to be packed folded, well pressed, market and shipped by sellers in covered cargo boats in iron bound bales of 2000 yards or 1829 metres each.4.	Facts
Delivery of the said goods in to be given and taken as follows September 1969 (Payment against P.D.O.)Each delivery under this contract shall be treated as a distinct and separate contract.5.	Facts
Arbitration The Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry	Facts
The Indian Chamber of Commerce.	Facts
The printed contract form prescribed in Appendix 17 to the byelaws of the Exchange contained Clause 2, which was as follows 2.	Facts
Buyers to give clear working days notice to place goods alongside.	None
But this clause was scored out and cancelled in the contract notes in respect of these two contracts.	None
There was accordingly no provision made in either of these two contracts for the buyers to give a particular number of clear working days notice to the sellers to place goods alongside export vessel in the port of Calcutta.3.	Facts
Though the period of delivery specified in each of the two contracts dated 13th June, 1969 was September, 1969, it was by mutual agreement arrived at between the appellants and respondents on 18th June, 1969, extended to October December, 1969 at a discount of Re. 1/ per hundred yards on the contract price.	Facts
The result was that in these two contracts, as modified, the period of delivery was changed to October December, 1969 and the price was reduced to Rs. 69.50 per hundred yards in the case of the first contract and Rs.	Facts
69/ per hundred yards in case of the other contract.4.	None
On 4th November, 1969, the appellants entered into three contracts with the respondents and under each of these three contracts the appellants agreed to sell to the respondents 6,00,000 yards of hessian cloth at the price of Rs. 87/ per hundred yards.	Facts
Rs. 84.50 per hundred yards and Rs. 82.50 per hundred yards respectively.	Facts
The terms and conditions on which these three contracts were entered into between the appellants and the respondents were set out in contract notes in the printed contract form prescribed in Appendix II to the byelaws of the Exchange.	Facts
These three contracts were also transferable specific delivery contracts in jute goods in the city of Calcutta.	Facts
The terms and conditions of these three contracts were identical with those of the earlier two contracts dated 13th June, 1969 save and except that the provision in regard to delivery in Clause (4) of the terms and conditions was October, 1969 (Due Date P.D.O.) in respect of the first contract, November, 1969 (Due Date P.D.O.) in respect of the second contract and December 1969 (Due Date P.D.O.) in respect of the third contract.	Facts
Here also Clause 2 of the printed contract form was scored out and cancelled and the contract notes in respect of these three contracts did not contain any provision requiring the buyers to give any particular number of clear working days notice to the seller to place goods alongside export vessel in the port of Calcutta.5.	Facts
Since the three contracts dated 4th November, 1969 were crosscontracts by way of settlement of the earlier two contracts dated 13th June, 1969, the deliveries under the two sets of contracts were set off against each other and differences in price became due and payable by the respondents to the appellants.	Facts
The appellants accordingly submitted five bills for an aggregate amount of Rupees 2,76.000/ to the respondents and called upon the respondents to make payment of this amount to the appellants.	Facts
The respondents, however, failed to pay any amount to the appellants under the said five bills and the appellants, therefore, relying on the arbitration clause contained in each of these several contracts, referred their claims under the said five bills to the arbitration of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Calcutta.	Facts
These references were numbered as Case Nos. 58, 59, 61, 62 and 64 of 1970.	Facts
The notices of these references were given to the respondents and they were called upon to file written statements in answer to the claims preferred by the appellants.	Facts
The respondents from time to time applied to the arbitration tribunal of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Calcutta for extension of time for filing their written statements, and, though extension of time was granted, the respondents did not ultimately file their written statements but instead preferred an application under Section 23 of the Arbitration Act challenging the existence and validity of the arbitration clause contained in each of these several contracts entered into between the parties.	Facts
The main ground on which the existence and validity of the arbitration clauses was challenged was that though the contracts giving rise to the disputes between the parties were forward contracts entered into between members of a recognised association, they were in contravention of bylaws 1(b) and 15 read with byelaw 17 contained in Chapter V of the ByeLaws of the Exchange and were, therefore, illegal and void under S. 15, subsection (3A) of the Forward Contracts Act.	Facts
This ground appealed to Mr. Justice S. C. Ghose, who heard the application, and he allowed the plea of the respondents holding that since Clause 2 of the printed contract form was scored out and cancelled in the contract notes in respect of all these contracts, they could not be said to be in the prescribed form as required by byelaw 1(b) nor could they be said to be entered into on the terms and conditions prescribed under the byelaws as mandated by Byelaw 15 and consequently, they were illegal and void by reason of Section, 15, subsec.	Facts
(3A) of the Forward Contracts Act and the arbitration clauses contained in these contracts must also, therefore, fall along with the contracts of which they formed part.	None
This decision of Mr. Justice S. C. Ghose is impugned in the present appeal preferred by the appellants with special leave obtained from this Court.6.	Facts
Now, there can be no doubt that if a contract is illegal and void, an arbitration clause, which is one of the terms thereof must also perish along with it.	Facts
As pointed out by Viscount Simon, L. C. in Heyman v. Darwins Ltd., 1942 AC 356.	Facts
If one party to the alleged contract is contending that it is void ab initio (because, for example, the making of such a contract is illegal), the arbitration clause cannot operate, for on this view the clause itself also is void.	Facts
the arbitration clause being an integral part of the contract cannot stand, if the contract itself is held to be illegal.	Facts
Logically speaking, it is difficult to conceive how when a contract is found to be bad, any portion of it can be held to be good.	Facts
When the whole perishes, its parts must also perish.	Facts
Ex nihilo nil fit.	Facts
On principle, therefore, it must be held that when a contract is invalid, every part of it, including the clause as to arbitration contained therein, must also be invalid.	Facts
That is also the view taken by this Court in at least two decisions, namely, Khardah Company Ltd. v. Raymon and Co. (India) Pvt. Ltd. (1963) 3	Facts
SCR 183 (AIR 1962 SC 1810 ) and Waverly Jute Mills Co. Ltd. v. Raymon and Co. (India) Pvt. Ltd. (1963) 3	Facts
SCR 209 (AIR 1963 SC 90 ).	Facts
The question which, therefore, arises for consideration is whether the two earlier contracts dated 13th June, 1969 and the three contracts dated 4th November, 1969  which are the contracts giving rise to the disputes between the parties  could be branded illegal and void under Section 15, subsection (3A) of the Forward Contracts Act.	Facts
If they could be, the arbitration clauses which form an integral part of them would be invalid otherwise the arbitration clauses would have to be held to be valid.7.	Facts
In order to arrive at a proper determination of this question, it is necessary to refer to some of the relevant provisions of the Forward Contracts Act and the byelaws for trading in Transferable Specific Delivery Contracts made by the Exchange.	None
The Forward Contracts Act, as its along title shows, is enacted to provide for the regulation of certain matters relating to forward contracts, the prohibition of options in goods and for matters connected therewith.	None
Section 6 deals with the subject of grant of recognition to an association and provides that where the Central Government is satisfied that it would be in the interest of trade and also in the public interest to do so, it may grant recognition to an association and when it does so, it shall specify in such recognition the goods or classes of goods with respect to which forward contracts may be entered into between members of such association or through or with any such member.	None
It was under this section that the Central Government issued a notification dated 29th March, 1958 granting recognition to the Exchange in respect of forward contracts in jute goodsin the city of Calcutta.	None
Section 11 subsection (1) empowers a recognised association to make byelaws for the regulation and control of forward contracts and in exercise of the power conferred under this section, the Exchange, with the previous approval of the Central Government, made byelaws for trading in transferable specific delivery contracts in raw jute and jute goods.	None
Subsection (3) of Section 11 provides in Clause (aa) that the byelaws made under that section may specify the byelaws the contravention of any of which shall make a forward contract entered into otherwise than in accordance with the byelaws illegal under subsection (3A) of Section 15.	None
Then follows Section 15 which enacts a prohibition on forward contracts in certain circumstances.	None
Subsections (1) and (3A) of that section are material and they read as follows 15(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare this section to apply to such goods or class of goods and in such areas as may be specified in the notification, and thereupon, subject to the provisions contained in S. 18, every forward contract for the sale or purchase of any goods specified in the notification which is entered into in the area specified therein otherwise than between members of a recognised association or through or with any such member shall be illegal.x	None
x x x(3A)	None
Any forward contract in goods entered into in pursuance of subsection (1) which at the date of the contract is in contravention of any of the byelaws specified in this behalf under Clause (aa) of subsection (3) of Section 11 shall be illegal.	None
It was common ground between the parties that a notification dated 29th March, 1958 was issued by the Central Government under Section 15, Subsection (1) declaring that the said section shall apply to jute goods in the city of Calcutta.	None
No forward contract for sale or purchase of jute goods could, therefore, be entered into in the city of Calcutta otherwise than between members of the Exchange or through or with any such member.	None
Vide Section 15, subsection (1).	None
There was, however, no difficulty on this score in the present case because both the appellants as well as the respondents were members of the Exchange and the contracts in question were, therefore, forward contracts entered into between members of the Exchange.	None
But the question is whether these contracts were in contravention of any of the byelaws specified in this behalf under Cl.	None
(aa) of subsection (3) of Section 11 so as to be rendered illegal under Section 15, subsection (3A).	None
That requires consideration of the byelaws for trading in transferable specific delivery contracts made by the Exchange.8.	None
These byelaws are to be found in a printed booklet entitled Working Manual Volume III.	None
They are divided into several chapters.	None
The first Chapter, which is relevant, is Chapter V which contains General Trading Provisions.	None
Byelaw 1(a) in that Chapter merely reiterates the requirement of Section 15, subsec.	None
(1), Its byelaw 1(b), which is very material, says All Transferable Specific Delivery Contracts shall be in writing in the prescribed forms (Appendix II for jute goods and Appendix IV for raw jute) serially numbered and supplied by the Association on payment.	None
We are concerned in this appeal with transferable specific delivery contracts in jute goods, and therefore, the printed form, which is applicable, is that given in Appendix II.	None
If the requirement of byelaw 1 (b) is to be satisfied, the contracts in question must be in the printed form prescribed in Appendix II.	None
Byelaw 1(g) provides that all transferable specific delivery contracts shall be subject to the provisions of the byelaws.	None
Then follows byelaw 15 which enjoins that No member shall enter into any transferable specific delivery contracts in raw jute and or jute goods otherwise than on the terms and conditions prescribed under these Byelaws.	None
Byelaw 17 specifies the byelaws the contravention of any of which shall make a forward contract illegal under Section 15, subsection (3A).	None
It says Any transferable specific delivery contract entered into in raw jute and or jute goods which at the date of the contract is in contravention of the provisions of any of the byelaws 1(i), 1, 14, 15 and 16 of Chapter V shall be illegal under the provisions of S. 15(3A) of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952.	None
The last byelaw in this Chapter to which reference may be made is byelaw 23 which runs as follows In the case of T.S.D. contracts in Jute Goods for inland delivery is shall be in order to substitute the words Free Alongside Export Vessel in the Port of Calcutta mentioned on the body of the Contract in the second column within the cage by such words as F.O.R. (Free on Railway) or C. and F. (Cost and Freight), or C.I.F. (Cost, Insurance, Freight), or F.O.B. (Free on Board) as the case may be.9.	None
We then go on to Chapter VII which deals with terms, tenders and deliveries under transferable specific delivery contracts in jute goods.	None
Byelaw 4(a) of this Chapter was most strongly relied upon on behalf of the appellants and it reads as follows Payment is to be made in cash in exchange for Pucca Delivery Order s on sellers, or for Dock Receipt s or for Mates Receipt s (which Dock Receipt s or Mates Receipt s is are to be handed by Dock or Ships Officer to the sellers representatives).	None
Provided always that in case of sales to inland buyers clients, the payment term shall be cash or as otherwise agreed upon between sellers and buyers clients.	None
A Pucca Delivery Order, according to byelaws 5, means a delivery order issued by a Mill Company relating to jute goods covered by a contract, the terms and conditions of which are given in detail in Chapter VIII.	None
Byelaw 1(a) of Chapter VIII requires that all Pucca Delivery Orders of jute goods shall be in writing in the prescribed form set out in Appendix III.	None
Byelaw 3 provides for registration of the holder of a Pucca Delivery Order in the books of the Mill Company, The rights and obligations of the registered holder of a Pucca Delivery Order visavis the Mill Company are set out in byelaws 5 to 10.	None
Of these, only byelaws 5 and 6 are material and they may be reproduced as follows5.	None
The holder of the Pucca Delivery Order having put in a request for registration or the registered holder thereof shall be entitled to give instruction to the Mills Company in writing accompanied by the Pucca Delivery Order, to place the goods alongside a specified export vessel or wharf or jetty in the Port of Calcutta.	Reasoning
The Mill Company shall return to the said registered holder within three working days of receipt, the said Pucca delivery Order endorsing thereon the words Received shipping to the provision of Paragraphs 7 and 8 hereof the said Mill Company shall place the goods alongside a specified export vessel or wharf or jetty in the Port of Calcutta not later than the 10th working day after the day on which the shipping instructions as mentioned in this paragraph were delivered to its registered office.	None
The Mill Company shall deliver the relative Mates Receipt, Dock Receipts, Railway Receipt or Ghat Delivery Order in accordance with the Shipping instructions, as the case may be, to the holder of the aforesaid P.D.O. in exchange thereof.6.	None
In the event of the said Mill Company failing to bring down the goods by the aforesaid 10th working day (hereinafter called the delivery order due date) the registered holder shall subject to the provisions of Paragraph 5 hereof be entitled within 3 working days after the delivery order due date to receive from the Mill Company on demand payment for the goods at the market rate prevailing on the delivery order due date in exchange for the Pucca Delivery Order.	None
These are some of the relevant byelaws which are required to be considered in deciding the main point in controversy between the parties.10.	None
The argument of the respondents was  and that is the argument which finds favour with the learned single Judge of the Calcutta High Court  that clause (2) of the printed contract form having been scored out in the contract notes in respect of all the contracts between the parties, these contracts were not in the prescribed form as required by byelaw 1(b) and hence they are entered into otherwise than on the terms and conditions prescribed under the byelaws and since that was in contravention of byelaw 15, these contracts were illegal under section 15, subsection (3A) read with byelaw 17.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants attempted to rebut this argument by a twofold contention.	Arguments of Respondent
The first contention was that even if the contracts were not in the prescribed form and there was contravention of byelaw 1(b), that did not have the effect of rendering the contracts illegal because byelaw 1(b) was not one of the byelaws specified in byelaw 17.	None
But this contention is without force.	None
It stands concluded by the decision of this Court in Megna Mills Co. Ltd. v. Ashoka Marketing Co. (1971)	None
2 SCR 751 (AIR 1971 SC 166 ).	None
There also the contracts were not in the prescribed form as required by byelaw 1 (b) and the question was whether that rendered the contracts illegal under S. 15, subsection (3A) read with byelaw 17.	None
This Court, speaking through Grover, J., answered the question in the affirmative saying In our opinion, the High Court was right in holding that the contracts in question were not in the prescribed form and thus they did not comply with the requirement of byelaw 1(b) of Chapter V.	None
There can be no manner of doubt that byelaw is mandatory when read with byelaws 15 and 17.	None
It must be remembered that under byelaw 15 no member shall enter into any transferable specific delivery contract otherwise than on terms and conditions prescribed under the byelaws and under bylaws 17 if there is a contravention, inter alia, of byelaw 15 the contract shall be rendered illegal by virtue of the provisions contained in S. 15 (3A) of the Act.	None
Section 11(3) (aa) specifically empowers the Exchange to make byelaws the contravention of any of which shall make a forward contract entered into otherwise than in accordance with such byelaws illegal.	None
If, therefore, the contracts in question did not comply with the requirement of byelaw 1 (b) of Chapter V they would be rendered illegal and void.	None
It can, therefore, no longer be disputed that if a contract is not in the prescribed form as enjoined by byelaw 1 (b), it would be in contravention of byelaw 15 and hence under S. 15, subsec.	None
(3A) read with byelaw 17, it would be illegal and void.	None
That means that the appellants can succeed only if they can show that the contracts in the present case were in the prescribed form as required by byelaw 1 (b).	None
This was attempted to be done and that constituted the second contention of the appellants.11.	None
Now there can be no doubt that clause (2) of the prescribed form was scored out and omitted from the contracts notes in respect of the contracts between the parties.	Reasoning
There was no provision included in any of these contracts requiring the buyers to give any particular number of clear working days notice to the sellers to place goods alongside export vessel in the port of Calcutta.	Reasoning
The contracts thus clearly departed from the prescribed form in respect of this particular provision.	Reasoning
The question is whether on this account it could be said that the contracts were not in the prescribed form in accordance with the requirement of byelaw 1 (b.	Reasoning
Now, when can a contract be said to be in the prescribed form and when not is no longer a question which presents any serious difficulty.	Reasoning
It is settled by the high authority of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council and there is also a pronouncement of this Court on the point.	Reasoning
We may first refer to the decision of the Privy Council in Radhakisson Gopikisson v. Balmukund Ramchandra.	Reasoning
60 Ind App 63 (AIR 1933 PC 55 ).	Reasoning
The question which arose for determination in this case was whether certain contracts entered into whether the parties contravened any of the byelaws made by the Board of Directors of the East India Cotton Association Ltd. and were, therefore, void under Section 5 of the Bombay Cotton Contracts Act 1922.	Reasoning
Byelaw 81 provided that contractsshall be in writing in the form given in the Appendix.	None
The contracts in question were admittedly inconsistent with the terms and conditions set out in the prescribed form in at least two respects and yet the contention of the appellants was that the contracts were in the prescribed form and there was no contravention of byelaw 81 so as to render the contracts void under Section 5.	Reasoning
The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council negatived this contention.	Reasoning
Lord Thankerton, delivering the opinion of the Judicial Committee. pointed out at page 70 of the Report.	None
Their Lordships are of opinion that the form prescribed is, in its terms, applicable to contracts between a commission agent and his constituent, and that the parties in the present case were bound to comply with the bylaw and its form.	None
They are unable, however, to agree with the view that the form is a streotyped one and that literal compliance with it is essential in their opinion, the contract must contain all the terms and conditions set out in the form in order to comply with it.	Reasoning
For instance, in the prescribed form the main terms and conditions are contained in the memorandum of contract sent by the agent to his constituent, in which the former reports the fulfilling of the order by a purchase or a sale, as the case may be, in Bombay.	Reasoning
If identical terms and conditions, instead of being in the memorandum sent by the agent, were contained in the initial order by the constituent, their Lordships are of opinion that there would be protanto sufficient compliance with the bylaw.	Reasoning
But that is clearly not found in the present case, for the initial orders are inconsistent with the terms and conditions set out in the prescribed form in at least two respects It follows that the contracts having failed to comply with the bylaws they are rendered void under the provisions of S. 5 of the Act.	None
The same view was reaffirmed by this Court in (1971) 2	None
SCR 751 (AIR 1971 SC 166 ) where Grover, J., speaking on behalf of the Court, said with reference to the same byelaw 1 (b) with which we are concerned in the present appeal  and what was said there is binding upon usLiteral compliance with the prescribed form may not be essential but if the contract does not contain all the terms and conditions set out in the form the contract will be void under the provisions set out before See the ratio of the decision in 60 Ind App 63 (AIR 1933 PC 55).It is, therefore, clear that in order that a contract may be in the prescribed form, literal compliance is not essential what is necessary is that the contract must contain all the terms and conditions set out in the prescribed form.	Reasoning
If this test is applied, as it ought to be, there can be no doubt that the contracts in the present case were not in the prescribed form as they did not contain any term or condition corresponding to clause (2) of the printed form requiring the buyers to give a particular number of clear working days notice to place goods alongside export vessel in the port of Calcutta.12.	Reasoning
The appellants, however, contended that the prescribed form was given merely as an example and was only to be followed so far as circumstances of the case may admit.	Arguments of Petitioner
If there was any term or condition in the prescribed form which was inapplicable in a given case, it could be omitted without imperilling the validity of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Here, contended the appellants, the mode of performance contemplated in each of the contracts was delivery of Pucca Delivery Orders against payment of price, and therefore, clause (2) of the printed form which provided for giving of notice by the buyers to place goods alongside was inapplicable and could not have any place in these contracts.	Arguments of Petitioner
It did not fit in with this mode of performance and was, therefore, rightly omitted from these contracts.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention of the appellants, plausible though it may seem at first blush, does not survive close scrutiny.	Arguments of Petitioner
There are two answers to it which are conclusive.13.	None
In the first place it is not correct to say that the prescribed form may be followed only in so far as circumstances may admit.	Reasoning
The prescribed form, as we have already pointed out above, is imperative and a contract in order to be valid must contain all the terms and conditions set out in the prescribed form.	Reasoning
Either the contract must incorporate all those terms and conditions or no contract can be made at all.	Reasoning
No term or condition in the prescribed form can be dispensed with on the plea that it is inapplicable.	Reasoning
What Bankes L. J. said in Burchell v. Thompson, (1920) 2 KB 80, with reference to Section 9 of the Bills of Sale Act, 1882, namely, a bill of sale will be void unless all the blanks which are included in the statutory form are filled up, applies equally in the present case.	Reasoning
Nothing can be omitted from the contract which is included as a term or condition in the prescribed form.	Reasoning
The only departure that is permissible from the prescribed form is that provided in byelaw 23 where contract is not for export but for inland delivery.	Reasoning
The words free alongside delivery export vessel in the port of Calcutta would in case of such a contract be wholly inapplicable, and therefore, byelaw 23 permits these words to be substituted by some such words as F.O.R. or C. and F. or C.I.F. or F.O.B., as the case may be.	Reasoning
That is the only variation permissible under the byelaws and beyond that there can be no departure from the prescribed form.	None
Byelaw 23 indeed, by necessary implication, clearly suggests that the prescribed form is mandatory and must be followed scrupulously in regard to all the terms and conditions therein set out except to the limited extent to which departure may be permitted under that byelaw.	None
That is the plain intendment and effect of byelaws 1 (b), 15, 17 and 23 read with Section 15, subsection (3A.).	None
Vide 60 Ind App 63 (AIR 1933 PC 55 ) and (1971) 2	Reasoning
SCR 751 (AIR 1971 SC 166 ).The omission of clause (2) of the prescribed form from the contracts in question must, therefore, be held to render these contracts illegal under section 15, subsection (3A).14.	Reasoning
Secondly, in any event, clause (2) of the prescribed form could not be said to be inapplicable in case of the present contracts.	Reasoning
It is clear from the byelaws and particularly the prescribed form and byelaw 23 that a contract which is a transferable specific delivery contract may be of one of two kinds.	Reasoning
It may be either a contract for export or a contract for inland delivery.	Reasoning
A contract for export would stipulate a price free alongside export vessel in the port of Calcutta, while in a contract for inland delivery, the price would be F.O.R. or C. and F. or C.I.F. or F.O.B., as the case may be.	Reasoning
The contracts in the present case were clearly contracts for export and under these contracts the sellers were bound to deliver goods alongside export vessel in the port of Calcutta.	Reasoning
That is why clause (3) in each of the contracts provided that the goods shall be packed, folded, well pressed, marked and shipped by sellers in cargo boats in iron bound bales of 2000 yards or 1829 Metres each.	Reasoning
But then what is the effect of clause (4) which provided that Delivery of the goods shall be given and taken as follows the specified month of delivery (Due Date P.D.O.).	Reasoning
This clause clearly contemplated delivery of Pucca Delivery Orders on or before due date under each of the contracts.	Reasoning
Could this be said to be inconsistent with clause (2) of the prescribed form so as to render that clause inappropriate for application to these contracts?	Reasoning
We do not think so.	Reasoning
The question has to be examined against the background of the practice followed by traders in effecting transferable specific delivery contracts in jute goods in the city of Calcutta.	Reasoning
There is usually a chain of contracts starting from the Mill Company and ending with the actual shipper of the goods.	Reasoning
There are in between the Mill Company and the ultimate shipper various intermediate buyers and sellers who enter into chain contracts on the same terms and conditions as the original contract between the Mill Company and its buyer.	Reasoning
Where the first contract between the Mill Company and its buyer provides for delivery of Pucca Delivery Orders against payment of the price  and such a provision is clearly contemplated by byelaw 4(a) in Chapter VII  a similar provision would be repeated in the entire chain of contracts and the Pucca Delivery Orders would be issued by the Mill Company to its buyer and they would then go on being transferred by the endorsement from one buyer to another along the chain until they reach the last buyer who is the shipper of the goods.	Reasoning
The last buyer being the shipper would get himself registered as the holder of the Pucca Delivery Orders in the books of the Mill Company under byelaw 3 of chapter VIII and he would then give shipping instructions to the Mill Company in writing accompanied by the Pucca Delivery Orders to place the goods alongside a specific export vessel or wharf or jetty in the port of Calcutta as provided in byelaw 5 of Chapter VIII.	Reasoning
When the registered holder of the Pucca Delivery Orders gives shipping instructions to the Mill Company, the effect is as if eo instanti such shipping instructions are given by the registered holder to his seller and by such seller to his immediate seller and so on along each link of the chain until they reach the Mill Company.	Reasoning
The process of the registered holder giving shipping instructions to his seller and each successive buyer passing on such shipping instructions to his immediate seller so as ultimately to reach the Mill Company would be cumbrous and time consuming and would impede quick movement of goods in performance of export contracts and byelaw 5 of Chapter VIII, therefore, provided that, instead of going through this tortuous process of passing on shipping instructions from one end of the chain to another through each link in the chain, the last buyer who is the registered holder may directly give shipping instructions to the Mill Company and that would be tantamount to giving shipping instructions in performance of each of the chain contracts all along the line.	Reasoning
The presence of a clause in the chain contracts providing for delivery of Pucca Delivery Orders against payment of the price does not, therefore, exclude giving of shipping instructions by the buyers to the sellers.	Reasoning
In fact, shipping instructions have to be given, because the contracts are export contracts providing for delivery free alongside export vessel in the port of Calcutta and, as pointed out above, byelaw 5 of Chapter VIII clearly provides for giving of shipping instructions.	Reasoning
Now, obviously when shipping instructions are to be given, each of the chain contracts may legitimately stipulate that a particular number of clear working days notice to place goods alongside shall be given by the buyers to the sellers and that is precisely what is provided by cl.	Reasoning
(2) of the prescribed form.	Reasoning
Clause (2) of the prescribed form requiring buyers to give a particular number of clear working days notice to place goods alongside cannot, therefore, be said to be inconsistent with the provision for delivery of Pucca Delivery Orders against payment of the price.15.	Reasoning
This view finds support from the decision of this Court in Duni Chand Rataria v. Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd. (1955) 1	None
SCR 1071 (AIR 1955 Sc 182 ).	Facts
N. H. Bhagwati, J., speaking on behalf of the Court in that case, quoted with approval the following passage from the judgment of the Trial Court setting out the manner in which transferable specific delivery contracts in jute goods are effected and carried out in the city of CalcuttaNow visualize the long chain of contracts in which the defendants contract in one of the connecting links.	None
The defendant buys from its immediate seller and sells to its immediate buyer.	None
As seller it is liable to give and as buyer it is entitled to take delivery.	None
As seller it receives and as buyer it gives shipping instructions.	None
Similar shipping instruction is given by each link until it reaches the mills.	None
The mills deliver the goods alongside the steamer.	None
Such delivery is in implement of the contract between the mills and their immediate buyer.	None
But eo instant it is also in implement of each of the chain contracts including the contract between the defendant and its immediate buyer and the contract between the defendant and its immediate seller.	None
Not only does the mill give and its immediate buyer take actual delivery but eo instanti each middleman gives and takes actual delivery.	None
Simultaneously the defendant takes actual delivery of possession of the jute goods for its immediate seller and gives actual delivery of possession of jute goods to its immediate buyer.	None
Prima facie at the moment of the delivery alongside the steamer there is appropriation and the passing of the property in the goods and the giving and taking all along the chain at the same moment.	None
The learned Judge then, on the basis of this finding, proceeded to holdThe mates receipts or the delivery orders as the case may be, represented the goods.	None
The sellers handed over these documents to the buyer against cash payment, and the buyer obtained these documents in token of deliver of possession of that goods.	None
They in turn passed these documents from hand to hand until they rested with the ultimate buyer who took physical or manual delivery of possession of those goods.	None
The constructive delivery of possession which was obtained by the intermediate parties was thus translated into a physical analysis eliminating the unnecessary process of each of the intermediate parties taking and in his turn giving actual delivery of possession of the goods in the narrow sense of physical or manual delivery thereof.	None
These observations bear out what we have said in regard to the mechanics of performance of chain contracts in jute goods and show that shipping instructions can and must follow delivery and endorsement of Pucca Delivery Orders from one buyer to another in the chain and when the last buyer gives shipping instructions to the Mill Company and pursuant to such shipping instructions the Mill Company delivers the goods alongside the export vessel, the giving and taking of actual delivery of possession of the goods takes place all along the chain at the same moment.16.	None
It is, therefore, clear, both on principle and authority, that in case of a transferable specific delivery contract for export, clause (2) of the prescribed form requiring buyers to give a particular number of clear working days notice to place goods alongside is not rendered inapplicable by a provision in the contract under clause (4) stipulating for deliver of Pucca Delivery Orders against payment of the price.	Reasoning
Clause (2) of the prescribed form can be appropriately incorporated in such a contract and omission to include, it cannot be justified on the plea that it would be inconsistent with clause (4) of the contract.17.	Reasoning
We must, therefore, hold that since the contracts in the present case did not contain any provision corresponding to clause (2) of the prescribed form requiring buyers to give a particular number of clear working days notice to place goods alongside, they were not in the prescribed form and hence they were illegal under Section 15, subsection (3A) and the arbitration clause contained in each of these contracts was also consequently void.	Reasoning
We accordingly affirm the decision of the Singh Judge of the Calcutta High Court and dismiss the appeal with costs.18.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
