 B. Gajendragadkar, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave arises from a bonus dispute between the Indian Oxygen and Acetylene Co., Private Ltd., (hereafter called the appellant) and its workmen, the relevant years for the bonus claim being 195253 and 195354.	Issue
This claim was made separately by the workmen excluding the members of the clerical staff as well as by the clerical staff and the two claims, thus made were referred by the Bombay Government to the Industrial Tribunal for its adjudication.	Issue
The claim raised by the workmen excluding clerical staff was numbered as Ref.	Issue
(I. T.)	Issue
No. 40 of 1956, while that made by the clerical staff was numbered as Ref.	Issue
(I. T.)	Issue
No. 44 of 1956.	Issue
Both categories of workmen will hereafter be described as the respondents in this judgment.	None
2.	None
The appellant is a private limited company incorporated in 1935 and it has its head office at Calcutta.	Facts
Its business is to manufacture and sell oxygen and acetylene.	Facts
It is a subsidiary of	Facts
the British Oxygen Co. Ltd.	Facts
It sells its products to the hospitals and nursing homes and in large quantities to industrial concerns for welding, cutting and blasting operations.	Facts
It voluntarily paid bonus equal to two months basic wages for both the years in dispute but the respondents were not satisfied with the said payment and they made a claim for 1/3 of their total earnings for the two respective years.	Facts
That is how the dispute arose between the parties.	Facts
3.	None
It appears in evidence that all the shares of the appellant (excepting two or three held by nominee shareholders) are held by	Facts
the British Oxygen Co. Ltd.	Facts
Evidence also shows that the appellant has been prospering and has been expanding at a rapid rate.	Facts
It has capitalised its reserves in 1940, 1941, 1942, 1945, 1946, 1947and1949 with the result that the major portion of its capital is made up of bonus shares.	Facts
It has made good profits for the year ending 3091953 as well as for the year ending 3091954.	Facts
There is also no doubt that a large gap exists between the actual wages paid by it to its workmen and the living wage.	Facts
It is on these allegations that the respondents made a claim for bonus of 1/3 of their total earnings.	Facts
4.	None
The appellant pleaded that it was paying good wages to the respondents and that under the formula the respondents were not entitled to claim any additional bonus for the relevant years.	Facts
In fact, according to the appellant, if the formula was properly worked the bonus already voluntarily paid by it to the respondents could not have been claimed by them.	Facts
5.	None
The tribunal has, however, rejected the appellants case and has directed it to pay to the respondents bonus at the rate of 1/4 of the annual basic wages for l95253 and 1/3 of the said wages for 195354 (less the bonus already paid for these years).	Facts
It has also directed that in calculating the amount of bonus overtime and dearnness and other allowances should be excluded.	Facts
This award has been made subject to the two conditions specified by it.	Facts
It is the correctness of this award that is challenged by the appellant before us.	Facts
6.	None
The first point which the appellant has urged is against the finding of the tribunal that it was not bound to give effect to the Full Bench formula.	Arguments of Petitioner
In determining the available surplus the tribunal has taken the view that the formula was not binding on it and that on considerations of social justice to which it has referred it was open to it to reject the claim of the appellant for rehabilitation, This question has been considered by us at length in the case of Associated Cement Companies Ltd., Bombay v. Their Workmen, Civil Appeals Nos. 459	Arguments of Petitioner
and 460 of 1957, D  551959 (AIR 1959 SC 967 ), andwe have held that in dealing with claims for bonus industrial tribunals must give effect to the formula.	None
We have also indicated how the calculations under the formula should be made in such disputes.	Reasoning
In view of the said decision we must hold that the tribunal was in error in not granting to the appellant its claim for rehabilitation.	Reasoning
7.	None
According to the calculations made by the tribunal, without providing for any rehabilitation (Ex. TA) it has reached the conclusion that the available surplus for the years 195253 and 195354 respectively would be Rs. 6,14,830 and Rs. 12,16,120.	None
It is on the basis of this available surplus that the tribunal has made its award.	None
However, the tribunal has found alternatively that in case the claim for rehabilitation made by the appellant has to be awarded, then there would be no available surplus for both the relevant years.	None
This is shown by the calculations made by it under Ex. TB.	None
Thus it would be clear that on the alternative finding made by the tribunal the appellant would be entitled to succeed and the award under appeal would have to be set aside.	None
8.	None
It is, however, urged before us by the respondents that the calculations made by the tribunal on its alternative finding are not correct.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, the respondents seek to support the final award passed by the tribunal on the ground that some of the conclusions reached by the tribunal in making its calculations on the alternative basis are erroneous.	None
The first point which has been urged by the respondents in this behalf is that the tribunal was wrong in taking into account the price level prevailing in 1956.	None
The argument is that the price level prevailing in the two bonus years alone should have been taken into account.	None
We have considered this point in A. C. C.s case, (AIR 1959 SC 967 ), and we have held that it is inexpedient to confine the relevant decision of the tribunal solely to the price level prevailing in the bonus years.	None
Therefore the objection that the tribunal has committed an error in this matter must be rejected.	None
9.	None
Then it is urged that in making its calculations the tribunal has not applied its mind to the fact that, though the appellant has been allowed substantial amounts by way of rehabilitation in previous awards, those amounts are not brought into account in considering its claims for rehabilitation.	Arguments of Respondent
It appears that the tribunal was inclined to take the view that once an allowance is made to the employer by way of rehabilitation of plant and machinery, it is not open to the tribunal to enquire what he had done with the said amount.	Reasoning
In the A. C. C.s case, AIR 1959 SC 967 ), we have held that if an amount for rehabilitation is allowed to an employer and it appears that during the relevant year the said amount was available to him then in subsequent years the said amount will have to be taken into account unless it is shown that in the meanwhile it had been used for the purpose of rehabilitation.	Reasoning
So we would accept the respondents contention that the appellant is bound to take into consideration the amount, previously, allowed to it by way of rehabilitation.	None
10.	None
There is, however, one point which must be borne in mind in considering this plea.	None
In the previous awards to which our attention was drawn by the respondents, 20 per cent.	None
of the net profits appear to have been awarded to the appellant on a rough and ready basis by way of provision for rehabilitation as well as expansion.	None
It is significant that the award of the said amount expressly refers to repairs, replacement, modernization and reasonable expansion.	None
It is now well settled that the employer is not entitled to claim a prior charge under the formula for any item of expansion but the awards previously passed between the appellant and its workmen seem to have allowed for a claim for expansion as a prior charge, and that fact cannot be ignored in dealing with the respondents present contention.	Reasoning
11.	None
But apart from this aspect of the matter, it is clear that the appellant has brought into account onehalf of its general reserve as on 3091953 and 3091954 respectively, and these amounts are Rs.	Reasoning
5,51,363 and Rs.	Reasoning
3,95,376	Reasoning
In view of this fact it is difficult to accept the argument that the amounts allowed to the appellant by way of rehabilitation in the previousyears had not been brought into account.	Reasoning
We would like to add that this point had not been taken before the tribunal, and may be could not be taken before it, because the tribunal has held that the employer could not be called upon to bring into account the said amount.	None
12.	None
Then it is urged that in working out the figures of rehabilitation the tribunal was in error in accepting the appellants claim.	None
The award shows that the tribunal was very favourably impressed by the evidence given by Mr. Saigal and Mr. Basak on behalf of the appellant.	None
It appears that in arriving at the average life of the buildings, machinery etc., Mr. Basak has adopted the method of weighted average.	None
This method is a development of the concept of the ordinary arithmetic mean(2).	None
Under this method, in general terms, a set of quantities X is given, to each of which is attached a weight W, and the weighted arithmetic mean is obtained as the summation of W x X divided by the summation of W.	None
There is no doubt that this method is scientifically more accurate and gives a more accurate and realistic result in determining the average life of the assets.	None
Let us illustrate this method by taking an example given by the tribunal itself Cost of Asset.	None
LifeAnnual replacement cost required.	None
Rs.	None
Rs. 51 year5 82 years4 30010 years30 3131339 (2) Statistics for Economists by R. G. D. Allen, 1949 Ed., p. 96.	None
13.	None
The average life calculated by Mr. Basak according to the weighted average method is 313 8.02 years, while the 39 arithmetical average of the figures in column two is 13 4.33 years this latter is an incorrect estimate, for the small items distort the 3 average.	None
Within two years the first two items will go out and though the remaining machinery is expected to last for 8 years more, the arithmetical average would give it a remaining life of 2.33 years.	None
14.	None
The respondents do not challenge the validity of this method but they contend that in working out the method some calculations have been made which are open to objection.	None
Before dealing with these objections it may be stated generally that when Mr. Saigal and Mr. Basak gave evidence they were not asked any definite or precise questions on which the objections urged before us are based.	None
It is desirable that in enquiries of this kind, when experts give evidence on behalf of the employer, workmen should crossexamine them on all points which they propose to urge against the employers claim in regard to rehabilitation.	None
However, we would like to deal with the merits of the said contentions in the light of such evidence as is available on the record.	None
15.	None
The first contention is that the assets which have spent their lives and are thus exhausted should not be continued in making calculations under the weightage method.	None
This objection applies to such assets as leasehold buildings, cars and trucks.	Arguments of Respondent
We are inclined to think that the method adopted by the appellant in making its calculations gives a more correct picture of the assets actually in use and the rehabilitation cost claimed in respect of them.	Arguments of Respondent
If in the relevant year the asset is in existence and use, a claim for its rehabilitation would not become inadmissible.	None
The same argument is put in another form and it is urged that where an asset which has come to an end is taken into account it would be wrong to take into account in the same year a new asset which has come into existence.	None
The suggestion is that by this method a double claim for rehabilitation creeps into the calculation.	None
We are not satisfied that even this argument is wellfounded.	None
Let us examine this argument by reference to one item.	None
The leasehold buildings of the appellant include two buildings known as D. A, and Oxygen respectively at Bombay (Ex. C. 19).	None
As on 3091953, the estimated life of these buildings from 1101953 is shown to be one year and the annual provision claimed for rehabilitating them is shown as Rs. 97,468 and Rs. 30,590 respectively.	None
These claims have not been made in the subsequent year.	None
In the same year two new buildings called D, A. and Oxygen respectively which were erected in 1952 have been included and the annual provision for rehabilitation in respect of them is made at Rs. 6,474 and 6,972 respectively.	None
Now, if the respondents argument is accepted and the calculations made in regard to the new buildings were excluded from the statements, the appellant would apparently be entitled to claim a somewhat higher amount.	None
It may be mentioned that in working out the figures for rehabilitation in respect of new buildings Ex. C. 11 has included this item of Rs. 13,000 and odd the larger item of Rs	Reasoning
. 4,56,316 mentioned against uncovered requirement for rehabilitation and replacement in the year, whereas in deducting Rs. 2,31,700 by way of normal depreciation for the said year an amount of Rs. 22,000 and odd has been taken to be the normal depreciation in respect of the new buildings that is to say, as against a claim of Rs. 13,000 and odd made for rehabilitation in respect of the said two buildings in Ex. C. 19 a deduction by way of normal depreciation has been allowed to the extent of Rs. 22,000 and odd.	Reasoning
Therefore it does not appear on the evidence as it stands, that the method adopted by the appellant in making its calculations has introduced any serious infirmity or has given a distorted or inflated claim about the provision for rehabilitation.	Reasoning
16.	None
In this connection it is relevant to refer to the fact that the calculations made by the appellant are based upon an itemwise study of its plant and machinery, and such a method, it is conceded, is bound to lead to more satisfactory results.	None
Air.	None
Basak produced Exs. C. 1 to C. 16 which contained all the relevant calculations and he stated in crossexamination that as a matter of business practice a businessman has to think of replacing his machines even thought they may have been bought in the relevant year.	None
Of course, in considering the claim for rehabilitation in respect of such an item the multiplier would normally be 1 and the divisor would represent the total future life of the said machines.	None
In regard to the exhausted assets the witness stated that if they are not included in the schedule the final result on Exs. C. 11 and C. 12 would be incorrect because in these statements the total depreciation provided up to the opening of the year has been deducted and this sum includes proportionate depreciation also on the assets referred to.	None
He has also added that the total value of all fixed assets shown in Exs. C. 11 and C. 12 have got to agree with the values shown in the balancesheets and he claimed that his method of calculating weighted average of the remaining life of assets is the most correct that can be employed.	None
Similarly Mr. Saigal was crossexamined about the Bangalore plant which had been installed in 1946.	None
He stated that theoretically it should have a life till 1968 but in effect the plant had become so unreliable that they had to instal new one and to, keep the old one as a standby.	None
According to this witness actually the life of the machinery enumerated in Ex. C. 20 works out to less than 22 years but for simplicity in accounting he had taken the figure to be 22.	None
As we have already mentioned the tribunal took the view that the evidence given by the appellants witnesses in the present proceedings was satisfactory and we do not think that any material has been brought out in crossexamination which would justify the respondents contention that the tribunal had not properly appreciated the said evidence.	None
In the result we hold that the respondents have failed to show that any of the conclusions reached by the tribunal in making its calculations under its alternative finding are wrong.	Reasoning
17.	None
The appeal accordingly succeeds and must be allowed and the award passed by the tribunal must be set aside.	Decision
In view of the fact that the principal point raised by the appeal was one of some importance and it has been argued in a group of appeals before us, we think that the parties should bear their own costs.	Decision
18.	None
Appeal allowed.	Decision
