 Wanchoo, J. 1.	None
This petition under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution challenges the constitutionality of U.P. Land Tenures Regulation of Transfers) Act, No. XV of 1952, (hereinafter called the Transfer Act) and the Indian Forest (U. P. Amendment) Act, No. V of 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the Forest Amendment Act).	None
The case of the petitioner is that he obtained a permanent lease from the Maharaja Bahadur of Nahan of certain land known as asarori land, situate in the district of Debra Dun, in Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
The area leased out to him was 1069.68 acres in khewat No. 1, Mahal No. 8, khasra Nos.	Facts
1A, 1B and 2.	Facts
This land was originally a Crown grant and had been free from revenue since 1866.	Facts
Initially, it belonged to Major P. Innes but was subsequently transferred to the Maharaja Bahadur of Nahan.	Facts
on January 25, 1951, an agreement was executed by the Maharaja Bahadur in favour of the petitioner and one Virendra Goyal for lease of this land on a consideration of an annual rent of Rs. 2,200/ and a premium of Rs. 64,000/.	Facts
The petitioners case further is that the possession of the land in dispute was delivered to him at the time the agreement to lease was executed.	Facts
It appears that at that time a large number of trees were standing on this land and the Maharaja Bahadur had given a contract for the removal of the trees to another person with a view to making the land culturable, and the intention of the lessor was to demise the land to the petitioner after the trees were removed, so that the petitioner may carry on agricultural operations hereon on June 14 1952, a registered lease was executed by the Maharaja Bahadur in favour of the petitioner and Virendra Goyal and it was recited therein that the entire land had been cleared of the trees and had been in possession of the lessees from the date of the agreement referred to above.	Facts
Therefore, on fulfilment of the agreement, the lease was executed demising to the lessees the land in question on an annual rent of Rs.	Facts
2,200/.	Facts
The lease was permanent, heritable and transferable.	Facts
The lease also provided that the lessor had given the right of hereditary tenancy within the meaning of the U.P. Tenancy Act, 1939 to the lessees.	Facts
The lessees were also given the right to put the land to any other use whatsoever besides agriculture and subterranean rights were also conferred.	Facts
They had also the right to sublet and assign the land.	Facts
2.	None
The petitioners case further is that Virendra Goyal is merely a benamidar and has no right, title or interest in the land in dispute and that a suit for declaration in that behalf is pending in the civil court at Dehra Dun between the petitioner and Virendra Goyal.	Facts
A day after the agreement of lease was executed the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, No. l of 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Abolition Act), came into force on January 26, 1951, and the land in dispute is land within the meaning of this Act.	Facts
The Abolition Act was actually applied to this area by a notification issued under S. 4 thereof from July 1, 1952, shortly after the registered lease in favour of the petitioner and another had been made.	Facts
The contention of the petitioner is that in consequence of the application of the Abolition Act to this area, the petitioner became a bhumidhar of the land under S. 18 (d) (iii) of the Abolition Act and that his bhumidhari rights still subsist on July 5, 1952, the petitioner and his employees went to the land to carry on agricultural operations, but they were stopped from doing so by the City Magistrate, Dehra Dun along with the Divisional Forest officer and the Tehsildar, Dehra Dun.	Facts
He was ordered to desist from clearing the land until further orders.	Facts
The matter was then referred to the Government of Uttar Pradesh, and the petitioner was ordered to desist from doing anything which was contrary to the U. P. Private Forests Act, 1948 (Act No. VI of 1949).	Facts
It may be mentioned that in the meantime the Transfer Act which was passed on June 23, 1952, came into force with retrospective effect from May 21, 1952.	Facts
By this Act all transfers made by intermediaries after May 21, 1952 were declared void.	Facts
The petitioner was therefore asked by the City Magistrate not to do anything contrary to the Transfer Act until the orders of Government were received or the matter was decided by a court of law.	Facts
The petitioners case is that the land was no longer forest land when the registered lease in his favour was made in June 1952.	Facts
The petitioner then took up the matter with the Government but his representation in that behalf was rejected in September 1952.	Facts
3.	None
Thereupon in November 1952, the petitioner filed a writ petition in the High Court at Allahabad challenging the applicability of the U.P. Private Forests Act to the land in dispute and also challenging the constitutionality of the Transfer Act.	Facts
An ad interim order was passed by the High Court in December 1952 restraining the respondents from interfering with the possession of the petitioner over the land in dispute and directing that the parties should maintain the status quo.	Facts
In February 1955, the petitioner withdrew the petition filed in the High Court for various reasons into which it is unnecessary to go.	Facts
Thereafter the petitioner requested the Collector, Dehra Dun, to allow him to carry out agricultural operations over the land in dispute and he supported this prayer by a further allegation that he had at any rate become a sirdar within the meaning of S. 210 of the Abolition Act and was thus entitled to retain the land in dispute.	Facts
The Collector again informed the petitioner that the matter had been referred to the Government and in the meantime the status quo should be maintained.	Facts
In his present petition also, the petitioner in the alternative raise the plea that he has become a sirdar of the land in dispute and as no steps were taken by the State to eject him within two years of the date of vesting, namely, July 1, 1952, he was entitled to retain the possession of the land as sirdar.	Facts
4.	None
On March 23, 1955, the Government of Uttar Pradesh issued a notification under S. 4 of the Indian Forest Act, No. XVI of 1927 (hereinafter referred to as the Forest Act), declaring that it had been decided to constitute Asarori village including the land in dispute a reserved forest, and appointing the Forest Settlement Officer, Dehra Dun to call for objections from claimants under Chap.	Facts
II of that Act.	Facts
On April 26, 1955, a proclamation was issued under S. 6 of the Forest Act, calling for objections from claimants.	Facts
The petitioner, however, has made no claim so far in pursuance of the proclamation issued under S. 6 of the Forest Act, and his reason for this is that his matter was still under the consideration of the Government as intimated to him by the Collector of Dehra Dun, and no orders had been passed by the Government thereon.	Facts
5. on December 3,1955, the Governor of Uttar Pradesh promulgated an Ordinance, named as The Indian Forest ( U. P. Amendment) Ordinance, 1955 adding Chap.	Facts
VA to the Forest Act, and a notification was issued thereunder restraining the claimants as defined in S. 38A from doing acts prohibited under S. 38B.	Facts
This ordinance was made into an Act in March 1956, namely, the Indian Forest ( U.P. Amendment) Act, No. V of 1956 by which Chap.	Facts
VA was introduced into the Forest Act, and a fresh notification was issued under the Act prohibiting various acts mentioned in S. 38B thereof.	Facts
This is one of the Acts which the petitioner challenges as unconstitutional.	Facts
The petitioner asserts that the notification of March 17, 1956 was cancelled on December 19,1956, and thereupon he applied to the Collector again to allow him to reclaim the land.	Facts
The Collector told him in reply that the orders of the Government were awaited in that connection.	Facts
The petitioner further alleges that in November 1957 the State of Uttar Pradesh released over 293 acres out of the land in dispute in favour of Virendra Goyal, his benamidar.	Facts
The petitioner then made a representation to the Government in that behalf protesting against the release of land in favour of Virendra Goyal, and was informed that that order had been cancelled on August 14, 1958.	Facts
In May 1959, the legislature of Uttar Pradesh passed another Act known as the Government Grants (U.P. Amendment) Act, No. IX of 1959, and the petitioner contends that by virtue of this Act all other laws ceased to apply to the land in dispute but as this Act was admittedly repealed by the Government Grants (U.P. Amendment) Act, No. XIII of 1960, with retrospective effect, nothing turns on this Act now, though the petitioner approached the Collector of Dehra Dun immediately after U.P. Act No. IX of 1959 was passed to be allowed to carry on reclamation operations.	Facts
The Collector however told him that he should do nothing till specific orders were received from the Government or the matter was decided by a court of law.	Facts
6.	None
Thereupon the petitioner filed a writ petition in this Court under Art. 32 which was admitted in February 1960.	Facts
When this writ petition came up for hearing on October 25,1961, this Court was informed that certain notifications had been issued under Ss. 38B and 38C of the Forest Amendment Act.	Facts
The petitioner was therefore allowed on March 19, 1962 to withdraw that petition with liberty to present a fresh writ petition and thereupon the present petition was filed in April 1962.	Facts
7.	None
The main contentions of the petitioner with respect to the two Acts, the constitutionality of which he challenges, are these.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the Transfer Act is unconstitutional, as it deprives the lessees of their leasehold rights without any provision for payment of compensation in violation of Art 31(2) of the Constitution as it stood before the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, he claims that even if the Transfer Act is valid, he has become a sirdar under S. 213 of the Abolition Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to the Forest Amendment Act, it is contended that it is unconstitutional as it imposes unreasonable restrictions on the fundamental right of the petitioner enshrined in Art. 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Besides these two main objections, the petitioner further contends that the notification under S. 4 of the Forest Act dated March 23, 1955, was cancelled so far as the land in dispute was concerned and therefore would not affect the petitioners case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also urged that as no notification under S. 20 of the Forest Act has been issued, it must be held that the purpose of the notification under S. 4 had been abandoned.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to the notification under S. 38B of the Forest Amendment Act, it may be mentioned that petitioner made no objections as required under that Act but he claims that he could not do so because before the time within which he had to file objections had expired, U. P. Act IX of 1959 had come into force and it was not necessary for him to file any objection in view of that Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner therefore prays that the Transfer Act and the Forest Amendment Act be declared ultra vires and all actions taken thereunder be held to be void as against the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further prays that he may be declared a bhumidhar or in the alternative a sirdar under the provisions of the Abolition Act and the respondents be restrained from interfering with his possession of the land.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also prays that in case it is found that he has been dispossessed, a writ in the nature of mandamus or any other appropriate direction be issued against the respondents directing them to withdraw from possession of the land in dispute and to permit the petitioner to enjoy such rights to which he may be found entitled.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petition has been opposed on behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh and it is maintained in the first place that the Transfer Act is valid and constitutional.	Arguments of Respondent
If that is held in favour of the respondent, nothing else will survive for no rights would then arise in favour of the petitioner under the registered lease of June 1962.	Arguments of Respondent
Further it has been strenuously contended on behalf of the State that the petitioners never obtained possession over the land in dispute.	Arguments of Respondent
It has also been contended that the land in dispute was never denuded of trees and that it is still forest land on which a large number of trees are standing.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioners claim that he has become a bhumidhar under the Abolition Act is also denied.	Arguments of Respondent
His further claim that he has become a sirdar is also repelled.	Arguments of Respondent
The case of the State is that the petitioner acquired no rights under the registered lease of June 1952 and has no right to maintain the present petition in consequence, irrespective of whether the Transfer Act is valid and constitutional or not.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also contended that the Forest Amendment Act is a valid and constitutional piece of legislation and the various notifications issued under the Forest Act and the Forest Amendment Act are perfectly good.	Arguments of Respondent
Lastly, it is contended that the notification under S. 4 of the Forest Act has never been withdrawn though no notification under S. 20 has yet been used in deference to the fact that the writ petitions filed by the petitioner one after the other were pending either in the High Court or in this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The three main points therefore which arise for decision in the present petition are these (1) Has the petitioner no right whatsoever to any property by virtue of the registered lease deed of June 1952 in his favour irrespective of whether the Transfer Act is valid and constitutional or not, and therefore has no locus stand) to maintain the present petition?	Issue
(2) Is the Transfer Act, 1952, valid and constitutional?	None
(3) Is the Forest Amendment Act of 1956 valid and constitutional?	Issue
9.	None
There are some subsidiary points with respect to the notifications issued which also arise for consideration with which we shall deal when considering the three main paints mentioned above.	None
Re. 1. 10.	None
The petitioner bases his right to move this Court to protect his fundamental right on the basis of the registered lease in his favour of June 14, 1952.There can be no doubt after a persual of that lease which is not said to be a fictitious document, that if various laws had not been passed and had not come into force that might have affected this land, it would have conferred a right of property on the petitioner, and he would be entitled at least to be a permanent lessee of the land in dispute with such rights as the lease confers upon him.	Reasoning
It is therefore difficult to understand how it can be said in the face of this lease that the petitioner has no right to maintain the present petition.	Reasoning
It may be that the lease may be of no force and effect, if the Transfer Act is held valid  which is question we shall consider later but once it is conceded that the lease is not fictitious, it does confer rights in the land affected by it on the petitioner.	Reasoning
We cannot see how the petitioner would have no right to maintain the present petition irrespective of whether the Transfer Act is valid and constitutional or not.	Reasoning
What rights are conferred on the petitioner by this registered lease is a. different matter.	Reasoning
The petitioner claims that he has become a bhumidhar under the Abolition Act by virtue of this lease, in the alternative he claims that he has become a sirdar, as he is in possession.	Reasoning
The State however denies that the petitioner has become a bhumidhar under the Abolition Act it also denies that the petitioner is in possession and in consequence, had become a sirdar, under the Abolition Act, The petitioner prays that his rights as a bhumidhar or a sirdar may be decided in the present petition.	Reasoning
We are however of opinion that it will not be fair to either party to decide the question whether or not the petitioner is either bhumidhar or sirdar by virtue of the registered lease or the possession of the land demised which he claims, in view of the provisions of the Abolition Act.	Reasoning
The petitioners status as bhumidhar or sirdar will depend upon the decision of various questions of fact, and we do not think that it will be fair to either party to decide those questions of fact merely on the scanty documentary evidence available on this record, in particular as the question of possession also seriously disputed and further there is serious dispute as to whether any trees stand on this land even now or whether trees had been cleared as recited in the registered lease, before that lease was registered these are all questions of fact on which oral evidence will be necessary.	Reasoning
There is a provision in the Abolition Act, S. 229B, which allows a person claiming to be a bhumidhar or sirdar under it to file a suit to establish that right.	Reasoning
We think, considering the serious dispute as to facts which exists in this case between the parties both as to the nature of the land and as to the possession of the petitioner, that the petitioner should be left to establish his rights asbhumidhar or as sirdar by suit, or it may also be possible for him to establish that by filing objections in response to the proclamation under S. 6 of the Forest Act with which we shall deal in detail later.	Reasoning
Therefore even though we are not prepared to decide the question whether the petitioner is a bhumidhar or a sirdar, it seems to us that in the face of the deed of lease in favour of the petitioner, it cannot be said that he has no right to maintain the present petition (irrespective of whether the Transfer Act is valid or not).	Reasoning
As we have already indicated, if the Transfer Act is valid, then the lease in favour of the petitioner will confer no right on him and in that case his petition must fail.	Reasoning
But if the Transfer Act is not a valid piece of legislation, the lease will stand and so long as it stands, the petitioner would in our opinion be competent to maintain the present petition, though we make it clear that we do not decide in this petition what right is conferred on the petitioner by the lease and whether he is a bhumidhar or a sirdar by virtue of the lease and his alleged possession over the land demised therein.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that so long as the lease stands, the petitioner would have a right to maintain the present petition, though we express no opinion as to the nature of that right and leave it to the petitioner to have that determined in a proper forum.	Reasoning
11.	None
It is also urged that no present tenancy right was conferred by the lease on the petitioner though cl.	None
(2) of the lease purports to confer hereditary tenancy rights within the meaning of U. P. Tenancy Act, as the land was at the time covered by trees and was not fit for cultivation.	None
This again raises the same question of fact, namely, the nature of land at the time of the execution of the lease.	None
It may be that no tenancy rights may be created in favour of the petitioner by the lease, if it is found that the land in dispute was not land within the meaning of the U. P. Tenancy Act.	None
But that again is a question which will have to be decided in the proper forum as indicated above by us.	None
There can however be no doubt that the lease did create some right, whatsoever be its nature, in present anti though the nature of that right may be disputed, it is not a case where only some future right is conferred.	None
In the circumstances, it cannot be said that no right whatever in present was created by the lease, and therefore the petitioner is not entitled to maintain the present petition.	None
12.	None
Lastly, it is urged that the lease was in favour of two persons, namely, the petitioner and Virendra Goyal, and the present petition has been filed only by the petitioner and Virendra Goyal has not been made a party to it, even as respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged therefore that the present petition is not maintainable on that ground also and reliance in this connection is placed on the analogy of suits, where all coowners, must join in a suit to recover property unless the law otherwise provides, and if some coowners refuse to sue, the proper course to adopt is to the rest is to make them defendants in the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
It is enough to say that this principle applicable to suits for possession can have no application to a petition under Art.	None
32, which is not a suit or possession.	None
Besides the case of the petitioner is that the other lessee was a mere benamidar and if that case is right (on which again we express no opinion, as the matter is sub judice in a civil court at Dehradun), it would be unnecessary to make Virendra Goyal even a respondent.	Reasoning
If the petitioner has a right to maintain the present petition, the fact that he has not made another person who would have equal right with him to maintain the petition, even a party to the petition, would not in our opinion entail that his petition should be thrown out on that ground alone and he should not be granted any relief in the matter of enforcing his fundamental right.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that the petitioner has a right to maintain the present petition, though we express no opinion as to the nature of that right.	None
Re.(2) 13.	None
The Transfer Act is a short Act of three sections.	None
The preamble to the Act says that as the Abolition Act has come into force and it is expedient for the avoidance of transitional difficulties consequent upon the said enforcement to regulate certain transfers of land by intermediaries the Act was enacted.	None
Section 1 gives the short title, the extent to which the Act extends and the date from which it came into force, namely, May 21, 1952, though it was actually published on June 23, 1952.	None
Section 2 is the definition section.	None
Section 3 is the main section, which lays down that notwithstanding anything contained in any law or contract to the contrary, a lease of land by an intermediary either granted or registered on or after May 21, 1952 shall be and is hereby declared null and void from the date of the execution and the lessee shall for purposes of S. 180 of the U.P Tenancy Act and S. 209 of the Abolition Act be deemed to be a person in possession of the land otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the law for the time being in force.	None
It is further provided that a transaction between an intermediary and a tenant conferring on the tenant a right to transfer by sale his holding or any part thereof either made or entered into or registered on or after May 21, 1952, shall be and is hereby declared null and void from the date of execution.	None
It will thus be seen that the Transfer Act makes two kinds of transfers made on or after May 21, 1952 null and void and thus deprives the transferee of the right which he would otherwise acquire under the transfer.	None
The contention of the petitioner is that the Transfer Act contravenes Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31 of the Constitution, as it was at the time the Act was passed, and therefore is unconstitutional, for though the transferee is deprived of his property, no compensation is provided in the Act as required by Art. 31(2) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance in this connection is placed on State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose, 1954	None
SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 ), where dealing with Art. 31, the majority of the Court held that Art. 31, protects the right to property by defining the limits on the power of the State to take away private property.	None
It was further held that cls.	None
(1) and (2) of Art.	None
31 were not mutually exclusive in scope and content, but should be read together and understood as dealing with the same subject, namely, the protection of the right to property by means of the limitations on the State power referred to above, the deprivation contemplated in cl.	None
(1) being no other than the acquisition or taking possession of property referred to in cl.	None
(2).	None
The decision in Subodh Gopals case, 1954 SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 ) was referred to in Sughir Ahmad v. State of U. P. (1955) 1	None
SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 )	None
and it was pointed out that in view of the majority decision in that case, it must be taken to be settled that clauses (1) and (2) of Article 31 are not mutually exclusive in scope but should be read together as dealing with the same subject, namely, the protection of the right to property by means of limitations on the States powers, the deprivation contemplated in clause (1) being no other than acquisition or taking possession of the property referred to in clause (2).	None
Soon after the decision in Subodh Gopals case, 1954 SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 )	None
Art. 31(2) was amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, and cl.	None
(2A) was introduced Art.	None
31 the amendment being prospective.	None
The new cl.	None
(2A) of Art.	None
31 lays down that where a law does not provide for the transfer of the ownership or right to possession of any property to the State or to a Corporation owned or controlled by the State, it shall not be deemed to provide for the compulsory acquisition requisition of property, notwithstanding that it deprives any person of his property.	None
This amendment thus accepted the minority view of Das J., as he then was, in Subodh Gopals case, 1954 SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 ) and made it clear that mere deprivation of property, without the ownership or right to possession being transferred to the State, would not attract the provisions of Art. 31(2).	None
The contention on behalf of the petitioner is that the amendment to Art.	None
31 being not retrospective would not apply to the consideration of the constitutionality of the Transfer Act, which would have to be considered on the basis of the Constitution as it stood in 1952.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not seriously disputed on behalf of the respondents that if the Constitution as it stood in 1952 has to be applied to judge the constitutionality of the Transfer Act, the case would be completely covered by the decision in Subodh Gopals case, 1954 SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 ) and the Transfer Act not having provided for payment of compensation, as required by Art. 31(2), as it stood in 1952, would be unconstitutional.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with the view taken by the High Court at Allahabad in Maram Singh v. Nihalkhan, (S) AIR 1957 All 549 in so far as it upholds the validity of the Transfer Act.	None
14.	None
The contention on behalf of the respondents in support of the constitutionality of the Transfer Act is, however, twofold.	Arguments of Respondent
In the first place, it is urged that the constitutionality of the Transfer Act must be judged on the basis of the constitution as it stood on the date of the present petition and not as it stood on the dated of the Transfer Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this connection is placed on Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co. Ltd. v. The State of Bombay, 1958 SCR 1122 (AIR 1958 SC 328 ) where it was observed at p. 1131 (of SCR) (at p. 333 of AIR), that it was not disputed that the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act which introduced cl.	None
(2A) in Art.	None
31 was not retrospective, and that the rights of the parties must be decided in accordance with the law as on the date of the writ petition.	None
It is urged that this observation is an authority for the proposition that in every case the constitutionality of an Act has to be judged by the Constitution as it stood on the date of the writ petition.	None
We are of opinion that this observation is not capable of this interpretation and could not have intended to lay down any such proposition.	None
The judgment in the Bombay Dyeing case, 1958 SCR 1122 (AIR 1958 SC 328) nowhere considers the question whether the constitutionality of an Act has to be judged on the basis of the Constitution as it stood on the date on which the Act was passed or on the basis of the Constitution as it stood on the date the writ petition was made.	Reasoning
In that case it made no difference whether the Constitution as it stood on the date the Act was passed or on he date when the writ petition was filed, was applied, for the writ petition was filed long before the Constitution Fourth Amendment was enacted.	Reasoning
The observation therefore in that case that the constitutionality of an Act has to be judged on the basis of the Constitution as it stood on the date of the writ petition, cannot be given the meaning which the learned counsel for the respondents put on it, particularly, as the context shows that the amendment of the Article by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act was not retrospective.	Reasoning
Now, if the constitutionality was to be judged by the date of the writ petition, the result would be that sometime the Fourth Amendment of Art. 31 would become retrospective and sometimes it would not, depending upon whether the writ petition was filed before the Fourth Amendment Act was passed or after the said amendment.	Reasoning
If the writ petition was filed before the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, the same provision of an Act would be unconstitutional while if it was filed after the Fourth Amendment Act, it may be constitutional.	Reasoning
Such a result is obviously impossible to accept and could not have been meant by the observation in Bombay Dyeing case, 1958 SCR 1122 (AIR 1958 SC 328 ).	Reasoning
It is in our opinion absolutely elementary that the constitutionality of an Act must be judged on the basis of the Constitution as it was on the date the Act was passed, subject to any retrospective amendment of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Therefore, the argument that the constitutionality of the Transfer Act must be judged on the basis of the Constitution as it stood on the date of the present writ petition has no force and must be rejected.	Reasoning
We have already indicated that if the constitutionality is to be Judged on the basis of the Constitution as it stood when the Transfer Act was passed, it is not seriously disputed that the Transfer Act would be unconstitutional, in view of the decision of this Court in Subodh Gopals case, 1954 SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 ).	Reasoning
15.	None
The second contention on behalf of the respondents is that even if the Transfer Act was unconstitutional, when it was passed, the inconsistency having been removed on the enactment of the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act by which Art. 31 was amended, the Transfer Act revived and became effective, at any rate from the date of Fourth Amendment Act came into force.	Arguments of Respondent
This brings us to a consideration of the doctrine of eclipse, on which the contention is based.	None
This doctrine first came to be considered in Behram Khurshid Pesikaka v. The State of Bombay, (1955) 1	None
SCR 613 (S) AIR 1955 SC 123 ) where Venkatarama Aiyar J. drew a distinction between the invalidity arising out of lack of legislative competence and that arising by reason of a check imposed upon the legislature by the provisions contained in the Chapter on Fundamental Rights.	None
He relied on an earlier decision of this Court in Keshavan Madhava Menon v. State of Bombay, 1951 SCR 228 (AIR 1951 SC 128 ) and was of the view that the word void in Art. 13 (1) should be construed as meaning in the language of the American Jurists as relatively void.	None
It may however be observed that the laws under consideration in Keshavan Madhava Menons case, 1951 SCR 228 (AIR 1951 SC 128 ) as well as in Behram Khurshid Pesikaka, (1955)	Reasoning
SCR 613 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 123 ) were both preConstitution laws, and the effect of Art. 13 (1) had to be considered with respect to their constitutionality.	Reasoning
Behram Khurshid Pesikakas case, (1955) 1	Reasoning
SCR 613 ( (S) AIR 1955 SC 123 ) was later referred to larger Bench in view of the constitutional questions involved and in the majority judgment of the Constitution Bench, Mahajan C. J. pointed out that there was no scope for introducing terms like relatively void, coined by American Jurists in construing a Constitution which is not drawn up in similar language.	Reasoning
The majority also observed that they were not able to endorse the opinion expressed by Venkatarama Aiyar J. that a declaration of unconstitutionality brought about by lack of legislative power stood on a different footing from a declaration of unconstitutionality brought about by reason of abridgement of fundamental rights, and that it was not correct to say that constitutional provisions in Part III of the Constitution merely operated as a check on the exercise of legislative power.	Reasoning
It was also observed that when the lawmaking power of a State is restricted by a written fundamental law, then any law enacted which is opposed to the fundamental law was in excess of the legislative authority and was thus a nullity.	Reasoning
Both these declaration of unconstitutionality go to the root of the power itself and there was no real distinction between them, and they represent two aspects of want of legislative power.	Reasoning
Finally, it was added that a mere reference to the provisions of Art. 13(2) and of Arts.	Reasoning
245 and 246 was sufficient to indicate that there was no competency in Parliament or a State legislature to make a law which comes into clash with Part III of the Constitution after the coming into force of the Constitution.	Reasoning
16.	None
Then came the decision in Saghir Ahmads case (1955) 1	None
SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ).	None
In that case the law under consideration had been passed after the coming into force of the Constitution, and the judgment of the Constitution Bench was unanimous.	None
The question there to be considered was the effect of the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, which was passed shortly after the Act under challenge there was passed.	None
It was observed thatamendment of the Constitution which came later cannot be invoked to validate an earlier legislation which must be regarded as unconstitutional when it was passed, and the observation of Prof. Cooley in his work on Constitutional Limitations to the effect that a statute void for unconstitutionality is dead and cannot be vitalised by a subsequent amendment of the Constitution removing the constitutional objection but must be reenacted.	None
was accepted as sound, and the Court therefore came to the conclusion that the legislation in question which violated the fundamental right of the appellants under Art. 19(1) (g) of the Constitution and was not shown to be protected by cl.	None
(6) of the article, as it stood at the time of the enactment must be held to be void under Art. 13(2) of the Constitution.	None
The Court further held that the Act then under consideration also violated Art. 31(2) of the Constitution, and thus was invalid.	None
It will be seen therefore that the doctrine of eclipse was not applied to the case of a postConstitution law, which was unconstitutional as it was in violation of Art. 19(1) (g) and was not protected by Art. 19(6) and also because it was in violation of Art. 31(2).	None
Saghir Ahmads case (1955) (1) SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ) in effect completely demolishes the argument raised on behalf of the respondents that a postConstitution law which is void under Arts.	None
19(1) and 31(2) of Constitution and is thus void from birth can be revived under the doctrine of eclipse.	None
17.	Reasoning
The respondents, however, rely on the next case in this series, namely, Bhikaji Narain Dhakras v. State of M. P. (1955) 2	None
SCR 589 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 781 ).	Reasoning
That case was however dealing with a preConstitution law and not with a postConstitution law.	None
In that case an argument was put forward that Saghir Ahmads case (1955) 1	None
SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ) would apply.	None
But it was held that that would not be so, for the simple reason that Saghir Ahmads case, (1955) 1	None
SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ) was dealing with a postConstitution law, while that case was concerned with a preConstitution, law.	None
It was in that connection that Art. 13(1) came to be considered, and it was observed that the true effect of the Article is to render an Act, inconsistent with a fundamental right, inoperative to the extent of the inconsistency.	None
It was further observed that it is overshadowed by the fundamental right and remains dormant but is not dead.	None
With the amendment made in the Constitution, it was pointed out, the provisions of the particular Act were no longer inconsistent therewith and the result was that the impugned Act began to operate once again from the date of such amendment.	None
In that connection, it was observed at p. 599 (of SCR) (at p. 785 of AIR) thatthe true position is that the impugned law became, as it were, eclipsed, for the time being by the fundamental right.	None
The effect of the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, was to remove the shadow and to make the impugned Act free from all blemish or infirmity.	None
It was further pointed out thatthe American authorities refer only to postConstitution laws which were inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
Such laws never came to life but were stillborn as it were.	None
The American authorities therefore cannot fully apply to preConstitution laws which were perfectly valid before the Constitution.	None
The respondents, however, rely on the following passage at p. 599 (of SCR) (at p. 785 of AIR)But apart from this distinction between preConstitution and postConstitution laws on which, however, we need not rest our decision it must be held that these American authorities can have no application to our Constitution.	None
All laws, existing or fixture, which are inconsistent with the provisions of part III of our Constitution are, by the express provision of Art. 13, rendered void to the extent of such inconsistency.	None
Such laws were not dead for all purposes.	None
They existed for the purposes of preConstitution rights and liabilities and they remained operative, even after the Constitution, as against the noncitizens.	None
It is only as against the citizens that they remained in dormant or moribund condition.	None
It is true that the learned Judges did say that they need not rest their decision on the distinction between preConstitution and postConstitution laws but the later part of these observations where the learned Judges say that such laws are not dead for all purposes shows that they had in mind pre Constitution laws for otherwise they could not have said that they existed for the purpose of preConstitution rights and liabilities and they remained even after the Constitution as against noncitizens.	None
We are therefore of opinion that the decision in Bhikaji Narains case, (1955) 2	None
SCR 589 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 781 ) must be confined to preConstitution laws to which the doctrine of eclipse would apply.	None
We are fortified in this opinion by the fact that the learned Judges in Bhikaji Narains case, (1955) 2 SCR 589 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 781 )	None
themselves distinguished the earlier decision in Saghir Ahmads case, (1955) 1	None
SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728) to which Das, Acting C. J. who delivered the judgment in Bhikaji Narains case, (1955) 2	None
SCR 589 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 781 ) was also a party.	None
18.	Reasoning
Next we came to the last case on the point namely, Deep Chand v. The State of Uttar Pradesh, 1959 Supp.	None
(2) SCR 8 (AIR 1959 SC 648 ).	None
In that case, the Majority after referring to all these cases pointed out the distinction between Arts. 13(1) and 13(2), and further held that the limitations imposed by Chap.	None
III on legislative power were on the same level as the competence of the legislature to make laws, the following observations at p. 20 (of SCR) (at p. 655 of AIR) will bring out the position clearlyParliament and the Legislatures of States have power to make laws in respect of any of the matters enumerated in the relevant Lists in the Seventh Schedule and that power to make laws is subject to the provisions of the Constitution, including Art. 13, i.e., the power is made subject to the limitations imposed by Part III of the Constitution.	None
The general power to that extent is limited.	None
The Legislature, therefore has no power to make any law in derogation of the injunction contained in Art. 13.	None
Art. 13(1) deals with laws in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and such laws in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part III shall to the extent of such inconsistency be void.	None
The clause, therefore recognizes the validity of the preConstitution laws and only declares that said laws would be void thereafter to the extent of their inconsistency with the Part III whereas clause (2) of that article imposes a prohibition on the State making laws taking away or abridging the rights, conferred by Part III and declares that laws made in contravention of this clause shall to the extent of the contravention be void.	None
There is a clear distinction between the two clauses.	None
Under clause (1) a preConstitution law subsists except to the extent of its inconsistency with the provisions of Part III whereas no post Constitution law can be made contravening the provisions of Part III and therefore the law to that extent though made is a nullity from its inception.	None
19.	Reasoning
The minority however though that it was not necessary to decide this question in that case, and therefore did not finally express its views.	None
20.	Reasoning
A review of these authorities therefore in our opinion clearly shows that the doctrine of eclipse will apply to preConstitution laws which are governed by Art. 13(1) and would not apply to postConstitution laws which are governed by Art.	Reasoning
13(2).It is, however, urged on behalf of the respondents that on language of Art. 13(1) and (2) there should be no difference in the matter of the application of the doctrine of eclipse.	None
It is said that Art. 13(1) prescribed that in so far as the existing laws are inconsistent with the provisions of Part III, they shall to the extent of such inconsistency be void.	None
Similarly, Art. 13(2) provides that any law made in contravention of this clause shall to the extent of the contravention be void.	None
The argument is twofold.	None
In the first place, it is urged that the words to the extent of the inconsistency or to the extent of the contravention mean so long as the inconsistency continues or so long as the contravention continues.	None
We are of opinion that this is not the meaning of these words in Art. 13(1) and (2).	Reasoning
Obviously, the Constitution makers when they used the words to the extent of in both clauses intended that the preexisting law or the postConstitution laws should only be void as far as the inconsistency or the contravention went i.e., if only a part of the law was inconsistent or contravened the Constitutional prohibition that part alone would be void and not the entire law.	Reasoning
The obvious intention behind the use of the words to the extent of was to save such parts of a law as were not inconsistent with or in making which the State did not contravene the prohibition against infringement of fundamental rights and that distinction may conceivably introduce considerations of severability it has in our opinion no reference to the time for which the voidness is to continue.	Reasoning
Where the Constitutionmakers intended to refer to time they have used specific words for that purpose as, for instance, in Art.	Reasoning
251.That Article deals with inconsistency between laws made by Parliament under Arts.	Reasoning
249 and 250 and laws made by the Legislatures of States, and provides thatthe law made by Parliament, whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislature of the State, shall prevail, and the law made by the Legislature of the State shall to the extent of the repugnancy but so long only as the law made by Parliament continues to have effect, be in operative.	Reasoning
If therefore the Constitution makers intended that the provisions in Art. 13(1) and (2) would only affect laws so long as inconsistency continued or contravention lasted, they could have provided specifically for it.	Reasoning
On a plain construction of the clause, the element of time must be excluded.	Reasoning
We cannot therefore accept the contention that the words to the extent of import any idea of time.	Reasoning
In our opinion, they only import the idea that the law may be void either wholly or in part and that only such portions will be void as are in consistent with Part III or have contravened Part III and no more.	Reasoning
21.	Reasoning
We may in this connection also refer to the difference in the language and scope of Arts. 13(1) and 13(2), Art. 13(1) clearly recognises the existence of preexisting laws in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of the Constitution and then lays down that in so far they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part III, they shall be void to the extent of such inconsistency.	None
The preConstitution laws which were perfectly valid when they were passed and the existence of which is recognised in the opening words of Art. 13(1) revive by the removal of the inconsistency question.	None
This in effect is the doctrine of eclipse, which if we may say so with respect, was applied in Bhikaji Narains case, (1955) 2	None
SCR 589 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 781 ).	Reasoning
22.	Reasoning
Art. 13(2) on the other hand begins with an injunction to the State not to make a law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III.	None
There is thus a Constitutional prohibition to the State against making laws taking away or abridging fundamental rights.	None
The legislative power of Parliament and the Legislatures of States under Art. 245 is subject to the other provisions of the Constitution and therefore subject to Art.13(2), which specifically prohibits the State from making any law taking away or abridging the fundamental rights.	None
Therefore it seems to us that the prohibition contained in Art. 13(2) makes the State as much incompetent at make a law taking away or abridging the fundamental rights as it would be where law is made against the distribution of powers contained in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution between Parliament and the Legislature of a State.	None
Further, Art. 13(2) provides that the law shall be void to the extent of the contravention.	None
Now contravention in the context takes place only once when the law is made, for the contravention is of the prohibition to make any law which takes away or abridges the fundamental rights.	None
There is no question of the contravention of Art. 13(2) being a continuing matter.	None
Therefore, where there is a question of a postConstitution law, there is a prohibition against the State from taking away or abridging fundamental rights and there is a further provision that if the prohibition is contravened the law shall be void to the extent of the contravention.	None
In view of this clear provision, it must be held that unlike a law covered by Art. 13(1) which was valid when made, the law made in contravention of the prohibition contained in Art. 13(2) is a stillborn law either wholly or partially depending upon the extent of the contravention.	None
Such a law is dead from the beginning and there can be no question of its revival under the doctrine of eclipse.	None
A plain reading therefore of the words in Art. 13(1) and Art. 13(2) brings out a clear distinction between the two.	None
Art. 13(1) declares such preConstitution laws as are inconsistent with fundamental rights void.	None
Art. 13(2) consists of two parts the first part imposes an inhibition on the power of the State to make a law contravening fundamental rights, and the second part, which is merely a consequential one, mentions the effect of the breach.	None
Now what the doctrine of eclipse can revive is the operation of a law which was operative until the Constitution came into force and had since then become inoperative either wholly or partially it cannot confer power on the State to enact a law in breach of Art. 13(2) which would be the effect of the application of the doctrine of eclipse to postConstitution laws.	None
Therefore, in the case of Art. 13(1) which applies to existing law, the doctrine of eclipse is applicable as laid down in Bhikaji Narains case (1955) 2	None
SCR 589 ((S) (AIR 1955 SC 781 )	Reasoning
but in the case of a law made after the Constitution came into force, it is Art 13(2) which applies and the effect of that is what we have already indicated and which was indicated by this Court as far back as Saghir Ahmads case, (1955) 1	None
SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ).	None
23.	None
It is however urged on behalf of the respondents that this would give a different meaning to the word void in Art. 13(1) as compared to Art. 13(2).	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think so.	None
The meaning of the word void in Art. 13(1) was considered in Keshava Madhava Menons case, 1951 SCR 228 (AIR 1951 SC 128 ), and again is Behram Khurshid Pesikakas case, (1955)	Reasoning
1	Reasoning
SCR 613 ((S) (AIR 1955 SC 123 ).	Reasoning
In the later case, Mahajan C. J. pointed out that the majority in Keshava Madhava Menons case, 1951 SCR 228 (AIR 1951 SC 128 ), clearly held that the word void in Art.	Reasoning
13(1) did not mean that the statute stood repealed and therefore obliterated from the statute book nor did it mean that the said statute was void ab initio.	Reasoning
This, in our opinion, if we may say so with respect, follows clearly from the language of Art. 13(1), which presupposes that the existing laws are good except to the extent of the inconsistency with the fundamental rights.	Reasoning
Besides there could not be any question of an existing law being void ab initio on account of the inconsistency with Art. 13(1), as they were passed by competent legislatures at the time when they were enacted.	Reasoning
Therefore, it was pointed out that the effect of Art. 13(1) with respect to existing laws in so far as they were unconstitutional was only that it nullified them, and made them ineffectual and nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding effect.	Reasoning
The meaning of the word void for all practical purposes is the same in Art. 13(1) as in Art. 13(2), namely, that the laws which were void were ineffectual and nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding effect.	Reasoning
But the preConstitutional laws could not become void from their inception on account of the application of Art. 13(1).	Reasoning
The meaning of the word void in Art. 13(2) is also the same viz., that the laws are ineffectual and nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding effect, if they contravene Art. 13(2).	Reasoning
But there is one vital difference between preConstitution and postConstitution laws in this matter.	Reasoning
The voidness of the preConstitution laws is not from inception.	Reasoning
Such voidness supervened when the Constitution came into force and so they existed and operated for sometime and for certain purposes the voidness of postConstitution laws is from their very inception and they cannot therefore continue to exist for any purpose.	Reasoning
This distinction between the voidness in one case and the voidness in the other arises from the circumstance that one is a preConstitution law and the other is a postConstitution law but the meaning of the word void is the same in either case, namely, that the law is ineffectual and nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding effect.	Reasoning
24.	None
Then comes the question as to what is the effect of an amendment of the Constitution in the two types of cases.	None
So far as preConstitution laws are concerned, the amendment of the Constitution which removes the inconsistency will result in the revival of such laws by virtue of the doctrine of eclipse as laid down in Bhikaji Narains case, (1955) 2	None
SCR 589 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 781 ), for the preexisting laws were not stillborn and would still exist though eclipsed on account of the inconsistency to govern preexisting matters.	Reasoning
But in the case of postConstitution laws, they would be stillborn to the extent of the contravention.	Reasoning
And it is this distinction which results in the impossibility of applying the doctrine of eclipse to post Constitution laws, for nothing can be revived which never had any valid existence.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that the meaning of the word void is the same both in Art. 13(1) and Art. 13(2), and that the application of the doctrine of eclipse in one case and not in the other case does not depend upon giving a different meaning to the word void in the two parts of Art. 13 it arises from the inherent difference between Art. 13(1) and Art.	Reasoning
13(2)	Reasoning
arising from the fact that one is dealing with preConstitution laws and the other is dealing with postConstitution laws, with the result that in one case the laws being not stillborn the doctrine of eclipse will apply while in the other case the laws being stillborn there will be no scope for the application of the doctrine of eclipse.	Reasoning
Though the two clauses form part of the same Article, there is a vital difference in the language employed in them as also in their content and scope.	Reasoning
By the first clause the Constitution recognises the existence of certain operating laws and they are declared void, to the extent of their inconsistency with fundamental rights.	Reasoning
Had there been no such declaration, these laws would have continued to operate.	Reasoning
Therefore, in the case of preConstitution laws what an amendment to the Constitution does is to remove the shadow cast on it by this declaration.	Reasoning
The law thus revives.	Reasoning
However, in the case of the second clause, applicable to postConstitution laws, the Constitution does not recognise their existence, having been made in defiance of a prohibition to make them.	Reasoning
Such defiance makes the law enacted void.	Reasoning
In their case therefore there can be no revival by an amendment of the Constitution, though the bar to make the law is removed, so far as the period after the amendment is concerned.	Reasoning
In the case of postConstitution laws, it would be hardly appropriate to distinguish between laws which are wholly void  as for instance, those which contravene Art.	Reasoning
31 and those which are substantially void but partly valid  as for instance, laws contravening Art.	Reasoning
19.	Reasoning
Theoretically, the laws falling under the latter category may be valid qua noncitizens	Reasoning
but that is a wholly unrealistic consideration and it seems to us that such notionally partial valid existence of the said laws on the strength of hypothetical and pedantic considerations cannot justify the application of the doctrine of eclipse to them.	Reasoning
All postConstitution laws which contravene the mandatory injunction contained in the first part of Art. 13(2) are void as void as are the laws passed without legislative competence, and the doctrine of eclipse does not apply to them.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act cannot be applied to the Transfer Act in this case by virtue of the doctrine of eclipse, it follows therefore that the Transfer Act is unconstitutional because it did not comply with Art. 31(2), as it stood at the time it was passed.	Reasoning
It will therefore have to be struck down, and the petitioner given a declaration in his favour accordingly.	None
Re.	None
(3).	None
25.	None
We now come to the constitutionality of the Forest Amendment Act.	None
By this Act.	None
Chap.	None
VA was added to the Forest Act, and the main provision of it which has been attacked is	None
S. 38B.	None
It lays down that the State Government may by notification regulate or prohibit in any forest situate in or upon any land of a claimant the doing of certain acts where such regulation or prohibition appears necessary.	None
Claimant is defined in S. 38A as meaning a person claiming to be entitled to the land or any interest therein acquired, owned, settled or possessed or purported to have been acquired, owned, settled or possessed whether under, through or by any lease or licence executed prior to the commencement of the Abolition Act or under and in accordance with any provision of any enactment, including the Abolition Act.	None
It may be added that in 1960 there was an amendment to this Act by which certain other sections have been added, in Chap.	None
VA.	Reasoning
We shall deal with the effect of that amendment later for the present we are dealing with the attack on S. 38B. It is contended that the regulation or prohibition contemplated in S. 33B is of a permanent nature and interferes even with forestry operations.	None
It is also contended that it takes away rights without any provision for compensation.	None
In short, the attack on Chap.	None
VA, as originally enacted, is based on a contrast of its provision with Chap.	None
V of the Forest Act.	None
Now if this is really so, there may be something in favour of the petitioners contention that certain parts of Chap.	None
VA, as originally enacted, are unconstitutional.	None
But the contention on behalf of the respondents is that Chap.	None
VA as originally enacted (i.e. Ss. 38A to 38G) is not supplementary to Chap.	None
VA, but is supplementary to Chap.	None
II of the Forest Act, and is thus intended to serve as a temporary provision for protection of forest while proceedings under Chap.	None
II are going on.	None
If this contention on behalf of the respondents is correct, the attack of the petitioner on chap.	None
VA, as originally enacted, would lose all force, because that attack is based on the assumption that Chap.	None
VA, as originally enacted, allows the State to make permanent orders under it and then the contrast between Chap.	None
VA as originally enacted and Chap.	Reasoning
V would bring out the infirmities in Chap.	None
VA.	Reasoning
26.	None
It is necessary therefore to look at the scheme of Chap.	None
II of the Forest Act. which contains Ss. 3 to 27 and deals with reserved forests.	None
Section 3 provides that the State Government may constitute any forest land or waste land which is the property of Government or over which the Government has proprietary rights, or to the whole or any part of the forest produce of which the Government is entitled, a reserved forest.	None
Section 4 provides for the issue of a notification declaring the intention of the Government to constitute a reserved forest.	None
Section 5 bars accrual of forest rights in the area covered by notification under S. 4 after the issue of the notification.	None
Section 6 then inter alia gives power to the Forest Settlement Officer to issue a proclamation fixing a period of not less than three months from the date of such proclamation and requiring every person claiming any right mentioned in S. 4 or S. 5 within such period either to present to the Forest Settlement Officer a written notice specifying or to appear before him and state the nature of such right and the amount and particulars of the compensation (if any) claimed in respect thereof.	None
Section 7 gives power to the Forest Settlement Officer to make investigation himself to discover these rights.	None
Section 8 prescribes the powers of the Forest Settlement Officer, and lays down inter alia that he will have the same powers as a civil court has in the trial of suits.	None
Section 9 inter alia provides for the extinction of rights where no claim has been made under S. 6 on the making of a notification under S. 20.	None
Section 11 (1) lays down that in the case of a claim to a right in or over any land, other than a rightofway or right of pasture, or a right to forest produce or a watercourse, the Forest Settlement Officer shall pass an order admitting or rejecting the same in whole or in part.	None
Section 11 (2) 1ays that if such claim is admitted in whole or in part, the Forest Settlement Officer shall either (i) exclude such land from the limits of the proposed forest, or (ii) come to an agreement with the owner thereof for the surrender of his rights or (iii) proceed to acquire such land in the manner provided by the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.	None
Sections 12 to 16 provide for the determination of rights other than rights in or over any land, including commutation by the payment of a sum of money or by the grant of land, or in such other manner as he thinks fit.	None
Section 17 provides for appeals from orders passed under Ss. 11, 12, 15 and 16, while S. 18 (4) provides for revising and appellate order by the State Government.	None
Section 19 permits lawyers to appear before the Forest Settlement Officer or in appeal.	None
When all these proceedings are over, the State Government has to publish a notification under S. 20 specifying definitely the limits of the forest, which is to be reserved and declaring the same to be reserved from the date fixed by the notification, and from such date the forest shall be deemed to be a reserved forest.	None
We need not refer to the remaining sections which provide for ancillary matters after the notification under S. 20.	None
27.	None
It is clear from this review of the provisions of Chap.	None
II that it applies inter alia to forest land or waste which is the property of the Government or over which the Government has proprietary rights.	None
By the notification under S. 4, the Forest Settlement Officer is appointed to inquire into and determine the existence, nature and extent of any rights alleged to exist in favour of any person in or over any land comprised within such limits, or in or over any forest produce, and to deal with the same as provided in this Chapter.	None
Section 11 then provides for the adjudication of rights in or over land, and provides that if it is held that rights in or over land exist, the land may be excluded from the limits of the proposed forest or there may be some agreement between the owner of that right and the Government with respect to it, or the Forest Settlement Officer may proceed to acquire such land in the manner provided in the Land Acquisition Act.	None
It will be clear therefore that Chap.	None
II contemplates that where forest land or waste land is the property of Government or over which the Government has proprietary rights, the Forest Settlement Officer shall proceed to determine subordinate rights in the land before a notification under S. 20 is issued making the area a reserved forest.	None
In the determination of these rights, the Forest Settlement Officer has the same powers as a civil court has in the trial of suits, and his order is subject to appeal and finally to revision by the State Government.	None
Section 5 also shows that after a notification under S. 4, no further forest rights can accrue, it appears however, that after the Abolition Act came into force, it was felt that more powers should be taken to control forests than was possible under S. 5 as under the Abolition Act all lands to which the Abolition Act applied had vested in the State and become its property.	None
That is why, according to the respondents, the Forest Amendment Act was passed in 1956, and though there is no express or specific provision therein to show that as originally enacted it was a mere provision to tide over the difficulties arising during the time proceedings under Chap.	None
II were pending, it appears that there is force in the contention of the respondents that this was a mere interim measure to deal with the situation arising after the Abolition Act came into force while steps were being taken to constitute reserved forests under Chap.	None
II, as all lands had become the property of the State in the area to which the Abolition Act applied.	None
This is in our opinion made clear by the definition of the word, claimant in S. 38A, and the rest of the Chapter, as originally enacted, deals with claimants.	None
The heading of the Chapter does appear to be somewhat ambiguous inasmuch as it says of the Control over forests of Claimants.	None
The idea one gets prima facie from this heading is that the forests belong to claimants and the intention is to control such forests.	None
This heading is in line with the heading of Chapter V of the Forest Act, which is Of the control over Forests and Lands not being the property of Government, and so the first impression created on ones mind is that just as Chap.	None
V deals with forests and lands not being the property of Government, Chap.	None
VA also deals with forests which are not the property of Government but of claimants.	None
But the definition of claimant in S. 38A clearly shows that the claimant therein is a person making a claim and not a person whose claim has been recognised.	None
Therefore it would not in our opinion be incorrect to connect Chap.	None
VA, as originally enacted, with Chap.	Reasoning
II of the Forest Act, which clearly deals with claims and has here and there used the word claimant (as for instance in S. 11 (b), though the word claimant has not been defined in that Chapter.	None
It seems to us therefore that Chap.	None
VA, as originally enacted (Ss. 38A to 38G) was only dealing with claimants who were making claims under Chap.	None
II and whose claims would be dealt with thereunder, and so the heading of Chap.	None
VA really means control of forests in respect of which claims are made by claimants.	None
If these claims are with respect to rights in or over land, they would be dealt with under S. 11 and if they are claims with respect to other matters, they would be dealt with under Ss. 12 to 16.	None
It seems to us that if the claimant defined in S. 38A was not the person making a claim under Chap.	None
II, Chap.	Reasoning
VA as originally enacted, would have little sense, for it provides no machinery for dealing with claims of claimants.	None
Further, it is on this basis that one can understand the use of the word prohibition in S. 38B, whichever even restricts genuine forestry operations.	None
It seems to us unthinkable that genuine forestry operations should be restricted permanently without any procedure for deciding the claims of claimants Therefore Chap.	None
VA, as originally enacted, is ancillary to Chap.	Reasoning
II and gives further powers of control besides those contained in Chap.	None
II, during the period that proceedings under Chap.	None
II are pending.	None
Looked at in this way, Chap.	None
VA as originally enacted would be constitutional, as it will be in the interest of the general public to provide for interim protection of the forests pending disposal of claims under Chap.	None
II and the declaration of the forest as reserved forest under S. 20 thereof.	None
28.	None
But it is urged that the amendment in Chap.	Arguments of Petitioner
VA by the Indian Forest (U. P. Amendment) Act, (U. P. Act XXI of 1960) destroys this character of the Forest Amendment Act, as originally enacted.	Arguments of Petitioner
By this amendment, Ss. 38H to 38M were added to Chap VA.	None
Section 38H(1) provides for taking over the management of any particular forest or forest land for a period not exceeding fifteen years.	Reasoning
Subsection (2.) thereof, says that no notification under subs.	Reasoning
(1) shall be issued unless notice is issued to a claimant, owner or tenureholder of the forest or forest land.	Reasoning
Obviously therefore, the provisions of S. 38H and the subsequent sections are wider than the provisions of Ss. 38A to 38G, which were originally enacted.	Reasoning
We are not actually concerned with the provisions of S. 38H onwards for no action has been taken under those provisions nor has the petitioner alleged that there is any threat of such action.	Reasoning
The argument, however, is that this new provision shows that Ss. 38A to 38G are not connected with Chap.	None
II and really go with this new provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
We cannot accept this argument, for, in the first place, the legislature when it passed Ss. 38A to 33G never had Ss. 38H to 38M in mind.	None
In the second place, S. 38H also deals, with the land of claimants though it further deals with the lands of tenureholders or owners.	Reasoning
So far as the claimants are concerned, the positions still remains that there must be some provision for deciding their claims and no such provisions are found up to S. 38M, and we are therefore thrown back on Chap.	Reasoning
II so far as the claimants are concerned.	Reasoning
It must therefore be held that the enactment of new Ss. 38H to 38M made no difference to the position that Ss. 38A to 38G as originally enacted, are supplementary to chap.	Reasoning
11, though S. 38H onwards may not be so and may stand by themselves, so far as owners or tenureholders are concerned.	Reasoning
There is no doubt, however, that Ss. 38A to 38G are ancillary to Chap.	Reasoning
II and must be read as such and in this view their constitutionality as interim provisions cannot be successfully assailed.	None
29.	None
It is next urged that even if Ss. 38A to 38G are ancillary to Chap.	Arguments of Petitioner
II, they would not apply to the petitioners land, as Chap.	Arguments of Petitioner
II deals inter alia with waste land or forest land, which is the property of the Government and not with that land which is not the property of the Government, which is dealt with under Chap.	Arguments of Petitioner
V.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is so.	None
But unless the petitioner can show that the land in dispute in this case is his property and not the property of the State, Chap.	None
II will apply to it Now there is no dispute that the land in dispute belonged to the Maharaja Bahadur of Nahan before the Abolition Act and the said Maharaja Bahadur was an intermediary.	Reasoning
Therefore, the land in dispute vested in the State under S. 6 of the Abolition Act and became the property of the State.	Reasoning
It is however, contended on behalf of the petitioner that if he is held to be a bhumidhar in proper proceeding, the land would be his property and therefore Chap.	Reasoning
VA, as originally enacted, if it is ancillary to Chap.	Reasoning
II would not apply to the land in dispute.	Reasoning
We are of opinion that there is no force in this contention.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that under S. 6 of the Abolition Act all property of intermediaries including the land in dispute vested in the State Government and became its property.	Reasoning
It is true that under S. 18, certain lands were deemed to be settled as bhumidhari lands, but it is clear that after land vests in the State Government under S. 6 of the Abolition Act, there is no provision therein for divesting of what has vested in the State Government.	Reasoning
It is, however urged on behalf of the petitioner that he claims to be the proprietor of this land as a bhumidhar because of certain provisions in the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no such proprietary right as bhumidhari right before the Abolition Act.	None
The Abolition Act did away with all proprietary rights in the area to which it applied and created three classes of tenure by S. 129 bhumidhar, sirdar and asami, which were unknown before.	None
Thus bhumidhar, sirdar and asami are all tenureholders under the Abolition Act and they hold their tenure under the State in which the proprietary right vested under S. 6.	Reasoning
It is true that bhumidhars have certain wider rights in their tenures as compared to sirdars similarly sirdars have wider rights as compared to asamis, but nonetheless all the three are mere tenureholders  with varying rightsunder the State which is the proprietor of the entire land in the Stale to which the Abolition Act applied.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that the Abolition Act applies to the land in dispute and therefore the State is the proprietor of the land in dispute and the petitioner even if he were a bhumidhar would still be a tenureholder.	Reasoning
Further, the land in dispute is either waste land or forest land (for it is so far not converted to agriculture) over which the State has proprietary rights and therefore Chap.	Reasoning
II will clearly apply to this land and so would Chap.	Reasoning
VA.	Reasoning
It is true that a bhumidhar has got a heritable and transferable right	Reasoning
and he can use his holding for any purpose including industrial and residential purposes and if he does so that part of the holding will be demarkated under S.143.	Reasoning
It is also true that generally speaking, there is no ejectment of a bhumidhar and no forfeiture of his land.	Reasoning
He also pays land revenue (S.241) but in that respect he is on the same footing as a sirdar, who hardly be called a proprietor because his interest is not transferable except as expressly permitted by the Act.	Reasoning
Therefore the payment made by the bhumidhar to the State is called land revenue and not rent would not necessarily make him a proprietor, because sirdar also pays landrevenue, though his rights are very much lower than that of a bhumidhar.	Reasoning
It is true that the rights which the bhumidhar has to a certain extent approximate to the rights which a proprietor used to have before the Abolition Act was passed but it is clear that rights of a bhumidhar are in many respects less and in many other respects restricted as compared to the old proprietor before the Abolition Act.	Reasoning
For example, the bhumidhar has no right as such in the minerals under the subsoil.	Reasoning
Section 154 makes a restriction on the power of a bhumidhar to make certain transfers.	Reasoning
Section 155 forbids the bhumidhar from making usufructuary mortgages.	Reasoning
Section 156 forbids a bhumidhar, sirdar or asami from letting the land to others, unless the case comes under S. 157.Section 189 (aa) provides that where a bhumidhar lets out his holding or any part thereof in, contravention of the provisions of this Act his right will be extinguished.	Reasoning
It is clear therefore that though bhumidhars have higher rights than sirdars and asamis, they are still mere tenureholders under the Slate which is the proprietor of all lands in the area to which the Abolition Act applies.	Reasoning
The petitioner therefore even if he is presumed to be a bhumidhar cannot claim to be a proprietor to whom Chap.	Reasoning
II of the Forest Act does not apply, and therefore Chap.	Reasoning
VA, as originally enacted would not apply (see in this connection, Mst.	Reasoning
Govindi v. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1952 All 88 .)	Reasoning
As we have already pointed out Ss. 4 and 11 give power for determination of all rights subordinate to those of a proprietor, and as the right of the bhumidhar is that of a tenureholder, subordinate to the State, which is the proprietor of the land in dispute, it will be open to the Forest Settlement Officer to consider the claim made to the land in dispute by the petitioner, if he claims to be a bhumidhar This is in addition to the provision of S. 229B of the Abolition Act.	Reasoning
The petitioner therefore even if he is a bhumidhar cannot claim that the land in dispute is out of the provisions of Chap.	Reasoning
II and therefore Chap.	Reasoning
VA, even if it is ancillary to Chap.	Reasoning
II, would not apply.	Reasoning
We must therefore uphold the constitutionality of Chap.	Reasoning
VA, as originally enacted, in the view we have taken of its teem supplementary to Chap.	Reasoning
II	Reasoning
and we further hold that Chap.	Reasoning
II and Chap.	Reasoning
VA will apply to the land in dispute even if the petitioner is assumed to be the bhumidhar, of that land.	Reasoning
30.	None
The only other question that remains to be considered is whether the notification under S. 4 is still in force.	None
That notification was issued under Chap.	Reasoning
II of the Forest Act on March 23, 1955 and thereafter a proclamation under S. 6 ibid was issued on April 26, 1955.	None
The petitioner contends that the notification under S. 4 was withdrawn so far as his land was concerned by notification dated December 19, 1956.	None
That is however not a notification at all.	None
It is a mere government order issued to all Conservators of Forests, Divisional Forest Officers and District Officers as well as the Secretary Board of Revenue, and all that is stated there is that a number of representations had been made to the Government by claimants of lands situated in the erstwhile private forests under agreements executed before July 1962 by them with their owners, and the Governor, on careful consideration, had decided that all such lands in respect of which valid legal reclamations leases were executed by the owners should be released in favour of the lessees.	Reasoning
It was also pointed out that if such land was included in any of the notifications issued under S. 4 of the Forest Act, it should be deemed to have been excluded from the notification.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned that this government order was cancelled by a later government order dated July 7, 1958, which was also not published.	Reasoning
Now a notification under S. 4 of the Forest Act is required to be published in the Gazette and unless it is so published, it is of no effect.	Reasoning
The notification of March 23, 1955 was published in the Gazette and was therefore a proper notification.	Reasoning
It is also not disputed that in view of S. 21 of the U. P. General Clauses Act (No.1 of 1904) a notification issued under S. 4 could have been cancelled or modified but it could be done in the like manner and subject to the like sanction and conditions, i e. by notification in the gazette.	Reasoning
The Government order of December 1956 therefore cannot amount to excluding anything from the notification issued wider S. 4 for it was never published, it was a mere departmental instruction by Government to its Officers which was later withdrawn.	Reasoning
The notification therefore stands as it was originally issued and the petitioner cannot claim any benefit of the government order of December 1956, which was later cancelled.	Reasoning
Further in view of the fact that we have held that Chap. VA, as originally enacted, is valid, being a measure supplementary to Chap.	Reasoning
II, the notification issued under Chap.	Reasoning
VA must also be upheld.	Reasoning
31.	None
In the result therefore the petition is allowed to this extent that the Transfer Act No. XV of 1952 is struck down as unconstitutional and of no force and effect.	Reasoning
We may add however, that learned counsel for the respondent has stated before us that if a claim is made even now under chap.	Reasoning
II by the petitioner within thirty days of our judgment, even though it may be lime barred as from the date of the proclamation issued under S.6, the Forest Settlement Officer will entertain it and consider the claim as required under Chap.	Reasoning
II.	Reasoning
32.	None
We therefore allow the petition in part and strike down the U. P. Land Tenures (Regulation of Transfers) Act, No. XV of 1952 as unconstitutional.	Decision
The rest of the prayers in the petition are rejected, subject to petitioner being free to take such steps as may be open to him in law to establish his right whatever it may be under the registered lease of June 1952 and subject to the State having the right to contest the said claim.	Decision
In the circumstances, the parties will bear their own costs of this petition.	Decision
33.	None
Petition Partly Allowed.	None
