 	None
This appeal is brought, by certificate, against the judgment of the High Court of Kerala dated January 5,1966 dismissing Original Petition No.1 of 1964 filed by the appellant.2.	Issue
The appellant, Sri. S. Govinda Menon is a member of the Indian Administrative Service.	Facts
He was the First Member of the Board of Revenue, Kerala State was holding the post of Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments.	Facts
On the basis of certain petitions containing allegations of misconduct against the appellant in the discharge of his duties as Commissioner the Kerala Government instituted certain preliminary enquires and thereafter started disciplinary proceedings against the appellant and also placed him under suspension under R.7 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1955, hereinafter called the Rules.	Facts
A copy of the charges together with a statement of certain allegations was served on the appellant who thereafter filed a written statement of defence.	Facts
After perusing the written statement the Government passed orders that his explanation was unacceptable and that the charges should be enquired into by an Enquiry Officer to be appointed under R.5 of the Rules.	Facts
Accordingly Sri T. N. S. Raghavan, a retired I. C. S. officer was appointed to hold the inquiry.	Facts
The appellant then filed the present writ petition before the High Court of Kerala praying for grant of a writ of certiorari to quash the proceedings initiated against him and for a writ of mandamus calling upon respondent No. 2, State of Kerala, to allow him to function as the First Member of the Board of Revenue.	Facts
As no application for stay was made and as no order of stay was passed by the High Court Sri T. N. S. Raghavan proceeded with the inquiry and submitted his report to the Union Government finding the appellant guilty of charges 1 to 4 and 9.	Facts
The Union of India, alter consideration of the report, issued a Show Cause Notice Ex. P9.	Facts
The appellant thereafter filed an application before the High Court for amendment of the writ petition.	Facts
The prayer in this amended petition was for the issue of a writ of prohibition restraining the first respondent Union of India from proceeding further in pursuance of the Show Cause Notice and also for quashing the same.	Facts
The application for amendment was allowed by the High Court.	Facts
The main contention of the appellant was that the proceedings initiated against him were entirely without jurisdiction as no disciplinary proceedings could be taken against him for acts and omissions with regard to his work as Commissioner under the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1951 (Madras Act XIX of 1951), hereinafter called the Act and that the orders made by him being of quasijudicial character can be impugned only in appropriate proceedings taken under that Act.	Facts
After hearing the arguments advanced on both sides, Mathew, J. rejected the objections raised by the appellant regarding want of jurisdiction and held that the respondents bad power to proceed with the inquiry into the charges.	Facts
S. Velu Pillai, J on the other hand, took the view that quasijudicial decisions became final and conclusive if they were not set aside or modified in the manner prescribed by the statute and if the decisions are not so challenged, their correctness or legality must be taken to be conclusive, and such quasijudicial decisions cannot form the subjectmatter of charges in disciplinary proceedings against the appellant.	Facts
Velu Pillai, J. held that the Union Government had therefore no jurisdiction to proceed with the inquiry on the first part of charge 1, charge 2, the first part of charge 3 and charge 4, but the Union Government had jurisdiction to proceed with the inquiry with regard to the second part of charge No. 1, the second part of charge No. 3 and charge No. 9.	Facts
In view of this difference of opinion the matter was placed before Govinda Menon, J. who agreed with the view taken by Mathew, J. and in the result the writ petition of the appellant was dismissed.3.	Facts
It is necessary at this stage to set out the charges levelled against the appellant.	None
Charges 1 to 4 relate mainly to the conduct of the appellant in sanctioning 30 leases regarding the private forest lands of 5 Devaswoms and charge No. 9 concerns the refusal by the appellant to attend a conference convened by the Chief Secretary to consider certain important matters connected with the national emergency.	None
In 17 of the leases relating to the first charge the period of the lease is 36 years.	None
In one case the period is 96 years and in the rest of the leases the period of lease is 99 years.	None
The total area covered by all the leases comes to over 50,000 acres.	None
Charges 1 to 4 and 9 read as follows1.	None
That you, Shri S. Govinda Menon, I. A. S., while employed in the Government Service as member.	None
Board of Revenue and Commissioner, H. R. C. E. (Administration) Department from 12 1957 to 19101962 issued sanctions granting leases of extensive and valuable forest lands belonging to the Devaswoms under your control as Commissioner such as (1) Pulpally Devaswom, (2) Kallaikulangara Emoor Bhagavathi Temple, (3) Nadivilla Vallathu Devaswom, (4) Kottiyoor Devaswom, (5) Mundayanparamba Devaswom etc., in utter disregard of the provisions in the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act, 1951 and the rules issued thereunder.	None
In several cases you had yourself initiated the proposals for leases which should have been made by the trustee and acted in judgment on them by sanctioning the leases.	None
In many cases of the leases aforesaid and otherwise generally in regard to the control and supervision exercised by you over the administration of endowments, your conduct has been such as to render you unfit for the performance of your statutory duties under the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act or as a responsible Officer of the Government.2.	None
That you had fixed the premium for lease, the rental and the timber value arbitrarily disregarding whether they were beneficial to the institutions as you were required to do under the Act and you thereby caused wrongful gain to the lessees and wrongful loss to the Devaswoms.3.	None
That you not only initiated proposals for the leases and sanctioned them yourself, but also took further action for putting the lessees in possession of the lands and to fell the trees thereon for which you had no authority under the Act and the Rules.	None
In particular you attempted to influence the Collector of Kozhikode, the statutory authority for the sanctioning of leases of private forests under the M. P. P. F. Act by causing your Personal Assistant to write to the Personal Assistant to the Collector thereby bringing the weight of your Official position as his official superior in your capacity as 1st Member, Board of Revenue, to bear upon him and influence the Collector in the performance of his statutory duty.4.	None
That you sanctioned the lease of extensive forest lands with valuable treegrowth belonging to various Devaswoms to your relations, neighbours and friends contrary to the provision in R.3 of the All India Services (Conduct) R.1954, which enjoins every member of the service to maintain absolute integrity in all official matters.9.	None
That on 29101962 you refused to attend a conference of the Members of the Board of Revenue and the Inspector General of Police which was called together by the Chief Secretary in the Secretariat to discuss important matters connected with the national emergency and was thereby guilty of gross dereliction of duty and of discourtesy to the Chief Secretary.4.	None
S.20 of the Act provides that the administration of all religious endowments shall be subject to the general superintendence and control of the Commissioner and that such superintendence and control shall include the power to pass any orders which may be deemed necessary for the proper administration of the endowments.	Reasoning
S.29 of the Act states that any sale, exchange or mortgage and any lease for a term exceeding five years of any immovable property belonging to any religious institution shall be null and void unless it is sanctioned by the Commissioner as being necessary or beneficial to the institution, and the Commissioner shall, before according sanction, publish particulars of the proposed transaction, invite objections and consider them.	None
Subsection (3) provides for communicating a copy of the order granting sanction, to the Government and to the trustee.	None
Subsection (4) provides for an appeal against the order of the Commissioner to the Government by the trustee or any person having interest.	None
S.99 (1) states99.	None
(1) The Government may call for and examine the record of the Commissioner or any Deputy or Assistant Commissioner, of any Area Committee or of any trustee in respect of any proceeding, not being a proceeding in respect of which a suit or an appeal to a Court is provided by this Act, to satisfy themselves as to the regularity of such proceeding or the correctness, legality or propriety of any decision or order passed therein and, if, in any case, it appears to the Government that any such decision or order should be modified, annulled, reversed or remitted for reconsideration, they may pass orders accordinglyProvided that the Government shall not pass any order prejudicial to any party unless he has had a reasonable opportunity of making his representations.5.	None
The jurisdiction for grant of a writ of prohibition is primarily supervisory and the object of that writ is to restrain courts or inferior tribunals from exercising a jurisdiction which they do not possess at all or else to prevent them from exceeding the limits of their jurisdiction.	None
In other words, the object is to confine courts or tribunals of inferior or limited jurisdiction within their bounds.	None
It is wellsettled that the writ of prohibition lies not only for excess of jurisdiction or for absence of jurisdiction but the writ also lies in a case of departure from the rules of natural Justice (See Halsburys Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 11, p. 114).	None
It was held for instance by the Court of Appeal in The King v. North 1927 (1) K. B. 491 that as the order of the judge of the consistory court of July 24, 1925 was made without giving the vicar an opportunity of being heard in his defence, the order was made in violation of the principles of natural justice and was therefore an order made without jurisdiction and the writ of prohibition ought to issue.	None
But the writ does not lie to correct the course, practice or procedure of an inferior tribunal, or a wrong decision on the merits of the proceedings.	None
It is also wellestablished that a writ of prohibition cannot be issued to a court or an inferior tribunal for an error of law unless the error makes it go outside its jurisdiction (See Regina v. ComptrollerGeneral of Patents and Design 1953 (2) W. L. R.760, 765 and Parisienne Basket Shoes Proprietary Ltd. v. Whyte 59 C. L. R.369.	None
A clear distinction must therefore be maintained between want of jurisdiction and the manner in which it is exercised.	None
If there is want of jurisdiction then the matter is coram non judice and a writ of prohibition will lie to the court or inferior tribunal forbidding it to continue proceedings therein in excess of its jurisdiction.6.	None
The first proposition put forward by the appellant is that the Commissioner is a corporation sole and not a servant of the Government and against a person acting in the capacity of a commissioner the Government have no jurisdiction to take disciplinary proceedings.	None
Reference was made to S.80 of the Act which states that the Commissioner shall be a corporation sole and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in his corporate name.	Reasoning
It was argued that the acts and omissions of the appellant in his capacity as commissioner cannot be questioned in any disciplinary proceedings as the commissioner is not a servant of the Government subject to its administrative control.	None
Before examining this proposition it is necessary to consider R.4 of the Rules which states4.	None
Authority to institute proceedings and to impose penalty.(1) Where a number of the Service has committed any act or omission which renders him liable to any penalty specified in R.3, (a) if such act or omission was committed before his appointment to the service, the Government under whom he is for the time being serving shall alone be competent to institute disciplinary proceedings against him and, subject to the provisions of subrule (2), to impose on him such penalty specified in R.3 as it thinks fit(b) if such act or omission was committed after his appointment to the Service, the Government under whom such member was serving at the time of the commission of such act or omission shall alone be competent to institute disciplinary proceedings against him and subject to the provisions of subrule (2), to impose on him such penalty specified in R.3 as it thinks fit and the Government under whom he is serving at the time of the institution of such proceedings shall be bound to render all reasonable facilities to the Government instituting and conducting such proceedings.(2) The penalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement shall not be imposed on a member of the Service except by an order of the Central Government.	None
It is not disputed that the appropriate Government has power to take disciplinary proceedings against the appellant and that he could be removed from service by an order of the Central Government, but it was contended that I. A. S. Officers are governed by statutory rules, thatany act or omission referred to in R.4(1) relates only to an act or omission of an officer when serving under the Government, and that servingunder the Government means subject to the administrative control of the Government and that disciplinary proceedings should be, therefore, on the basis of the relationship of master and servant.	Reasoning
It was argued that in exercising statutory powers the Commissioner was not subject to the administrative control of the Government and disciplinary proceedings cannot, therefore, be instituted against the appellant in respect of an act or omission committed by him in the course of his employments Commissioner.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept the proposition.	None
contended for by the appellant as correct.	Reasoning
R.4 (1) does not impose any limitation or qualification as to the nature of the act or omission in respect of which disciplinary proceedings can be instituted.	Reasoning
R.4 (1) (b) merely says that the appropriate Government competent to institute disciplinary proceedings against a member of the Service would be the Government under whom such member was serving at the time of the commission of such act or omission.	Reasoning
It does not say that the act or omission must have been committed in the discharge of his duty or in the course of his employment as a Government servant.	Reasoning
It is therefore open to the Government to take disciplinary proceedings against the appellant in respect of his acts or omissions which cast a reflection upon his reputation for integrity or good faith or devotion to duty as a member of the Service.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that the appellant was, at the time of the alleged misconduct, employed as the First Member of the Board of Revenue and he was at the same time performing the duties of Commissioner under the Act in addition to his duties as the First Member of the Board of Revenue.	Reasoning
In our opinion, it is not necessary that a member of the Service should have committed the alleged act or omission in the course of discharge of his duties as a servant of the Government in order that it may form the subjectmatter of disciplinary proceedings.	Reasoning
In other words, if the act or omission is such as to reflect on the reputation of the officer for his integrity or good faith or devotion to duty, there is no reason why disciplinary proceedings should not be taken against him for that act or omission even though the act or omission relates to an activity in regard to which there is no actual master and servant relationship.	Reasoning
To put it differently, the test is not whether the act or omission was committed by the appellant in the course of the discharge of his duties as servant of the Government.	Reasoning
The test is whether the act or omission has some reasonable connection with the nature and condition of his service or whether the act or omission has cast any reflection upon the reputation of the member of the Service for integrity or devotion to duty as a public servant.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that even if the appellant was not subject to the administrative control of the Government when he was functioning as Commissioner under the Act and was not the servant of the Government subject to its orders at the relevant time, his act or omission as Commissioner could form the subjectmatter of disciplinary proceedings provided the act or omission would reflect upon his reputation for integrity or devotion to duty as a member of the Service.	Reasoning
In this context reference may be made to the following observations of Lopes, L. J. in Pearce v. Foster 17 Q. B. D. 536, 542.If a servant conducts himself in a way inconsistent with the faithful discharge of his duty in the service, it is misconduct which justifies immediate dismissal.	None
That misconduct, according to my view, need not be misconduct in the carrying on of the service or the business.	None
It is sufficient if it is conduct which is prejudicial or is likely to be prejudicial to the interests or to the reputation of the master and the master will be justified, not only if he discovers it at the time, but also if he discovers it afterwards, in dismissing that servant.	None
It was also contended by the appellant in this connection that as the Commissioner was made a Corporation sole under S.80 of the Act as a separate and independent personality, he was not subject to the control of the Government and no disciplinary proceedings could be initiated against him.	None
We do not think there is any substance in this argument.	None
It is true that the Commissioner has been made a Corporation sole under S.80 of the Act which states that the Commissioner shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in his corporate name.	Reasoning
S.81 (1) of the Act provides for the establishment of a Fund called The Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Administration Fund and further states that the Fund shall vest in the Commissioner.	None
It was argued for the appellant that the corporate entity created by S.80 of the Act has a separate legal personality.	None
But there is a juristic distinction between a Corporation sole and a Corporation aggregate and the Corporation sole is not endowed with a separate legal personality as the Corporation aggregate.	None
As Maitland saidIf our corporation sole really were an artificial person created by the policy of man we ought to marvel at its incompetence.	None
Unless custom or statute aids it.	None
it cannot (so we are told) own a chattel, not even a chattel real.	None
A different and an equally inelegant device was adopted to provide an owning subject for the ornaments or the church and the minister thereofadopted at the end of the Middle Ages by lawyers who held themselves debarred by the theory of corporations from frankly saying that the body of parishioners is a corporation aggregate.	None
And then we are also told that in all probability a corporation sole cannot enter into a contract except with statutory authority or as incidental to an interest in land Be that as it may.	None
the ecclesiastical corporation sole is no juristic person he or it is either natural man or juristic abortion.(See Selected Essays of Maitland pp.	None
100 and 103).Keeton has also observed as followsIt was a device for transmitting real property to a succession of persons without the necessity for periodic conveyances.	None
It was never intended that this device should be erected into a psychological person with a developed existence of its own In dealing with a corporation sole, the courts have never treated it as a conception similar in essential characteristics to a corporation aggregate.	None
They have restricted its utility to the transmission of real, or exceptionally, by custom, as in BYRD v.WILFORD, and now by statute, personal property from one holder of an office, lay or ecclesiastical, to his successor.	None
(See Elementary Principles of Jurisprudence by Keeton, 2nd Edn.	None
pp.	None
155 162).We accordingly reject the contention of the appellant that the Commissioner has a separate legal personality as corporation sole under S.80 of the Act and that he is exempt from disciplinary proceedings for any act or omission committed in his capacity as Commissioner.	None
In our opinion, the object of the legislature in enacting S.80 and 81 of the Act was to constitute a separate Fund and to provide for the vesting of that Fund in the Commissioner as a corporation sole and thereby avoid the necessity of periodic conveyances in the transmission of title to that Fund.7.	None
We next proceed to examine the contention of the appellent that the commissioner was exercising a quasijudicial function in sanctioning the leases under the Act and his orders cannot therefore be questioned except in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	None
The proposition put forward was that quasijudicial orders, unless vacated under the provisions of the Act, are final and binding and cannot be questioned by the executive Government through disciplinary proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that an appeal is provided under S.29 (4) of the Act against the order of the commissioner granting sanction to a lease and that it is open to any party aggrieved to file such an appeal and question the legality or correctness of the order of the commissioner and that the Government also may in revision under S.99 of the Act examine the correctness or legality of the order.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that so long as these methods were not adopted the Government could not institute disciplinary proceedings and reexamine the legality of the order of the commissioner granting sanction to the leases.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first part of charge No.1 was that the appellant in utter disregard of the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, passed orders sanctioning the leases in the cases mentioned in the statement of allegations.	None
The relevant portion of the allegation reads as followsYou were the Commissioner H. R. C. E. (Admn.)	None
Department from 121957 to 19101962.	None
Under S.29 of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act of 1951, any exchange, sale or mortgage and any lease for a term exceeding 5 years of any immovable property belonging to or given or endowed for the purpose of any religious institution shall be null and void unless it is sanctioned by the Commissioner as being necessary or beneficial to the institution Under the proviso to the section, the particulars of the proposed transactions shall be published at least in one daily newspaper inviting objections and suggestions with respect to the proposals and the suggestions and objections, if any, received should be considered by the Commissioner before the sanction is accorded.	None
By the rules made under S.29, clauses (1) and (3) of the Act, notice of the proposals for a lease for a period exceeding five years of immovable property belonging to a religious institution shall contain particulars of the nature of the proposed transaction, the correct description of the properties and information regarding the survey number, extent and boundaries, the probable price or the rental as the case may be.	None
The rules made under S.100 (2) of the Act provide that all leases of lands, buildings, sites or other immovable properties and rights belonging to a religious institution shall be made by public auction.	None
Leases otherwise than by public auction should not be resorted to except with the previous sanction of the Deputy Commissioner.	None
It follows from the above that the proposals for leasing out the devaswom lands have to be initiated by the Trustee or the Fit Person and that such leases have ordinarily to be granted only by auction.	None
In exceptional cases, lands may be leased out by the trustee without auction subject to the previous sanction of the Deputy Commissioner.	None
This provision does not, however, authorise the Commissioner, to dispose of lands without auction.	None
His duty is to give notice of the proposal which may be received from the trustee, to call for objections and suggestions and to accord sanction if he is satisfied that the transaction is beneficial to the devaswom.	None
After the Commissioner accords sanction further steps for leasing out the lands have to be taken by the trustee who is the lessor and the proposed lessee.	None
Contrary to the above provisions leases were sanctioned by you in the following cases.	None
It is apparent that the first part of charge No.1 read with the relevant allegations is that in utter disregard of the provisions of S.29 of the Act and the Rules and without being satisfied that the bases were beneficial to the devaswoms the appellant sanctioned them and this action of the appellant discloses misconduct, irregularity and gross recklessness in the discharge of his official duties.	None
The charge is therefore one of misconduct and recklessness disclosed by the utter disregard of the relevant provisions of S.29 and the Rules thereunder in sanctioning the leases.	Reasoning
On behalf of the respondents it was argued both by Mr. Sarjoo Prasad and Mr. Bindra that the commissioner was not discharging quasijudicial functions in sanctioning leases under S.29 of the Act, but we shall proceed on the assumption that the commissioner was performing quasijudicial functions in granting leases under S.29 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Even upon that assumption we are satisfied that the Government was entitled to institute disciplinary proceedings if there was prima facie material for showing recklessness or misconduct on the part of the appellant in the discharge of his official duty.	Reasoning
It is true that if the provisions of S.29 of the Act or the Rules are disregarded the order of the commissioner is illegal and such an order could be questioned in appeal under S.29 (4) or in revision under S.99 of the Act.	Reasoning
But in the present proceedings what is sought to be challenged is not the correctness or the legality of the decision of the commissioner but the conduct of the appellant in the discharge of his duties as commissioner.	Reasoning
The appellant was proceeded against because in the discharge of his functions he acted in utter disregard of the provisions of the Act and the Rules.	Reasoning
It is the manner in which he discharged his functions that is brought up in these proceeding.	Reasoning
In other words, the charge and the allegations are to the effect that in exercising his powers as commissioner the appellant acted in abuse of his power and it was in regard to such misconduct that he is being proceeded against.	Reasoning
It is manifest therefore that though the propriety and legality of the sanction to the leases may be questioned in appeal or revision under the Act, the Government is not precluded from taking disciplinary action if there is proof that the commissioner had acted in gross recklessness in the discharge of his duties or that he failed to act honestly or in good faith or that he omitted to observe the prescribed conditions which are essential for the exercise of the statutory power.	Reasoning
We see no reason why the Government cannot do so for the purpose of showing that the commissioner acted in utter disregard of the conditions prescribed for the exercise of his power or that he was guilty of misconduct or gross negligence.	Reasoning
We are accordingly of the opinion that the appellant has been unable to make good his argument on this aspect of the case.9.	Reasoning
We pass on to consider the next contention of the appellant that the first part of charge No.1 is not sustainable because the only rule said to have been violated was the rule regarding auction.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the rule regarding auction did not apply to longterm leases falling within the scope of S.29(1) of the Act and the first part of charge No.1 was therefore not sustainable.	None
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	None
The statement of allegations in respect of charge No.1 sets out the provisions of S.29 of the Act, the rules made under cls.	Reasoning
(1) and (3) of that section and the rules made under S.100(2)(m) of the Act and it says that contrary to the above provisions leases were sanctioned.	None
R.1 of the Rules framed under S.100(2)(m) of the Act reads as followsAll leases of lands, buildings, sites and other immovable properties and rights belonging to a religious institution shall be made by public auction held in the places in which the properties are situate or the rights exist.	None
The Deputy Commissioner may if he is satisfied that in any case the holding of an auction at a place other than the one in which the properties proposed to be leased are situated will not be detrimental to securing a proper bid, permit such auction, but no auction shall be held in a village situated in a district other than the one in which the property is situate.	None
It was argued on behalf of the respondents that all leases had to be made by public auction and the commissioner had no authority to sanction any leases without auction and that the power to waive the public auction is given to the Deputy Commissioner and not to the Commissioner under R.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection reference was made by the appellant to R.2(2) which provides that auction is to be conducted in the case of a lease for a period of one year or more within one month, and in the case of a lease for a period of less than one year, within 15 days after the date of the trustees decision regarding the period for which the lease should be given.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that it would be impossible to conduct an auction in such a case within one month of the date of the trustees decision because a minimum period of 30 days is prescribed between the notice and hearing of objections under S.29.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that some more time will necessarily have to be allowed for the trustees to send an application after they decide the period of the lease and for the commissioner to issue the notice himself and to communicate his sanction to the trustees.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think there is any substance in this argument because it is open to the trustee to hold the auction in the first place under R.1 even in the case of a lease for a period over 5 years and then send the proposal to the commissioner for sanction.	Reasoning
We are accordingly of the opinion that R.1 made under S.100(2) (m) of the Act providing for auction applies to leases for over 5 years under S.29 of the Act and the commissioner had therefore no authority for sanctioning any leases without auction under S.29(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
In other words, R.1 requiring public auction framed under S.100(2)(m) covers all leases and there is no exception in respect of leases exceeding 5 years falling within the scope of S.29(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
We accordingly reject the argument of the appellant on this aspect of the case.10.	Reasoning
As regards the second part of charge No. 1, it was argued by the appellant that there was no prohibition in the Act for the commissioner to himself initiate the proposal for leases and therefore the charge cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question for consideration is whether the commissioner could initiate a proposal for lease in favour of a specified individual with all the terms and conditions.	None
It is not disputed by the appellant that the trustee is the proper person to initiate a proposal for lease of the trust properties, but it is argued that under S.20 of the Act the commissioner can make specific proposals for leases and that he can himself sanction them under S.29.	Reasoning
The first part of S.20 speaks of the general superintendence and control of the commissioner over the administration of all religious endowments.	Reasoning
The section goes on to state that such superintendence and control shall include the power to pass an order which may be necessary to ensure that such endowments are properly administered and their income is really appropriated for the purpose for which they were founded.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the language of this section does not suggest that the commissioner himself is vested with the power to make specific proposals for leases of trust properties.	Reasoning
Under S.29 of the Act the commissioner is given a specific power to accord sanction for any alienation and for leases for a term exceeding 5 years.	Reasoning
That section implies that the the proposals for leases must originate from the trustees and not from the commissioner himself and that the only function of the commissioner is to accord sanction to such proposals.	Reasoning
If the language of S.20 is understood as suggesting that the commissioner has power to initiate proposals it would mean that the commissioner himself may sit in judgment over the proposals initiated by him.	Reasoning
It cannot be supposed that the legislature contemplated such a consequence.	Reasoning
In this context it is necessary to remember that under the general law the trustee is the person competent to make alienation or grant lease of Devaswom properties.	Reasoning
It is true that the legislature has put a restriction on the power of alienation and the power of granting leases by S.29 of the Act, but the statutory restriction on the power of the trustee should not be interpreted in such a way as to abrogate all his power in respect of alienation or lease.	Reasoning
We are accordingly of the opinion that the commissioner has no power to initiate specific proposals for lease of the trust properties and the argument of the appellant on this point must be rejected.11.	Reasoning
The third part of charge No.1 is not a separate charge but could be enquired into along with other parts of charge No. 1.	None
As regards charges 2,3 and 4 it is not shown on behalf of the appellant that there is any defect of jurisdiction and that the respondents cannot proceed with the inquiry.12.	None
The next question to be considered is whether the disciplinary proceedings against the appellant were validly instituted as required by R.4(1)(b) of the Rules.	None
It was submitted by the appellant that there was no formal order of the Government for instituting these proceedings.	None
For the respondents it was contended that the question is barred by res judicata by reason of the decision of the Kerala High Court in S. Govinda Menon v. State of Kerala 1963 KLT.1162.	None
In that case, the order of suspension was challenged by the appellant by a writ petition in O. P. No. 485 of 1963 which was dismissed by Vaidialingam, J. Against that decision the appellant preferred an appeal which was dismissed by the Division Bench.	None
It was contended by the appellant that the only issue considered in that case was whether the appellant could be suspended before the charges were framed and the rule of res judicata was not applicable.	None
We shall assume in favour of the appellant that the question is not barred by res judicata.	None
Even so, we are of the opinion that there is no substance in the contention of the appellant that there was no valid institution of the disciplinary proceedings under R.4(1).	Reasoning
A persual of the order of the Government, Ex.	Reasoning
P1 would itself indicate that disciplinary proceedings had been initiated against the appellant.	Reasoning
Exhibit P1 reads as followsThe Government have received several petitions containing serious allegations of official misconduct against Sri S. Govinda Menon.	None
I. A. S., First Member, Board of Revenue, and formerly Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (Administration).	None
Preliminary enquires caused to be conducted into the allegations have shown prima facie, that the officer is guilty of corruption, nepotism and other irregularities of a grave nature.	None
The Kerala High Court had also occasion to comment on the conduct of the officer in their judgment in O. P. 2306/62 delivered on 12th February 1963.	None
The judgment begins with the observation thatthis case, if it has served little else, has served to expose a disquieting state of affairs regarding the disposal of valuable forest lands belonging to a religious institution known as the Sree Pulpally Devaswom of which I trust due notice will be taken by the competent authority in the interests of the public administration and preservation of our forest wealth no less than in the interests of this particular institution.	None
The judgment in the above case and the preliminary report of the XBranch Police have disclosed the following grave charges of the serious irregularity and official misconduct on the part of the accused officer.	None
The detailed enquiry into the charges by the XBranch is in progress.	None
The evidence in the case has to be collected from a large number of officers who are subordinate to the accused officer in his capacity as First Member of the Board of Revenue.	None
In the interest of the proper conduct of the enquiry it is necessary that the officer should not be allowed to continue in that post.	None
Having regard to the nature of the charges against the officer and the circumstances the proper course would be to place him under suspension.	None
Shri S. Govinda Menon, I. A. S. First Member, Board of Revenue, is therefore placed under suspension under R.7 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal)	None
R.1955 till the disciplinary proceedings initiated against him are completed.	None
A perusal of this document shows that the Government had accepted the proceedings taken in the matter until that date and had decided to go forward with the disciplinary proceedings.	None
In our opinion, there is no formal order necessary to initiate disciplinary proceedings under R.4(1) of the Rules and the order of the State Government under Ext.	Reasoning
P1 must be deemed to be an order under R.4(1) of the Rules initiating disciplinary proceedings.13.	Reasoning
It was lastly submitted that the order of suspension of the appellant dated March 8, 1963 is not in compliance with R.7 of the Rules which states7.	None
Suspension during disciplinary proceedings.	None
(1) If having regard to the nature of the charges and the circumstances in any case, the Government which initiates any disciplinary proceedings is satisfied that it is necessary or desirable to place under suspension the member of the Service against whom such proceedings are started that Government may(a) if the member of the Service is serving under H pass an order placing him under suspension, or It was pointed out that definite charges were framed on June 6,1963 and the Government had no authority to suspend the appellant before the date of framing charges.	None
Reference was made to R.5(2) which states5.	None
(2) The grounds on which it is proposed to take action shall be reduced to the form of a definite charge or charges, which shall be communicated to the member of the Service charged together with a statement of the allegations on which each charge is based and of any other circumstances which it is proposed to take into consideration in passing orders on the case.	None
It was argued by the appellant that the word charges which occurs in R.5(2) and R.7 should be given the same meaning and no order of suspension could be passed under R.7 before the charges are framed under R.5(2) against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think there is any substance in this argument.	None
R.5(2) prescribes that the grounds on which it is proposed to take action shall be reduced to the form of a definite charge or charges.	Reasoning
Under R.5(3) a member of the Service is required to submit a written statement of his defence to the charge or charges.	Reasoning
The framing of the charge under R.5(2) is necessary to enable the member of Service to meet the case against him.	Reasoning
The language of R.7(1) is however different and that rule provides that the Government may place a member of the Service under suspension having regard to the nature of the charge charges and the circumstances in any case if the Government is satisfied that it is necessary to place him under suspension.	Reasoning
In view of the difference of language in R.5(2) and R.7 we are of the opinion that the word charges in R.7(1) should be given a wider meaning as denoting the accusations or imputations against the member of the Service.	Reasoning
We accordingly reject the argument of the appellant on this aspect of the case.14.	Reasoning
For the reasons already expressed we hold that the appellant has made out no case for the grant of a writ of prohibition under Art.226 of the Constitution and the majority judgment of the High Court of Kerala dated January 5, 1966 is correct and this appeal must be dismissed.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case we do not make any order as to costs.15.	Decision
Dismissed.	None
