Anil R. Dave, J. Being aggrieved by the judgment delivered in Criminal Appeal No.1190 of 2002 by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad, dated 7th September, 2004, this appeal has been filed by the Shaik Bade accused no. 2, who has been convicted of the charges under the provisions of Section 302, 449 and 506(2) of the I.P.C.	Issue
The facts giving rise to this appeal in a nutshell are as underAround 7.00 p.m. on 20th December, 1995, when Madamsetti Venkateswara Rao Konda (deceased) alongwith Pinapati Yacob(PW10 and J. Ravi (PW19) was playing carom, accused A1 to A4 and A6, armed with knives, got into the 2nd floor of a house belonging to Vali (PW14).	Facts
A1 to A4 entered the room where the deceased, PW 1 and PW 19 were playing carom.	None
A6 stood near the door.	None
A1 to A4 stabbed the deceased indiscriminately and when the deceased fell down, A2 and A4 caught hold of the deceased whereas A1 and A3 cut the head of the deceased.	None
Then A1 carried the head of the deceased out of the room and A1, A2 and A3 went on a scooter to the house of Maddamsetti Siva Kumar (PW13) and threw the head in front of his house.3)	None
We are concerned with Shaik Bade A2 in this appeal.	None
A1 could not be traced as he was absconding and, therefore, against rest of the accused the trial was conducted.4) So far as A2 is concerned, on the basis of evidence led before the trial court, it was found that he had stabbed the deceased indiscriminately and when the deceased fell down, he had caught hold of the deceased along with A4 and while they were holding the deceased, A1 and A3 cut the head of the deceased so as to separate the same from his body.	None
Thereafter A1 to A3 went on a scooter with the head of the deceased to the house of PW13 and threw the head near his house.	None
The trial court had examined 23 witnesses, which also included eye witnesses.5)	Facts
At the end of the trial, after examining witnesses and considering the evidence adduced before the trial court, A2 to A4 were found guilty of offences under Sections 302 and 449 of the IPC whereas A2 and A3 were found to be guilty of offence u s 506(2) of the IPC.	None
A2 was sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and a fine of Rs.2000/ in default of payment of fine to suffer six months simple imprisonment for offence u s 302 of the IPC and similar punishment was inflicted for commission of offence u s 449 of the IPC.	None
For committing offence u s 506(2) of the IPC, he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 years and a fine of Rs.500/ in default of payment of fine to suffer one months simple imprisonment.	Facts
All the sentences were to run concurrently.6) Being aggrieved by the judgment and order of the trial court, A2, A3, A4 and A6 filed an appeal before the High Court and the High Court was pleased to acquit A4 and A6 whereas the appeal filed by A2 and A3 were dismissed.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the judgment and order confirming the conviction, A2 has filed this appeal.	Facts
Mr. Rishi Malhotra, learned counsel appearing for A2 submitted that the allegations against A2 and A4 are practically the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was alleged that both had stabbed the deceased along with A1 and A3 and thereafter A2 and A4 had held hands of the deceased so as to enable A1 and A3 to cut the head of the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
As A4 has been acquitted by the High Court, A2 should also have been acquitted.	None
By not acquitting A2, the High Court has committed an error and, therefore, the conviction of A2 should also be set aside.8)	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, the learned counsel submitted that A2 has been held guilty of committing offence under Section 149 read with Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, accused no.2 could not have been held guilty of Section 149 of the IPC for the reason that so as to make an unlawful assembly there must be an assembly of five or more persons and in the instant case, due to acquittal of respondent no.4, there would not be an assembly of five or more persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the circumstances, when A4 has been acquitted and when there were not five persons involved in the offence, there could not have been any unlawful assembly as defined under Section 149 of the IPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has relied upon the judgments delivered in case of Mohd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ankoos v. High Court of A.P., (2010) 1 SCC 94 and in the case of Nanak Chand vs. The State of Punjab, (1955) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 1201 to substantiate his case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, therefore, submitted that A2 could not have been convicted of an offence under section 149 of the I.P.C. With regard to the aforestated submission, we note that the basis on which the submission was made is not correct for the reason that A2 has not been convicted for an offence punishable u s 149 of the IPC by the trial court.	Arguments of Petitioner
As, there is no conviction on the above count, we do not deal with the aforestated submission and the judgments referred to hereinabove.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the State submitted that the order passed by the High Court convicting A2 is just, legal and proper and, therefore, the impugned order needs no interference by this Court.10)	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that there is ample evidence for conviction of A2.	None
He has referred to the eye witnesses to the offence, who had undergone lengthy cross examination and whose evidence was found to be reliable by the trial court as well as by the High Court.	None
He also referred to the recovery of a knife with blood stains at the instance of A2.	None
He also referred to the evidence which made it clear that A2 had committed an offence u s 449 of the IPC by committing housetrespass so as to commit an offence punishable with death and, in fact, murder of the deceased was committed by A2 in company of other accused.	None
Thus, the learned counsel for the State submitted that the order passed by the High Court does not require any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard learned counsel at length and have also gone through the records meticulously.	None
So far as the first submission with regard to giving different treatment to A2 and A4 is concerned, in our opinion, the submission made by the learned counsel appearing for A2 is not correct.	Reasoning
Allegation against A2 and A4 is that upon entering the premises of PW14 along with A1 and A3, they indiscriminately stabbed the deceased while the deceased was sitting and playing carom.	Reasoning
When the deceased fell down, A2 and A4 held hands of the deceased and at that time A1 and A3 removed the head of the deceased.	None
Thus, A2 and A4, along with A1 and A3 stabbed the deceased.	None
Thereafter, they caught hold of the deceased and A1 and A3 removed the head of the deceased.	None
At the instance of A4, his knife has been recovered.	None
According to the evidence, the knife which was alleged to have been used by A4 did not have any blood stain on it.	Reasoning
Version of the eye witnesses was to the effect that A4 had also stabbed the deceased.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that there was no blood on the knife which was alleged to have been used by A4, the High Court gave benefit of doubt to A4 and, therefore, A4 has been acquitted by the High Court.13) So far as A2 is concerned, there is evidence of eye witnesses to the effect that after entering the premises of PW14 along with others, he stabbed the deceased.	Reasoning
The knife (M.O.3) which has been recovered at the instance of A2 has blood stains on it.	Reasoning
Moreover, PW1, PW11, PW14 and PW19 have in unequivocal terms deposed having seen A2 with a knife.	None
Eye witnesses have clearly identified A2 when he was stabbing the deceased.	None
For the aforestated reasons, in our opinion, case of A4 cannot be compared with that of A2.	None
In any case, there is ample evidence against A2 which reveals that he was one of the persons who actively participated in the offence and, therefore, in our opinion the High Court did not commit any error while confirming conviction of A2.	None
We have gone through the evidence of PW1 who is one of the eye witnesses.	None
He has stated that A2 had entered the premises of PW14 and had started stabbing the deceased.	None
Similarly PW19, another eye witness has also adduced evidence to the effect that A2 had stabbed the deceased and when the deceased fell down he caught hold of hand of the deceased so as to enable A1 and A3 to cut the head of the deceased.	Reasoning
There is also evidence to the effect that after committing murder, A1 to A3 had left the premises on a scooter driven by A2 and his going on the scooter had witnessed by PW11.	Reasoning
The aforesaid evidence has been duly appreciated by the trial court and reappreciated by the High Court and both the courts have come to a conclusion with regard to guilt of A2.	Decision
We do not see any reason to have a different view than the one which has been taken by the trial court and confirmed by the High Court.16)	None
For the aforestated reasons, we do not see any reason to set aside the order convicting A2.	None
The appeal is, therefore, dismissed.	None
