Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J. The instant contempt petition has been filed by the applicant alleging that the consent order dated 3.5.2008 passed by the Lok Adalat held by this Court has wilfully and deliberately been violated by the respondents, as it has been ensured by them that the applicant may not reach his son.2.	Facts
Applicant herein got married with respondent No. 1 on 31.10.2002 at Ajmer (Rajasthan), though both of them had been married earlier and stood separated from their respective spouses after getting divorced.	Facts
Out of the said wedlock, one male child namely, Kislay was born at Ajmer in 2003.	Facts
Father of respondent No. 1 died on 9.1.2005 and soon thereafter relations between the parties became very strained and the respondent No. 1 returned to her mothers place at Ajmer.	Facts
She also filed FIR No. 43 of 2007 with Ajmer Police on 29.3.2007, wherein after investigation the charge sheet was filed on 31.12.2007.	Facts
The applicant herein, the husband filed H.M.A. Case No. 2 of 2008 at Gopalganj (Bihar) on 5.1.2008 seeking divorce.3.	Facts
After receiving the summons of the said matrimonial case, the respondent No. 1 approached this Court by filing Transfer Petition (Civil) No. 195 of 2008 seeking transfer of the said case from Gopalganj (Bihar) to the Family Court, Ajmer.	Facts
At the time of hearing of the transfer petition, this Courtvide order dated 31.3.2008 stayed the proceeding in matrimonial case pending at Gopalganj and referred the matter to Lok Adalat for disposal by mutual consent.	Facts
Before the Lok Adalat, the parties agreed to resolve all their disputes and for that the terms and conditions were reduced in writing.	None
This Courtvide order dated 3.5.2008 disposed of the transfer petition on the consent terms resolving all the civil and criminal cases pending between the parties and dissolved their marriage.4.	None
So far as the issue relating to custody of the child, Kislay, as per the said consent order is concerned, the following clauses are relevant As agreed between the parties, Dr. Anupma Tandon shall have the physical custody and guardianship of the child Master Kislay Ranjan who is at present four and a half years old.(ix) Dr. Ashish Ranjan and his parents shall have visiting rights to Master Kislay Ranjan who is at present living in Ajmer with his maternal grandparents.	Facts
Since Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents would have to come to Ajmer from Gopalganj at long distance, they would naturally advise about the dates and length of their visits at Ajmer before hand either by telephone or through a letter.(x)	Facts
In Ajmer, Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents will visit Master Kislay Ranjan at mutually convenient time(s) in the house where he is living.	Facts
They will stay with the child for a few hours or as long as the child might wish.	Facts
Dr. Anupma Tandon Stated before the Lok Adalat that while visiting Master Kislay Ranjan, Dr. Ashish Ranjan and his parents will be treated with Courtesy and dignity and she would do everything reasonable to facilitate their meeting with the child.	Facts
It will be open to Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents to bring suitable gifts for the child.(xi) To begin with, the meetings with the child will be held only in the house where he might be living with his maternal grandparents or his mother.	Facts
However, as confidence builds up between all concerned, including the child and as the child grows up and he himself wishes to go out with his father or grandparents, it will be open to Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents to take out the child in the city where he might be living initially for brief periods.(xii)	Facts
As the child further grows up and in case he expresses his willingness and consent to spend one or two nights with his father Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his grandparents, it will be open to Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents to take the child out from his residence for some period and to keep him with them for one or two nights in the same city.(xiii)	Facts
As and when the child reaches his teens and in case he is willing to spend some of his holidays or vacations with his father or grandparents away from the place where he might be living with her maternal grandparents or mother, it will be open to Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents to take the child out of Ajmer or the city he might be living in at that time for as long as the child might wish to stay with them during his holidays or vacations.(xiv)	Facts
On each occasion when Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents take away the child from his guardian, i.e., Dr. Anupma Tandon or his maternal grandparents, it will be their duty and obligation to take full care of the physical, mental and emotional wellbeing of the child while he remains with them and to return him to his mother maternal grandparents at the agreed time.	Facts
As and when the child is taken out from Ajmer, all the expenses of his travel and stay will be borne by Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents.(xv) Dr. Ashish Ranjan and or his parents will be at liberty to speak to Master Kislay Ranjan on telephone at convenient times.(xvi)	Facts
All these arrangements insofar as they relate to the child will be subject to the express wish and willingness of the child.	Facts
No visits to see him or taking him out would be permitted unless the child himself is willing and prepared to meet the father and the grandparents and is willing to go out with them.	Facts
To begin with, the meeting with the child will be held (sic.)5.	None
In order to substantiate his claim, a large number of documents have been placed on record by the applicant, particularly, several returned envelopes seeking visitation rights for the applicant in the year 2008, with endorsement of refusal or the addressee was not available.	Facts
Copies of Emails dated 24.6.2008, 17.9.2008 and 23.12.2008 intimating the respondent No. 3 in this respect have also been filed.	None
It has also been submitted that telephone calls made by the applicant were not attended by the respondent No. 1, as she had the facility of identifying the caller on her landline Telephone Set.	Facts
The applicant claims that he had gone to Ajmer in July 2008 to meet his son, Master Kislay, but the respondents ensured that he could not meet his son.	Facts
In view of the fact that the applicant could not receive any response for his proposal to meet the child, the applicant and his parents have to cancel the Ajmer visit scheduled on July 22, 2008.	Facts
On 10.9.2009, the applicant travelled along with his parents to Ajmer by car to see the child but they found the house of the respondent No. 2 locked and could not meet the child.6.	Facts
In this contempt petition, notice was issued by this Court on 15.1.2010.	Facts
The respondent entered appearance.	Facts
On 5.4.2010, the respondent No. 1 appeared in person.	Facts
After considering the grievances of the applicant, this Court passed the following order In terms of the earlier direction of this Court dated 3.5.2008, we pass the following orderIt is brought to our notice that at present the child Master Kislay Ranjan is studying in Sanskriti School, Ajmer.	Facts
The petitioner Dr. Ashish Ranjan is permitted to visit the above referred school from 12.7.2010 to 23.7.2010.	Facts
We request the Principal of the School to permit Dr. Ashish Ranjan and his parents to meet the child Master Kislay Ranjan after school hours in his her chamber or any suitable place within the school premises.	Facts
We also request the Principal to render all assistance for a conducive atmosphere and send a report to this Court about the behaviour and attitude of the child Master Kislay Ranjan towards his father Dr. Ashish Ranjan.	Facts
Copy of this order be forwarded to the Principal, Sanskriti School, Ajmer, Rajasthan.	None
List in the first week of August, 2010.	None
In pursuance to the aforesaid order, the applicant had gone to Ajmer and was allowed to meet his son at Sanskriti School, Ajmer.	Facts
The Principal of the said school has also submitted a report.	Facts
After perusing the same, this Courtvide order dated 13.9.2010 directed that both the parties alongwith the child, Master Kislay, would remain present before this Court on 22.10.2010.	Facts
On the said date, both of us had a long conversation with the child in Chambers and tried to know his mind and understand his views about the applicant.	Facts
We came to the conclusion that the matter required full hearing.	Facts
Hence, the matter came for final hearing.	Facts
Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned Counsel appearing for the applicant, has submitted that there is ample evidence on record to show that the consent order passed in the Lok Adalat has been violated by the respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mind of the child has been poisoned polluted and the child does not have any inclination towards his father because of the tutoring by the respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
The child had been taught not to pick up the phone.	Arguments of Petitioner
Respondent No. 2 is quite aged, seriously ill	Arguments of Petitioner
and it was one of the main grounds seeking transfer of the matrimonial case pending before Gopalganj Court (Bihar) by the respondent No. 1.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not in the interest welfare of the child to continue his education at Ajmer, as the respondent No. 1 lives and is working in U.P. Institute of Medical Sciences at Saifai, Dist.	Arguments of Petitioner
Etawah (U.P.).	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court must ensure the compliance of the right of visitation to his son given to the applicant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. V.K. Shukla, learned Counsel appearing for the respondents, has fairly conceded that the applicant has right of visitation and must be concerned about the welfare of the child.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the child is getting the best education at Ajmer, which should not be disturbed.	Arguments of Respondent
As the child himself is not inclined to talk to the applicant, he cannot be forced to have any communication meeting with the applicant.	Arguments of Respondent
None of the respondents has tutored the child.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicant has filed a writ petition No. 155 of 2009 before this Court seeking the relief, which has been sought in this petition, and the same stood dismissedvide order dated 29.9.2009.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, this petition itself is not maintainable and, thus, is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned Counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
This matter has been heard by us and we had an opportunity to talk to the parties, as well as to the child.	None
We are of the view that the applicant could not get the benefit of his visitation right under the final order passed by this Court on 3.5.2008, and, to certain extent, the respondents are responsible for tutoring the child as the conversation between the applicant and the child reveals many things which a child is not supposed to know understand at the tender age of 21/2 years.	None
Even in conversation with us, the child, Master Kislay, has narrated many things which could not be in his personal knowledge and which he could not say by his own memory.	None
During our conversation with the child we could clearly note that the child has been tutored by the respondents to make him completely hostile towards his father.	None
The submission made by Mr. Shukla, learned Counsel for the respondents, that the writ petition filed by the applicant seeking the same relief stood dismissed and thus, no relief can be granted to him, is preposterous.	None
It stood dismissed more than 15 months ago, wherein the applicant had appeared in person.	None
The niceties of law cannot come in the way of this Court while deciding an issue of such a delicate nature.	None
More so, the writ petition could not be maintainable for the relief sought herein.	None
Be that as it may, it is settled legal proposition that a party cannot be rendered remediless.	None
(See Rameshwar Lal v. Municipal Council, Tonk Ors., IV (1996) CLT 29 (SC)(1996) 6 SCC 100 ).	None
In Mohammad Idris Anr.	None
v. Rustam Jehangir Bapuji Ors., AIR 1984 SC 1826 and Y.N. Gangadhara Setty Ors.	None
v. Jaya Prakash Reddy, MD, Karnataka Cooperative Milk Products Federation, IX (2007)	None
SLT 795IV (2007) CLT 195 (SC)(2007) 14 SCC 434 , this Court held that even undergoing the punishment for contempt does not mean that the Court is not entitled to give appropriate directions to remedy and rectify the consequences of actions in violation of its orders.	None
In Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Company (P) Ltd. Anr., AIR 1996 SC 2005 , this Court held as under There is no doubt that the salutary rule has to be applied and given effect to by this Court, if necessary, by overruling any procedural or other technical objections.	None
Article 129 is a constitutional power and when exercised in tandem with Article 142, all such objections should give way.	None
The Court must ensure full justice between the parties before it.	None
Thus, it is evident from the above that a mere technicality cannot prevent the Court from doing justice in exercise of its inherent powers.	None
The power under Article 142 of the Constitution can be exercised by this Court to do complete justice between the parties, wherever it is just and equitable to do so and must be exercised to prevent any obstruction to the stream of justice.	None
In Rosy Jacob v. Jacob A. Chakramakkal, AIR 1973 SC 2090 , this Court (threeJudge Bench) considered the nature of custody of a minor under the provisions of Guardians and Wards Act, 1890 and application of doctrine of resjudicata estoppel in respect of the same and held as under The appellants argument based on estoppel and on the orders made by the Court under the Indian Divorce Act with respect to the custody of the children did not appeal to us.	None
All orders relating to the custody of the minor wards from their very nature must be considered to be temporary orders made in the existing circumstances.	None
With the changed conditions and circumstances, including the passage of time, the Court is entitled to vary such orders if such variation is considered to be in the interest of the welfare of the wards.	None
It is unnecessary to refer to some of the decided cases relating to estoppel based on consent decrees, cited at the bar.	None
Orders relating to custody of wards even when based on consent are liable to be varied by the Court, if the welfare of the wards demands variation.	None
The aforesaid judgment was reconsidered by this Court (twoJudge Bench) in Dhanwanti Joshi v. Madhav Unde, I (1988) DMC 1 (SC)(1998) 1 SCC 112 , and after quoting the ratio of the said judgment, held as under 21However, we may State that in respect of orders as to custody already passed in favour of the appellant the doctrine of res judicata applies and the Family Court in the present proceedings cannot reexamine the facts which were formerly adjudicated between the parties on the issue of custody or are deemed to have been adjudicated.	None
There must be proof of substantial change in the circumstances presenting a new case before the Court.	None
It must be established that the previous arrangement was not conducive to the childs welfare or that it has produced unsatisfactory results In Jai Prakash Khadria v. Shyam Sunder Agarwalla Anr., IV (2000)	None
SLT 586II (2000) CLT 212 (SC)AIR 2000 SC 2172 and Mausami Moitra Ganguli v. Jayant Ganguli, VII (2008)	None
SLT 419III (2008) CLT 276 (SC)AIR 2008 SC 2262 , this Court held that it is always permissible for the wards to apply for the modification of the order of the Court regarding the custody of the child at any stage if there is any change in the circumstances.	None
(See also Vikram Vir Vohra v. Shalini Bhalla, II (2010)	None
SLT 688II (2010) CLT 66 (SC)I (2010) DMC 524 (SC)(2010) 4 SCC 409 )	None
It is settled legal proposition that while determining the question as to which parent the care and control of a child should be given, the paramount consideration remains the welfare and interest of the child and not the rights of the parents under the statute.	Reasoning
Such an issue is required to be determined in the background of the relevant facts and circumstances and each case has to be decided on its own facts as the application of doctrine of stare decisis remains irrelevant insofar as the factual aspects of the case are concerned.	Reasoning
While considering the welfare of the child, the moral and ethical welfare of the child must also weigh with the Court as well as his physical wellbeing.	Reasoning
The child cannot be treated as a property or a commodity and, therefore, such issues have to be handled by the Court with care and caution with love, affection and sentiments applying human touch to the problem.	Reasoning
Though, the provisions of the special statutes which govern the rights of the parents or guardians may be taken into consideration, there is nothing which can stand in the way of the Court exercising its parens patriae jurisdiction arising in such cases.	Reasoning
(vide Gaurav Nagpal v. Sumedha Nagpal, IX (2008)	Reasoning
SLT 197I (2009) DMC 523 (SC)AIR 2009 SC 557 ).19.	Reasoning
Statutory provisions dealing with the custody of the child under any personal law cannot and must not supersede the paramount consideration as to what is conducive to the welfare of the minor.	Reasoning
In fact, no statute on the subject, can ignore, eschew or obliterate the vital factor of the welfare of the minor.	Reasoning
(vide Elizabeth Dinshaw v. Arvand M. Dinshaw, AIR 1987 SC 3 Chandrakala Menon v. Vipin Menon, I (1993)	Reasoning
DMC 135 (SC)(1993) 2 SCC 6 Nil Ratan Kundu Anr.	Reasoning
v. Abhijit Kundu, VI (2008)	Reasoning
SLT 785III (2008)	Reasoning
CLT 408 (SC)(2008) 9 SCC 413 Shilpa Aggarwal v. Aviral Mittal Anr., I (2010)	Reasoning
SLT 222I (2010) DLT (Crl.)	Reasoning
201 (SC)I (2010) CLT 196 (SC)I (2010) CCR 239 (SC)I (2010) DMC 362 (SC)(2010) 1 SCC 591 and Athar Hussain v. Syed Siraj Ahmed Anr., I (2010) SLT 76I (2010) CLT 11 (SC)(2010) 2 SCC 654 ).20.	Reasoning
In addition to the statutory provisions of the Contempt of Court Act, 1971 the powers under Articles 129 and 142 of the Constitution are always available to this Court to see that the order or undertaking which is violated by the contemnor is effectuated and the Court has all powers to enforce the consent order passed by it and also issue further directions orders to do complete justice between the parties.	Reasoning
Mutual settlement reached between the parties cannot come in the way of the well established principles in respect of the custody of the child and, therefore, a subsequent application for custody of a minor cannot be thrown out at the threshold being not maintainable.	Reasoning
It is a recurring cause because the right of visitation given to the applicant under the agreement is being consistently and continuously flouted.	Reasoning
Thus, doctrine of res judicata is not applicable in matters of child custody.21.	Reasoning
If the instant case is considered in totality taking into consideration the above referred judgments, we are of the view that in the facts and circumstances of the case, inference can be drawn that the rights of visitation given to the applicant by this Courtvide order dated 3.5.2008 stood completely frustrated and the respondents have ensured that the applicant may not reach his son and all attempts made by the applicant in this regard stood futile.	Reasoning
The mind of the child has been influenced to such an extent that he has no affection respect for the applicant.	Reasoning
In such a factsituation, we do not hesitate in holding that the respondents have deliberately and willingly violated the terms of the consent order and are guilty of committing the contempt of this Court.	None
However, imposing any punishment on the respondents would not serve any purpose, nor it would serve in a better way to the welfare of the child, Kislay.	None
The respondent No. 1 is serving at Saifai, Dist.	None
Etawah (U.P.) at a distance of about 500 kms.	Reasoning
from Ajmer and is certainly not in a position to take care of the child, Kislay.	Reasoning
The respondent No. 2 is quite aged lady who herself has been suffering from various ailments.	Reasoning
Therefore, interest welfare of the child, Kislay is not being taken care of at all.	Reasoning
A child of this age may not be able to learn family values, the importance of bonding or have interpersonal relationships, etc. if he gets inadequate opportunities for social inaction.	Reasoning
It is necessary for a child that he should be in regular contact of the noncustodial parent also.22.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, undoubtedly, the order dated 3.5.2008, so far as the custody of the child, Kislay, is concerned, has proved unworkable as the respondents succeeded in frustrating the same totally.	Reasoning
The child has been tutored by the respondents to the extent that he has no inclination towards the applicant father.	Reasoning
The respondents have ensured that all efforts of the applicant or his parents to meet the child turned futile.	Reasoning
The child, Kislay, has been instructed not to pick up the phone, so that even by chance he may not hear the voice of the applicant or his parents.	None
In such a charged hostile atmosphere, it is beyond ones imagination that the other terms conditions incorporated in the order dated 3.5.2008, that the applicant may take out the child to another city or stay with the child for few nights in the same city, would be complied with.	None
More so, further, Clause No. (XV) of the order, that the applicant or his parents would be at liberty to talk to the child on telephone has never been observed as all attempts made by the applicant in this regard have failed.	None
The child, Kislay, has been tutored by the respondents and he has adopted an hostile attitude towards the applicant.	None
In such a factsituation, where circumstances have substantially changed subsequent to the order dated 3.5.2008, due to noncompliance of the terms of compromise order, the applicant is fully justified seeking review modification of the said order.	None
The issue raised herein being a pure question of fact requires to be examined by an appropriate Forum taking into consideration all the factual and legal aspects.	None
Thus, in view of the above, we dispose of the contempt petition giving liberty to the applicant to approach the appropriate Court Forum for seeking custody of the child, Kislay, or any other appropriate relief in this regard.	Decision
In case, such a petition is filed, the Court concerned is requested to proceed and dispose of the same in accordance with law, without being influenced by the consent order dated 3.5.2008 or dismissal order of the writ petition dated 29.9.2009 passed by this Court regarding the custody and visiting rights of the parties towards the child, most expeditiously.	Decision
Needless to say that the Court concerned would proceed with the case, if any, without taking note of any observation made hereinabove in this judgment as we have expressed no opinion on merit on the issue of custody.	None
