 Gajendragadkar, CJ.	None
1.	None
This is a group of seven appeals which arise from an industrial dispute between the appellants, the Ahmedabad Mill Owners Association, Ahmedabad, and 67 employers on the one hand, and the respondent, the Textile Labour Association, Ahmedabad, on the other.	Facts
This dispute was referred by the Government of Gujarat to the Industrial Court, Gujarat, under Section 73 of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 (No. XI of 1947) (hereinafter called the Act).	Facts
In making the order of reference, the Government stated that it was satisfied that the industrial dispute in question was not likely to be settled by other means.	Facts
The dispute itself consisted of three questions.	Facts
These questions have been thus stated in the reference(1) Whether under the award of the Industrial Court, Bombay, dated the 2nd March, 1950, in Reference (IC) No. 189 of 1949 (as subsequently modified) read with award of the Industrial Court dated the 27th April, 1948, in Revision Petition No. Misc.	Facts
1 of 1947, the Ahmedabad Millowners Association and the employers mentioned in the Annexure are bound to pay dearness allowance to their employees on the Consumer Price Index Numbers for working class for Ahmedabad published by the State Government since February, 1964, by using the index numbers in the series for Ahmedabad compiled by the Labour Bureau, Simla, and the linking factor of 3.17 adopted for linking that series to the State series with the old base (2)	Facts
If not, whether the said Ahmedabad Millowners Association and the employers mentioned in the Annexure should pay dearness allowance to their employees for March, 1964 and subsequent months in terms of the aforesaid awards, by treating the index numbers for working class for Ahmedabad published by the State Government since February, 1964, as the index numbers in the State series compiled on the basis of the family budget survey made in 192627 (3) If not, how the dearness allowance to the aforesaid employees for March, 1964 and onwards should be paid on the index numbers for Ahmedabad published by the State Government since February.	Facts
1964 2.	None
The Industrial Court has answered the first question in favour of the appellants, whereas the two remaining questions have been answered in favour of the respondent.	Facts
In the result, the appellants have been directed to pay dearness allowance to their employees for the month of March, 1964 and for subsequent months on the consumer price index numbers for working class for Ahmedabad published by the State Government since February, 1964, (by using the index numbers in the series for Ahmedabad complied by the Labour Bureau, Simla, and the linking factor of 3.17 adopted for linking that series to the State series with the old base) at the rate of 2.84 pies per day for rise of each point in the cost of living index number over the prewar figure 73.	Facts
The Industrial Court has further directed that as per the award in Miscellaneous Application (ICG) No. 1 of 1960, 75 per cent of the average dearness allowance of the first six months of 1959, i.e., Rs. 63159 per month of 26 working days, shall be consolidated with the basic wage and the difference between the dearness allowance as worked out as indicated and the said sum of Rs. 63159 shall be continued to be paid as dearness allowance.	Facts
The other terms and conditions in regard to payment of wages, including the dearness allowance, shall continue as under the existing award.	Facts
The Industrial Court has made it clear that these directions should be given effect to from 1st of January, 1965 and the difference between what is paid and what has become payable under the present award shall be paid on or before April 30, 1965.	Facts
It appears that before the Industrial Court an agreement had been reached between the Fine Knitting Co. Ltd. of Ahmedabad and the Textile Labour Association, and the award has, therefore, provided that the directions issued by it shall apply only to the spinning department of the Knitting Co. and not to the hosiery department.	Facts
It is against this award that the appellants have come to this Court by special leave.	Facts
On January 5, 1965, while granting special leave to the appellants, this Court directed that the statements of the case should be dispensed with and the appeals be listed for hearing in the week commencing March 8, 1965.	Facts
That is how these appeals have now come for final disposal before us.	Facts
3.	None
Before dealing with the points raised by the appellants in these appeals, it is necessary to set out somewhat elaborately the previous history of the present dispute.	None
The story about the payment of dearness allowance to textile industrial employees at Ahmedabad takes us back to the time when the Second World War broke out in September, 1939.	None
As is well known, as a result of the said War, the cost of living shot up and in consequence, the industrial employees at Ahmedabad who had organised themselves as the Textile Labour Association.	None
Ahmedabad, raised a demand for payment of dearness allowance.	None
This demand became the subjectmatter of arbitration by the Industrial Court at Bombay (Case No. 1 of 1940).	None
The Industrial Court had to consider, inter alia, two major questions the first was as to what was the extent of the rise in the cost of living consequent upon the Second World War and the second was as to the extent and manner in which the said rise in the cost of living should be neutralised by the payment of dearness allowance.	None
The Industrial Court examined the matter at great length and came to the conclusion that for the purpose of determining the quantum of dearness allowance to be paid to the employees, it would be reasonable to rely on the working class budget inquiry which had been conducted by the Government of Bombay between August, 1926 and July, 1927.	None
Another similar inquiry had been conducted by the same Government in 193335, but the Industrial Court preferred to base its conclusions on the first inquiry.	None
On the basis of the cost of living index taken as 100 for the base year 192627, the index for August, 1939 which stood at 73 was accepted as datum index, so that the rise in cost of living over the datum index of 73 had to be neutralised by payment of dearness allowance to the employees.	None
4. Having reached this conclusion on the first question, the Industrial Court examined the problem as to the extent and method by which the rise in the cost of living should be neutralised.	None
On this question, its conclusion was that for 11 points rise (which is equivalent to a rise of 15 per cent) in the cost of living for the month of December, a cash relief to the extent of 10 per cent of the average wage.	None
i.e. Rs. 380 per employee should be awarded for the month of December and a similar relief proportionately determined should be awarded for other months.	None
It was urged before the Industrial Court that relief could be granted to the employees in kind rather than in cash but this contention was negatived by the Court, though it expressed a hope that the employers should start cost price grain shops at convenient centres for the benefit of the employees.	None
That, in substance, is the result of the proceedings in Case No. 1 of 1940.	None
It is with the decision of this dispute that the story about the payment of dearness allowance under an award began in Ahmedabad in respect of textile labour.	None
It appears that as a result of this award, 66 2/3 per cent neutralisation was allowed.	None
5.	None
This award continued to be in operation till September, 1941.	None
On August 12, 1941, an agreement was entered into between the appellants and the respondent by which it was resolved that the dearness allowance to be paid to the employees in the member Mills of the appellant Association be raised by 45 per cent from the month of July, 1941, and in accordance with this agreement, an award was made by the Industrial Court on September 15, 1941.	None
As a result of this award, neutralisation came to be effected to the extent of 96 per cent on the average wage over the prewar cost of living index of 73 in August, 1939, and to that extent the respondent gained.	None
We have already noticed that the neutralisation which was effected by the earlier award was 66 2/3 per cent.	None
6.	None
Two years thereafter, the appellant Association filed a petition (No. 1 of 1943) for a substantial reduction in the quantum of dearness allowance.	None
It urged that in the year 1943, the textile industry at Ahmedabad has suffered considerable loss in its profits, and so, it was necessary that the dearness allowance fixed by the consent award should be reduced.	None
When the matter was considered by the Industrial Court, it was discovered that the claim made by the appellant Association was not substantiated by sufficient or satisfactory data in the form of published balancesheets for the year 1943.	None
The Industrial Court, therefore, refused to interfere with the award, but permitted the appellant Association to raise the same dispute in April, 1944 if it thought necessary to do so.	None
No such application was, however, made by the appellant Association in 1944, with the result that the consent award passed on September 15, 1941, continued to be in operation.	None
7.	None
The said consent award had provided that the member mills were to pay the dearness allowance prescribed by it till the termination of the Second World War and so, as soon as the war came to an end, the member mills stopped the payment of dearness allowance with effect from May 8, 1945.	None
The respondent then filed Petition No. 1 of 1945 before the Industrial Court asking for a direction against the appellant Association for payment of the dearness allowance on the same scale as was then prevailing for three months after May 8, 1945.	None
This prayer was granted by the Industrial Court.	None
That is how matters stood as a result of the order passed on Petition No. 1 of 1945.	None
8.	None
Meanwhile, the respondent gave a notice of change on May 20, 1945 and demanded continuance of the payment of dearness allowance until the working class cost of living index for Ahmedabad stood above 73.	None
It suggested that quantum of dearness allowance should be related to the cost of living index as awarded by the Industrial Court Award, dated the 26th April 1940, and revised by the subsequent Award, dated the 15th September 1941.	None
While making this demand, the respondent made it clear that this demand was made without prejudice to the claim of the employees for a revision in the entire wage structure.	None
It appears that during the course of these proceedings, it was urged before the Industrial Court that he rise in the cost of living should be computed not with reference to the index figure of 73 in August, 1939, but with reference to the figure of 100 in 192627.	None
This contention was, however, rejected by the Industrial Court.	None
By its award, the Industrial Court directed that neutralisation should be effected to the extent of 76 per cent.	None
As a result of this decision, the Court awarded Rs. 4 for 11 points rise in the cost of living index.	None
9.	None
In 1946, the respondent moved for the revision of the said award (Revision Petition No. 1 of 1946).By this revision petition the respondent claimed that the rise in the cost of living should be neutralised fully instead of 76 per cent, and the claim was based on the allegation that the profits of the textile industry had maintained a high level and the reduction in the extent of neutralisation from 96 per cent to 76 per cent in the award of the previous year had adversely affected the employees and they had in fact begun to leave the industry.	None
It may be pointed out that on all these occasions, the appellant Association urged before the Industrial Court that the average monthly income and expenditure of the textile employees in Ahmedabad left surplus with them and the need for neutralising the rise in cost of living was not as much as was sought to be made out by the respondent.	None
This contention has, however, been consistently rejected by the Industrial Court .	None
Even so, the claim made by the respondent for increasing the extent of neutralisation was rejected by the Industrial Court, liberty being reserved to both the parties to approach the Court with a request for continuance or revision of the allowance at the end of seven months.	None
10.	None
As soon as seven months expired, the respondent filed a Revision Petition (No. 1 of 1947) before the Industrial Court on March 8, 1947.	None
By this petition, the respondent renewed its claim for an increase in the dearness allowance.	None
Meanwhile, the minimum wage for textile employees in Bombay had been fixed at Rs. 30 and dearness allowance was awarded to them with the object of neutralising the rise in the cost of living to the extent of 90 per cent on the minimum wage of Rs. 30.	None
Taking advantage of the fact that the minimum wage for textile employees in Bombay had been fixed at Rs. 30, the appellant Association urged that there was no occasion to increase the rate of dearness allowance because the wages of the employees had already been increased under the standardization scheme which had been adopted in Ahmedabad.	None
Alternatively, the appellant Association contended that if the Court was inclined to revise the dearness allowance it should follow the same formula as in Bombay and provide for neutralisation at the most at 90 per cent on the minimum wages of Rs. 28 in Ahmedabad.	None
This contention was, however, rejected by the Industrial Court.	None
By its award, the Court directed that the rise in the cost of living over prewar level of 73 in the case of the lowest paid employee should be neutralised to the extent of 100 per cent and all employees earning Rs. 150 or less a monthl should be paid at a flat rate.	None
On arithmetical calculation, it was found that this rate came to 2. 84 pies per day for rise of each point in the cost of living index number over the prewar figure.	None
11.	None
The appellant Association issued a notice on October 31, 1949, purporting to terminate this award with effect from 1st January 1950.	None
The ground for terminating the award set out by the appellant Association in its notice was that the textile industry in Ahmedabad was passing through a crisis and that certain mills were completely closed down while others were partially closing down.	None
It appears that about that time, the Central Government acting in pursuance of the recommendations made by the Tariff Board, directed a 4 per cent cut in exmill cloth prices and that, according to the appellant Association, led to a crisis in the financial affairs of the textile industry at Ahmedabad.	None
It was also alleged in the notice that though the prices fixed were uniform, the dearness allowance paid was not uniform and that the member mills of the appellant Association were paying Rs. 1540 more per month per employee in dearness allowance at Ahmedabad as compared to that paid to the textile employees in Bombay.	None
Arithmetical calculation showed that as a result of this extra payment, the Ahmedabad mills had to bear an additional burden of Rs. 238 lakhs in 1949 as compared to the burden borne by the Bombay textile mills.	None
12.	None
Before the notice thus issued by the appellant Association came into force, the respondent gave a notice of change to the mills to continue to pay the dearness allowance according to the existing award and since no settlement could be reached between the parties, a reference was made to the Industrial Court.	None
As a result of these proceedings, however, neither party scored a victory, and the award directed that payment of the dearness allowance should be made in accordance with the orders passed in Revision Petition No. 1 of 1947.	None
Since the date when this order was made, the terms of the award in Revision Petition No. 1 of 1947 have been in operation between the parties.	None
13.	None
Meanwhile, the Central Wage Board for the Cotton Textile Industry was constituted.	None
One of the points which the Wage Board had to consider was the demand made by the employees for consolidating a part of the dearness allowance in the basic wage.	None
The Wage Board recommended that 75 per cent of the dearness allowance should be consolidated in the basic wage, and the remaining 25 per cent should bear a flexible character.	None
The Board also made other recommendations which are not relevant for our purpose.	None
In consequence of the recommendation made by the Board as to the consolidation of the dearness allowance, an agreement was reached between the appellant Association and the respondent, as a result of which a joint application (No. 1 of 1960) was made by both the parties under S. 116A of the Act and on his joint application an award by consent was passed directing that 75 per cent of the average dearness allowance of the first 6 months of 1959 which is Rs. 63159 p.m. of 26 working days should be consolidated with the basic wage, and the balance of the dearness allowance should be paid as worked out on the existing basis.	Facts
That is how matters then stood between the parties.	None
14.	None
It appears that about this time, there was a growing feeling amongst both the employers and the employees that the different series of consumer price index compiled and published in India were not very satisfactory and some of them had become obsolete.	None
In the Second Five Year Plan, it was, therefore, recommended that it was desirable that steps should be taken simultaneously with the undertaking of wage census to institute enquiries for the revision of the present series of cost of living indices at different centres.	None
According to the recommendation made by the Planning Commission Report the Labour Bureau, Simla, and the Central Statistical Organisation of the Government of India took steps to conduct fresh family living surveys among working class and middle class population respectively with a view to construct the new series of consumer price index numbers.	None
The working class surveys were conducted at 50 selected centres and the middle class surveys at 45 centres, 18 centres being common to both.	None
The work of these surveys was commenced in the second half of 1958 and was concluded by September, 1959.	None
One of the centres selected for this survey was Ahmedabad.	None
The Government of India began to publish consumerprice index number for the City of Ahmedabad, having index number 100 for the base year 1960.	None
The publication of these series naturally raised the problem of arriving at a linking factor between the present series published by the State Government and the new series published by the Government of India.	None
The Government of India considered this problem and indicated that 2.98 would be a proper linking factor.	None
This figure was arrived at as a result of taking the annual average of the monthly index number of the State series for 1960 which then stood at 298.	None
For the base year of 1960, the figure of the new series was 100 and the linking factor was, therefore, taken at 2.98. 15.	None
It then appeared clear that there were several anomalies in regard to the collection of prices in the State series.	None
Some of the items which were specified in such series had ceased to exist, whereas quotation for one major item, viz., house rent, allowance, had been frozen for many years.	None
After the Government of India began to publish its new series, it advised the Government of Gujarat to stop publishing its old series and publish the converted index in its place.	None
The Government of India thought that it would be unjust to the employees if the conversion were allowed to take place without removing anomalies of the State series.	None
16.	None
Faced with this problem, the Government of Gujarat set up an expert Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. M. B. Desai.	None
The terms of reference of this Committee were thus formulated (1) to examine the validity of the submissions and representations made to Government and to make recommendations as to whether any readjustment is necessary in the existing series for Ahmedabad published by the State Government, and if so, what readjustment should be made 2. to consider how the new series of Consumer Price Index Numbers for Ahmedabad should be linked with the existing series, so readjusted if found necessary and in so considering, to take into consideration the factor that the period of family budget enquiry on which the new series for Ahmedabad is based is different from the base period for the said new series.	None
The said Committee made a fairly exhaustive investigation, and made two main recommendations.	None
The first recommendation involved an addition of 19 points in the overall price index in the State series and the same was fixed at 317 instead of 298 as it stood when the new series and its base period were decided upon.	None
The other recommendation which it made was that the conversion or the linking factor should be 3.17 as against 2.98 per point in the new series.	None
17.	None
The Government of Gujarat accepted the first recommendation and revised the index number for the month of November, 1963, by adding 19 points to the figure originally released by it and stated that its existing series would be adjusted month to month by the addition of 19 points for adjusting the index for clothing and house rent groups as recommended by the Expert Committee.	None
In regard to the second recommendation, the Government took the view that it was necessary to continue publication of the current series to permit industry and labour time to have necessary modifications in the existing agreements, settlements an awards made to link up the dearness allowance with the new series published by the Labour Bureau, Simla.	None
This decision was announced by the Government by a Press Note on January 31, 1964.	None
18.	None
When this decision of the Government of Gujarat was announced, the appellant Association found that it entailed considerable additional burden on the textile industry even so, it advised its member mills to pay the dearness allowance according to the adjusted consumer price index number by adding 19 points for the month of January, 1964 under protest.	None
This protest was expressed by the President of the appellant Association by issuing a press communique criticising the Government for its unilateral and hefty decision in the matter.	None
19.	None
On February 29, 1964, the Government of Gujarat issued another Press Note by which it accepted the second recommendation made by the Expert Committee to take the linking factor at 317 instead of 298.	None
The Press Note shows that this decision was reached by the Government of Gujarat in accordance with the advice received from the Government of India.	None
In consequence of this decision, the Government of Gujarat discontinued publication of the cost of living index number of its 192627 numbers from January, 1964.	None
This decision of the Government raised a storm of protest from the appellant Association.	None
A general meeting of the members of the appellant Association was held on March 30, 1964, and it passed a resolution to the effect that the discontinuance of the publication of the cost of living index by the Government of Gujarat made it impossible for the appellant Association to comply with the terms of the existing award in respect of the payment of dearness allowance in the manner prescribed by the award and so, the appellant Association advised its members to pay to their employees dearness allowance for the month of March, 1964 calculated on the basis of the last published index number for the month of December, 1963 in the States 192627 series and to continue to pay dearness allowance for succeeding months on the basis of the same index number till such time as the Government of Gujarat resumed publication of index numbers in the said series.	Facts
According to the appellant Association, as a result of the decision of the Government of Gujarat, an unbearable burden would be imposed on the members of the appellant Association in the matter of dearness allowance and so, it was not prepared to accept that decision.	None
20.	None
When the appellant Association adopted this attitude, the Secretary of the respondent Association expressed his profound sorrow at the decision of the appellant Association, and by the letter addressed to the appellant Association on April 3, 1964, he requested the members of the appellant Association to pay dearness allowance to their employees according to the converted number published by the Government of Gujarat.	None
This letter was accompanied by a resolution passed by the respondent Association in which it set forth its version of the financial position of the members of the appellant Association and the justice of the claim made by the employees for the payment of dearness allowance in accordance with the decision of the Government of Gujarat.	None
The appeal thus made by the Secretary of the respondent Association did not, however receive any sympathetic response from the appellant Association and that made it necessary for the Government of Gujarat to refer the present dispute to the Industrial Court at Gujarat under S. 73 of the Act.	None
That, broadly stated is the background and the previous history of the present dispute.	None
21.	None
At the hearing of the present reference before the Industrial Court, the appellants had urged preliminary objection against the competence of the present reference.	None
They contended that the reference under S. 73 of the Act was invalid, because, before making the reference, the requirements of S. 42 of the Act had not been complied with.	None
The argument was that, in substance, the reference relates to a change in the term of the award binding between the parties, and for effecting such a change, the procedure prescribed by S. 42 and the other sections in Chapter VIII of the Act has to be complied with.	None
It is common ground that the said procedure has not been followed and the Government of Gujarat has made the present reference in exercise of the power conferred on it by S. 73.	None
The Industrial Court has rejected the appellants contention and has held that the reference is valid.	None
Mr. Setalvad for the appellants has urged before us that the view taken by the Industrial Court is not justified by the terms of S. 73 read along with S. 42 of the Act.	None
22.	None
The Act was passed by the Bombay Legislature in 1947.	None
It purports to regulate the relations of employers and employees, to make provision for settlement of industrial disputes, and to provide for certain other purposes.	None
It is a comprehensive piece of legislation and it makes elaborate provisions for the regulation of relations between employers and employees and for the settlement of disputed between them.	None
Section 42 of the Act provides for a notice of change.	None
It is unnecessary to cite the provisions of the said section, because for the purpose of dealing with the point raised by Mr. Setalvad, it would be enough if we state the sum and substance of S. 42 (1) and (2).	None
Section 42 (1) provides that if an employer intends to effect any change in respect of an industrial matter specified in Schedule II, he will have to give notice of such intention in the prescribed form to the representative of employees.	None
Similarly, S. 42 (2) provides that if an employee desires a change in respect of an industrial matter not specified in Schedule I or III, he shall give notice in the prescribed form to the employer through the representative of employees.	None
Mr. Setalvad relies on the fact that Entry 9 in Schedule II relates to wages including the period and mode of payment, and he points out that the definition of wage prescribed by S. 3 (39) includes dearness allowance.	None
His case is that the present dispute falls under Schedule II, Entry 9, and if the employees had intended to make a change in the existing award in relation to the payment of dearness allowance, it would have been necessary for them to take action as prescribed by S. 42 (2).	None
Since it is common ground that no notice of change has been given by the respondent, it is urged that the reference made by the Government of Gujarat under S. 73 of the Act is invalid.	None
It would be noticed that this argument assumes that the provisions of S. 42 would govern the provisions of S. 73.	None
The question is is this assumption wellfounded?	None
23.	None
Let us then read S. 73 it reads thus Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government may, at any time, refer an industrial dispute to the arbitration of the Industrial Court, if on a report made by the Labour Officer or otherwise it is satisfied that  (1) by reason of the continuance of the dispute  (a) a serious outbreak of disorder or a breach of the public peace is likely to occur (b) serious or prolonged hardship to a large section of the community is likely to be caused or (c) the industry concerned is likely to be seriously affected or the prospects and scope for employment therein curtailed or (2) the dispute is not likely to be settled by other means or (3) it is necessary in the public interest to do so.	None
On a fair reading of S. 73, it is plain that it deals with the power of the State Government to make a reference and as such, it is difficult to assume that the said powers of the State Government are intended to be controlled by the provisions of S. 42.	None
Section 42 prescribes the procedure which has to be followed by the employer and the employee respectively if either of them wants a change to be effected as contemplated by it.	None
The scheme of S. 42 read along with the other provisions in Ch. VIII clearly shows that the said Chapter can have no application to cases where the State Government itself wants to make a reference.	None
That is the first consideration which militates against the construction which Mr. Setalvad suggests.	None
24.	None
The opening clause in S. 73 also unambiguously indicates that the power of the State Government to make a reference will not be controlled by any other provision contained in the Act.	None
This clause plainly repels the argument that the provisions of S. 42 should be read as controlling the provisions of S. 73.The meaning of the nonobstante clause is clear and it would be idle to urge that the requirements of S. 42 must be satisfied before the power under S. 73 can be invoked by the State Government.	None
25.	None
It is, however, urged that the power conferred on the State Government by S. 73 is the power to refer an industrial dispute to the arbitration of the Industrial Court, and there can be no industrial dispute unless a notice of change has been given either by the employer or the employee.	Reasoning
In other words, the argument is that unless a notice of change is given as required by S. 42, no industrial dispute can be said to arise between the employer and his employee, and that is how S. 42 governs S. 73.If it was the true legal position that there can be no industrial dispute between an employer and his employee unless a notice of change is given by either of them, there would have been some force in this contention but the definition of the words industrial dispute does not justify the assumption that its only a notice of change that brings into existence an industrial dispute.	Reasoning
Section 3 (17) of the Act defines an industrial dispute as meaning any dispute or difference between an employer and employee or between employers and employees or between employees and employees and which is connected with any industrial matter.	Reasoning
This definition is so wide and comprehensive that it would be impossible to accept the argument that it introduces the limitation suggested by Mr. Setalvad.	Reasoning
Even if an award is subsisting between the parties but a difference arises between them, as in the present case, it is not easy to hold that the said difference does not amount to an industrial dispute for the purpose of S. 73 merely because notice of change has not been given either by the employer or the employee.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are satisfied that the dispute which has been referred by the Government of Gujarat in the present case must be treated as an industrial dispute, notwithstanding the fact that S. 42 has not been complied with either by the appellant or by the respondent.	Reasoning
26.	None
It is true that the power conferred on the State Government to make a reference is not absolute or unqualified.	Reasoning
It can be exercised only if one or the other of the conditions specified by subs.	Reasoning
(1), (2) or (3) of S. 73 is satisfied.	Reasoning
But once the State Government comes to the conclusion that one or the other of the said conditions is satisfied, its power to make a reference is not limited to cases where notice of change has been given by the parties as required by S. 42.	Reasoning
It is an overriding power which is intended to be exercised to avoid anomalies or other serious consequences which would flow in case the Government does not make an immediate reference.	Reasoning
The requirements prescribed by subss.	Reasoning
(1), (2) and (3) of S. 73 indicate the types of cases which are intended to be referred without requiring the parties to take recourse to S. 42.In the present case, the Government of Gujarat was satisfied that the dispute was not likely to be settled by other means, and so, it made the present reference.	Reasoning
Therefore, we do not think there is any substance in the argument that the reference is bad, because S. 42 has not been complied with.	Reasoning
The terms of S. 73 are plain and unambiguous and they leave no doubt that the power of the State Government to make the reference is not at all controlled by the requirements of S. 42.	Reasoning
27.	None
On principle the conferment of this power seems to be fully justified.	Reasoning
It as a result of a dispute between the employer and his employees, a serious outbreak of disorder or a break of the public peace is likely to occur, or a serious or prolonged hardship to a large section of the community is likely to be caused, or the industry concerned is likely to be affected adversely, it would be idle to require that even in the face of such a serious danger, the procedure prescribed by S. 42 must be followed before reference can be made under S. 73.The very nature of the conditions prescribed by subss.	Reasoning
(1), (2) and (3) of S. 73 emphasises the fact that the said conditions refer to categories or cases or types of occasions on which reference has to be made promptly and immediately, and that explains the conferment of the wide powers on the State Government as prescribed by S. 73.We are, therefore, satisfied that the Industrial Court was right in coming to the conclusion that the preliminary objection raised by the appellants against the competence of the present reference was misconceived.	Reasoning
It appears that a similar view has been expressed by the Bombay High Court in Suryaprakash Weaving Factory v. Industrial Court 52, Bom LR 902 (AIR 1951 Bom 16 ).	Reasoning
28.	None
That takes us to the merits of the controversy between the parties in the present appeals.	None
Let us begin by briefly indicating the broad contentions raised by the appellants before the Industrial Court and its findings on them which are relevant for the purpose of the present appeals.	None
The first contention which was urged before the Industrial Court was that the family living survey which was conducted by the Labour Bureau, Simla, in 195859 was unreliable, because the sample survey on which it was based was inadequate, and the interview method which was adopted in conducting it was unsatisfactory.	None
It was also contended that the linking factor at 3.17 which had been adopted by the Government of Gujarat was unscientific and irrational and that the scientific and rational way to deal with the problem presented by the new consumer price index recently adopted by the Government of Gujarat would be to devise a scheme of dearness allowance afresh, taking the present basic salary as a base, and relating it to the changing price pattern from month to month with the base year 1960100.	None
The appellants case in respect of this aspect of the matter was that for the purpose of fixing the dearness allowance, the basic salary should be taken to be the total amount which is paid to the lowestpaid employee after consolidating 75 per cent of the dearness allowance in the basic wage.	None
That amount, it is said, represents the true basic wage today.	None
In the alternative, it was suggested that if it is intended to correlate the present prevailing wage structure, including the scheme of payment of dearness allowance, by making suitable adjustments required by the change in the level of prices in the light of the new consumer price index with the same base year, it would be more rational and scientific to watch the behaviour of prices for two or three years and then devise a linking factor on the average rise in prices during the said period.	None
The appellants also emphasised the fact that before the Industrial Court accepts the new arrangement on the basis of the linking factor of 3.17 it is essential to examine their payment capacity, and in this connection, they strongly urged that the burden which, would be imposed on them by the new scheme would be plainly beyond their capacity.	None
29.	None
The validity of these contentions was strenuously disputed by the respondent.	None
It urged that the sample survey was conducted on rational and scientific lines and it did not suffer from any infirmity at all.	None
It further argued that the attempt to construct a new wage structure by making the basic salary with 75 per cent of the consolidated dearness allowance as the basis with 1960100 as the base year, would be beyond the terms of reference, and it would besides, create many problems and complications.	None
According to the respondent, the basic salary still continues to he what it was before, though for practical purposes 75 per cent of the dearness allowance has been consolidated with it.	None
The respondent seriously challenged the appellants case that the operation of the linking factor was either unscientific, unreasonable or unjust and the appellants theory that the average rise in prices should be determined after watching the behaviour of price for two or three years, was characterised by the respondent as unreasonable, inexpedient and unscientific.	None
The respondent emphatically contended before the Industrial Court that the appellants financial position was perfectly sound and the argument that the burden would be beyond their capacity is wholly untenable.	None
30.	None
During the course of hearing before the Industrial Court, the appellants examined two Experts, Mr. Gokhale and Mr. Chokshi.	None
They also led voluminous documentary evidence.	None
The respondent filed detailed statements disputing the correctness of the pleas taken by the appellants, and in support of them, they filed several charts which were prepared from the balancesheets of the appellants themselves.	None
Both parties referred to the opinions expressed by several writers on the subject of the preparation of consumer price index and on other matters which became relevant for the decision of the present dispute.	None
Broadly stated, the Industrial Court has rejected all the contentions raised by the appellants.	None
It has found that the recent survey was conducted under the advice and guidance of a technical advisory committee of a high order and that the work of carrying on the survey had scrupulously followed the relevant recommendations made by the International Labour Office and the United Nations.	None
The Industrial Court did not accept the contention of the appellants that the sample size was inadequate or had vitiated the quality of the survey.	None
It held that the method of inquiry adopted by the Investigators who conducted the survey was by no means unsatisfactory or unscientific, and in its opinion, having regard to the local conditions, it was indeed the most feasible and satisfactory way to adopt.	None
The adoption of the interview method did not, in the opinion of the Industrial Court, introduce any infirmity in the survey.	None
The Industrial Court was thus not satisfied that the compilation of the consumer price index number by the Labour Bureau, Simla, for the city of Ahmedabad was not proper or was unscientific or suffered from any major infirmity.	None
31.	None
In regard to the question of the linking factor on which both parties addressed the Industrial Court elaborately, the Court considered the matter in the light of expert opinion cited before it and held that the Government of India was justified in recommending a simple arithmetical method of linking it found that the said method had been accepted by the Expert Committee appointed by the Government of Gujarat and had been recommended by the Expert Committee appointed by the Government of Maharashtra as well.	None
It, therefore, reached the conclusion that the said method based on the application of the linking factor at 3.17 was the most suitable to adopt.	None
In this connection, it rejected the appellants suggestion that the dearness allowance should be paid at a flat rate and held that flexible dearness allowance alone would meet the ends of justice and would lead to industrial peace.	None
It noticed the fact that now there was only one cost of living index existing in Ahmedabad and that is based on the new series.	None
The old series had rightly gone out of existence since it had become antiquated.	None
In this situation, there were two possibilities one was to work out an entirely new scheme of basic wages based not on the prewar level of 1939, but based on the cost of living of 1960 as the base year and to award dearness allowance thereafter.	None
The Industrial Court thought that if such a course was to be adopted, it would create a large number of problems in the industry and would seriously disturb industrial peace.	None
It observed that this aspect of the matter would also be beyond the terms of its reference.	None
Nevertheless, it was inclined to take the view that the results in terms of rupees, annas and pies may also not be very different, if this alternative method was adopted.	None
It suggested that such a method may be adopted by the Central Cotton Textile Wage Board which had been recently appointed with a view to bring out a fair amount of uniform wage level all over India but speaking for itself, it held that it would not be necessary, advisable or practicable for it to attempt that task.	None
That left only one alternative and that is the adoption of the arithmetical method of linking.	None
The argument that even if the arithmetical method of linking is intended to be adopted, it should be worked on the basis of the average result derived from watching the behaviour of prices during two or three years, does not appear to have been seriously pressed before the Industrial Court and has not been examined by it.	None
32.	None
The Industrial Court then considered the question about the paying capacity of the appellants.	None
As a matter of law, it rejected the respondents argument that a wage structure once constructed by industrial adjudication can never be revised to the detriment to workmen, and it held that if it was shown that the financial position of the employer had substantially deteriorated and such deterioration was likely to persist for some time, it would be open to industrial adjudication to make a suitable revision of the wage structure, provided, of course, the wage structure does not represent the wage at their basic minimum level.	None
Considering the problem presented by the appellants plea of incapacity to bear the burden in the light of this legal position, the Industrial Court has found that, in its opinion, the textile industry of Ahmedabad is in a sound financial position.	None
It has also added thatin any event, there has been no substantial deterioration in its condition so as to justify any wage cut or abandonment of the basic principles in respect of its employees which have been laid down in the past.	None
It is on these findings that the Industrial Court has held against the appellants on issues 2 and 3.	None
As we have already mentioned, the Industrial Court has found against the respondent on issue No. 1	None
but since the respondent has not challenged the correctness of the said finding, it is only the conclusions of the Industrial Court on issues 2 and 3 that fall to be considered in the present appeals.	None
33.	None
The first point which we must now consider is whether the appellants are justified in contending that the Industrial Court erred in overruling their contention that the new survey suffered from two major infirmities  inadequacy of the sample size, and impropriety of the method of interview adopted by the Investigators.	Issue
In support of this plea, the appellants examined Mr. Gokhale as an expert witness.	None
Mr. Gokhale who served in the Labour Office at Bombay from 1926 to 1937, was directly associated with the family budget inquiries, compilation of cost of living index numbers, and with the first General Wage Census conducted by the Labour Office is Bombay.	None
He also worked as Assistant Secretary of the Bombay Textile Labour Enquiry Committee.	None
Later, he joined the Millowners Association, Bombay, as their Labour Officer on 1st January, 1938 and served in that capacity until he retired on 1st November 1962.	None
He was deputed on a study tour to Lancashire in 1951 and attended the International Labour Conference at Geneva.	None
He has also been a member of the I.L.O. Committee on Womens Employment.	None
According to Mr. Gokhale, the new survey was not as scientific as it might have been.	None
He was inclined to take the view that the sample selected in the Ahmedabad inquiries was very inadequate.	None
He commented on the fact that the choice of the size of sample was determined, inter alia, on the ground of the workload manageable by the investigator, and he said that it was difficult for him to understand as to why in deciding the sample size workload manageable by the investigator had to be considered as a relevant factor.	None
He then produced a chart showing the ratio of the size of the universe with the size of sample, and said that nowhere had he found such a low size of the sample as in the impugned inquiry.	None
The size of the sample, according to him, in the impugned inquiry was less than even half a per cent of the population group which was intended to be covered.	None
34.	None
Mr. Gokhale was crossexamined by he respondent.	None
It was put to him that his experience in the matter of sample survey was somewhat limited and that the said experience had now become antiquated in view of the great strides of progress which had been made in the science of sample survey after 1926.	None
He agreed that sampling technique involves knowledge of satistics and satistics involves mathematics, and he did not make any claim to be an expert either in statistics or in mathematics.	None
In his examinationinchief, Mr. Gokhale appeared to criticise the extent of imputation which was evident in the preparation of the new series but in his crossexamination, he fairly conceded that imputations have always got to be done in compiling consumer price index.	None
It had been done in the past, he said, as also in the case of the present series.	None
When he was asked whether he knew what the percentage of imputation was in the compilation of the consumer price index of 192627, he admitted that he did not know.	None
He was, however, reluctant to agree with the Labour Bureau in so far as the application of their reasons to individual items was concerned, and in support of his theory he relied upon the illustrations given by him in the affidavit which he had filed before he gave evidence.	None
35.	None
The statement made by Mr. Gokhale in his affidavit was disputed by the respondent and the accuracy and the validity of the views expressed by him were seriously challenged by Mr. Vasavada who filed a reply on behalf of the respondent (Item 19).	Arguments of Respondent
In his reply, Mr. Vasavada referred to Clause 14 of the Resolution as reported at p. 403 of the International Labour Code  1951 Vol. II and emphasised the fact that the main distinguishing feature of the new survey was that it was carried out under the technical guidance of professional statisticians not only with adequate knowledge of sampling theory but also with actual experience in sampling practice, and with the help of a properly trained field and computing staff.	Arguments of Respondent
This was the requirement laid down by the publications issued by the I.L.O. and the United Nations as a very important test, and the impugned survey fully satisfies the said test.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Vasavada also referred to the opinion expressed by Dr. Basu who is at present the I.L.O. Expert on the subject, that the size of the sample should be determined in the light of the permissible margin of error in the resulting Series of consumer price index numbers.	Arguments of Respondent
In our country, the permissible margin of error in the index has been broadly set at 2 per cent and so, the case set out by Mr. Vasavada on behalf of the respondent was that when the permissible margin of error in the index is 2 per cent, the number of families, viz.	Arguments of Respondent
722 taken at Ahmedabad, is highly satisfactory.	Arguments of Respondent
36.	None
Mr. Vasavada then questioned the accuracy of Mr. Gokhales statement that such a small percentage of the universe had never been adopted before in any other inquiry.	Arguments of Respondent
He urged that the present techniques have advanced so far that a small sample size can achieve the best results and he cited the example of a survey carried out in the United Kingdom where the proportion of 13,000 households surveyed to the total households which constituted the universe came to 0.1 per cent.	Arguments of Respondent
The Industrial Court has considered the evidence given by Mr. Gokhale and has taken into account the arguments urged on behalf of the respondent, and it has held that the size of the sample selected for the impugned survey cannot be said to introduce any infirmity in the survey.	None
The question which we have to decide is whether the Industrial Court was right in coming to this conclusion.	None
37.	None
In dealing with this question, it is necessary to refer briefly to the genesis and growth of the science of Social Survey.	None
In its broadest sense, says the Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences,a social survey is a first hand investigation, analysis and coordination of economic, sociological, and other related aspects of a selected community or group.	None
Such a survey may be undertaken primarily in order to provide material scientifically gathered upon which social theorists may base their conclusions or its chief purpose may be to formulate a programme of amelioration of the conditions of life and work of a particular group or community.(2)	None
(2) Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences, Vol. XIV edited by Edwin R. A. Seligman, p. 162.	None
Wells defines a social survey as afactfinding study dealing chiefly with workingclass poverty and with the nature and problems of the community.(3) (3)Wells, A. F. (1935), The Local Social Survey in Grate Britain, Allen and Unwin, London.	None
As Moser has, however, pointed out.this definition might have covered the classical community and poverty studies but would hardly be adequate the first part at any rate, to the modern forms of survey.(4) (4)Survey Methods in Social Investigation by C. A. Moser, p. 1.	None
38.	None
The history of social survey in England can be said to have began with the publication of Mayhews book London Life and the London Poor published in 1851 and Booth made a very significant contribution to the scientific development of social survey by publishing his book Labour and Life of the People of London (18891902).	None
Rowntree followed with his book Poverty A Study of town Life.	None
Thereafter, a number of studies have been made by social scientists, and the subject of the theory and practice of social surveys has been the subjectmatter of valuable and extensive literature all over the civilized world.	None
During the First World War and thereafter, social scientists devoted their attention to the problem of family living studies mainly from the point of view of the impact of price changes on consumers economic situation.	None
The development of reliable consumer price indices naturally involved the use of weights that would properly reflect the consumption expenditure of the population.	None
This led to further extension of family living studies in different countries and for different periods, mainly to secure information on patterns of consumption expenditure(5A).	None
(5A)	None
Labour Survey Techniques issued by the Labour Bureau, Ministry of Labour and Employment, pp. 17172.	None
39.	None
The Second World War and the conditions that flowed from it made it necessary to carry on investigations on a wide range of inquiry relating to all aspects of living conditions, e.g., nutrition, health, education and employment.	None
The whole question of family living survey came up for consideration in the Seventh International Conference of Labour Statisticians in 1949.	None
This conference adopted a resolution defining the objectives of family living studies and setting new international standards as regards the organisation of enquiries and the analysis and presentation of the results that flowed from it.(5B).	None
(5B)	None
Labour Survey Techniques issued by the Labour Bureau, Ministry of Labour and Employment, pp. 17172.	None
40.	None
In India, a standardised statistical type of family living study was first initiated in Bombay in 1921.	None
Such enquiries were also conducted in Sholapur in 1925, in Ahmedabad in 1926 and in some centres in Bihar in 1923.	None
While reviewing the position of social surveys in India, the Royal Commission on Labour pointed out the great paucity of statistical material in this country for judging the standard of living of the workers and recommended conduct of socioeconomic enquiries of the type of family living surveys.	None
This report naturally gave an impetus to the conduct of family budget enquiries.	None
In all the surveys that followed, sampling and interviewing techniques were adopted, though, of course, not of a much advanced nature.	None
A statistical analysis of the data collected was also attempted.(5C) (5C)Ibid, pp.	None
17273.	None
41.	None
The Second World War saw the appointment of the Rau Court of Enquiry constituted under the Trade Disputes Act, 1929.	None
One of the recommendations made by the said Court was that the Central Government should take up responsibility for maintaining uptodate cost of living index numbers for important areas and centres.	None
The Government of India accepted this recommendation and set up a special organisation called the Directorate of Cost of Living Index Numbers and family budget enquiries among industrial workers were conducted at 28 centres during 194445 in the course of which 2,700 budgets were collected.	None
A remarkable feature of these enquiries was that for the first time in this country, an attempt was made to conduct such enquiries simultaneously at a large number of centres under more or less uniform techniques.	None
During the same period, the Labour Bureau of the Government of India and some of the Organisations of State Governments continued to conduct family budget enquiries from time to time at specific areas or centres, either for deriving weighting diagrams for consumer price index numbers or for collection of data required for fixation of minimum wags.(5D) (5D)Ibid, pp.	None
17273.	None
42.	None
It was in the background of these events that the Second Five Year Plan made a significant recommendation.	None
The Plan said thatThe existing wage structure in the country comprises, in the main, a basic wage and a dearness allowance.	None
The latter component in a majority of cases has relation to cost of living indices at different industrial centres.	None
These indices have not been built up on a uniform basis some of them are worked out on primary data collected about 20 to 25 years ago and are therefore, not a true reflection on the present spending habits of workers.	None
Since one of the questions which the wage commission will have to take into account is the demand made by the workers organisations for merging a part of dearness allowance with the basic wage, evolving recommendations for such a merger will not be sufficiently scientific if cost of living indices at different centres do not have a uniform basis.	None
Steps will therefore have to be taken simultaneously with the undertaking of a wage census, to institute enquiries for the revision of the present series of cost of living indices at different centres.	None
It is in pursuance of this recommendation that the impugned survey was made.	None
43.	None
Let us not sec on what principles and methods the impugned survey was made.	None
It is necessary to begin the discussion of this question with the observationthat the consumer price index number measures nothing but changes in prices, as they affect a particular population group and so, it is really a price index number as distinct from a cost of living index number.	None
In fact, these indices used to be termed as cost of living index numbers in the past, but in order to make their meaning clear, it was decided by Government to change the name to consumer price index numbers in accordance with international recommendations and growing practice in other countries.	None
Most of the State Governments compiling such index numbers have also adopted this usage(6) 6.	None
A Guide to Consumer Price Index Numbers issued by the Labour Bureau, M. O. Labour and Employment, p. 5.	None
This index number is intended to show over a period of time the average percentage change in the prices paid by the consumers belonging to the population group proposed to be covered by the index for a fixed list of goods and services consumed by them.	None
The average percentage change, measured by the index, is calculated month after month with reference to a fixed period.	None
This fixed period is known as the baseperiod of the index and since the object of the index is to measure the effect of pricechanges only, the price changes have to be determined with reference to a fixed list of goods and services of consumption which is known as a fixed basket of goods and services.	None
44.	None
The index does not purport to measure the absolute level of prices but only the average percentage change in the prices of a fixed basket of goods and services at different periods of time.	None
There are certain preliminary considerations which are relevant in the construction of consumer price index numbers.	None
The first consideration is the purpose which the index is intended to serve and that necessarily involves the definition of the group of consumers to which the index is intended to relate.	None
Then it is necessary to determine the consumption level and pattern of the population group at a period of time which generally becomes the baseperiod of the index numbers.	None
For that purpose, a list of commodities and services has to be made.	None
Usually, this list would contain items of food, fuel and light, clothing, and others items of services, such as barber charges, bus fare, doctors fee, etc., have also to be selected.	None
It is the combined total of the items of commodities and services that constitutes the basket.	None
Then follows a description of the quality of each commodity and service through which price changes have to be measured.	None
Generally, one quality which is popularly consumed by the population group is selected for each commodity and service.	None
The importance or weight which has to be attached to each commodity or service is also a material factor.	None
For instance, if rice is considered to be twice as important as wheat in the consumption pattern, the weight of rice will be 2 in relation to 1 of wheat.	None
45.	None
Having determined the consumption level and the pattern of the population group, the next task to attempt is to arrange for the regular collection of price data for the various qualities of commodities and services which enter the basket.	None
With this material, the consumer price index has to be complied from month to month subsequent to the base period.	None
That, shortly stated, is the nature of the preliminary considerations which have to be borne in mind while constructing the consumer price index numbers.	None
46.	None
We have just noticed the theory of weights on which weighting diagrams are prepared.	None
Weights are intended to indicate the importance attached to the percentage changes in the prices paid by consumers for different items (commodities and services) of consumption.	None
Accordingly, each item in the index is given.	None
what is called in technical language, a weight to represent the relative importance of the price changes recorded for that item.	None
This weight means nothing more than the percentage of expenditure on each item of goods and services in relation to the total expenditure.	None
It will thus be seen that the main basis for determining the weights of respective commodities and services is the investigation of the family budget and that emphasises the importance and significance of a proper investigation.	None
During the course of investigation, data are collected on all items on which money has been defrayed by families but only such items as involve consumption expenditure are included in the average budget.	None
Even so, it is only selected items which find a place in the index calculations because it is obviously neither practicable nor necessary to include all items featuring in the average budget.	None
Since only a sample of items from each group is included in the index, it becomes necessary to enquire as to what happens to other items featuring in the average budget but not included in the index.	None
Their weights are added or distributed to the items included in the index, so that the total expenditure of the average budget if fully taken into account in the weights adopted for the index.	None
This process is known as imputation of weights, Besides the weights the other set of primary data which enter into the compilation of a series of consumer price index numbers are the prices and that emphasise the importance of collecting material data in respect of prices.	None
The Investigator, therefore, has to bear in mind all the relevant factors that ultimately go to the construction of the index, and has to carry on his investigation in a proper and scientific way.	None
47.	None
Having thus reviewed the theoretical aspects of the factors that govern the construction of consumer price index numbers, let us now proceed to see how the impugned inquiry was in fact held.	None
The material evidence which will assist us in this part of our inquiry is furnished by the Report on Family Living Survey among Industrial Workers at Ahmedabad, 195859.	None
From this report is appears that the organisation of the survey was based on the cooperation of several institutions.	None
The survey was sponsored by the Labour Bureau, Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of India and its technical details were worked out under the guidance of a Technical Advisory Committee on Cost of Living Index Numbers consisting of the representatives of the Ministries of the representatives of the Ministries of Labour and Employment, Food and Agriculture, Finance, Planning Commission, the National Sample Survey Directorate, the Department of Statistics (C.S.O.), the Indian Statistical Institute and the Reserve Bank of India.	None
The field work was entrusted to the Directorate of National Sample Survey, and processing and tabulation of data collected in Schedule A (Family Budget) to the Indian Statistical Institute.	None
Calcutta.	None
The tabulation of data collected in Schedule B which dealt with Level of Living was done in the Labour Burean.	None
It was a multipurpose survey and so, the investigation conducted under it covered both the Family Budget, and the Level of Living, Ultimate analysis of the data, publication of reports on the results of the surveys and construction and maintenance of new series of consumer price index numbers were the responsibilities of the Labour Bureau.	None
48.	None
The first thing that the Organisation did was to define a working class family, because this definition determined the size of the universe.	None
A working class family which was the basic unit of the survey, was defined in terms of sociological and economic considerations as consisting of persons (i) generally related by blood and marriage or adoption (ii) usually living together and or served from the same kitchen and (iii) pooling a major part of their income and or depending on a common pool of income for a major part of their expenditure.	None
49.	None
Then followed the delimitation of area.	None
The geographical area to be covered during the survey was decided in consultation with local organisations both official and nonofficial.	None
At the Ahmedabad centre, 46 localities were selected for the purpose of the survey they consisted of 16 Chawls, 21 Labour Colonies (Housing Societies) and 9 Villages, Before settling the ultimate units of the family living survey, viz., the families, two types of sampling methods were adopted they were the tenement sampling and the payroll sampling.	None
The sample size for a centre was determined on the basis of the number of industrial workers, the type of sampling followed, the workload manageable by an Investigator and the required precision of weights to be derived from Schedule A for consumer price index numbers.	None
The sample size for Ahmedabad was 720 families to be canvassed for schedule A.	None
The number of schedules finally collected and tabulated was 722 for Schedule A.	None
The two samples drawn for Schedules A and B were, however, mutually exclusive, because canvassing for both the schedules from the same sampled families would have caused fatigue both to the Investigators and the informants.	None
The whole sample was staggered over a period of 12 months evenly so as to eliminate the seasonal effects on the consumption pattern.	None
The selection of sample was done in two stages.	None
In the first stage, the chawls within each of the wards were grouped to form blocks of about 150 households each and these blocks along with the labour colonies (housing societies) were grouped to form clusters of about 450 households each, so that each cluster had blocks from different wards.	None
From the list of these clusters and villages, 4 independent simple systematic samples of 12 clusters or villages each were selected for survey.	None
Each of the 12 clusters sampled for an Investigator was assigned to a particular month for enquiry by a random process.	None
That is how the first stage was arranged 50.	None
The second stage unit for selection was a working class family.	None
Each month, the Investigator listed all the families in the cluster allotted to that month by housetohouse visit and classified them as working class families and others.	None
While listing, information was also collected on the family size, the expenditure class to which it belonged and the State of origin of the head of the family.	None
This information was utilised to arrange the working class families in the cluster, first by family size and within these classes by expenditure class and within these by the State of origin.	None
A simple systematic sample of 20 working class families was drawn from this arranged list.	None
Every fourth family in this sample was contacted for filling Schedule B (on Level of Living) and the remaining three were for Schedule A (on Family Budget).	None
That is the nature of the procedure adopted in selecting the families for sample survey and determining the size of the sample.	None
The sample survey was designed to cover a period of 12 months at each centre.	None
At Ahmedabad centre, the work was carried on between August, 1958 and July, 1959.	None
The method of survey was the interview method.	None
The questionnaire which each Investigator adopted covered a wide range of subjects, accurate replies to some of which could not be had without explaining the significance of the questions to the person concerned.	None
51.	None
The population of Ahmedabad is about 11.5 lakhs.	None
The working class population in Ahmedabad was reported to be concentrated in 13 localities.	None
The markets predominantly patronised by the working class population in Ahmedabad were 6 and it is these markets that were selected for the collection of retail prices for the new series of consumer price index number for Ahmedabad centre.	None
52.	None
This summary of the Report gives us a broad idea as to the manner in which and the method by which the investigation was made which ultimately led to the construction of the consumer price index number.	None
53.Reverting	None
then to the objections raised by the appellants that the size of the sample was inadequate and the method of investigation was inappropriate, can it be said that the Industrial Court was in error in holding that these objections were not valid?	None
In dealing with this question, it is necessary to bear in mind that the size of the sample has to be determined in the light of the permissible margin of error in the resulting series of consumer price index numbers.	None
As Dr. Basu has observedIn our country, this permissible margin of error in the index has been broadly set at 2 per cent(7) 7. A. Basu on Consumer Price Index, pp. 5455.	None
and that is not contradicted by the opinion of any other Expert.	None
The sample of consuming units has to be selected by the application of scientific sampling techniques and there is no doubt whatever that during the last 40 years, this branch of human knowledge has made remarkable progress.	None
The optimum sample design is now worked out by competent statisticians in the light of the available material and requirements in each case, and as Dr. Basu has observed,the desired data are secured at minimum cost and at an evaluation of sampling errors in the estimated data obtained from the survey.	None
It is the quality of the survey that is more important, not so much the size of the sample or the number of families with whom investigation was made.	None
54.	None
On the question about the adequacy of the sample size selected for investigation on the present occasion, it would be material to refer to the opinion expressed by Moser on this subject.	None
Says MoserMost people who are unfamiliar with sampling probably overrate the importance of sample size as such, taking the view that as long as the sample is big enough, or a large enough proportion of the population is included, all will be well.	None
The fallacy in this is clear as soon as one looks at any standard error formula, say (5.1) on p. 61 above.	None
If the population is large, the finite population correction Nn N1 practically vanishes and the precision of the sample result is seen to depend on n, the size of the sample, not on n N, the proportion of the population included in the sample.	None
Only if the sample represents a relatively high proportion of the population (say, 10 per cent or more) need the population size enter into the estimate of the standard error.(8) 8.	None
C. A. Moser on Survey Methods in Social Investigation, p. 115, para 3.	None
Mr. Kolah for the appellants has not cited before us the opinion of any Expert to the contrary.	None
55.	None
Considering the question from a commonsense point of view, it seems to us reasonable to hold that if the quality of investigation has improved, and the method of working out the sample survey has made very great progress, then it would not be correct to say that because the size of the sample in the present case was smaller as compared to the size of the sample taken in 192627, the inadequacy of the size on the subsequent occasion introduces an infirmity in the investigation itself.	None
That is the view which the Industrial Court has taken, and we see no reason to differ from it.	None
56.	None
At this stage, it would be interesting to consider the comparative contents of the basket as it was devised in the two respective enquiries, one held in 192627, and the other in 195859.	None
The former enquiry reflects the consumption pattern of the working class as it existed in 1926.	None
The index number then devised was composed of five groups, viz., (1) Food, (2) Fuel and Lighting, (3) Clothing, (4) House rent, and (5) Miscellaneous.	None
The food group in its turn consisted of 16 items the fuel and lighting group of 4 items the clothing group of 7 items the house rent group of the item of house rent and the miscellaneous group of two items, viz.	None
bidis and soap.	None
Thus, in all, 30 items were included.	None
These items represent 82.82 per cent of the average monthly expenditure, and they were respectively assigned 58, 7, 10, 12 and 4 weights which together aggregate 91.	None
At the time of this enquiry, the items included in the investigation totalled 49 out of them, 30 were priced and 19 were unpriced and in respect of the latter, the method of imputation was adopted.	None
This series was prepared after collecting the budgets of 985 families when the estimated population of the City of Ahmedabad was 2,90,000.	None
57.	None
The new series is based on the inquiry into 722 working class families conducted in 195859 when the total population of the city was about 11 lakhs.	None
The total working class families at this time were estimated to be 51.5 thousand and so, the percentage of the sample size in relation to the universe of the working class families would come to about 1.4 and not less than 5 as appears to have been assumed by Mr. Gokhale.	None
The weighting diagram for the new series is based on 110 articles divided into the main groups of food, fuel and lighting, housing, clothing, and miscellaneous.	None
The important groups in this enquiry carried respectively the weights of 64.41, 6.22.	None
5.05, 9.08, and 15.24 which aggregate to 100.	None
The total number of items included in the basket was 239.	None
Of these, 89 were priced items and 150 unpriced, and in respect of the latter, the method of imputation was adopted.	None
It is true that in the new series, the unpriced items are considerably more than in the earlier one but it must be remembered that it is not so much the number of items that makes the difference, but the percentage of expenditure on unpriced items to priced items.	None
The total expenditure of all items in the 192627 enquiry was Rs. 36.01 of which Rs. 32.35 was the expenditure on priced items and Rs. 3.66 was the expenditure on nonpriced items.	None
In terms of percentage, the expenditure on priced items to total expenditure was 89.8 per cent and expenditure on nonpriced items to total expenditure was 10.2 per cent.	None
In the latter enquiry of 19581959, the total expenditure on all items was Rs. 139.06.	None
Of this, Rs. 124.91 was the expenditure on priced items and Rs. 14.	None
15 was the expenditure on nonpriced items.	None
In terms of percentage, the first expenditure was 89.8 per cent and the second is 10.2 per cent.	None
Thus, it is clear that the expenditure on unpriced items in the present enquiry is not larger than in the former enquiry at all.	None
The fact that the components of the basket have considerably increased, cannot be a matter of surprise, because with the growth of Indian economy and the change in the standard of living of all citizens, the requirements of the working class have also increased and the components of the basket which was devised in 192627 have now become completely obsolete.	None
It is in the light of this position that we have to consider whether the appellants are justified in contending that the inadequacy of the size of the sample vitiates the enquiry.	None
In our opinion, the answer to this question must be against the appellants.	None
58.	None
The next question to consider is whether the Interview method is unscientific and its adoption makes the enquiry itself defective and unreliable.	Issue
In dealing with this question again, it is necessary to remember that the interview method itself has made very great progress since 1926.	None
The task of investigation is in no sense merely mechanical it is a constructive task, the efficient discharge of which requires a welltrained Investigator.	None
As Moser observes, the Investigators are expected to ask all the applicable questions to ask them in the order given and with no more elucidation and probing than is explicitly allowed and to make no unauthorised variations in the working (p. 188).	None
Interviewers according to Moser, are not machines.	None
Their voices, manner, pronunciations and inflections differ as much as their looks, and no amount of instruction will bring about complete uniformity in technique and so interviewers have to be properly educated in the task of putting questions to the families interviewed.	None
What is true about asking questions, is also true about recording the answers.	None
The recording of answers, says Moser, would seem a simple enough task and one which interviewers might be expected to perform with accuracy.	None
But he adds thatthe task of interviewers is a fairly tiring one.	None
With random sampling the interviewer may have travelled and walked a good way before getting to the respondent.	None
He has to go through what is often a lengthy, and always a somewhat repetitive, operation (p. 190) and that makes the task of recording answers also important.	None
The Interviewers are, therefore, appointed after selection, and it is now realized that their work is not at all mechanical and cannot be compared to the work of Investigators who collect data at the time of population census.	None
The Investigator must take interest in the task that he has undertaken, must be accurate in asking questions and recording answers, must show an equitable temper in meeting the persons interviewed and must, above all, be a man of education who understands the significance of sampling survey and the purpose which it is intended to serve.	None
59.	None
It is true that in England, the method of supplying accountbooks to the families is adopted.	None
Under this method, the families are expected to fill in every detail in the accountbook, and the cost of living is compiled from exact and correct information given by the persons who keep regular accounts according to the directions issued.	None
But on the other hand, in countries like Canada and the United States, the method of interview is preferred to that of the accountbooks.	None
It seems that according to Moser, the method of mail questionnaire, which corresponds in a sense with the method of accountbooks, suffers from several infirmities and so, he seems to prefer the method of interview, provided, of course, this method is scientifically and efficiently adopted.	None
60.	None
In our country where a majority of working class population still suffers from illiteracy, the method of interview is obviously indicated.	None
It would be impracticable to suggest that a written questionnaire should be supplied to the members of the working class or accountbooks should be given to them in the expectation that they would furnish answers in return.	None
Having regard to this special feature of the life of the working class as it obtains in our country today, the method of interview is the only method which can be adopted.	None
Besides, as we have just indicated, even on the merits, expert opinion seems to suggest that if the interview method is properly adopted, it gives better results than the alternative method of accountbooks.	None
Therefore, we are satisfied that the Industrial Court was right in rejecting the appellants contention that the impugned survey and the index constructed as a result of it, suffer from the infirmity that investigation was conducted in this survey by the interview method.	None
61.	None
That takes us to the question about the propriety of the linking factor which has been upheld by the Industrial Court.	None
We have already noticed that the Government of Gujarat has adopted the linking factor at 3.17, and the Industrial Court has taken the view that no case has been made out by the appellants to interfere with the said decision of the Government of Gujarat.	None
Mr. Kolah contended that if a linking factor has to be adopted it would be more rational and scientific to watch the behaviour of prices for two or three years and then devise a factor of the average rise in prices during the period in question.62.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Vasavada, on the other hand, seriously disputed the correctness of Mr. Kolahs contention.	Arguments of Respondent
As this case was being argued on the 24th March, 1965, the parties suggested that the question about the proper procedure to be followed in determining the linking factor in such cases was a very important question and that it would be better if we hear the views of Associations or bodies which would be interested in a proper solution of this problem.	Arguments of Respondent
That is why on the said date we adjourned the hearing of the appeals to enable such interested parties to appear before us.	Arguments of Respondent
The parties furnished a list of sixteen institutions or bodies which, according to them, would be interested in assisting us with arguments on this issue.	Arguments of Respondent
On April 2, 1965, a letter of request was accordingly sent to these bodies indicating to them the nature of the question on which we wanted their assistance.	None
In response to the said letter, only four bodies have appeared they are.	None
The AllIndia Organisation of Industrial Employers the AllIndia Manufacturers Organisation the Millowners Association, Bombay and the Indian National Trade Union Congress.	None
The first three bodies appear broadly to support the appellants case, whereas the fourth body has resisted the appellants contention that the Government of Gujarat was in error in adopting the linking factor at 3.17.	None
63.	None
The appeals were then set down for hearing before us on the 2nd August, 1965, and we indicated to the parties that having regard to the unsatisfactory response which our letter of request had received, we did not think it would be appropriate that we should proceed to decide the larger issue raised by Mr. Kolah as to what would be a rational and satisfactory method of evolving a linking factor.	None
The Indian National Trade Union Congress in its affidavit has urged that the method of linking of the new series with the old by the simple arithmetical ratio at the base period is universally accepted.	None
It appears that the employers and the employees are not able to take a consistent stand on this issue and their approach apparently differs from region to region and industry to industry, because considerations of expediency and selfinterest do not seem to dictate a uniform common approach to be adopted in the present case.	None
Besides, the issue is of a very technical character and any decision of this Court on such an issue of principle is likely to affect several industries in this country.	None
We have, therefore, decided not to embark upon a general enquiry on this point.	None
Our decision will be confined to the material placed before the Industrial Court in the present proceedings, and we will merely examine Mr. Kolahs contention that the view taken by the Industrial Court is not correct.	None
That is why we wish to make it clear that our present decision should not be taken to be of any general significance and should be confined to the facts of this case.	None
If it is thought necessary or desirable by the employers and the employees that this question should be scientifically examined and determined in a general way, it would be appropriate for them to move the Government to appoint a special body of exports to deal with it.	None
64.	None
Reverting then to the narrow question as to whether the appellants are justified in attacking the finding of the Industrial Court on this issue, let us mention a few relevant facts and considerations.	None
We have already noticed that at the request of the Government of India, the Government of Gujarat discontinued the publication of the State series of the consumer price index and so, it became necessary for the said Government to secure the advice of an Expert Committee as to how the new series of consumer price index for Ahmedabad should be linked with State series after making such adjustments therein as may be found necessary.	None
The Expert Committee dealt with this problem of arriving at the linking factor, so that when the new series is adopted and the State series is discontinued, the dearness allowance on the present scale can be computed even on the present scale can be computed even on the basis of the new series.	None
The Government of India had, in this connection, indicated that 2.98 would be an appropriate linking factor.	None
This figure had been reached by taking the annual average of the monthly index number of the State series for the year 1960 which then stood at 298.	None
The figure of the base year 1960 was obviously 100.	None
The linking factor of 2. 98 was deduced by dividing 298 by 100.	None
In doing so, however, the question about making necessary adjustments in the index numbers of the State and of the new series had not been considered.	None
This question was a considered by the Desai Expert Committee, and it held that the linking factor should be 3.17 as against 2.98 per point in the new series as was worked out without correcting the old series.	None
In other words, the Desai Committee suggested as a linking factor a mere arithmetical ratio of 3.17 65.	None
A similar question was referred by the Government of Maharashtra to the Lakdawala Expert Committee, and the said Committee was inclined to take the same view.	None
It no doubt observed thatin spite of the fact a linking on the basis of a simple ratio corrects a series only in respect of one of its dimensions, we recommend this course because we are of opinion that such a correction is adequate for the requirements of our terms of reference and in any case, the only correction that we can meaningfully carry out.	None
It would thus be seen that in accepting the linking factor at 3.17, the Government of Gujarat has adopted the conclusion of the Desai Expert Committee.	None
66.	None
The question which arises is whether in upholding this view, the Industrial Court has committed any error.	Issue
As the Industrial Court has observed, two possibilities presented themselves in attacking this problem.	None
One was to work out an entirely new scale of basic wages founded not on the prewar level of 1939, but on the cost of living of 1960 as the base year of the new series and to award dearness allowance thereafter.	None
The Industrial Court thought that to adopt this course may conceivably create a large number of problems which do not exist at present and in fact, it may tend to destroy industrial peace.	None
The Industrial Court though that such a course might even be outside its terms of reference.	None
Even so, in its opinion, the result which would be achieved by adopting this course may not in the end by very different.	None
The other course is to link the State series with the new series to maintain continuity.	None
It is this latter alternative which has been adopted by the Government of Gujarat, and the Industrial Court has approved of the said course.	None
We are not satisfied that the conclusion thus recorded by the Industrial Court is shown to be erroneous.	None
67.As we have just indicated, the problem is a technical problem and it can be decided only in the light of the opinion which experts may form on examining all the aspects pertaining to the problem and after taking into account all the pros and cons which may be put before them by the respective interested parties.	None
The stand which the parties may take in regard to this controversy would differ according as the change in the cost of living index in the respective States may help their interest one way or the other.	None
That explains why there is no unanimity in the approach adopted by the different parties.	None
This is made clear by the contentions raised by the respective parties before the Lakdawala Expert Committee.	None
68.	None
There is no doubt that on the material as it stands, it would be unreasonable, inexpedient and in fact impossible for this Court to attempt to resolve this controversy on the basis of the larger issue of law raised by Mr. Kolah before us.	None
The decision of that question must, therefore, be left to a Committee of experts if and when it is appointed.	None
Meanwhile, this question will have to be dealt with on an ad hoc basis in each industry, taking into account the particular facts and circumstances of each case.	None
69.	None
Looking at the question from this narrow point of view, we do not think the appellants have placed before the Industrial Court any material to justify their contention that for determining a linking factor, the behaviour of prices for two or three years during the relevant period should and can be studied.	None
In fact, Mr. Vasavadas contention is that a study of the behaviour of prices for such a period and deducting the average therefrom would be inconsistent with the notion of evolving a linking factor.	None
He contends that we have to take one year by reference to which this problem must be resolved.	None
We express no opinion on this part of the controversy between the parties.	None
In fact, the Award under appeal shows that the argument which Mr. Kolah has urged before us was not placed in this form, and in any case does not appear to have been pressed, before the Industrial Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even assuming that it would have been open to the Industrial Court to consider this larger issue under the terms of its reference, we do not see how the Industrial Court could have attempted to solve the problem satisfactorily on the material placed before it.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, we cannot accept Mr. Kolahs argument that the Industrial Court was not justified in upholding the decision of the Government of Gujarat that the linking factor should be taken at 3. 17. 70.	Arguments of Petitioner
The last question to consider is whether the Industrial Court was right in coming to the conclusion that the additional burden which its award would impose upon the appellants would not be beyound their financial capacity.	Issue
In dealing with this question, there are two general considerations which cannot be ignored.	None
The first consideration is that the task of constructing a wage structure of industrial employees is a very responsible task and it presents several difficult and delicate problems.	None
The claim of the employees for a fair and higher wage is undoubtedly based on the concept of social justice, and it inevitably plays a major part in the construction of a wage structure.	None
There can be little doubt that if the employees are paid a better wage which would enable them to live in fair comfort and discharge their obligations to the members of their families in a reasonable way, they would be encouraged to work wholeheartedly and their work would show appreciable increase in efficiency.	None
71.	None
On the other hand, in trying to recognise and given effect to the demand for a fair wage, including the payment of dearness allowance to provide for adequate neutralisation against the everincreasing rise in the cost of living, industrial adjudication must always take into account the problem of the additional burden which such wage structure would impose upon the employer and ask itself whether the employer can reasonably be called upon to bear such burden.	None
The problem of constructing a wage structure must be tackled on the basis that such wage structure should not be changed from time to time.	None
It is a longrange plan and so, in dealing with this problem, the financial position of the employer must be carefully examined.	None
What has been the progress of the industry in question what are the prospects of the industry in future has the industry been making profits and if yes, what is the extent of profits what is the nature of demand which the industry expects to secure what would be the extent of the burden and its gradual increase which the employer may have to face?	None
These and similar other considerations have to be carefully weighed before a proper wage structure can be reasonably constructed by industrial adjudication, vide Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd., v. Union of India, 19611 Lab J 339 (AIR 1958 SC 578 ).Unusual profit made by the industry for a single year as a result of adventitious circumstances, or unusual loss incurred by it for similar reasons, should not be allowed to play a major role in the calculations which industrial adjudication would make in regard to the construction of a wage structure.	None
A broad and overall view of the financial position of the employer must be taken into account and attempt should always be made to reconcile the natural and just claims of the employees for a fair and higher wage with the capacity of the employer to pay it and in determining such capacity, allowance must be made for a legitimate desire of the employer to make a reasonable profit.	None
In this connection, it may also be permissible to take into account the extent of the rise in price structure which may result from the fixation of a wage structure, and the resonableness of the additional burden which may thereby be imposed upon the consumer.	None
That is one aspect of the matter which is relevant.	None
72.	None
The other aspect of the matter which cannot be ignored is that if a fair wage structure is constructed by industrial adjudication, and in course of time, experience shows that the employer cannot bear the burden of such wage structure, industrial adjudication can, and in a proper case should, revise the wage structure, though such revision may result in the reduction of the wages paid to the employees.	None
It is true that normally, once a wage structure is fixed, employees are reluctant to face a reduction in the content of their wage packet but like all major problems associated with industrial adjudication, the decision of this problem must also be based on the major consideration that the conflicting claims of labour and capital must be harmonised on a reasonable basis and so, if it appears that the employer cannot really bear the burden of the increasing wage bill, industrial adjudication, on principle, cannot refuse to examine the employers case and should not hesitate to give him relief if it is satisfied that if such relief is not given the employer may have to close down his business.	None
It is unlikely that such situation would frequently arise but, on principle, if such situations arise, a claim by the employer for reduction of the wage structure cannot be rejected summarily.	None
73.	None
This principle, however, does not apply to cases where the wages paid to the employees are no better than the basic minimum wage.	None
If, what the employer pays to his employees is just the basic subsistence wage, then it would not be open to the employer to contend that even such a wage is beyond his paying capacity.	None
Industrial adjudication has consistently recognised and enforced the principle that social justice requires that an industrial employer must be able to pay his employees a wage structure which can be reasonably regarded as basic minimum wage.	None
No employer can be allowed to pay his employees wages which are below the basic minimum or the subsistence wage.	None
It is well known that in certain industries, minimum wages are fixed by the statute.	None
Even where minimum wages are not fixed by statute, industrial adjudication can easily determine whether in a given case, the wage paid is basic minimum or not.	None
In either case, where the wage answers the description of the basic minimum or subsistence wage, it has to be paid by the employer and if he cannot afford to pay it, he would not be justified in carrying on his industry, vide Crown Aluminium Works v. Their Workmen, 19581 Lab LJ 1 (AIR 1958 SC 30 ).	None
That is the second consideration which has to be borne in mind in dealing with the point raised by the appellants about their incapacity to bear the burden.	None
74.	None
We have thought it necessary to refer to these two theoretical considerations at this stage, because if they are borne in mind, we get a proper perspective of the problem raised by the appellants contention as to their financial capacity.	None
In the present proceedings, the Industrial Court is not constructing any wage structure for the first time, nor is it dealing with the question of determining the quantum or the sliding scale of the dearness allowance to be paid to the textile employees at Ahmedabad.	None
These matters have been considered in the past on several occasions and they are governed by consent awards passed between the parties.	None
It is because of the new survey made in 195859 and the consequent change in the construction of the consumer price index made by the series published by the Government of Gujarat that the present dispute has arisen and so, while dealing with the appellants contention, it would be pertinent to enquire whether the appellants show that a case has been made out for reduction of the wages paid to the employees.	None
It is, of course, true that the wages paid to the textile employees at Ahmedabad cannot be regarded as subsistence wages or bare minimum wages and so, it would not be open to the respondent to contend that the appellants must pay the said wages whether they can afford to pay them or not.	None
If it is shown that the appellants cannot bear the burden and that the implementation of the award would inevitably have extremely prejudicial effect upon the continued existence of the textile industry itself, we would be justified in revising the scale of dearness allowance, But, as we have just indicated, such a plea can succeed only if it is shown satisfactorily that the burden cannot truly and really be borne by the textile industry at Ahmedabad.	None
That is the proper approach to adopt in dealing with this problem and the award under appeal shows that the Industrial Court did approach the problem in a proper way 75.	None
In support of their contention that the textile industry at Ahmedabad cannot bear the burden which would be imposed by the award, the appellants examined Mr. Chokshi.	None
Mr. Chokshi is a Chartered Accountant and a senior partner in the firm of Messr C. C. Chokshi and Co.	None
He has been practising as a Chartered Accountant for about 24 years.	None
He was a member of the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants for 8 years and its President for one year.	None
It appears that the appellant Association sent to him five statements and asked for his opinion on the financial position of the textile industry at Ahmedabad.	None
Mr. Chokshi first filed an affidavit in which he set out his opinions and then gave oral evidence.	None
In his affidavit, Mr. Chokshi referred to the respective statements on which his opinion was based and he stated that the financial position of the textile industry at Ahmedabad was, on the whole, not very satisfactory.	None
76.	None
In appreciating the evidence given by Mr. Chokshi, it would, therefore, be material to indicate the nature of the statements on which his opinion was based.	None
The first statement shows the depreciation, development rebate, and increase in gross block per year of the Ahmedabad Cotton Textile Mill Industry for the years 1945 to 1963.	None
The statement indicates that all these items have increased from year to year depreciation was Rs. 0.83 crore in 1945 and it rose to Rs. 6.68 crores in 1963 development rebate was Rs. 0.05 crore in 1954 and it became Rs. 1.26 crores in 1963 gross block rose from Rs. 20.25 crores in 1945 to Rs. 101.98 crores in 1963 and increase in gross block per year for the same years was Rs. 1.31 and Rs. 9.77 crores.	None
77.	None
The second statement shows the net worth and borrowings of the said industry during the same period.	None
The emphasis in this statement was on the everincreasing borrowings.	None
In 1945, the borrowings, consisting of secured and unsecured loans and other deposits, were of the order of Rs. 9.58 crores, whereas in 1963, they rose to Rupees 47.76 crores.	None
The third statement shows the working capital and borrowings for the period in question.	None
The fourth statement shows profits after tax as percentage of net worth of the said industry for the same period.	None
This statement refers to profits before tax, loss, tax provision, profits after tax, next worth, and the last column gives profits after tax and indicates percentage of net worth.	None
It is the last column on which Mr. Ckokshi relied when he gave his opinion that the financial position of the Ahmedabad textile industry was not very satisfactory.	None
Whereas in 1945, the percentage of profits to net worth was 13.4 per cent, in 1963 it was 3.3 per cent.	None
The last statement shows dividends as percentage of net worth in different industries.	None
It covers the period between 1951 and 1962.	None
This statement shows that the dividends paid by the industry in question are comparatively on the low side.	None
Dividends paid by 12 industries are shown in this statement, and it would be right to say that the textile industry has not been paying dividends which can be said to be very high in comparison to the dividends paid by other industries.	None
78.	None
On the other hand, the respondent has filed several statements showing that the financial position of the appellants has been consistently good, and the fear that the appellants would not be able to bear the burden is entirely unjustified.	None
Annexure II filed by the respondent along with its statement shows the percentage of wages to total income in Ahmedabad Cotton Textile Industry from 1939 to 1962.	None
This percentage was 26 in 1939 and is 24 both in 1961 and 1962 for the intervening period, it has risen to 28 in 1949 and fallen to 20 in 1943.	None
Annexure III gives the statement showing the growth of paid up capital by cash in the said industry for the same period.	None
In 1939, the paid up capital by cash was 407 lakhs, whereas in 1962 it was 770 lakhs.	None
Annexure IV shows the growth of total paid up capital including bonus shares for the same period.	None
This statement shows a remarkable growth of total paid up capital in this manner In 1939, the total paid up capital was 442 lakhs, whereas in 1962 it has reached the magnitude of 2, 129 lakhs.	None
From 1950 onwards, this category of capital has been consistently rising.	None
Annexure V shows the value of gross block for the same period.	None
In 1939, it was 1915 lakhs whereas in 1962 it rose to 9,341 lakhs.	None
Annexure VI shows the amount of Depreciation Fund including Development Rebate in 1939 it was 745 lakhs, whereas in 1962 it was 5,643 lakhs.	None
Annexure VII shows the amount of Reserves excluding Depreciation Fund and Liability Funds in 1939 they were 360 lakhs, while in 1962 they were 2,518 lakhs.	None
From Annexure VIII we gather that the amount of Gross Profit including the Managing Agents Commission and Depreciation was Rs. 159 lakhs in 1939, and it was Rs. 1,860 lakhs in 1961 and Rs. 1,296 lakhs in 1962.	Reasoning
Incidentally, it is the figure of gross profit which is more important, because it is not disputed that wages payable to the employees are a first charge, and all other liabilities take their place after the wages.	None
There are three other Annexures filed by the respondent, but it is unnecessary to refer to them.	None
79.	None
The main comment which falls to be made on the opinion expressed by Mr. Chokshi is that he has looked at the problem merely from the investors point of view.	None
In fact, he fairly stated that he had made his analysis from the point of view of an investor.	None
That explains why Mr. Chokshi took the view that absolute figures of mere gross profit or net profit from year to year would be misleading.	None
He did not agree that most of the textile mills in Ahmedabad are at present undercapitalised.	None
He conceded that in dealing with the problem of expanding business and increasing the wage bill, one of two methods can be adopted by the industry the industry can increase the capital or borrow money.	None
Very often, said Mr. Chokshi, borrowing is preferred to the increase of capital in certain market conditions.	None
He was not certain whether borrowings had been resorted to by the textile industry for the purpose of expansion.	None
In dealing with the problem of the financial capacity of the appellants to bear the burden, it would be inappropriate to rely solely upon the approach which an investor would adopt in such a case and so, we are not prepared to hold that the Industrial Court was in error in not accepting Mr. Chokshis estimate about the financial position of the textile industry at Ahmedabad.	None
80.	None
Mr. Kolah for the appellants has strongly relied upon certain statements made in the Reserve Bank of India Bulletin issued in July, 1964, in support of his argument that the financial position of the appellants was not satisfactory.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dealing with the position of the Cotton Textile Industry during the period under review, the Bulletin says that cotton textiles recorded a steep fall of Rupees 17.0 crores in net profits as against a rise of Rs. 2.1 crores in the previous year.	Arguments of Petitioner
Applying the profitability ratio, the Bulletin goes on to say that cotton textiles, amongst others, show declines in profitability.	Arguments of Petitioner
This test is evolved by the ratio of gross profits to sales, and the return on capital, as measured by the ratio of gross profits to total capital employed.	None
According to the Bulletin, the decline in the return on shareholders equity (ratio of profits after tax to net worth) was substantial in the case of cotton textiles along with other named industries.	None
Table 4 in the Bulletin gives a comparative statement of the profitability ratios, industrywise, in 196061, 196162 and 196263.	None
It is arranged in five columns which deal respectively with gross profits as percentage of sales, gross profits as percentage of total capital employed, profits after tax as percentage of net worth, dividends as percentage of net worth, dividends as percentage of net worth, and dividends as percentage of paidup capital.	None
The figures shown against the cotton textiles in these five columns support the main comment made in the Bulletin that the position of the textile industry, considered as a whole in this country, was not quite satisfactory.	None
81.	None
We do not think in considering the financial position of the appellants in the context of the dispute before us, it would be appropriate to rely unduly on the profitability ratio which has been adopted by the said Bulletin.	Reasoning
Indeed, in appreciating the effect of the several statements produced before the Industrial Court by the parties in the present proceedings, it would be relevant to remember that some of these singlepurpose statements are likely to create confusion and should not ordinarily be regarded as decisive.	Reasoning
As Paton has observedDifferent groups for whom financial statements are prepared are interested in varying degree in particular types of information and so, it has been held in some quarters that no one form of statement will satisfactorily serve all these purpose, that separate singlepurpose statements should be prepared for each need or that the statements usually prepared for general distribution should be expanded so as to include all the detail desired(9).	Reasoning
(9)Accountants Handbook Edited by Paton, p. 13.	None
Paton cites the comment of Wilcox against these singlepurpose statements.	Reasoning
Said WilcoxThe danger in undertaking to furnish singlepurpose financial statements lies in increasing confusion and misunderstanding, and in the possible misuse of such statements for unintended purposes Paton has then referred to certain methods for determining the financial position of a commercial and industrial concern.	Reasoning
In this connection, he refers to the proprietary ratio rate of earnings on total capital employed, rate of dividends on common stockholders equity and others.	Reasoning
Our purpose in referring to these comments made by Paton is to emphasise the fact that industrial adjudication cannot lean too heavily on such singlepurpose statements or adopt any one of the tests evolved from such statements, whilst it is attempting the task of deciding the financial capacity of the employer in the context of the wage problem.	Reasoning
While we must no doubt examine the position in detail, ultimately we must base our decision on a broad view which emerges from a consideration of all the relevant factors.	Reasoning
82.	None
What then is the broad picture which emerges from the evidence on the record in respect of the financial position of the textile industry at Ahmedabad?	Reasoning
The cotton textile industry at Ahmedabad can legitimately claim to be the oldest organised industry in the country.	Reasoning
It recently celebrated its centenary in 1961.	Reasoning
The story about the growth of this industry during this century is very heartening.	Reasoning
In its early stages, it no doubt made a small and modest beginning but at the time when the centenary celebrations were held, it had an installed capacity of about two million spindles and 42,000 looms and it employed 1,30,000 workmen.	Reasoning
Statistics show that textile mills at Ahmedabad account roughtly for onethird of the total mill production in the country, and it would be no exaggeration to say that some of the best varieties of cloth produced in the country are manufactured at Ahmedabad.	Reasoning
83.	None
The paid up capital by cash of the industry in 1939 was 4.07 crores and it became 7.70 crores in 1962.	Reasoning
The total paid up capital including bonus shares was 4.42 crores in 1939 and in 1962 it rose to 21.29 crores.	Reasoning
It would thus be seen that out of the total paid up capital of 21.29 crores in 1962, the capital collected by cash is 7.70 crores.	Reasoning
Whereas the balance of 13.59 crores is by way of bonus shares.	Reasoning
In other words, the cash capital is increased by 175 per cent because of capitalisation of the reserves.	Reasoning
Similarly, the gross block in 1939 was 19.15 crores and in 1962 it rose to 93.41 crores.	Reasoning
Almost the same rate of progress is evidenced by the Reserves.	Reasoning
The Reserves excluding Depreciation Fund and other liability funds at the end of 1939 was 3.60 crores and they have gone to 25.18 crores in 1962.	Reasoning
The gross profits have registered a similar rise.	Reasoning
In 1939, the gross profit including Managing Agents Commission and depreciation was 1.59 crores, whereas in 1962 it has reached the magnitude of 12.96 crores.	Reasoning
In this connection, it would be unreasonable to ignore the fact that the industry has been able to save and capitalise from 1939 onwards 13.85 crores and has been able to pay a fair amount of dividend on equity shares throughout the period, in spite of a very large capitalisation of reserves.	Reasoning
84.	None
It is true that the textile industry at Ahmedabad has been leaning very heavily on borrowings but that may partly be due to the fact that the said industry has for several decades been undercapitalised.	Reasoning
Besides, the tendency to rely upon borrowings for expanding the business is noticeable throughout this period of the life of textile industry at Ahmedabad and has been the subjectmatter of comment by several persons.	Reasoning
In fact, sometimes it is treated as a peculiar feature of the development of the textile industry at Ahmedabad and so, the extent of borrowing cannot be pressed into service for the purpose of showing that the financial position of the industry is unsatisfactory.	Reasoning
85.	None
One remarkable feature of the textile industry at Ahmedabad is the harmonious relations which have consistently subsisted between the employers and the employees.	Reasoning
The employers, on the whole, are enlightened and progressive in their outlook, and the Trade Union leadership of the employees is also enlightened and progressive.	Reasoning
Both the employers and the employees realize that the progress of the industry depends primarily on the cooperation between capital and labour and the large number of consent awards and agreements to which they have been parties over a period of several years, is a standing tribute to the spirit of cooperation which inspires the textile industrial life in Ahmedabad.	Reasoning
As one looks back over the last hundred years of the life of the textile industry at Ahmedabad, one is struck by the fact that industrial life in that area has rarely been disturbed by bitterness, feuds or general strikes.	Reasoning
This spirit of cooperation, based on the willingness to give and take, alone can ensure the economic and industrial growth of our country, for afterall, it is the speedy economic growth of industry of the country which must be the ultimate object of both capital and labour.	Reasoning
In considering the prospects of the textile industry in Ahmedabad, this feature must be given a place of pride.	Reasoning
86.	None
It is significant that as a result of the spirit of cooperation between capital and labour, the textile industry at Ahmedabad has been able to enter into several agreements for rationalising the industry itself.	Reasoning
It is well known that an attempt to rationalise textile industry inevitably involves retrenchment of a large number of employees but the appellants and the respondent have entered into agreements of rationalisation after both of them agreed to three basic principles in that behalf.	Reasoning
These principles are (a) Rationalisation to be effected without creating unemployment of the existing workers (b) Gains of Rationalisation should be adequately shared between the Management and the workers and (c)	Reasoning
The workload should not be increased in a manner which may jeopardise the health of the workers.	None
The fact that a large number of agreements have been made between the parties by consent concerning the vexed subject of rationalisation also shows that the future of the textile industry at Ahmedabad is bound to be as bright as it has been in the past.	None
In this connection, we may refer to the tribute paid by the Central Wage Board to the Cotton Textile Industry at Ahmedabad.	Reasoning
Says the BoardThe industry, however, is conscious of the need for rationalisation and modernisation as the sine qua non of survival, the pace of which had been checked in the past by the fear of unemployment that fear has been allayed, and labour now recognises that its own welfare depends on rationalisation and modernisation, and it has agreed upon the broad lines for their introduction.	Reasoning
Some mills even today have very modern and uptodate machinery, and all mills which can manage to do so will have to rationalise and modernise for the nation is on the march and this industry must clothe the nation.	Reasoning
87.	None
Let us then consider the question about the prospects of the demand for textile products in future and the increasing productivity of the industry.	Reasoning
On this point again, it is difficult to share the pessimism disclosed by the attitude adopted by the appellants.	Reasoning
There is little doubt that the productivity of the industry is increasing and that the demand for textile products will never be on the decrease in future.	Reasoning
Therefore, we do not see how we can differ from the conclusion of the Industrial Court that the appellants have failed to substantiate their contention that the additional burden would be beyond their capacity to pay.	Reasoning
In this connection, we ought to recall the fact that what the appellants are required to prove is that the prospects of their financial position in future justify a reduction in the wage which is being paid to the industrial employees during all these years for that on the ultimate analysis would be the result it their contention is accepted.	Reasoning
The Industrial Court has made a definite finding that it does not think that the financial condition of the industry has deteriorated so as to justify a departure from the principles in regard to dearness allowance hitherto laid down in respect of this industry at this centre.	Reasoning
In our opinion, this conclusion is well founded.	Reasoning
88.	None
It was conceded before us that our decision in Civil Appeals Nos. 167173 of 1965 would govern the decision of Civil Appeals Nos. 537538 of 1965.	Decision
So, the result is that all the said appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One set of hearing fee.	Decision
89.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
