 RAVINDRA BHAT, J. The present judgment will dispose of two appeals preferred under Section 125 of the Electricity Act, 2003.	Issue
One appeal (CA 2969/2010) has been preferred by the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. (hereafter,Gujarat Urjaor GUVN)	Issue
the second (CA 2793/2010) has been preferred by CLP (India) Pvt. Ltd. (formerly, Gujarat Torrent Energy Corporation Ltd later, Gujarat Paguthan Energy Corporation Ltd, a generating company, hereafter collectively CLP).	Issue
Both appeals challenge a common order of the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity ( APTEL hereafter).	Issue
The erstwhile Gujarat Electricity Board (GEB) (now Gujarat Urja) entered into a power purchase agreement ( PPA)with CLP on 03.02.1994.	Facts
In terms of the PPA, Gujarat Urja was under an obligation to purchase  and CLP was under corresponding obligation to supply  635 MW of electricity the tenure of the agreement was 20 years.	Facts
In terms of Section 43(A) of the Electricity Supply Act, 1948, (hereafterthe Act), a generating company may enter into a contract for the sale of electricity with the Electricity Board and the tariff for the sale of electricity shall be determined by the authority through the notification issued by the Central Government.	Facts
Prior the PPA in this case, the Central Government had issued a notification under Section 43A, on 30.03.1992, specifying the controlling norms, terms and conditions for determination of tariff for sale of electricity by the generating company to the Electricity Boards.	Facts
One of those conditions was the provision for incentive to units using naphtha.	Facts
On 17.01.1994, an amendment to the notification dated 30.03.1992 was made providing for Note (1) stating that the incentive for generation above the target availability of 68.49 for fixed cost recovery was to be capped.	Facts
After the signing of the PPA between the parties, an amendment notification dated 06.11.1995 was issued by the Central Government amending the notification (dated 30.03.1992).	Facts
By this, the Central Government provided that there would no longer be any deemed Generation Incentive payable to any generating company on available declaration of Naphtha as fuel.	Facts
Based on this notification, the Electricity Board sought to enforce the said notification claiming that this generating company is not entitled to get the incentive for deemed generation.	Facts
The Electricity Board also sent a letter dated 18.04.1996 informing the CLP, that it proposed to amend the Clause 7.5.2.1 of the PPA to the effect that no deemed generation shall be admissible beyond the level of generation in respect of Naphtha.	Facts
CLP did not agree to the proposal and by its reply dated 24.04.1996 stated that the notification of 06.11.1995 was inapplicable.	Facts
Gujarat Urja did not agree to CLPs position and reiterated its earlier position about the change in the incentive terms.	Facts
A meeting was held in respect of various issues on 06.10.1997 during which several issues were discussed and decisions taken, between the parties.	Facts
However, the minutes of meeting did not record any decision on the issue of incentive restricted in terms of the notification dated 06.11.1995.	Facts
There was some more correspondence and meetings, which however, did not lead to any result in regard to both parties accepting that the incentive was payable in terms of the notification of November,1995.	Facts
Ultimately, with effect from December 1997, CLP started billing Gujarat Urja for the power supplied, including the incentive (ignoring the amending notification)	Facts
Gujarat Urja continued to pay deemed generation incentive from June, 1998 to 2000.	Facts
The Union Ministry of Power issued a notification (dated 09.06.1998) which clarified profits on operating norms several components such as station heat rate, auxiliary consumption and secondary fuel consumption were eliminated and income tax on incentives was no longer permitted (as a pass through in tariff).	Facts
It was stated that this was prospective in operation and would apply to power purchase agreements which were not executed and delivered by the parties by 09.06.1998.	Facts
For a long time, incentive continued to be paid, ignoring the notification of 06.11.1995 by Gujarat Urja, to CLP.	Facts
On 05.12.2003, CLP and Gujarat Urja entered into a supplementary agreement, amending the PPA, to incorporate concessions offered by CLP to reduce tariff.	Facts
Pursuant to execution of the supplementary agreement dated 05.12.2003, Gujarat Urja issued a letter to CLP stating that all the outstanding issues stood fully and finally resolved.	Facts
Gujarat Urja continued to pay deemed generation incentive from 05.12.2003 to 23.02.2005.	Facts
In February, 2005, a highlevel committee was constituted to examine the issue of recovery of excess payouts made on the basis of deemed generation incentive.	Facts
The receipt of the report, of that committee, led Gujarat Urja to file an application for recovery of the amounts from CLP (Petition No.874/2006 under Section 86(1)(f) of the Act, before the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC), claiming for recovery of deemed generation incentive paid to CLP during the period from 199798 to 2005 06.	Facts
CLP resisted Gujarat Urjas application, contending that principles of estoppel precluded recovery that in any event, parties had not agreed to change the terms of the PPA and that the previous correspondence evidenced that the matter had been closed, which meant that Gujarat Urja could not claim recovery of any socalled excess amounts.	Facts
The GERC, by its order held that Note 2 (introduced by the notification of 06.11.1995) was applicable to the project and thus deemed generation incentive is not payable to CLP.	Facts
However, it permitted recovery of only for a period of three years prior to the date of filing of the petition the recovery for the period prior to 14.09.2002 were held to be timebarred.	Facts
The second appeal, i.e. CA 2793/2010 by CLP Limited, questions the impugned order of the APTEL which had upheld the rejection of its claim for interest on deemed loan component.	Facts
The facts as far as this appeal is concerned are that a supplementary agreement was executed between the parties on 05.12.2003.	Facts
In terms of Article 4.6 of the Supplementary Agreement, original clause 7.5.14(a) of the PPA dated 03.02.1994 was substituted.	Facts
CLP stated that the amount, i.e 53.90 crores was in fact due as a loan.	Facts
If it was deemed as a loan, then interest was payable on the basis of normative repayment of principal amount during the period of the loan, i.e. the loan would not remain as a constant.	Facts
In this regard, CLP had relied upon Clause 1.5 of the notification dated 30.03.1992.	Facts
The PPA dated 03.02.1994 by Schedule VII Clause 7.5.10 defined Interest on Loan Capital in the following terms 7.5.10 Interest on Loan Capitalshall mean the sum of all payment of interest along with bank charges and all associated financing costs paid to the bank annually on the outstanding loans paid by GTEC, converted, as of the first day of the fortnight for the applicable fixed charge, into the currencies in which it is payable employing exchange rates at banks selling rate prevailing on that day obtained from the source mutually agreed.	Facts
The CERC Tariff Regulations, 2001 which provided for Interest on loan capitalclause 2.7(a) and CERC Tariff Regulations,2004 were relied upon.	Facts
They are set out below 2.7(a)Interest on loan capital Interest on loan capital shall be computed on the outstanding loans, duly taking into account the schedule of repayment as per the financial package approved by the Authority or an appropriate independent agency, as the case may be.	None
CERC Tariff Regulations, 2004 inter alia provides as under DebtEquity Ratio(1)	Facts
In case of alia generating stations, declared under commercial operation on or after 1.4.2004,debtequity ratio as on the date of commercial operation shall be 7030 for determination of tariff.	Facts
Where equity employed is more than 30,the amount of equity for determination of tariff shall be limited to 30 and the balance amount shall be considered as the normative loan.	None
Provided that in case of a generating station where actual equity employed is less than 30, the actual debt and equity shall be considered for determination of tariff.	Facts
The debt and equity amount arrived at in accordance with clause (1) shall be used for calculating interest on loan, return on equity, Advance against Depreciation and Foreign Exchange Rate Variation.	Facts
Gujarat Urja resisted this claim.	Facts
After adjudication, the GERC rejected the CLPs argument on a plain reading of the clause, saying that for the first time in the supplementary agreement, which stated that the agreement too recognized 53.9 crores as own Capital for which the cost of Own Capital 14 was to be a pass through.	Facts
The effective date for such recognition was from 01.07.2003 to 31.03.2009 and no amounts were due and payable as interest after that date.	Facts
It was specifically stated that this condition constituted the complete bargain to the extent it provided for treatment of cost of Own Capital 14 per annum for a defined period.	Facts
The agreement had to be and was given prospective operation.	Facts
This excluded any liability on part of Gujarat Urja for the past period, i.e. December 1997.	Facts
It was also held that the claim made in 2010 was substantially barred to the extent it sought for any amount of interest beyond a period of three years.	Facts
The CLP claimed on another issue, i.e. interest on 14.48 crores 16 per annum from July 2000 to 30.06.2003 was payable.	Facts
In terms of the supplementary agreement, the condition specifically stated that GPEC (i.e. CLC) had further deployed a sum of 14,48,40,831/ from its internal accrual to complete shortfall and disbursal of loan by the lenders, which agreed to allow payment on this amount 16 per annum from July 2000 to 30.06.2012.	Facts
Gujarat Urja stated that this interest was payable on reducing balance terms, not as bullet payment of interest.	Facts
The CERC ruled that it was quite clear that the parties had agreed to allow interest at the said rate, 16 on the said sum, i.e. 14.48 crores.	Facts
Therefore, Gujarat Urja could not argue that interest was payable on the reducing balance method and that the payment of interest on a bullet repayment method was not permissible.	Facts
The Commission, i.e. GERC noted that the statutory notification, i.e. clause 1.5 of the notification dated 30.03.1992 did not prohibit calculation of interest on bullet repayment as regards clause 7.5.10 in Schedule VII of the PPA dated 03.02.1994, the subject matter or its content was deemed loan.	Facts
On this second aspect, therefore, the terms of the contract contained in the supplementary agreement directing 16 per annum interest on 14.48 crores is bullet repayment, was upheld.	Facts
The CLP Limited was aggrieved by that portion of GERCs order which rejected its claim on the deemed loan component prior to the period 2003.	Facts
It appealed to the APTEL (Appeal No.44/2009).	Facts
The APTEL concurred with the decision of the GERC and held that clause 7.5.14(a) of the supplementary agreement did not oblige Gujarat Urja to refund interest paid upon the deemed loan component upon the equity portion treated as deemed loan, i.e. 53.9 crores for any period prior to 01.07.2003.	Facts
Therefore, CLPs appeal was rejected.	Facts
It, therefore, has appealed to this Court on the said findings.	Facts
Analysis and Findings Section 43A of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (hereafter the Supply Act) reads as follows 43A. Terms, conditions and tariff for sale of electricity by Generating Company.	None
A Generating Company may enter into a contract for the sale of electricity generated by it (a) with the Board constituted for the State or any of the States in which a generating station owned or operated by the company is located (b) with the Board constituted for any other State in which it is carrying on its activities in pursuance of subsection(3) of section 15A and (c) with any other person with consent of the competent government or governments.	None
The tariff for the sale of electricity by a Generating Company to the Board shall be determined in accordance with the norms regarding operation and the Plant Load Factor as may be laid down by the Authority and in accordance with the rates of depreciation and reasonable return and such other factors as may be determined, from time to time, by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette Provided that the terms, conditions and tariff for such sale shall, in respect of a Generating Company, wholly or partly owned by the Central Government, be such as may be determined by the Central Government and in respect of a Generating Company wholly or partly owned by one or more State Governments be such as may be determined, from time to time, by the government or governments concerned.	Facts
At the outset, it is noticeable that on the issue, whether amounts paid to CLP, for the period 1998 to 2005 onwards, were in excess of what was actually payable by Gujarat Urja, the findings of GERC and the APTEL are concurrent.	Reasoning
This court does not discern any unreasonableness or facial omission of material factors, to warrant appellate review.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the court would proceed to deal with the submissions made on this aspect.	None
Gujarat Urja contends that the concurrent findings, to the extent they limit the refund to a period upto 2002 are erroneous, because in effect CLP has been unjustly enriched.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel for Gujarat Urja, Mr. C.A. Sundaram, argued that once the GERC found, on a plain reading and interpretation of the tariff order of 1992 as amended by the notification dated 06.11.1995, that incentive could not be paid in the same manner as was contemplated by the parties, when they entered into the PPA (on 03.02.1994), as a matter of law, the amounts paid were excess consequently, both in law as well as in equity, CLP was under an obligation to refund the entire excess, from the time it was not entitled to those amounts.	Arguments of Respondent
On the question of limitation, learned senior counsel argued that the APTEL erred in law, in not following the decisions of this court in Hari Shankar Singhania v. Gaur Hari Singhania (2006) 4 SCC 658 and Sri Ram Mills Ltd.v.	Arguments of Respondent
Utility Premises Ltd. (2007) 4 SCC 599 in considering that the issue was not timebarred.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that the question was engaging the attention of the parties and CLP was aware of the fact that the Central Electricity Authority and the Central Government had taken decisions on this aspect.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, as a matter of law, by reason of the amendment, to the notification (dated 06.11.1995), CLP could not have legitimately claimed more tariff based on the incentive policy that was no longer applicable.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the amounts paid to the extent they were not in conformity with the said amendment, had to be refunded in entirety.	Arguments of Respondent
17.	None
On behalf of CLP it was urged, by Mr. Sajan Poovayya, learned senior counsel, that both the authorities below erred in their interpretation of the terms of the PPA, the notification of 30.03.1992 and the amendment of 06.11.1995.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that CLPs generation station is gasbased and not a Naphtha based station.	Arguments of Petitioner
The notification dated 06.11.1995 applied only to 100 Naphtha based stations and not to gas based stations like that of CLP, where Naphtha was used as a secondary fuel when the Gas was not available.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expression Naphtha based station used in the notification is a term of art it refers merely to the physical characteristic of the plant and not to the nature of fuel to be used.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further contended that the amending notification of 06.11.1995 itself makes a distinction between gas based stations and naphtha based stations.	Arguments of Petitioner
CLPs plant, in terms of PPA is a gas based, not Naphtha based.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the notification dated 06.11.1995 would not apply to its plant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Also, urged counsel, since the PPA was entered into on 03.02.1994, the amendment notification dated 06.11.1995 would not apply to the preexisting PPA, since it has a prospective effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was lastly submitted that Clause 6.5 of the PPA dated 03.02.1994 regarding change of law is clarificatory in nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
It deals only with the earlier part to protect the interest of the GPEC for change in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
The change in law referred to in Clause 6.5 covers amendment to notification dated 30.03.1992.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the financial difficulties resulting from the amendment notification dated 06.11.1995 are to be compensated in favour of the CLP. 18.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that Note(2) of the amended notification dated 06.11.1995 unambiguously states that it applies only to Naphtha based stations for whom generation incentive was inapplicable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the gas based units like CLP were clearly not covered by Note(2) since they used naphtha only as an alternative fuel or substitute fuel.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the findings given by the GERC and APTEL to the effect that Naphtha based station include those that are capable of firing Naphtha also as a fuel, and not mean those which are capable of firing only Naphtha, is wrong.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submissions of parties are with respect to two notifications dated 30.03.1992 and 06.11.1995.	Reasoning
These Notifications were under Section 43(A) of the Supply Act.	Reasoning
Concededly, these notifications are statutory and are binding on the parties.	Reasoning
Any PPA between a generating company and the purchaser of electricity is subject to such statutory notifications parties by agreement cannot override statutory provisions, or such notifications, as far as they relate to matters of tariff.	Reasoning
Therefore, the rights and obligations of the parties under the PPA have to be read subject to the statutory provisions.	Reasoning
The provisions of the PPA, if they are contrary to the statutory provisions, cannot be given effect to.	Reasoning
In terms of the PPA of 03.02.1994, fuel is defined as follows Fuel natural gas and or any liquid fuel selected by Gujarat Torrant Electricity Company (GTEC) (now CLP) for use in power station for generating electricity fuel management is defined as follows Fuel ManagementThe power station of the GTEC is designed to use natural gas and liquid fuel as fuel.	None
GTEC shall decide selection and use and proportion gas and other fuel in best economic way depending on the situation from time to time.	None
The kind of alternative fuel and its longterm purchase contract could be jointly decided by CLP and Gujarat Urja.	None
The cost of the alternate fuel when used by CLP shall be taken into account for calculation of variable charges as defined in Schedule VII (of the PPA).	None
Clause 7.1 and Clause 7.4 of Schedule VII to the PPA are relevant.	Reasoning
Under the former, Gujarat Urja had to purchase power from CLP on the basis of the notification of 30.03.1992 of the Central Government.	None
It further provided that the tariff for the first 6000 Kwh kw (i.e 68.5 PLF i.e. plant load factor) of net availability in any year was to be the sum of (a) the fixed charge and (b) the variable charge (i.e those terms defined by clauses 7.2 and 7.3).	None
For all excess energy of actual and deemed generation in excess of 68.5, the tariff payable was to be the sum of (a) incentive and (b) variable charge.	None
Clause 7.4 provided for incentive, which was to be 0.575 for every 1 increase in the generation above the normative level of 6000 hours per kWH KW (i.e 68.5 PLF) in accordance with the notification S.O. 251(E), dated 30.03.1992 (as amended on 17.01.1994).	None
The argument of CLP that its unit was essentially gasbased and that the definition of naphthabased unit meant only that unit which depended entirely on naphtha as a fuel, or that which used naphtha at least to the extent of 50, in our opinion is not correct.	Reasoning
The judgment of this court in India Thermal Power Ltd. vs. State of M.P. Ors. is an authority for the proposition that parties can agree to terms as they deem appropriate, for generation and sale of electricity under Section 43A except that the tariff is to be in accordance with the provision contained in Section 43A. The decision in Binani Zinc Ltd. v. Kerala State Electricity Board ((2009) 11 SCC 244 )	None
Tata Power Company Ltd. vs. Adani Electricity Mumbai Ltd. and Ors.	Reasoning
(2019(7) SCALE 297) too have taken a similar approach.	None
Clause 6.5 of the PPA of 03.02.1994 dealt with a situation concerning change of law.	None
It also stated that any amendment in the Central Governments notification dated 30.03.1992 would be taken into account for tariff calculation.	None
The relevant part of the notification of 30.03.1992 which dealt with charges recoverable by the generating company was clause 1.6.	None
That condition was amended by the notification dated 06.11.1995 which clearly stated, by Note(2) that Note2For Naptha based thermal plants, the extent of backing down, as ordered by Regional Electricity Boards, beyond plant Load Factor of 6000 kwh kw year, shall not be reckoned as generation achieved for incentive purpose.	None
There is no dispute that the PPA which the parties entered into specifically referred to the notification of 30.03.1992 and further went on to state that for the first Kwh KW, a plant load factor of 68.5 fixed charges and variable charges were deployed.	Reasoning
For generation achieved over and above this by the concerned unit CLP, an incentive 5.75 for every 1 increase over and above the fixed and variable charge payable was agreed to.	Reasoning
Significantly, the fixed and variable charges are in consonance with the statutory notification of 30.03.1992 (which was also later amended on 17.01.1994).	Reasoning
This much is clear from a plain reading of clause 7.1 of the Schedule VII to the PPA itself.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that the notification amended on 06.11.1995 was a statutory one, there cannot be any doubt that it was binding upon the parties.	Reasoning
Therefore, the earlier notification which left it free to the parties to negotiate on various aspects, including on the incentive payable, stood amended by Note 2, which was added to clause 1.6 of the tariff.	Reasoning
The effect of this statutory incorporation by way of amendment was that incentive no longer became payable.	Reasoning
The arguments by the CLP, in the opinion of the Court, that the parties were bound only by the terms of the agreement and that the amendment notification being prospective, could not have altered the terms of the tariff, especially the incentive payable, are insubstantial and have no force.	Reasoning
The concurrent findings on this aspect, therefore, are sound and do not call for interference.	Reasoning
Likewise, the change of law provision (Clause 6.5 of the PPA) clearly contemplated that any amendment to the prevailing tariff notification (dated 30.03.1992) would bind the parties.	Reasoning
Since Note (2) was an amendment, which dealt with the issue of incentive, it cannot now be said that it was inapplicable.	Reasoning
The findings of the lower authorities, therefore, are correct no interference is called for.	None
The next question is whether the GERC and APTEL fell into error in granting restricted refund calculable for the 3 year period prior to Gujarat Urjas application.	Issue
The concurred findings on this aspect, in the opinion of this court, are reasonable.	None
There is merit in CPLs submission that the earliest point in time, when the cause of action arose, was in May,1996, when Gujarat Urja rejected its contention that incentive was payable in terms of the PPA, notwithstanding the notification of 06.11.1995.	Reasoning
Despite this stated position, meetings continued to be held and, what is more, incentive amounts, were paid to CLP.	Reasoning
No doubt, no document conclusively stated that CLPs claim was accepted.	Reasoning
We do not find any merit in the submission of Gujarat Urja that the issue was kept alive, due to a series of communications.	Reasoning
In this regard, APTELs findings about inapplicability of Section 18 of the Limitation Act, are correct.	Reasoning
There was no admission on the part of CLP, at least of the kind, that extended the time for preferring an application for recovery of excess payments.	Reasoning
It has been consistently ruled by this court that repeated letters, or exchange of communications, do not extend the period of limitation, provided by law.	Reasoning
The third, and last issue, is with respect to payment of interest on deemed equity.	Reasoning
Clause 1.5 of the 30.03.1992 notification provided for interest on loan, as a component of tariff it stipulated that interest (on outstanding loan) shall be computed as per financial package approved by the Authority (CEA).	Reasoning
The PPA of 03.02.1994 (Schedule VII) clause 7.5.10 defined interest on loan capital as the sum of all payments of interest along with bank charges and all associated financing costs paid to the bank annually on the outstanding loans paid by GTEC.	Reasoning
The Central Commissions order of 21.02.2000 led to a stipulation in the tariff regulations of 2001.	Reasoning
Eventually, the Tariff Regulations of 2004 was brought into force it provided for a debt ratio of 7030 for determination of tariff.	Reasoning
It also provided that Where equity employed is more than 30, the amount of equity for determination of tariff shall be limited to 30 and the balance amount shall be considered as the normative loan The debtequity ratio in this case, was disturbed accordingly 53.9 crores was treated as deemed or normative loan, for which the parties had to agree the rate of interest payable, in accordance with the tariff notification.	None
It was in the light of these developments that the supplementary agreement was entered into.	None
That amended the existing PPA, to the following effect (f.n.1 ibid.)	None
The parties have agreed to recognize an amount of Rs.53.90 crores as Own Capital deployed to meet with the Capital Cost and allowance of Payment of cost in the form of Cost of Own Capital the rate of 14per annum effective from 1.7.2003 and up to 31.12.2009.	None
No payment of any nature will accrue after the said date on the said amount.	None
It is thus apparent, that the parties did not harbor any doubt about the period for which the specified interest was payable on such deemed loan.	Reasoning
The rate of interest was fixed likewise, the date from which payment obligations were to arise, too were known.	Reasoning
Also, the date upto which the interest on such deemed loan payments were to be made, was known and fixed.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, CLPs claim that the payment of interest for a prior period was outstanding, and constituted Gujarat Urjas liability, is insubstantial.	Reasoning
In a recent judgment (Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd.and Ors.	Reasoning
vs. Adani Power Ltd. and Ors. 2019	Reasoning
(5) SCC 325 )	Reasoning
a similar issue had arisen.	Reasoning
The court quoted from the decision in National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. v. Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board ((2011)15 SCC 580) where another previous decision was cited with approval on the issue that the express provision for something, in an agreement, meant that other similar matters stood excluded.	Reasoning
A somewhat analogous issue, i.e. interest on normative deemed loan (i.e. deemed loan), in the context of changed debtequity ratios, under tariff regimes was considered in a decision of this court (Damodar Valley Corporation vs. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission Ors. 2018 (15) SCALE 451.) , where it was held that In the order of the Appellate Tribunal dated 23.11.2007 the matter came to be dealt with under the heading debt equity ratio.	None
The Tribunal went on to accept the case of the Appellant in respect of all old projects of DVC and normative debt equity of 5050 was assigned, commissioned prior to 1992.	None
In respect of recent projects such as Mejina, it was assigned debt equity ratio of 7030 on capital structure as specified in the Regulations.	None
This finding has become final.	None
It was contended on behalf of the Appellant that equity has been the primary source of capital.	None
Thereafter,in paragraph A10, it was found by the Appellate Tribunal that owners take upon themselves business related risk and are entitled to interest on capital investment,but the return is to be governed by the scheme of determination of tariff for the supply of electricity as mandated by the law in place.	None
The Appellate Tribunal further proceeds to hold that the scheme provides for assured Return on Equity (ROE) which is at the rate of 14 on the equity employed for the purpose of supplying electricity.	None
The scheme does not permit return on investment made on projects other than for supply of electricity to be recovered from supply of electricity.	None
The Tribunal went on to hold that the DVC Act does not recognise capital as borrowings and there is no reference about repayment of such capital to the participating Governments.	None
The Appellate Tribunal proceeds to hold that the capital infused by participating Governments is in the nature of equity capital and for the determination of tariff, the same would be eligible for return on equity but the Appellate Tribunal does not end there.	None
It clearly provides that the return on equity is as may be permitted by the tariff Regulation of 2004.	None
It is thereafter that the Appellate Tribunal in para 15 proceeded to hold that the DVC Act provides for interest on capital which is contributed by the participating Governments.	None
The accrued interest due to the Governments apparently has been allowed to be retained by the Appellant.	None
The same however came to be ploughed back into the capital with the tacit consent of the participating Governments.	None
Thereafter, it is stated that this has to be provided to the DVC as per the provisions of Section 38 of the DVC Act.	None
It is thereafter paragraph A16 which we have already extracted, the Tribunal proceeded to observe that under the DVC Act if there is any deficit in the capital contributed by the participating Governments,it is to be made good by taking loan on behalf of the participating Governments.	None
The said debt would attract interest.	None
The average interest rate of the repayment payable is to be applied on a 5050 normative debt capital.	None
This means that out of the aggregate equity including reserves, equity considering the normative debt ratio of 5050 would be eligible for return on equity as specified in the Regulations and the excess of equity,if any, over the equity earning ratio of 14 is to be considered as interest bearing debt.	None
In the example which has been given it is shown that if the debt equity ratio is 4060, return on equity at 14 will be available on 50 equity whereas interest would be available at 10 portion of equity and 40 loan which were reduced by repayments.	None
On the basis of the remand, the Commission has worked out the debt equity ratio as directed by the Appellate Tribunal.	None
It has further provided return on equity at the rate of 14 on the equity portion, namely 50.	None
In respect of the debt portion, interest has been calculated no doubt after deducting depreciation, the legality of which is the subject matter of the other contention which we will deal with separately.	None
It is quite clear to us that Appellant has already been given return on equity in terms of the tariff Regulation in respect of capital on the basis of debt equity ratio which has been fixed by the Appellate Tribunal on a ratio which has become final between the parties.	None
Though a perusal of para A9 of order dated 23.11.2007 may appear to show that equity has been found to be the main source of capital, a perusal of paragraph A10,A16 and more importantly E13 would show that capital Under Section 38 of the DVC Act has been understood as the value of the operating assets when they were first put to commercial use.	None
Capital is also understood not as equity alone but it has been understood both as loan and equity.	None
The ratio between loan and equity is also fixed in respect of the old projects at 5050 and under the new projects it is at 7030.It is further clear from paragraph E13 of the order of the Appellate Tribunal dated 23.11.2007 that the appellate Tribunal contemplated that the equity component would remain static and it would earn the rate of return as provided in the tariff Regulation.	None
As far as the loan component is concerned, it would get reduced on account of repayments.	None
Therefore, the recovery as contemplated under the Regulations was found to be in two forms, namely, either as return on equity in respect of the equity portion and as interest on the loan component.	None
In the present case, the clear agreement between the parties was that interest on the sum of 53.90 crores was payable for the specified period 01.07.2003 to 31.12.2009.Therefore, CLPs claim that any amount was payable, for any period prior to 01.07.2003, was not tenable.	Reasoning
Had CLP wished so, nothing prevented it to claim for it during negotiations and have it included as a term of the contract.	Reasoning
Once having settled for a specified sum, on an amount (53.90 crores) that was only fictionally a loan  and treated as such, for purpose of fixing interest payable, considering the equity infused, in excess of the tariff regulations, the absence of any like item, such as interest for prior period, precludes a claim.	Reasoning
But it was really part of the equity component.	Reasoning
Therefore, interest was per se not payable, but could be paid in terms of the tariff notification or the agreement.	Reasoning
No claim on any other legal or equitable considerations could have been made.	Reasoning
The findings of the lower authorities are therefore, sound and reasonable.	Reasoning
In view of the foregoing analysis and conclusions, both appeals have to fail.	Decision
They are accordingly dismissed, without order on costs.	Decision
