 G. Balakrishnan, C.J.I. Reservation for admission in educational institutions or for public employment has been a matter of challenge in various litigations in this Court as well as in the High Courts.	None
Diverse opinions have been expressed in regard to the need for reservation.	None
Though several grounds have been raised to oppose any form of reservation, few in independent India have voiced disagreement with the proposition that the disadvantaged sections of the population deserve and need special help.	None
But there has been considerable disagreement as to which category of disadvantaged sections deserve such help, about the form this help ought to take and about the efficacy and propriety of what the government has done in this regard.	None
Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, who presided over the Congress Expert Committee emphasized before the Constituent Assembly that the removal of socioeconomic inequalities was the highest priority.	None
He believed that only this could make India a casteless and classless society, without which the Constitution will become useless and purposeless.	None
The Founding Fathers of the Constitution were thus aware of the ripples of inequality present in society, decried the notion of caste and ensured that the Constitutional framework contained adequate safeguards that would ensure the upliftment of the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, thus creating a society of equals.	None
The interpretation of the term socially and educationally backward, and its constituent classes, was left for future generations to decide.	None
Regarding equality, Dr. Ambedkar stated in the Constituent Assembly We must begin by acknowledging the fact that there is complete absence of two things in Indian Society.	None
One of these is equality.	None
On the social plane, we have in India a society based on the principle of graded inequality which means elevation for some and degradation for others.	None
On the economic plane, we have a society in which there are some who have immense wealth as against many who live in abject poverty.	None
Judge Lauterpacht of the International Court of Justice, writing in 1945, described the importance of the principle of equality in the following words The claim to equality before the law is in substantial sense the most fundamental of the rights of man.	None
It occupies the first place in most written constitutions.	None
It is the starting point of all other liberties.	None
Equality has also been enshrined in various international instruments, such as the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights.	None
Its Preamble speaks of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family, and of the equal rights of men and women.	None
Reservation is one of the many tools that are used to preserve and promote the essence of equality, so that disadvantaged groups can be brought to the forefront of civil life.	None
It is also the duty of the State to promote positive measures to remove barriers of inequality and enable diverse communities to enjoy the freedoms and share the benefits guaranteed by the Constitution.	None
In the context of education, any measure that promotes the sharing of knowledge, information and ideas, and encourages and improves learning, among Indias vastly diverse classes deserves encouragement.	None
To cope with the modern world and its complexities and turbulent problems, education is a must and it cannot remain cloistered for the benefit of a privileged few.	None
Reservations provide that extra advantage to those persons who, without such support, can forever only dream of university, education, without ever being able to realize it.	None
This advantage is necessary.	None
In the words of President Lyndon Johnson, You do not take a person who, for years, has been hobbled by chains and liberate him, bring him up to the starting line and then say, You are free to compete with all the others Dr. Rajendra Prasad, at the concluding address of the Constituent Assembly, stated in the following words To all we give the assurance that it will be our endeavour to end poverty and squalor and its companions, hunger and disease to abolish distinction and exploitation and to ensure decent conditions of living.	None
We are embarking on a great task.	None
We hope that in this we shall have the unstinted service and cooperation of all our people and the sympathy and support of all the communities It must also be borne in mind that many other democracies face similar problems and grapple with issues of discrimination, in their own societal context.	None
Though their social structure may be markedly different from ours, the problem of inequality in the larger context and the tools used to combat it may be common.	None
As stated by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg at the 51st Cardozo Memorial Lecture, in 1999 In my view, comparative analysis emphatically is relevant to the task of interpreting constitutions and enforcing human rights.	None
We are losers if we neglect what others can tell us about endeavours to eradicate bias against women, minorities and other disadvantaged groups.	None
For irrational prejudice and rank discrimination are infectious in our world.	None
In this, reality, as well as the determination to counter it, we all share.	None
We are conscious of the fact that any reservation or preference shall not lead to reverse discrimination.	None
The Constitution (NinetyThird) Amendment Act, 2005 and the enactment of Act 5 of 2007 giving reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBCs), Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) created mixed reactions in the society.	None
Though the reservation in favour of SC and ST is not opposed by the petitioners, the reservation of 27 in favour of Other Backward Classes Socially and educationally backward classes is strongly opposed by various petitioners in these cases.	None
Eminent Counsel appeared both for the petitioners and respondents.	None
The learned Solicitor General and Additional Solicitor General appeared and expressed their views.	None
We have tried to address, with utmost care and attention, the various arguments advanced by the learned counsel and we are greatly beholden to all of them for the manner in which they have analysed and presented the case before us which is of great importance, affecting large sections of the community.	None
By The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005, clause (5) was inserted in Article 15 of the Constitution which reads as under  Nothing in this article or in subclause (g) of clause (1) of article 19 shall prevent the State from making any special provision, by law, for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in so far as such special provisions relate to their admission to the educational institutions including private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State, other than the minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of article 30.	Reasoning
In Unni Krishnan, J.P. Ors.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Andhra Pradesh Ors. , it was held that right to establish educational institutions can neither be a trade or business nor can it be a profession within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g).	None
This was overruled in T.M.A. Pai Foundation Ors.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Karnataka Ors. , wherein it was held that all citizens have the fundamental right to establish and administer educational institutions under Article 19(1)(g) and the term occupation in Article 19(1)(g) comprehends the establishment and running of educational institutions and State regulation of admissions in such institutions would not be regarded as an unreasonable restriction on that fundamental right to carry on business under Article 19(6) of the Constitution.	None
Education is primarily the responsibility of the State Governments.	None
The Union Government also has certain responsibility specified in the Constitution on matters relating to institutions of national importance and certain other specified institutions of higher education and promotion of educational opportunities for the weaker sections of society.	None
The Parliament introduced Article 15(5) by The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 to enable the State to make such provision for the advancement of SC, ST and Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) of citizens in relation to a specific subject, namely, admission to educational institutions including private educational institutions whether aided or unaided by the State notwithstanding the provisions of Article 19(1)(g).	Arguments of Respondent
In the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 it has been stated that  At present, the number of seats available in aided or State maintained institutions, particularly in respect of professional education, is limited in comparison to those in private unaided institutions.	None
To promote the educational advancement of the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, i.e., the OBCs or the Scheduled Castes ad Scheduled Tribes in matters of admission of students belonging to these categories in unaided educational institutions other than the minority educational institutions referred to Clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution, it is proposed to amplify Article 15.	None
The new Clause (5) shall enable the Parliament as well as the State Legislatures to make appropriate laws for the purposes mentioned above.	None
After the above Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005, the Parliament passed The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006 (No. 5 of 2007) (hereinafter referred to as the Act 5 of 2007).	None
Section 3 of Act 5 of 2007 provides for reservation of 15 seats for Scheduled Castes, 7 seats for Scheduled Tribes and 27 for Other Backward Classes in Central Educational Institutions.	Reasoning
The said section is extracted below  The reservation of seats in admission and its extent in a Central Educational Institution shall be provided in the following manner, namely out of the annual permitted strength in each branch of study or faculty, fifteen per cent seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes out of the annual permitted strength in each branch of study or faculty, seven and onehalf per cent seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes out of the annual permitted strength in each branch of study or faculty, twentyseven per cent seats shall be reserved for the Other Backward Classes.	None
Central Educational Institution has been defined under Section 2(d) of the Act as follows 2(d) Central Educational Institution means a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act an institution of national importance set up by an Act of Parliament an institution, declared as a deemed University under section 3 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, and maintained by or receiving aid from the Central Government an institution maintained by or receiving aid from the Central Government, whether directly or indirectly, and affiliated to an institution referred to in clause (i) or clause (ii), or a constituent unit of an institution, referred to in clause (iii) an educational institution set up by the Central Government under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.	None
The percentage of reservation to various groups such as Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes are with reference to the annual permitted strength of the Central Educational Institutions and the annual permitted strength is defined under Section2(b) of the Act as follows 2(b) annual permitted strength means the number of seats, in a course or programme for teaching or instruction in each branch of study or faculty authorized by an appropriate authority for admission of students to a Central Educational Institution.	None
Section 4 of the Act specifically says that the provisions of Section 3 shall apply to certain institutions.	None
Section 4 reads as under The provisions of Section 3 of this Act shall not apply to (a) a Central Educational Institution established in the tribal areas referred to in the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution (b) the institutions of excellence, research institutions, institutions of national and strategic importance specified in the Schedule to this Act Provided that the Central Government may, as and when considered necessary, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Schedule (c) a Minority Educational Institution as defined in this Act (d) a course or programme at high levels of specialization, including at the postdoctoral level, within any branch or study or faculty, which the Central Government may, in consultation with the appropriate authority, specify.	None
Minority Educational Institution is defined in Section 2(f) of the Act as follows Minority Educational Institution means an institution established and administered by the minorities under clause (1) of article 30 of the Constitution and so declared by an Act of Parliament or by the Central Government or declared as a Minority Educational Institution under the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004 Section 2(g) defines Other Backward Classes as under Other Backward Classes means the class or classes of citizens who are socially and educationally backward, and are so determined by the Central Government Clause 2(h) defines Scheduled Castes and clause 2(i) defines Scheduled Tribes as under Scheduled Castes means the Scheduled Castes notified under article 341 of the Constitution Scheduled Tribes means the Scheduled Tribes notified under article 342 of the Constitution.	None
Section 5 of the Act mandates the increase of seats in the Central Educational Institutions by providing reservation to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes.	Reasoning
Section 5 reads as follows 5.(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (iii) of section 3 and in any other law for the time being in force, every Central Educational Institution shall, with the prior approval of the appropriate authority, increase the number of seats in a branch of study or faculty over and above its annual permitted strength so that the number of seats, excluding those reserved for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward Classes, is not less than the number of such seats available for the academic session immediately preceding the date of the coming into force of this Act.	None
Where, on a representation by any Central Educational Institution, the Central Government, in consultation with the appropriate authority, is satisfied that for reasons of financial, physical or academic limitations or in order to maintain the standards of education, the annual permitted strength in any branch of study or faculty of such institution cannot be increased for the academic session following the commencement of this Act, it may permit by notification in the Official Gazette, such institution to increase the annual permitted strength over a maximum period of three years beginning with the academic session following the commencement of this Act and then, the extent of reservation for the Other Backward Classes as provided in clause (iii) of section 3 shall be limited for that academic session in such manner that the number of seats available to the Other Backward Classes for each academic session are commensurate with the increase in the permitted strength for each year.	None
By virtue of definition of the Central Educational Institutions under clause (d)(iv) of Section 2 of the Act, all institutions maintained by or receiving aid from the Central Government whether directly or indirectly, and affiliated to any university or deemed university or institution of national importance, in addition to universities which are established or incorporated under a Central Act, institutions of national importance set up by Acts of Parliament, deemed universities maintained or receiving aid from Central Government and institutions set up by the Central Government with the Societies Registration Act, 1960, are brought under the purview of reservation under Section 3 of the Act.	None
The object of the Act is to introduce in reservation in only such institutions which are defined as Central Educational Institutions and not any other private unaided institutions.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Act gives the object of the Act thus  Greater access to higher education including professional education, to a large number of students belonging to the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, has been a matter of major concern.	None
The reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward Classes of citizens (OBCs) in admission to educational institutions is derived from the provisions of clause (4) of article 15.	None
At present, the number of seats available in aided or State maintained institutions, particularly in respect of professional education, is limited in comparison to those in private unaided institutions.	None
It is laid down in article 46, as a directive principle of State policy, that the State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people and protect them from social injustice.	None
Access to education is important in order to ensure advancement of persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the socially and educationally backward classes also referred to as the OBCs.	None
Clause (1) of article 30 provides the right to all minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.	None
It is essential that the rights available to minorities are protected in regard to institutions established and administered by them.	None
Accordingly, institutions declared by the State to be minority institutions under clause (1) of article 30 are omitted from the operation of the proposal.	None
To promote the educational advancement of the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens i.e. the OBCs or of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in matters of admission of students belonging to these categories in unaided educational institutions, other than the minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of article 30 of the Constitution, it is proposed to amplify article 15.	None
The new clause (5) shall enable the Parliament as well as the State Legislatures to make appropriate laws for the purposes mentioned above.	None
The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.	None
The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005, by which Article 15(5) was inserted in the Constitution, is challenged in these petitions, on various grounds.	None
In some of the writ petitions which have been filed after the passing of Act 5 of 2007, the challenge is directed against the various provisions of the Act 5 of 2007.	Reasoning
Initially, these writ petitions were heard by a Bench of two Judges.	None
Considering the constitutional importance of these questions, all these writ petitions were referred to a Constitution Bench.	None
We have heard learned Counsel appearing for the various petitioners.	None
The learned Senior Counsel, Shri Harish Salve, Shri F.S. Nariman, Shri K.K. Venugopal, Shri P.P. Rao and Dr. Rajeev Dhavan and learned Counsel Shri Sushil Kumar Jain addressed the main arguments on behalf of the petitioners.	None
Shri Ashok Kumar Thakur appeared in person.	None
Supporting the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 and the provisions of the said Act, learned Senior Counsel Shri K. Parasaran, appearing for the Union of India, learned Solicitor General Shri G.E. Vahanvati and learned Additional Solicitor General Shri Gopal Subramanium submitted arguments.	None
We have also heard learned Senior Counsel Shri Ram Jethmalani, Shri T.R. Andhyarujina, Ms. Indra Jaisingh, Shri Rakesh Dwivedi and Shri Ravivarma Kumar.	None
We also had the advantage of the written submissions made by these Counsel.	None
The arguments advanced against the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 and Act 5 of 2007 can be summarized as follows.	None
It was contended by Shri Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel, who confined his arguments to the constitutionality of the provisions of the Act, especially subclause (3) of Section 3 of the Act which deals with the reservation to the extent of 27 of the total number of seats for the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the admission to educational institutions should be based purely on merit and to allow the State to prefer a student with lesser merit over those who would have otherwise got admission, is ex facie discriminatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that all obviously discriminatory laws are violative of the rule of equality and it is for the State to maintain the principles of equality and to establish the need for such laws as well as their validity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further argued that Article 15(5) does not protect the validity of the Act and that the provision in the Act for preferential admission solely on the basis of caste would violate Article 29(2) of the Constitution, as has been laid down in The State of Madras Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Srimathi Champakam Dorairajan.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also argued that Article 15(5) could be construed as an exception to Article 15(1) and affirmative action, if excessive, is bound to result in reverse discrimination which is not permissible.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Senior Counsel, this is not a genuine social engineering measure but vote bank politics and would create permanent fissures in society.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the provisions of the Act are facially violative of Article 14 and it could only be justified on the basis of compelling State necessity.	Arguments of Petitioner
A greater degree of compulsion is necessary to establish a compelling State necessity than what is ordinarily required to be shown in the case of economic legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel dealt in detail with the argument that the backward classes cannot be defined solely on the basis of caste and reference was made to various decisions of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel particularly referred to various decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States and contended that this kind of legislation, that is, the impugned Act, attempting affirmative action is to be treated as suspect legislation and it has to undergo the tests of strict scrutiny and compelling state necessity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally, the learned Counsel argued that nonexclusion of creamy layer is per se illegal and contrary to what has been laid down by this Court in Indra Sawhney Vs. Union of India Ors. .	Arguments of Petitioner
27.	Arguments of Petitioner
The validity of Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 was seriously challenged by arguing that the amendment is destructive of basic structure of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel was of the view that both the Act as well as the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 have to be declared ultra vires the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners in Writ Petition No. 53/2007 contended that the affirmative action scheme under Article 15(4), 15(5) and 16(4) has to comply with the mandate of Article 14, 15(1) and 16(1) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that these are only enabling provisions and not part of the fundamental rights.	Arguments of Petitioner
Notwithstanding, as used in Article 15(3), 15(4) and 15(5) cannot be construed as notwithstanding the declaration of equality principle.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the decision of this Court in Champakam Dorairajan (supra) admission quotas are impermissible on any ground based solely on religion, race, caste or any one of them.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that there is a lack of criteria for identification of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBCs).	Arguments of Petitioner
The concept of creamy layer is applicable to Article 15 and Article 16 and nonexclusion of creamy layer in the Act is illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further it was argued that quota should not be a punishment for unreserved categories and there should not be any reverse discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel further challenged the constitutional validity of Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 and contended that it is against the basic structure of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The procedure laid down under Article 368 has not been followed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that the proviso to Article 368 of the Constitution requires ratification of the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 by one half of the States.	Arguments of Petitioner
The amendment seeks to nationalize the private educational institutions which is unreasonable and impermissible and reference was made in this regard to T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that Act 5 of 2007 is unreasonable, arbitrary, capricious and contrary to Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
He elaborated his arguments on the basis of the tests laid down in the M. Nagaraj Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs. Union of India Ors. and I.R. Coelho (Dead) by LRS.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of T.N. cases and lastly, submitted that both Act 5 of 2007 and The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 are liable to be declared as ultra vires the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
29.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Rajeev Dhavan elaborately argued that perusal of the history of the reservations from 1880 to 2007 for OBCs and SEBCs showed that there was no emphasis on communities by the British regime and community based criteria was held to be illegal in Champakam Dorairajan (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
From 1950 to 1970, there was no proper inquiry for ascertaining the OBCs or SEBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel emphasized that in Indra Sawhneys case (supra), caste was excluded as a criteria and the identification of SEBCs or OBCs based on caste could not operate for both Articles 15(4) and 16(4).	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Senior Counsel, the criteria for identifying SEBCs should be based on the atrocities inflicted on that class, discriminatory patterns followed against that class, disadvantage suffered by that class and disempowerment in respect of the power of the State and political nonrepresentation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The class should also be relatively homogeneous in nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
30.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Senior Counsel, there is a lack of criteria for fixing SEBCs or OBCs and this case is being taken to excite votebanks.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the 27 of reservation under the Act of 2007 was based on criteria which did not exist.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that the creamy layer principle is applicable to OBCs and also to SCs and STs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that historic discrimination is not a valid criteria for determining the beneficiaries of affirmative action and the correct approach is to look at the continuing wrong and not past discrimination and that the quotas should not be a punishment for the nonreserved category resulting in reverse discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel contended that the NinetyThird Amendment is against the basic structure of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the Doctrine of Equality is adversely affected by giving a wide and untrammeled enabling power to the Union Legislature that may affect the rights of the nonOBCs, SCs and STs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the balance between what was referred to as the Golden Triangle in Minerva Mills Ltd. Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs. Union of India Ors. has been totally nullified by the NinetyThird Amendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the legislative declarations of facts are not beyond judicial scrutiny and the court can tear the veil to decide the real nature of the statute and decide the constitutional validity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the Act 5 of 2007 is subject to judicial review on the ground that its unreasonable and clear criteria have not been laid down to identify OBCs and there was no compelling necessity other than political patronage.	Arguments of Petitioner
31.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel appearing in W.P. (Civil) No. 598 of 2006 contended that Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually exclusive with the former concerning admissions to aided institutions and the latter concerning admissions to unaided institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 15(5) expressly used the phrase whether aided or unaided, making it clear that it is not merely restricting itself to unaided institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is argued that from the very inception of the Constitution, Article 15(4) was a provision and was the source of legislative power for the purpose of making reservation for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes as well as the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes of citizens in aided minority educational institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Article 15(5), which provides reservation of seats for SCs and STs as well as SEBCs in aided educational institutions expressly excludes such reservation being made at all in minority educational institutions covered by Article 30(1) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, it would take away the valuable rights of OBCs, SCs and STs given by the State under Article 15(4) of the Constitution and this would result in annulling the endeavour of the founding fathers of the Constitution and would result in exclusion of SCs and STs from the mainstream of the society and stall their development for centuries to come.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Counsel for the petitioners, the argument of the Union of India that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are both enabling provisions and both will stand together and both can be complied with is incorrect.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that Article 15(4) operates with a qualification that nothing in Article 15 or in Article 29(2) of the Constitution shall prevent the State from making special provision for SCs and STs as well as SEBCs while Article 15(5) operates with a qualification that nothing in Article 15 or Article 19(1)(g) shall prevent the State from making such special provisions for SCs and STs as well as SEBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The qualifying words in Article 15(4) do not have any real meaning or effect for the reason that both Article 15(1) as well as Article 29(2) prohibit discrimination on grounds only of religion and or for caste.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is argued that there is a direct conflict between Article 15(4) and 15(5).	Arguments of Petitioner
As both Articles contain an exclusionary clause excluding the operation of the rest of Article 15.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 is violative of the basic structure as it breaches the central character of the Constitution by placing the minority educational institutions based on religion on a special footing and exempting it from bearing the common burden of reservation for SCs, STs and SEBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that such exclusion of minority institution is not severable from Article 15(5).	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the validity of the Act 5 of 2007, it failed to exclude the creamy layer from the caste which would render the identification of the caste as backward class which is unconstitutional and void.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their inclusion would not result in unequals being treated as equals and result in giving the benefit of reservation to the advanced sections in that caste.	Arguments of Petitioner
The consequences would be that the inclusion of the caste for the benefit of reservations would be purely on the basis of caste only thus violating Article 15(1) and Article 29(2) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The doctrine of severability does not apply and therefore, the Act 5 of 2007 is unconstitutional and void to the extent that it does not provide exclusion of creamy layer from the SEBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it was prayed that both The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Amendment Act, 2005 as well as the Act 5 of 2007 be struck down as unconstitutional.	Arguments of Petitioner
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri F.S. Nariman, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners in W.P. (Civil) No. 35 of 2007, contended that the caste cannot be the sole criteria for determining the socially and educationally backward classes under Article 15(4) and 15(5) of the Constitution and the test for Article 15(5) has to be occupation cum income where caste may or may not be one of the many considerations having a nebulous weightage, and alternatively without conceding if caste at all is taken as one of the many considerations then it can only be those castes which satisfy the test of similarity with Scheduled Castes Scheduled Tribes.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the decision of this Court in R. Chitralekha Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Mysore Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
still occupies the field for the purpose of Article 15 and the decision in R. Chitralekhas case (supra) was affirmed by the Bench in Indra Sawhneys case (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that OBCs are already educationally forward and no reservation in higher education is justified.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel relied on the literacy rate by age groups as quoted in the Sachar Committee Report.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that in data given in the judgment in Indra Sawhneys case (supra), OBCs were not taken as educationally backward.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners, there can only be presumption of forwardness of OBCs and they are not backward.	Arguments of Petitioner
The burden is on the Government to provide that the intended beneficiaries are really backward citizens.	Arguments of Petitioner
The OBCs have not suffered social inequalities or oppression that had been inflicted on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes by the society and, according to the learned Senior Counsel, the casteoccupation nexus barely survives today and is a misleading guide.	Arguments of Petitioner
The caste based occupation association has been rapidly disappearing from the Indian society.	Arguments of Petitioner
For Articles 15(4) and 15(5), economic consideration has to be the dominant criterion.	Arguments of Petitioner
The nonexecution of creamy layer is illegal and it was intended to safeguard the really deprived and backward people among the socalled OBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that the Government has not published the list of OBCs for Article 15(5) and the Union of India has not been able to produce the list or the criteria for determining the SEBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
No time frame has been fixed for such reservation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the Act 5 of 2007 is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and is thus unconstitutional.	Arguments of Petitioner
33.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appearing for the Writ Petitioner in W.P. (Civil) No. 231/2007 filed by the Citizens for Equality, the learned Senior Counsel Shri P.P. Rao contended that the mandate of Article 45 to provide free and compulsory education for all children until they complete the age of 14 years has not been complied with by the Government and therefore, there is clear violation of Article 20 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Although the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) Project was introduced with certain objectives, these objectives were not fulfilled.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Constitution seeks to achieve a casteless and classless society.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, identification of socially and educationally backward classes should be based on such criteria which facilitate the eradication of the caste system.	Arguments of Petitioner
The educational backwardness of the backward classes and the SEBCs should be removed and once this educational backwardness is removed, clause 4 and 5 of Article 15 will become redundant and unnecessary.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that without ensuring that every child belonging to a backward class is provided free and compulsory education upto 102 level any reservation provided in higher education is discriminatory inter se between members of the backward classes themselves and violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Education upto secondary school level should be the measure for determining educational backwardness.	Arguments of Petitioner
The social and educational backwardness referred to in Article 15(4) requires separate identification of SEBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Agricultural labourers, rickshaw pullers drivers, street hawkers etc. may well qualify for being designated as backward classes According to petitioners learned Senior Counsel, a rational basis would be to identify backward classes through occupations traditionally considered to be inferior, yielding low income.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that that in any event, the creamy layer among the socially and educationally backward classes is liable to be excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
34.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Sushil Kumar Jain, learned Counsel appearing in W.P. (Civil) No. 598 of 2006, elaborately argued the issues involved in this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main contention of the petitioners Counsel is that the affirmative action policy of the Government of India is discriminatory and against general public interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
The policy is intended to uplift the so called socially and educationally backward sections of the society by the process of positive discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment is destructive of the basic structure of the Constitution as it destroys the delicate balance of the various fundamental rights that the citizens of the country enjoy.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provision of Article 15(5) was inserted as a proviso to Article 19(6) which has been held to be unreasonable and against the constitutional scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 15(5) makes an exception for the minority institutions covered under Article 30 and therefore treats them differently from other private institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Central Education Institution (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2007 which has been enacted in purported exercise of the said powers, is in excess of the said powers.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the target beneficiaries of Article 15(5) have not been identified with a necessary degree of specificity, the Act 5 of 2007 is illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
There ought to be a quantitative correlation between the benefits conferred and the extent of the problem sought to be remedied, the correlation being reasonable and not proportionate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Act 5 of 2007 does not provide the manner or the principles on which the identification of OBC is to be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it lacks the necessary nexus with the ultimate objects sought to be achieved.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reservation of seats for the beneficiaries for many years to come without any provision for review gives rigidity and permanency to such measures.	Arguments of Petitioner
This would result in excessive reservation and thereby cause reverse discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
The 100 quota in the additional seats that will be created in the educational institutions is facially discriminatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
Identification of SEBCs on the basis of caste creates vested interest in backwardness.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the measures and means chosen by the Government are therefore unethical to the constitutional goals.	Arguments of Petitioner
Failure to exclude creamy layer allows conferment of benefits on undeserving persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
The action of the State Governments lacks in the basic details of the extent of the measure.	Arguments of Petitioner
The exact social malaise sought to be remedied is not clear.	Arguments of Petitioner
35.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel for the petitioner further contended that the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment violates the basic structure of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court clarified the rights of the private educational institutions in terms of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution in T.M.A. Pai Foundation case (supra) as explained in P.A. Inamdar Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Maharashtra Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was held in that case that fixation of quotas and reservation of seats in private educational institutions amounts to Nationalization of Education.	Arguments of Petitioner
The NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment is thus an unreasonable action of the legislature.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the impugned amendment alters supremacy of the Constitution and there was only limited constituent power to amend Article 368.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 15(5) would enable the State to make the law to provide reservation to private educational institution which has been held to be an unreasonable encroachment on the fundamental rights and this amendment would alter the balance between Part III and IV of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on various decisions by the petitioners learned Counsel.	Arguments of Petitioner
The impugned amendment specifically excludes the application of Article 19(1)(g), whereas the institutions governed by Article 26 and the minority institutions governed by Article 30(1) have been left out.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to the petitioners Counsel, is discriminatory and illegal and that there was no justification to this differential treatment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners learned Counsel also challenged the quantum of reservations provided under the Act 5 of 2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
Any determination of the extent of reservation without considering the future impact of the reservation would be unjust, arbitrary and unreasonable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Caste based reservation would not be in the larger interest of the national unity and integrity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The benefits could be given only to those communities which are not adequately represented and not to those which are socially and educationally advanced.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reservation in the form of quota is illegal and if some classes are to be given some benefit and to be equalized with the general category they could be awarded some additional marks like it is being given to the women candidates seeking admission in colleges.	Arguments of Petitioner
Many of the castes included in SEBCs are not really backward classes and some of them were even rulers of erstwhile States for a number of years.	Arguments of Petitioner
The benefits and privileges which are given to SCs STs should not be extended to OBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The members of the OBC communities are capable of competing with the general category candidates and the increase in seats would entail a corresponding increase in infrastructure, and it is submitted that an increase in infrastructure would, therefore, to be financed through tax collections and, therefore, every member of the public (including the general category) is entitled to be considered for admission in the said increase.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel also strongly objected to caste being taken as a means of classification and identification of SEBCs and OBCs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that it is in complete derogation of provisions of Article 15(1) and, according to the petitioners learned Counsel, many of the castes which have been included in SEBCs are really not SEBCs and thus past historical discrimination is entirely irrelevant for conferment of benefits in the present times.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that there are no traditional occupations now.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the identification of castes as a class to justify the same as being occupations on a presumption that the persons belonging to a particular caste continue to follow a particular occupation especially in the present constitutional scheme which gives freedom to choose any business, occupation or profession is entirely fallacious.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel for the petitioner also contended that the nonexclusion of creamy layer is illegal and relied on Indra Sawhneys case (supra) and Indra Sawhney (II) Vs. Union of India Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
36.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Ashoka Kumar Thakur, who appeared in person, supported all the contentions raised by various learned Counsel and urged that the NinetyThird Constitution Amendment as well as the Act 5 of 2007 are unconstitutional and they are liable to be struck down.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents, several Senior Counsel appeared and contended that the contentions of the petitioners challenging the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment and the Act 5 of 2007 are without any merit and are liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
The contentions raised by the petitioners Counsel were refuted by the respondents Counsel by raising the plea that affirmative action is needed for promoting educational and economic interest of weaker section of society.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri K. Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Union of India, submitted that the Constitution is to be interpreted as an integral, logical whole, and while construing one part, regard must be had to the provisions of the other parts, rendering no portion as unnecessary or redundant.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that when constitutional provisions are interpreted, it has to be borne in mind that the interpretation is such as to further the object of their incorporation and they cannot be interpreted in a manner that renders another provision redundant.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that the constitutional provision must not be construed in a narrow and constricted sense but in a wide and liberal manner so as to anticipate and take into account the changing conditions and purposes so that the constitutional provision does not get fossilized but remains flexible enough to meet the newly emerging problems and challenges of this age.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was made to various decisions rendered by this Court regarding the interpretations of constitutional provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that when social welfare measures are sought to be implemented and the Constitution has to be interpreted in such context, it has to be kept in mind that the Preamble is the text which sets out the goal that is to be attained and that Part III is the texture into which is woven a pattern of rights.	Arguments of Respondent
Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles are both complementary and supplementary to each other.	None
Preamble is a part of the Constitution and the edifice of our Constitution is built upon the concepts crystallized in the Preamble.	None
Reference was made to the observations made by Chief Justice Sikri in His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru Vs.	None
State of Kerala, wherein it was argued that the Constitution should be read and interpreted in the light of the grand and noble vision expressed in the Preamble.	None
The Preamble secures and assures to all citizens justice, social, economic and political and it assures the equality of status and of opportunity.	None
Education and the economic wellbeing of an individual give a status in society.	None
When a large number of OBCs, SCs and STs get better educated and get into Parliament, legislative assemblies, public employment, professions and into other walks of public life, the attitude that they are inferior will disappear.	None
This will promote fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the nation.	None
The single most powerful tool for the upliftment and progress of such diverse communities is education.	None
The Fundamental Rights in Part III are not to be read in isolation.	None
All rights conferred in Part III of the Constitution are subject to at least other provisions of the said Part III.	None
The Directive Principles of State Policy in Part IV of the Constitution are equally as important as Fundamental Rights.	None
Part IV is made not enforceable by Court for the reason inter alia as to financial implications and priorities.	None
Principles of Part IV have to be gradually transformed into fundamental rights depending upon the economic capacity of the State.	None
Article 45 is being transformed into a fundamental right by 86th Amendment of the Constitution by inserting Article 21 A. Clause 2 of Article 38 says that, the State shall, in particular, strive to minimize the inequalities in income and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities, not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations.	None
Under Article 46, the State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation.	None
It is submitted that the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment was brought into force to bring about economic and social regeneration of the teeming millions who are steeped in poverty, ignorance and social backwardness.	None
Shri K. Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel, contended that the concept of basic structure is not a vague concept and it was illustrated in the judgment in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra).	None
It was pointed out that the supremacy of the Constitution, republican and democratic form of Government and sovereignty of the country, secular and federal character of the Constitution, demarcation of power between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary, the dignity of the individual (secured by the various freedoms and basic rights in Part III and the mandate to build a welfare State contained in Part IV), the unity and the integrity of the nation are some of the principles of basic structure of the Constitution.	None
It was contended that when the constitutional validity of a statute is considered, the cardinal rule to be followed is to look at the Preamble to the Constitution as the guiding light and the Directive Principles of State Policy as a book of interpretation.	None
On a harmonious reading of the Preamble, Part III and Part IV, it is manifest that there is a Constitutional promise to the weaker sections SEBCs and this solemn duty has to be fulfilled.	None
It was pointed out that the observations in Champakam Dorairajan (supra) that the Directive Principles are subordinate to the Fundamental Rights is no longer good law after the decision of the Kesavanda Bharati (supra) case and other decisions of this Court.	None
It was pointed out that the de facto inequalities which exist in the society are to be taken into account and affirmative action by way of giving preference to the socially and economically disadvantaged persons or inflicting handicaps on those more advantageously placed is to be made in order to bring about real equality.	None
It is submitted that special provision for advancement of any socially and educationally backward citizens may be made by determining the socially and educationally backward classes on the basis of caste.	None
Article 15(4) neutralized the decision in Champakam Dorairajans case (surpa).	None
It was enacted by the Provisional Parliament which consisted of the very same Members who constituted the Constituent Assembly.	None
Our Constitution is not caste blind and the Constitution prohibits discrimination based only on caste and not caste and something else.	None
In Unni Krishnans case (supra) it was held that Article 19(1)(g) is not attracted for establishing and running educational institutions.	Reasoning
But this decision was overruled in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) and it was held that establishing and running an educational institution is an occupation within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g).	Reasoning
In P.A. Inamdars case (supra), it was held that the private educational institutions, including minority institutions, are free to admit students of their own choice and the State by regulatory measures cannot control the admission.	None
It was held that the State cannot impose reservation policy to unaided institutions.	Arguments of Respondent
The above ruling disabled the State to resort to its enabling power under Article 15(4) of the Constitution.	None
It was argued by Shri Parasaran that the above rulings necessitated the enactment of The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 by inserting Article 15(5) through which enabling power was conferred on the Parliament and the State Legislatures, so that they would have the legislative competence to pass a law providing for reservation in educational institutions which will not be hit by Article 19(1)(g).	None
But rights of minorities under Article 30 are not touched by Article 15(5).	None
In Kesavananda Bharati (supra) it was held that the fundamental rights may not be abrogated but they can be abridged.	None
The validity of the 24th Amendment of the Constitution abridging the fundamental rights was upheld by the Court.	None
The right under Article 19(1)(f) has been completely abrogated by the 44th Amendment of the Constitution which is permissible for the constituent power to abridge the Fundamental Rights especially for reaching the goal of the Preamble of the Constitution.	None
It is an instance of transforming the principles of Part IV into Part III whereby it becomes enforceable.	None
All rights conferred in Part III of the Constitution are subject to other provisions in the same Part.	None
Article 15(4) introduced by the 1st Amendment to the Constitution is a similar instance of abridging of Fundamental Rights of the general category of citizens to ensure the Fundamental Rights of OBCs, SCs and STs.	None
Article 15(5) is a similar provision and is well within the Constituent power of amendment.	None
Article 15(5) is an enabling provision and vests power in the Parliament and the State legislatures.	None
There is vital distinction between the vesting of a power and the exercise of power and the manner of its exercise.	Reasoning
It would only enable the Parliament and the State legislatures to make special provisions by law for enforcement of any socially and educationally backward class of citizens or for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes relating to their admission to educational institutions including private educational institutions.	Reasoning
As regards exemption of minority educational institutions in Article 15(5), it was contended that this was done to conform with the Constitutional mandate of additional protection for minorities under Article 30.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that Article 15(5) does not override Article 15(4).	Arguments of Respondent
They have to be read together as supplementary to each other and Article 15(5) being an additional provision, there is no conflict between Article 15(4) and Article 15(5).	Arguments of Respondent
Article 15(4), 15(5), 29(2), 30(1), and 30(2) all together constitute a Code in relation to admission to educational institutions.	Arguments of Respondent
They have to be harmoniously construed in the light of the Preamble and Part IV of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also contended that the Article 15(5) does not interfere with the executive power of the State and there is no violation of the proviso to Article 368.	Arguments of Respondent
46.	Arguments of Petitioner
The NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment does not specifically or impliedly make any change in Article 162.	Reasoning
Article 15(5) does not seek to make any change in Article 162 either directly or indirectly.	Reasoning
The field of legislation as to education was in Entry 11 of List II.	Reasoning
By virtue of the 42nd Amendment of the Constitution, education, which was in Entry 11 in List II, was deleted and inserted as Entry 25 in List III.	Reasoning
The executive power of the State is not touched by the present Constitutional Amendment.	Reasoning
Article 15(5) does not abrogate the fundamental right enshrined under Article 19(1)(g).	Reasoning
If at all there is an abridgement of Fundamental Right, it is in a limited area of admission to educational institutions and such abridgement does not violate the basic structure of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In any way, Constitutional Amendments giving effect to Directive Principles of the State Policy would not offend the basic structure of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The Right to Equality enshrined in our Constitution is not merely a formal right or a vacuous declaration.	Reasoning
Affirmative action though apparently discriminatory is calculated to produce equality on a broader basis.	Reasoning
By eliminating de facto inequalities and placing the weaker sections of the community on a footing of equality with the stronger and more powerful sections so that each member of the community whatever is his birth, occupation or social position may be, enjoys equal opportunity of using to the full, his natural endowments of physique, of character and of intelligence.	Reasoning
Shri Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel, further contended that the Act 5 of 2007 is a constitutionally valid piece of legislation.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Section 2(g) of Act 5 of 2007, there is no excessive delegation.	Arguments of Respondent
The plea of the petitioners that the Parliament itself should have determined OBCs and that Act 5 of 2007 suffers from excessive delegation or lack of guidelines is not tenable.	Arguments of Respondent
The backward classes of citizens have to be identified on the materials and evidence and therefore the Parliament necessarily has to leave it to the Executive.	Arguments of Respondent
The determination of OBCs is a longdrawn process which would cause enormous delay.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it was appropriate to leave the identification to the Executive.	Arguments of Respondent
Such determination of each class as backward class would be open to judicial review.	Arguments of Respondent
And the scope of judicial review would be wider if the same is made by the Executive rather than by the Parliament.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also contended that merely because no time limit is fixed, Act 5 of 2007 cannot be rendered invalid.	Arguments of Respondent
The Parliament has got the power to review periodically and either make modifications in the Act or repeal the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is for the first time certain special provisions are being made in favour of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, SCs and STs for reservation of seats in Central Educational Institutions after 56 years of coming into force of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
At its very commencement, a time limit may not be anticipated and fixed.	Arguments of Respondent
Over a period of time depending upon the result of the measures taken and improvements in the status and educational advancement of the SCs, STs and SEBCs, the matter could always be reviewed.	Arguments of Respondent
The Act cannot be struck down at the very commencement on the ground no time limit for its operation has been fixed.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that the quantum of reservation provided under the Act is valid.	Arguments of Respondent
The ratio of population is a relevant consideration in fixing the quantum of reservation.	Arguments of Respondent
Reservation in favour of OBCs is 27 and by adding the percentage of reservation for SCs and STs, the total quantum of reservation does not exceed 50.	Arguments of Respondent
It is indisputable that the population of OBCs exceeds 27 and SCs and STs constitute more than 22 .	Arguments of Respondent
The quantum of reservation within 50 has been determined by the Parliament based on facts considered by legislature and they are conclusive and the Courts do not exercise the power of judicial review by examining those facts.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Senior Counsel also contended that the contention of the Petitioners that special provisions can only be made up to 102 stage is untenable.	Arguments of Respondent
If this plea is accepted, it would result in higher education being the privilege of the higher classes only and it would be a distortion of the concept of social advancement of the downtrodden and the negation of the goal envisaged by the Preamble.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also contended that the principle of reverse discrimination is not applicable.	Arguments of Respondent
The Doctrine of Strict Scrutiny and Narrow Tailoring are not applicable in India as they are American doctrines which operate under different facts and circumstances.	Arguments of Respondent
This court on earlier occasion had rejected these pleas, when dealing with admission to Postgraduate Medical Courses, when 75 of seats were being reserved on the basis of institutional preference.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Senior Counsel further contended that the exclusion of creamy layer has no application to SCs and STs in regard to employment and education.	Arguments of Respondent
Articles 341, 342, 366(24) and 366(25) of the Constitution would militate against such course of action.	Arguments of Respondent
54.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held in E.V. Chinnaiah Vs.	Reasoning
State of Andhra Pradesh Ors., that the SCs and STs form a single class.	Reasoning
The observations in Nagarajs case (supra) cannot be construed as requiring exclusion of creamy layer in SCs and STs.	Reasoning
Creamy layer principle was applied for the identification of backward classes of citizens.	Reasoning
And it was specifically held in Indra Sawhneys case, (supra) that the above discussion was confined to Other Backward Classes and has no relevance in the case of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes.	Reasoning
The observations of the Supreme Court in Nagarajs case (supra) should not be read as conflicting with the decision in Indra Sawhneys case (supra).	Reasoning
The observations in Nagarajs case (supra) as regards SCs and STs are obiter.	Reasoning
In regard to SCs and STs, there can be no concept of creamy layer.	Reasoning
Once the President of India has determined the list of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, it is only by a law made by the Parliament that there can be exclusion from the list of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes.	None
As far as OBCs are concerned, the principle of exclusion of creamy lawyer is applicable only for Article 16(4).	None
It has no application to Article 15(4) or 15(5) as education stands on a different footing.	None
Equality of opportunity of education is a must for every citizen and the doctrine of creamy layer is inapplicable and inappropriate in the context of giving opportunity for education.	None
In the matter of education there cannot be any exclusion on the ground of creamy layer.	None
Such exclusion would only be counter productive and would retard the development and progress of the groups and communities and their eventual integration with the rest of the society.	None
It was further argued that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are provisions of power coupled with duty.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the constitutional duty to apply these principles in the governance of the country and in making law for the reason that it is a constitutional promise of social justice which has to be redeemed.	Arguments of Respondent
It was strongly contended by the learned Senior Counsel Shri Parasaran that the validity of the constitutional amendment and the validity of plenary legislation have to be decided purely on the basis of constitutional law.	Arguments of Respondent
And the submission, as it was contended that the Amendment has a vote catching mechanism is inappropriate.	Arguments of Respondent
The contention that the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment is against the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is also not tenable.	Arguments of Respondent
Right to Equality of Opportunity operates at every level and it is being provided for a particular level either by a legislative or an executive action.	Arguments of Respondent
The merit has to be interpreted in the context of egalitarian equality and not formal equality.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that the speeches in the Parliament, constitutional debates, text books of authors and views expressed in articles do not normally constitute evidence before the Court to determine the Constitutional validity of the legislations.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri G.E. Vahanvati, learned Solicitor General of India appearing on behalf of the Union of India, submitted that the argument of Shri Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel that the American doctrine of strict scrutiny should be applied to the affirmative action envisaged under Article 15(5) is not correct.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that the impugned legislation is not ex facie discriminatory and, therefore, it cannot be classified as a suspect legislation.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that right that from the case of The General Manager Southern Railway Vs. Rangachari, Article 16(4) is an exception to Article 16(1) and this reasoning was followed in M.R. Balaji Others Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Mysore by a five Judge Bench.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereafter, the same view prevailed in T. Devadasan Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union of India Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
But Subba Rao.	Arguments of Respondent
J. (as he then was) said that the expression nothing in this article is a legislative device to express its intention in a most emphatic way that the power conferred there under is not limited in any way by the main provision but falls outside it .	Arguments of Respondent
The view that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) are exceptions to Article 15(1) and 16(1) respectively was again reiterated in Triloki Nath Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Jammu Kashmir Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(II) and in The State of Andhra Pradesh Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs. U.S.V. Balram, Etc .	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General further pointed out that in State of Kerala Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs N.M.	Arguments of Respondent
Thomas Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
the majority opinion held that Articles 14, 15 and 16 are parts of the scheme of equality and that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) are not exceptions to Articles 15(1) and 16(1) respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
The said change in N.M. Thomass case (supra) was noticed by Justice Chinnappa Reddy in K.C. Vasanth Kumar Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Karnataka and the same view was upheld in Indra Sawhneys case (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General further contended that once it is accepted that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) are not exceptions to Articles 15(1) and 16(1) respectively, then there is no question of treating the social welfare measure as being facially discriminatory or ex facie violative of the rule of equality.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that it is not simply a matter of legal equality.	Arguments of Respondent
De jure equality must ultimately find its raison detre in de facto equality.	Arguments of Respondent
The State must, therefore, resort to compensatory State action for the purpose of uplifting people who are factually unequal in their wealth, education or social environment.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on the observations of Subba Rao, J. in T. Devadasans case (supra), it was argued that centuries of calculated oppression and habitual submission has reduced a considerable section of our community to a life of serfdom and it would be well nigh impossible to raise their standards if the doctrine of equal opportunity was strictly enforced in their case and they would not have any change if they were made to enter the open field of competition without adventitious aids till such time when they could stand on their own legs.	Arguments of Respondent
Laying reliance on the observations made in N.M.	Arguments of Respondent
Thomass case (supra) and also in Indra Sawhneys case (supra), the learned Solicitor General argued that under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) the State is obliged to remove inequalities and backwardness from society.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the American doctrine of strict scrutiny had been expressly rejected by this Court in Saurabh Chaudri Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs. Union of India Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards identification of backward classes, the learned Solicitor General contended that while dealing with the aspect of identification of backwardness for socially and educationally backward classes, it cannot be denied that there is backwardness in this country that large sections of the country are socially and educationally backward that this problem is not new but is age old that such backwardness arose because of certain peculiarities of the caste system which proceeded on the assumption that the choice of occupation of members of a caste was predetermined in many castes and that members of particular castes were prohibited from engaging themselves in occupations other than those certain occupations which were considered to be degrading and impure and considered fit only for those castes.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that Chief Justice Wanchoo in C.A. Rajendran Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Union of India Ors. held that the main criteria for inclusion in the list is social and educational backwardness of the castes based on the occupation pursued by those castes.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was made to various decisions rendered by this Court on this issue, especially Minor A. Peeriakaruppan Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Tamil Nadu Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
U.S.V. Balram (supra) K.C. Vasanth Kumar (supra), referred to earlier.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General also pointed out that in B. Venkataramana Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
The State of Madras Anr., the list of backward classes as mentioned in Schedule 3 to the Madras Provincial and Subordinate Services Rule, 1942 was approved and which was also noticed in Indra Sawhneys case (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was also made to the debates in Parliament where Dr. Ambedkar stated that the backward classes are nothing but collection of certain castes.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further contended that it is incorrect to say that the majority in Indra Sawhneys case (supra) did not accept or approve the Mandal Commission Report.	Arguments of Respondent
That Report was referred to in several places in that judgment and the criterion adopted by the Mandal Commission to classify the backward classes was more or less accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General also pointed out that it is not correct to say that the State Lists are defective and that they ought not to have been accepted by the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that the Central List has been operating for 14 years for the purposes of reservations of posts and not a single person has challenged any inclusion in the Central List as being void or illegal that the State Lists have also been operating both for the purposes of Articles 16(4) and 15(4) and there has been no challenge at all in any High Court or in the Supreme Court with regard to the State List and that there has not been a single complaint made before the State Government or the National Commission with regard to overinclusion of any caste or community.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General pointed out that the allegations in relation to the working of the National Commission for the Backward Classes are not true.	Arguments of Respondent
The National Commission has framed elaborate guidelines for consideration of request for inclusion and complaints of noninclusion in the Central List for other backward classes.	Arguments of Respondent
The guidelines have been framed after studying the criteria indicators framed by the Mandal Commission and the Commissions set up in the past by different State Governments.	Arguments of Respondent
The National Commission held 236 public hearings at various places since its inception.	Arguments of Respondent
The National Commission had also prepared an elaborate questionnaire for considering classes for inclusion in the State Lists.	Arguments of Respondent
Detailed data was required to be submitted with regard to social, educational and economic criteria of the communities that were considered.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that during the period of its functioning the National Commission recommended 297 requests for inclusion and at the same time rejected 288 requests for inclusion of main castes.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further pointed out that the National Commission has not mechanically allowed all applications for inclusion in the Central List.	Arguments of Respondent
The National Commission while examining the applications had taken note of the ethnographic history of the concerned castes subgroups communities and it has also taken note of the recommendations of the various State Commissions.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that the contention that the inclusion of the caste in OBCs was motivated by political considerations is erroneous and the National Commission had emphatically rejected politically dominant castes such as the Marathas from being included in the Central List and several other castes were thus excluded from OBCs list.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General also contended that the plea that reservation under Article 15(5) with reference to Article 29(2) would render 15(5) constitutionally violative is incorrect.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 29(2) is a protection given by the Constitution against denial of admission to educational institutions on the ground of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.	Arguments of Respondent
It does not apply if provision is made for backward classes when the basis for classification is not solely on these grounds.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued further that the American doctrines and tests relating to strict scrutiny, compelling State necessity and narrow tailoring are tests which are not applicable to India at all.	Arguments of Respondent
There is a presumption of constitutionality of the legislations passed by Parliament.	Arguments of Respondent
The Indian Constitution specifically provides provisions like Articles 15(4) and 16(4) which permit special provisions for backward classes.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also contended that it is incorrect to suggest that there have been no efforts on the part of successive Governments to concentrate on elementary education towards universal elementary education.	Arguments of Respondent
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) had been launched by the Government in 20012002.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General also pointed out that it is incorrect to say that there has been no proper consideration of the Bill in Parliament, particularly in relation to Financial Memorandum.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed that debates in Parliament are not usually relevant for construction of the provisions of an Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General also submitted that it cannot seriously be disputed that large sections of the population are socially and educationally backward and it is nobodys case that the total population of OBCs in this country is less than 27.	Arguments of Respondent
Even on the basis of the facts relied on by the petitioners, namely, National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO), the total population of OBCs in India is around 36.	Arguments of Respondent
The NSSO had conducted this survey for the preparation of its 61st Round of survey which was published in October 2006.	Arguments of Respondent
This survey indicated that the total number of OBCs in India is around 41.	Arguments of Respondent
27 reservation in relation to admission had been upheld in Indra Sawhneys case (supra) and the Parliament has taken special care to see that this reservation does not affect seats in the general category.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General also pointed out that the policy of reservation flows from the mandate of equality till the time the Constitutional objective of real equality is achieved.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, the policy of reservation has been introduced for the first time after 56 years of coming into force of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor General also pointed out that meticulous care has been taken for the inclusion of certain castes in the OBCs list and reference was made to cases in Rajasthan, Karnataka and Kerala.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Gopal Subramanium, the learned Additional Solicitor General, supported the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 and also the provisions of Act 5 of 2007.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that the American doctrines are not applicable to India.	Arguments of Respondent
In this regard, the observations of this Court in A.K. Roy Vs. Union of India Ors. , that we cannot transplant, in the Indian context and conditions, principles which took birth in other soils, without a careful examination of their relevance to the interpretation of our Constitution were cited.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed by the learned Additional Solicitor General that prepositions enunciated in the decisions of the United States Supreme Court in Regents of the University of California Vs. Bakke , Grutter Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Bollinger and Gratz Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Bollinger , and Parents Involved in Community Schools Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Seattle School District , that the Court will apply the standard of strict scrutiny while reviewing legislation involving suspect classification that and such legislation would be effected if two conditions are met, namely, (i) there is a compelling governmental interest in making the classification, and (ii) the legislation has been narrowly tailored to meet that classification that the classification based on race is a suspect classification and that accordingly while race can be a factor in admission policies of educational institutions, it cannot be the sole factor and it cannot lead to the imposition of quotas, which are per se unconstitutional  each of these propositions has been rejected in Indian law and the Indian Constitution neither admits suspect classification nor strict scrutiny.	Arguments of Respondent
The constitutionality of quotas has been repeatedly affirmed and reliance by the Petitioners on the United States affirmative action judgments is wholly misconceived.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional Solicitor General has made special reference to various American decisions on the doctrine of affirmative action.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional Solicitor General has also referred to the decisions of this Court in N.M.	Arguments of Respondent
Thomas case (supra) and K.C. Vasanth kumars case (supra) and other decisions to contend that Articles 16(4) and 15(4) are not exceptions to Articles 16(1) and 15(1) respectively and these provisions have to be read together with the principles of governance set out in Part IV of the Constitution and it is beyond doubt that underlying constitutional obligations are towards socially and educationally backward classes and there is a positive obligation on the State to take steps to eradicate their backwardness.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional Solicitor General also refuted the contentions advanced by Shri P.P. Rao, learned Senior Counsel, and contended that all efforts have been made by the Government to improve primary and upper primary education in India.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional Solicitor General also contended that the argument advanced by Dr. Rajeev Dhavan is not correct.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied upon Arjun Sen Guptas Report wherein it is stated  Education can be a liberating capability but access to it is made difficult, if not impossible, by such inherited characteristics as lower social status, rural origin, informal work status and gender or a combination of these.	None
Shri Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the IntervenerRashtriya Janta Dal Party in W.P. No. 313 of 2007 and W.P. No. 335 of 2007, contended that the attempt of the petitioners in these writ petitions is to offset the decision of the Nine Judges Bench in Indra Sawhneys case (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that the equality of citizens is the basic feature of the Indian Constitution but by equality is meant not formal or technical equality but real and substantial equality.	Arguments of Respondent
The word only used in Articles 15(1) and 16(2) is decisive.	Arguments of Respondent
Even if reservations are made for castes, the classification will become invalid if it is only on the basis of caste and if some other additional requirement is imposed, that case would be considered to be outside the prohibition of Article 15(1).	Arguments of Respondent
Reference is made to B. Venkataramanas case (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that a statute cannot be declared ultra vires merely because backwardness is a complex concept and no precise definition is possible.	Arguments of Respondent
The Court is bound to assume that a state of facts existed at the time of the enactment of the statute which would validate that statute and when the Constitution of the United States came into effect it did not contain the constitutional right of equality.	Arguments of Respondent
Even the Vth Amendment of 1971 to the Constitution of the United States of America did not introduce this concept.	Arguments of Respondent
The XIVth Amendment of 1868 provided that the State shall not deny to any person the equal protection of the laws.	Arguments of Respondent
Even after this injunction, the United States Supreme Court delivered the judgment in Plessy Vs. Ferguson , which laid down the doctrine of Equal but Separate.	Arguments of Respondent
This doctrine was in force till it was reversed in 1954.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Senior Counsel also contended that the policy of reservation is not destructive of merit and that the Symbiosis University is not covered by the statute.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri T.R. Andhyarujina, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents in W.P. 265/2006, contended that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) operate in different fields and Article 15(4) enables the State Government to make special provisions for backward classes, SCs and STs which can be done both by law or by executive order.	Arguments of Respondent
The special provision in Article 15(4) is not restricted to advancement of SEBCs, SCs and STs in educational institutions only and enables the State to make several kinds of positive action programmes in addition to reservations.	Arguments of Respondent
As a condition for giving aid, the State can make reservations for SEBCs, SCs and STs in educational institutions which are State owned or State aided.	Arguments of Respondent
The State, however, cannot make such reservations in private unaided educational institutions, as held by this Court in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) and P.A. Inamdar (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
This disability was because of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) which provided that private unaided educational institutions had a fundamental right to occupation of carrying on education under Article 19(1)(g).	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the Parliament introduced Article 15(5) by the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act to enable the State to make special provisions for the advancement of SCs, STs and SEBCs in relation to a specific subject, namely, admission in educational institutions including private educational institutions whether aided or unaided by the State notwithstanding the provisions of Article 19(1)(g).	Arguments of Respondent
However, Article 15(5) excluded private educational institutions which are minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of Article 30.	Arguments of Respondent
The saving for minority educational institutions in Article 15(5) is really ex abundandi cautela as minority educational institutions were constitutionally protected and at all times considered different from other private educational institutions.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 15(5) does not take away the basic structure of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The basic structure of the Constitution should not be trivialized to mean other features of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was made to the observations made by Khanna, J. in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that Article 15(5) does not amend Entry 25 List III to the extent that the State can no more make laws for reservation of seats in minority educational institutions and, therefore, it is incorrect to say that the amendment in Article 15(5) required ratification under Article 368(2).	Arguments of Respondent
The States power to legislate under Article 245 is always subject to the other provisions of the Constitution, including fundamental rights.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 15(4) does not take away the power of the State to make reservations in its own institutions by an executive action under Article 162.	Arguments of Respondent
Right to carry on business is not a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the respondent State of Bihar in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 269/2007, learned Senior Counsel Shri Rakesh Dwivedi submitted that the use of nonobstante clauses in Article 15(3), (4) and (5) visvis Article 15(1) shows that the prohibition against use of only caste as a ground for discrimination qua any citizen is there in so far as making of a special provision for advancement of prescribed categories is concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no repugnance between 15(4) and 15(5).	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra), it was held that Part III of the Constitution could be amended subject to the basic structure doctrine.	Arguments of Respondent
The view which was held in I.C. Golak Nath Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Punjab Anrs, making Article 368 more restrictive, had been overruled in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
The Fundamental Rights are not absolute and are designed to suffer reasonable restrictions and classifications.	Arguments of Respondent
Any sort of abridgement by Constitutional Amendment is clearly permissible so long as the invasion does not amount to total elimination or emasculation.	Arguments of Respondent
Within the domain of equality there is distinction between formal equality and real equality or equality in fact and both are comprehended in Article 14 and both are part of the basic structure.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Senior Counsel also contended that the judicial review ideas of suspect classification, strict scrutiny, compelling State interest and narrow tailoring are measures propounded by the U.S. Supreme Court are not applicable and the Supreme Court of India has consistently taken a view that the judgments of the U.S. Supreme Court do not afford safe guidance on account of differing structure of the provisions under the two constitutions and the social conditions in these two countries being different.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was made to the various decisions of this court and it was argued that the comparison of the 14th Amendment of the US Supreme Court read with Civil Rights Act, 1964 on the one hand and the fascicules of equality provisions in the Constitution of India, i.e. Article 14 to 18 on the other hand shows that the equality provisions of our Constitution are not only differently structured but it contains provisions for making special provisions for the advancement of SEBCs SCs STs.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that our Constitution additionally enshrines Directive Principles of State Policy in PartIV of the Constitution requiring the State to strive to promote justice social, economic and political and to minimize the inequalities in income and endeavour to remove inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities (Article 38).	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Ravivarma Kumar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for Pattali Makkal Katchi, contended that the creamy layer principle shall not be invoked for the purpose of Article 15(5).	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Counsel, reservation in educational institutions is not a poverty alleviation programme nor it is a programme to eradicate unemployment.	Arguments of Respondent
Reservation under Article 15(5) is not even a programme to educate all the backward classes.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Counsel the one and only goal of the reservation policy under Clause 4 5 of Article 15 of the Constitution is to bring about equality among various castes and unless all the castes are brought to one level playing field, the caste system cannot be eradicated.	Arguments of Respondent
It is intended for removal of inequality between castes so that the castes will come together.	Arguments of Respondent
These provisions are designed to bring together the leaders of each caste and community together and the same can be achieved only if the best teachers, the best administrators, the best doctors, the best engineers and the best lawyers are brought together.	Arguments of Respondent
And so long as the gap in education persists between castes, the castes will not come together.	Arguments of Respondent
It is only when each backward caste is permitted to advance educationally to meet the educational level of upper castes, can there be a real egalitarian society.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Counsel, it is precisely for this reason that Clause (2) of Article 38 seeks to eliminate inequality in status, facilities and opportunities, not only among individuals, but also among groups of people.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is to provide for such equality in status, facilities and opportunities, that reservation is contemplated to those castes which are socially and educationally below other castes.	Arguments of Respondent
If the best from the lower caste are deprived of these facilities and opportunities in the name of creamy layer, it will be counter productive and frustrate the very object of reservation, namely to achieve equality in status, facilities and opportunities.	Arguments of Respondent
The Counsel also contended that the question of prescribing prior time limit for reservation under the impugned Act is immature and should not be considered at this stage.	Arguments of Respondent
69.	None
The link between caste and its occupation is an unbreakable bondage to which the caste system has condemned the backward classes.	None
Whether a backward caste man carries on his traditional occupation or not, he continues to be socially identified with the said occupation.	None
This link between the caste and the occupation has not been severed for thousands of years and it cannot be broken by arguments and theories.	None
The ground reality is that every caste in every village is identified by its traditional occupation.	None
And all the service communities continue to discharge their traditional occupation.	None
It is pointed out that throughout the country in 6.5 lakh villages, it is the barber communities and barber communities alone, which carry on the traditional occupation of hair cuttings and no other community has taken up the said occupation.	None
And they continue to labour without any social security or whatsoever.	None
The Counsel pointed out that the last six decennial censuses have eschewed recording of caste particulars, the three National Commissions and scores of State Commissions have found these Census data useless in identification of Backward Classes.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel submitted that there is no justification for not collecting details of caste identity at the decennial census operation.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Counsel a massive exercise is rendered useless for the all important work of identification of Backward Classes.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the entire identification of backward classes has not been done on the basis of 1931 Census data.	Arguments of Respondent
In each State the identification of Backward Classes has been done on the basis of criteria evolved by the State Commissions on social, educational and economic parameters.	Arguments of Respondent
Each State has adopted its own methodology.	Arguments of Respondent
The identification of backward classes is essentially done at the State level on a very objective criteria and a scientific methodology.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Counsel, origin of the term classes of citizens may be traced to the later part of the 19th century.	Arguments of Respondent
Quite often classes have been interchangeably used with castes, tribes and communities.	Arguments of Respondent
Some of the earlier Committee reports referred to Depressed Classes.	Arguments of Respondent
Under the 1919 Act, Governors of the provinces give instruction to take measures for the social and industrial welfare of the people and tending to fit all classes of population.	Arguments of Respondent
And the Provincial Governments prepared a list of Backward Classes with three parts namely, Depressed Classes, Aboriginal Tribes and Backward Communities.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Ambedkar demanded separate electorate for the Depresses Classes at the Round Table Conference.	Arguments of Respondent
The Counsel also pointed out that the building of a casteless society is not the goal of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
And that it is futile to contend that caste should not be considered for any purpose whatsoever.	Arguments of Respondent
In every conceivable activity of private life caste system plays an important role.	Arguments of Respondent
There are hundreds of communal hostels and educational institutions owned and managed by certain communities.	Arguments of Respondent
Some castes and communities have communal clubs, associations, cooperatives, banks etc.	Arguments of Respondent
Their membership and admission are confined to a particular caste or community.	Arguments of Respondent
Even carrying of the caste names is the guaranteed right of every citizen.	Arguments of Respondent
There is nothing in the Constitution to prohibit a person from discriminating on the ground only of caste or community in matters relating to marriage, electing candidates to political position etc.	Arguments of Respondent
Most of the professional colleges like medical, dental and engineering colleges are established and administered by a body of persons exclusively belonging to a class or a community.	Arguments of Respondent
Though Dr. Ambedkar intended to abolish caste system by abolishing all the privileges and disabilities of the forward classes, the plea was opposed by Shri K.M. Munshi and the Draft Article 3(4) stated Untouchability is abolished and its practice thereof is punishable by the law of the Union.	Arguments of Respondent
The Constitution never prohibits the practice of caste and casteism.	Arguments of Respondent
Every activity in Hindu society, from cradle to grave is carried on solely on the basis of ones caste.	Arguments of Respondent
Even after death, a Hindu is not allowed to be cremated in the crematorium which is maintained for the exclusive use of the other caste or community.	Arguments of Respondent
Dalits are not permitted to be buried in graves or cremated in crematoriums where upper caste people bury or cremate their dead.	Arguments of Respondent
Christians have their own graveyards.	Arguments of Respondent
Muslims are not allowed to be buried in the Hindu crematoriums and viceversa.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, caste rules the roost in the life of a Hindu and even after his death.	Arguments of Respondent
In such circumstances, it is entirely fallacious to advance this argument on the ground that the Constitution has prohibited the use of caste.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued what the Constitution aims at is achievement of equality between the castes and not elimination of castes.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Senior Counsel points out that it would be utopian to expect that by ignoring caste, the castes will perish.	Arguments of Respondent
And the Counsel contended the Constitution has not abolished the caste system much less has it prohibited its use.	Arguments of Respondent
The Counsel pointed out that the Constitutional Amendment under the impugned Act in favour of backward classes is an unprecedented leap taking the higher education in the country forward, without depriving a single seat to the forward castes.	Arguments of Respondent
And the advanced castes, with a population of less than 20 would still be able to get 50 of the seats in the name of merit disproportionate to their known proportion of their population.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that without the advancement of SCs, STs and OBCs constituting over 80 population and mainly living in rural areas, it will not be possible to take the nation forward.	Arguments of Respondent
And the students who are admitted under the reserved quota have performed much better than the students admitted on the basis of merit.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel also placed reliance on the Moily Report Case studies from four States.	Arguments of Respondent
76.	None
The main challenge in these writ petitions is the constitutional validity of the Act 5 of 2007.	Issue
This legislation was passed by Parliament consequent upon The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005, by which subarticle (5) was inserted in Article 15 of the Constitution.	Issue
The constitutionality of this amendment has also been challenged in the various writ petitions filed by the petitioners.	Issue
As the Act itself is based on the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005, the validity of the Act depends on the fact whether the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 itself is valid or not.	Issue
Article 15 of the Constitution, after the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005, reads as follows  Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth.	None
The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.	None
No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them, be subject to any disability, liability, restriction or condition with regard to, (a) access to shops, public restaurants, hotels and places of public entertainment or (b) the use of wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and places of public resort maintained wholly or partly out of State funds or dedicated to the use of the general public.	None
Nothing in this Article shall prevent the State from making any special provision for women and children.	None
Nothing in this Article or in clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Nothing in this Article or subclause (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 shall prevent the State from making any provision by law for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in so far as such special provision relate to their admission to the educational institutions, including private educational institutions whether aided or unaided by the State other minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of Article 30.	Reasoning
T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) held that a private unaided educational institution has the fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution as the running of an educational institution was treated as an occupation and further that the States regulation in such institutions would not be regarded as a reasonable restriction on that fundamental right to carry on business under Article 19(6).	None
This decision necessitated the NinetyThird Amendment to the Constitution since as a result of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) the State would not be in a position to control or regulate the admission in private educational institutions.	None
At the outset, it may have to be stated that no educational institution has come up to challenge the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005.	None
The challenge about the constitutionality of the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 has been advanced by the petitioners, who based their contentions on the equality principles enunciated in Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution.	None
The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 is challenged on many grounds.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first ground of attack is that if the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 is allowed to stand it would be against the basic structure of the Constitution itself and this Amendment seriously abridges the equality principles guaranteed under Article 15 and other provisions of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another contention raised by the petitioners Counsel is that the Golden Triangle of Articles 14, 19 and 21 is not to be altered and the balance and structure of these constitutional provisions has been ousted by the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005.	Arguments of Petitioner
Yet another contention urged by Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel, is that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually exclusive and under Article 15(5) the minority educational institutions are excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, this is a clear contravention of the secular and equality principles.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel also pointed out that minority institutions are not severable from the purview of Article 15(5) and therefore, the whole Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 is to be declared illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another argument advanced by the learned Senior Counsel is that there is inconsistency between Article 15(4) and Article 15(5) and by virtue of the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005, the States are devoid of their wide power under Article 15(5) to make reservation in minority educational institutions which are getting aid from the States and thus it is violative of the very essence of equality.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 could control the legislative and executive power of the State and, therefore, it is not constitutionally valid.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel had further challenged the validity of Act 5 of 2007, with which we will deal separately.	Arguments of Petitioner
Whether NinetyThird Amendment of the Constitution is against the basic structure of the Constitution?	Issue
The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005, by which clause (5) was added to Article 15 of the Constitution, is an enabling provision which states that nothing in Article 15 or in subclause (g) of clause (1) of article 19 shall prevent the State from making any special provision, by law, for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in so far as such special provisions relate to their admission to the educational institutions including private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State.	Reasoning
Of course, minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of Article 30 are excluded.	Reasoning
Thus, the newly added clause (5) of Article 15 is sought to be applied to educational institutions whether aided or unaided.	Reasoning
In other words, this newly added constitutional provision would enable the State to make any special provision by law for admission in private educational institutions whether aided or unaided.	Reasoning
In all the petitions which have been filed before us the main challenge is against Act 5 of 2007.	Reasoning
Act 5 of 2007 has been enacted to provide reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and SEBCs of citizens in Central Educational Institutions.	Reasoning
The Central Educational Institution has been defined under Section 2(d) of the Act.	Reasoning
They are institutions established or incorporated by or under the Central Act or set up by an Act of Parliament or deemed Universities maintained by or receiving aid from the Central Government or institutions maintained by or receiving aid from the Central Government or educational institutions set up by the Central Government under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.	Reasoning
Act 5 of 2007 is not intended to provide reservation in private unaided educational institutions.	Reasoning
None of the private unaided educational institutions have filed petitions before us challenging the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment.	Reasoning
Though the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners have challenged the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment on various grounds, they were visvis the challenge to Act 5 of 2007.	Reasoning
The counter to the challenge by the learned Solicitor General as well as by Shri K. Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel was also in that context.	Reasoning
We do not want to enter a finding as to whether the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment is violative of the basic structure of the Constitution so far as it relates to private unaided educational institutions.	Reasoning
In the absence of challenge by private unaided educational institutions, it would not be proper to pronounce upon the constitutional validity of that part of the Constitutional Amendment.	Reasoning
As the main challenge in these various petitions was only regarding the provisions of Act 5 of 2007, which related to state maintained institutions, the challenge to the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment so far as it relates to private unaided educational institutions, does not strictly arise in these proceedings.	Reasoning
In the absence of challenge by private unaided institutions, it may not be proper for this Court to decide whether the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment is violative of the basic structure of the Constitution so far as it relates to private unaided educational institutions merely because we are considering its validity in the context of Act 5 of 2007.	Reasoning
We feel that such questions could be decided as the main questions that are involved in these petitions are specific regarding Act 5 of 2007, we leave open the question as to whether the NinetyThird Amendment to the Constitution by which subclause (5) was inserted is violative of the basic structure doctrine or not so far as it relates to private unaided educational institutions to be decided in other appropriate cases.	Reasoning
We deal only with the question of whether the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment is constitutionally valid so far as it relates to the state maintained institutions and aided educational institutions.	Reasoning
Several contentions have been advanced by the petitioners Counsel challenging the constitutional validity of the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005.	None
The main argument was on the ground that this amendment is against the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
In order to appreciate the contention of the petitioners Counsel, it is necessary to understand the basic structure theory that has been propounded in the celebrated case of Kesavananda Bharati (supra).	None
This case was a decision of 13 Judge Bench of this Court.	None
Though the Judges were not unanimous about what the basic structure of the Constitution be, however, Shelat J. (at page 280) in his judgment had indicated the following basic features of the Constitution  The basic structure of the Constitution is not a vague concept and the apprehensions expressed on behalf of the respondents that neither the citizen nor the Parliament would be able to understand it are unfounded.	None
If the historical background, the Preamble, the entire scheme of the Constitution, the relevant provisions thereof including Article 368 are kept in kind thee can be no difficulty in discerning that the following can be regarded as the basic elements of the constitutional structure.	None
(These cannot be catalogued but can only be illustrated)	None
The supremacy of the Constitution.	None
Republican and Democratic form of Government and sovereignty of the country.	None
Secular and federal character of the Constitution.	None
Demarcation of power between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary.	None
The dignity of the individual secured by the various freedoms and basic rights in Part III and the mandate to build a welfare State contained in Part IV.	None
The unity and the integrity of the nation.	None
Sikri, CJ (at page 165166) held that The true position is that every provision of the Constitution can be amended provided in the result the basic foundation and structure of the constitution remains the same.	None
The basic structure may be said to consist of the following features Supremacy of the Constitution.	None
Republication and Democratic form of Government.	None
Secular character of the Constitution.	None
Separation of powers between the Legislature, the executive and the judiciary.	None
Federal character of the Constitution.	None
The power of Parliament to amend the Constitution also was dealt with in detail and majority of the Judges held that the fundamental rights can be amended, altered or abridged.	None
The majority decision in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra) overruled the decision in I.C. Golak Nath Vs. State of Punjab, (supra).	None
Kesavananda Bharati indicates the extent to which amendment of the Constitution could be carried out and lays down that the legality of an amendment is no more open to attack than the Constitution itself.	None
It was held that the validity of an ordinary law can be questioned and when it is questioned it must be justified by reference to a higher law.	None
In the case of the Constitution the validity is inherent and lies within itself.	None
The Constitution generates its own validity.	None
The validity of the Constitution lies in the social fact of its acceptance by the community.	None
There is a clear demarcation between an ordinary law made in exercise of the legislative power and the constituent law made in exercise of constitutional power.	None
Therefore, the power to amend the Constitution is different from the power to amend ordinary law.	None
The distinction between the legislative power and the constitutional power is vital in a rigid or controlled Constitution because it is that distinction which brings in the doctrine that a law ultra vires the Constitution is void.	None
When the Parliament is engaged in the amending process it is not legislating, it is exercising a particular power bestowed upon it sui generis by the amending clause in the Constitution.	None
Sikri, CJ, held that the expression amendment of this Constitution does not enable Parliament to abrogate or take away fundamental rights or to completely change the fundamental features of the Constitution so as to destroy its identity.	None
Within these limits Parliament can amend every article.	None
Shelat Grover JJ.	None
(at p 291) concluded that Though the power to amend cannot be narrowly construed and extends to all the Articles it is not unlimited so as to include the power to abrogate or change the identity of the Constitution or its basic features.	None
Hegde Mukherjee, JJ.	None
finally concluded (at p 355) that The power to amend the Constitution under Article 368 as it stood before its amendment empowered the Parliament by following the form and manner laid down in that Article, to amend each and every Article and each and every Part of the Constitution Though the power to amend the Constitution under Article 368 is a very wide power, it does not yet include the power to destroy or emasculate the basic elements or the fundamental features of the Constitution.	None
Ray J. (as he then was) (at p 461) held that The Constitution is the supreme law.	None
Third, an amendment of the Constitution is an exercise of the constituent power.	None
The majority view in Golak Nath case is with respect wrong.	None
Fourth, there are no express limitations to the power of amendment.	None
Fifth, there are no implied and inherent limitations on the power of amendment.	None
Neither the Preamble nor Article 13(2) is at all a limitation on the power of amendment.	None
Sixth, the power to amend is wide and unlimited.	None
The power to amend means the power to add, alter or repeal any provision of the Constitution.	None
There can be or is no distinction between essential and inessential features of the Constitution to raise any impediment to amendment of alleged essential features.	None
Palekar, J. (at p. 632) concluded that The power and the procedure for the amendment of the Constitution were contained in the unamended Article 368.	None
An Amendment of the Constitution in accordance with the procedure prescribed in that Article is not a law within the meaning of Article 13.	None
An amendment of the Constitution abridging or taking away a fundamental right conferred by Part III of the Constitution is not void as contravening the provisions of Article 13(2).	None
There were no implied or inherent limitations on the amending power under the unamended Article 368 in its operation over the fundamental rights.	None
There can be none after its amendment.	None
Khanna, J. (at p. 758, 759) concluded that  The power to amendment under Article 368 does not include power to abrogate the Constitution nor does it include the power to alter the basic structure or framework of the Constitution.	None
Subject to the retention of the basic structure or framework of the Constitution, the power of amendment is plenary and includes within itself the power to amend the various articles of the Constitution, including those relating to fundamental rights as well as those which may be said to relate to essential features.	None
No part of a fundamental right can claim immunity from amendatory process by being described as the essence or core of that right.	None
The power of amendment would also include within itself the power to add, alter or repeal the various articles.	None
Mathew, J. (at p. 857) held that  The only limitation is that the Constitution cannot be repealed or abrogated in the exercise of the power of amendment without substituting a mechanism by which the State is constituted and organized.	None
That limitation flows from the language of the article itself.	None
Beg, J. (at p. 886) held that  The majority view in Golak Naths case (supra), holding that Article 13 operated as a limitation upon the powers of Constitutional amendment found in Article 368, was erroneous.	None
He upheld the 24th Amendment and the 25th Amendment Act including addition of Article 31C. Dwivedi, J finally concluded that The word amendment in Article 368 is broad enough to authorize the varying or abridging each and every provision of the Constitution, including Part III.	None
There are no inherent and implied limitations of the amendment power in Article 368 Finally, Chandrachud, J. (at p. 1000) held that The power of amendment of the Constitution conferred by the then Article 368 was wide and unfettered.	None
It reached every part and provision of the Constitution.	None
A survey of the conclusions reached by the learned Judges in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra) clearly shows that the power of amendment was very wide and even the fundamental rights could be amended or altered.	None
It is also important to note that the decision in RE The Berubari Union and Exchange of Enclaves, Reference under Article 143(1) of the Constitution of India , to the effect that preamble to the Constitution was not part of the Constitution was disapproved in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra) and it was held that it is a part of the Constitution and the Preamble to the Constitution is of extreme importance and the Constitution should be read and interpreted in the light of the grand and noble visions envisaged in the Preamble.	None
A close analysis of the decisions in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra) shows that all the provisions of the Constitution, including the fundamental rights, could be amended or altered and the only limitation placed is that the basic structure of the Constitution shall not be altered.	None
The judgment in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra) clearly indicates what is the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
It is not any single idea or principle like equality or any other constitutional principles that are subject to variation, but the principles of equality cannot be completely taken away so as to leave the citizens in this country in a state of lawlessness.	None
But the facets of the principle of equality could always be altered especially to carry out the Directive Principles of the State Policy envisaged in Part IV of the Constitution.	None
The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 is to be examined in the light of the above position.	None
The basic structure of the Constitution is to be taken as a larger principle on which the Constitution itself is framed and some of the illustrations given as to what constitutes the basic structure of the Constitution would show that they are not confined to the alteration or modification of any of the Fundamental Rights alone or any of the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Of course, if any of the basic rights enshrined in the Constitution are completely taken out, it may be argued that it amounts to alteration of the Basic Structure of the Constitution.	Reasoning
For example, the federal character of the Constitution is considered to be the basic structure of the Constitution.	Reasoning
There are large number of provisions in the Constitution dealing with the federal character of the Constitution.	Reasoning
If any one of the provisions is altered or modified, that does not amount to the alteration of the basic structure of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Various fundamental rights are given in the Constitution dealing with various aspects of human life.	Reasoning
The Constitution itself sets out principles for an expanding future and is obligated to endure for future ages to come and consequently it has to be adapted to the various changes that may take place in human affairs.	Reasoning
For determining whether a particular feature of the Constitution is part of the basic structure or not, it has to be examined in each individual case keeping in mind the scheme of the Constitution, its objects and purpose and the integrity of the Constitution as a fundamental instrument for the countrys governance.	Reasoning
It may be noticed that it is not open to challenge the ordinary legislations on the basis of the basic structure principle.	None
State legislation can be challenged on the question whether it is violative of the provisions of the Constitution.	None
But as regards constitutional amendments, if any challenge is made on the basis of basic structure, it has to be examined based on the basic features of the Constitution.	None
It may be noticed that the majority in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra) did not hold that all facets of Article 14 or any of the fundamental rights would form part of the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
The majority upheld the validity of the first part of Article 30(1)(c) which would show that the constitutional amendment which takes away or abridges the right to challenge the validity of an arbitrary law or violating a fundamental right under that Article would not destroy or damage the basic structure.	None
Equality is a multicoloured concept incapable of a single definition as is also the fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g).	None
The principle of equality is a delicate, vulnerable and supremely precious concept for our society.	None
It is true that it has embraced a critical and essential component of constitutional identity.	None
The larger principles of equality as stated in Article 14, 15 and 16 may be understood as an element of the basic structure of the Constitution and may not be subject to amendment, although, these provisions, intended to configure these rights in a particular way, may be changed within the constraints of the broader principle.	None
The variability of changing conditions may necessitate the modifications in the structure and design of these rights, but the transient characters of formal arrangements must reflect the larger purpose and principles that are the continuous and unalterable thread of constitutional identity.	None
It is not the introduction of significant and farreaching change that is objectionable, rather it is the content of this change in so far as it implicates the question of constitutional identity.	None
The observations made by Mathew, J in Smt.	None
Indra Gandhi Vs.	None
Raj Narain are significant in this regard To be a basic structure it must be a terrestrial concept having its habitat within the four corners of the Constitution.	None
What constitutes basic structure is not like a twinkling star up above the Constitution.	None
It does not consist of any abstract ideals to be found outside the provisions of the Constitution.	None
The Preamble no doubt enumerates great concepts embodying the ideological aspirations of the people but these concepts are particularised and their essential features delineated in the various provisions of the Constitution.	None
It is these specific provisions in the body of the Constitution which determine the type of democracy which the founders of that instrument established the quality and nature of justice, political, social and economic which they aimed to realize, the content of liberty of thought and expression which they entrenched in that document and the scope of equality of status and of opportunity which they enshrined in it.	None
These specific provisions enacted in the Constitution alone can determine the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
These specific provisions, either separately or in combination, determine the content of the great concepts set out in the Preamble.	None
It is impossible to spin out any concrete concept of basic structure out of the gossamer concepts set out in the Preamble.	None
The specific provisions of the Constitution are the stuff from which the basic structure has to be woven.	None
If any Constitutional amendment is made which moderately abridges or alters the equality principle or the principles under Article 19(1)(g), it cannot be said that it violates the basic structure of the Constitution.	Reasoning
If such a principle is accepted, our Constitution would not be able to adapt itself to the changing conditions of a dynamic human society.	Reasoning
Therefore, the plea raised by the Petitioners that the present Constitutional NinetyThird Amendment Act, 2005 alters the basic structure of the constitution is of no force.	Reasoning
Moreover, the interpretation of the Constitution shall not be in a narrow pedantic way.	Reasoning
The observations made by the Constitution Bench in Nagarajs case (supra) at page 240 are relevant Constitution is not an ephermal legal document embodying a set of legal rules for the passing hour.	None
It sets out principles for an expanding future and is intended to endure for ages to come and consequently to be adapted to the various crisis of human affairs.	None
Therefore, a purposive rather than a strict literal approach to the interpretation should be adopted.	None
A Constitutional provision must be construed not in a narrow and constricted sense but in a wide and liberal manner so as to anticipate and take account of changing conditions and purposes so that constitutional provision does not get fossilized but remains flexible enough to meet the newly emerging problems and challenges.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been held in many decisions that when a constitutional provision is interpreted, the cardinal rule is to look to the Preamble to the Constitution as the guiding star and the Directive Principles of State Policy as the Book of Interpretation.	None
The Preamble embodies the hopes and aspirations of the people and Directive Principles set out the proximate grounds in the governance of this country.	None
Therefore, we hold that the NinetyThird Amendment to the Constitution does not violate the basic structure of the Constitution so far as it relates to aided educational institutions.	Reasoning
Question whether reservation could be made for SCs, STs or SEBCs in private unaided educational institutions on the basis of the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment or whether reservation could be given in such institutions or whether any such legislation would be violative of Article 19(1)(g) or Article 14 of the Constitution or whether the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment which enables the State Legislatures or Parliament to make such legislation  are all questions to be decided in a properly constituted lis between the affected parties and others who support such legislation.	Reasoning
Whether Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually contradictory, hence Article 15(5) is to be held ultra vires?	Issue
The next contention raised by the petitioners Counsel is that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually exclusive and contradictory.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Counsel for the petitioner, particularly the petitioner in Writ Petition (C) No. 598 of 2006, submitted that Article 15(4) was a provision and a source of legislative power for the purpose of making reservation for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) as well as for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBCs) of citizens in aided minority educational institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
And Article 15(4) was inserted after the decision of this Court in Champakam Dorairajan (supra) and Article 15(5) provides for reservation of seats for SCs, STs and SEBCs in aided or unaided educational institutions but expressly excludes all such reservation being made in minority educational institutions covered by Article 30(1) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to the Petitioners learned Counsel, will lead to a situation where the State would not be in a position to give reservation to SCs, STs and SEBCs even in aided minority institutions which have got protection under Article 30(1) of the Constitution.	None
It is argued that in view of the express provision contained in Article 15(5), the State would no more be able to give the reservation and this according to the petitioners Counsel would result in annulling the endeavour of the founding fathers and the various provisions for neutralizing the exclusion of SCs STs from the mainstream of society and development for centuries.	None
It is argued by petitioners learned Counsel that Article 15(4) and 15(5) both commence with an exclusionary clause excluding the operation of the rest of the Article 15, and hence would result in a conflict to the extent of inconsistency.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the petitioners, Article 15(5) is a special provision relating to educational institutions and being a later amendment, it would prevail over Article 15(4), thus in substance and effect resulting in an amendment of Article 15(4) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the petitioners Counsel, nothing in this Article in Article 15(5) would include Article 15(4) also and in view of this inconsistent provision, Article 15(5) has to be held to be inconsistent with 15(4) and thus nonoperative.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both Article 15(4) and 15(5) are enabling provisions.	Reasoning
Article 15(4) was introduced when the Communal G.O. in the State of Madras was struck down by this Court in Champakam Dorairajans case (supra).	Reasoning
In Unni Krishnan (supra), this Court held that Article 19(1)(g) is not attracted for establishing and running educational institutions.	Reasoning
However, in T.M.A. Pai Foundation case, (supra), it was held that the right to establish and running educational institutions is an occupation within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g).	Reasoning
The scope of the decision in T.M.A. Pai Foundations case was later explained in P.A. Inamdars case, (supra).	Reasoning
It was held that as regards unaided institutions, the State has no control and such institutions are free to admit students of their own choice.	Reasoning
The said decision necessitated the enactment of the Constitution NinetyThird Amendment Act, 2005.	Reasoning
Thus, both Article 15(4) and 15(5) operate in different areas.	Reasoning
The nothing in this Article mentioned at the beginning of Article 15(5) would only mean that the nothing in this Article which prohibit the State on grounds which are mentioned in Article 15(1) alone be given importance.	Reasoning
Article 15(5) does not exclude 15(4) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is a well settled principle of constitutional interpretation that while interpreting the provisions of Constitution, effect shall be given to all the provisions of the Constitution and no provision shall be interpreted in a manner as to make any other provision in the Constitution inoperative or otiose.	Reasoning
If the intention of the Parliament was to exclude Article 15(4), they could have very well deleted Article 15(4) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Minority institutions are also entitled to the exercise of fundamental rights under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, whether they be aided or unaided.	Reasoning
But in the case of Article 15(5), the minority educational institutions, whether aided or unaided, are excluded from the purview of Article 15(5) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Both, being enabling provisions, would operate in their own field and the validity of any legislation made on the basis of Article 15(4) or 15(5) have to be examined on the basis of provisions contained in such legislation or the special provision that may be made under Article 15(4) or 15(5).	Reasoning
It may also be noticed that no educational institutions or any aggrieved party have come before us challenging the constitutional amendment on these grounds.	Reasoning
The challenge is made by petitioners objecting to the reservations made under Act 5 of 2007.	Reasoning
Therefore, the plea that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually contradictory and, therefore, Article 15(5) is not constitutionally valid cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
As has been held in N.M.	Reasoning
Thomas case (supra) and Indra Sawhneys case (supra), Article 15(4) and 16(4) are not exceptions to Article 15(1) and Article 16(1) but independent enabling provision.	Reasoning
Article 15(5) also to be taken as an enabling provision to carry out certain constitutional mandate and thus it is constitutionally valid and the contentions raised on these grounds are rejected.	None
Whether exclusion of minority educational institutions from Article 15(5) is violative of Article 14 of Constitution?	Issue
Another contention raised by the petitioners Counsel is that the exclusion of minority institutions under Article 15(5) itself is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that the exclusion by itself is not severable from the rest of the provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
This plea also is not tenable because the minority institutions have been given a separate treatment in view of Article 30 of Constitution.	None
Such classification has been held to be in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The exemption of minority educational institutions has been allowed to conform Article 15(5) with the mandate of Article 30 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Moreover, both Article 15(4) and Article 15(5) are operative and the plea of nonseverability is not applicable.	Reasoning
Learned Senior Counsel Dr. Rajeev Dhavan and learned Counsel Shri Sushil Kumar Jain appearing for the petitioners contended that the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment would violate the equality principles enshrined in Articles 14, 19 and 21 and thereby the Golden Triangle of these three Articles could be seriously violated.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel also contended that exclusion of minorities from the operation of Article 15(5) is also violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not find much force in this contention.	None
It has been held that Article 15(4) and Article 16(4) are not exceptions to Article 15(1) and Article 16(1) respectively.	Reasoning
It may also be noted that if at all there is any violation of Article 14 or any other equality principle, the affected educational institution should have approached this Court to vindicate their rights.	Reasoning
No such petition has been filed before this Court.	Reasoning
Therefore, we hold that the exclusion of minority educational institutions from Article 15(5) is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution as the minority educational institutions, by themselves, are a separate class and their rights are protected by other constitutional provisions.	Reasoning
Whether the Constitutional Amendment followed the procedure prescribed under Article 368 of the Constitution?	Issue
Another contention raised by the petitioners Counsel is that the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment is invalid as it violates the proviso to Article 368 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the petitioners Counsel, the procedure prescribed under the proviso to Article 368 was not followed in the case of the NinetyThird Amendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the petitioners Counsel, Article 15(5) of the Constitution interferes with the executive power of the States as it impliedly takes away the power of the State Government under Article 162 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention of the petitioners Counsel has no force.	Reasoning
The powers of the Parliament and the State legislatures to legislate are provided for under Article 245255 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Under the proviso to Article 162, any matter with respect to which the legislature of the State and the Parliament have power to make laws, the executive power of the State shall be subject to and limited by the executive power expressly conferred by the Constitution or by any law made by Parliament upon the Union authorities thereof.	Reasoning
The NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment does not expressly or impliedly take away any such power conferred by Article 162.	Reasoning
It may also be noticed that by virtue of the 42nd Amendment to the Constitution, education which was previously in Entry No. 11 in List II was deleted and inserted in List III as Entry No. 25 as the field of legislation in List III.	Reasoning
Article 245 will operate and by reasons of proviso to Article 162, the executive power of the State be subject to, limited by, the executive power expressly conferred by the Constitution or by any law made by Parliament upon the Union authorities thereof.	Reasoning
Subject to restrictions imposed under the Constitution, it has been in existence.	Reasoning
Such power of the State is not limited or curtailed by the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment as it does not interfere with the power of the State under Article 162.	Reasoning
The NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment does not fall within the scope of proviso to Article 368.	Reasoning
Therefore, the plea raised by the petitioners Counsel that the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment did not follow the prescribed procedure of Article 368 is not correct and the plea is only to be rejected.	Reasoning
Whether the Act 5 of 2007 is constitutionally invalid in view of definition of Backward Class and whether the identification of such Backward Class based on caste is constitutionally valid?	Issue
The next important plea raised by the petitioners Counsel is regarding the validity of the Act 5 of 2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
The several contentions have been raised regarding the validity of the Act 5 of 2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first contention which was raised by the petitioners Counsel that this Act is exfacie unconstitutional and is a suspect legislation and violative of the Article 14, 15 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main attack against the Act was that the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens were not properly identified and the delegation of power to identify the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens to the Central Government itself is illegal and the delegation of such powers by itself without laying down any guidelines is arbitrarily illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Elaborate arguments were made by the petitioners Counsel and the first and foremost contention was that caste is the sole basis on which the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens were determined.	Arguments of Petitioner
And this, according to the petitioners Counsel, is illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was made to a series of decisions of this Court on this issue.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a long jurisprudential history as to whether caste can play any role in determining the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	None
In Indra Sawhneys case (supra), which is a Nine Judge Bench decision, it was held that the caste could be a beginning point and a determinative factor in identifying the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	None
But nevertheless, a brief survey of various decisions on this question would give a history of the jurisprudential development on this subject.	None
Reference to the earlier decisions is necessary because serious doubt has been raised as to whether caste could be the basis for recognizing backwardness.	None
Some of the earlier decisions have stated that caste should not be a basis for recognizing backwardness and gradually there was a shift in the views and finally, in Indra Sawhneys case (supra), it was held that caste could be the starting point for determining the socially and educationally backward classes of citizen.	None
In Champakam Dorairajan (supra), this Court struck down the classification made in the Communal G.O. of the then State of Madras.	None
The G.O. was founded on the basis of religion and castes and was struck down on the ground that it is opposed to the Constitution and is in violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizens.	None
The court held that Article 46 cannot override the provisions of Article 29 (2) because of the Directive Principles of State Policy which were then taken subsidiary to fundamental rights.	None
This decision led to the first constitutional amendment by which Article 15(4) was added to the Constitution.	None
The next important case is M.R. Balaji Ors.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Mysore (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, the State of Mysore issued an order that all the communities except the Brahmin community would fall within the definition of socially and educationally backward class and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and 75 of the seats in educational institutions were reserved for them.	None
It was observed that though caste in relation to Hindus may be a relevant factor to consider while determining social backwardness of groups or classes of citizens, it cannot be made the sole or dominant test.	None
It was held that the classes of citizens who are deplorably poor automatically become socially backward.	None
Moreover, the occupation of citizens and the place of their habitation also result in social backwardness.	None
The problem of determining who are socially backward classes is undoubtedly very complex, but the classification of socially backward citizens on the basis of their caste alone is not permissible under Article 15 (4).	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Senior Counsel Shri Harish Salve drew our attention to the various passages in the judgment.	None
Gajendragadkar, J. speaking for the majority of the Judges, said  The Problem of determining who are socially backward classes is undoubtedly very complex.	None
Sociological, social and economic considerations come into play in solving the problem and evolving proper criteria for determining which classes are socially backward is obviously a very difficult task it will need an elaborate investigation and collection of data and examining the said data in a rational and scientific way.	None
That is the function of the State which purports to act under Article 15 (4).	None
The court drew a clear distinction between caste and class and tried to make an attempt to find a new basis for ascertaining social and educational backwardness in place of caste and in this decision a majority of Judges held that in a broad way, a special provision of reservation should be less than 50 how much less than 50 would depend upon the relevant and prevailing circumstances in each case.	None
In R. Chitralekhas case (supra), the Government of Mysore, by an order defining backward classes directed that 30 of the seats in professional and technical colleges and institutions shall be reserved for them and 18 to the SCs and STs.	None
It was laid down that classification of socially and educationally backward classes should be made on the basis of economic condition and occupation.	None
Suba Rao, J. (as he then was), speaking for the majority, held that a classification of backward classes based on economic conditions and occupations is not bad in law and does not offend Article 15 (4).	None
The caste of a group of citizens may be a relevant circumstance in ascertaining their social backwardness and though it is a relevant factor to determine social backwardness of a class, it cannot be the sole or dominant test in that behalf.	None
If, in a given situation, caste is excluded in ascertaining a class within the meaning of Article 15 (4), it does not vitiate the classification if it satisfies other tests.	None
The Court observed that various provisions of the Constitution which recognized the factual existence of backwardness in the country and which make a sincere attempt to promote the welfare of the weaker sections thereof should be construed to effectuate that policy and not to give weightage to progressive sections of the society under the false colour of caste to which they happen to belong.	None
The Court held that under no circumstance a class can be equated to a caste though the caste of an individual or group of individuals may be a relevant factor in putting him in a particular class.	None
Minor P. Rajendran Vs.	None
State of Madras Ors. is another Constitution Bench decision wherein the order of the State Government providing reservation of seats for various categories of candidates namely Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and SEBCs was challenged on various grounds.	None
The main challenge was that the reservation was based entirely on consideration of caste and therefore it violates Article 15.	None
Justice Wanchoo, held that  Now if the reservation in question had been based only on caste and had not taken into account the social and educational backwardness of the castes in question, it would be violative of Article 15 (1).	None
But it must not be forgotten that a caste is also a class of citizens and if the caste as a whole is socially and educationally backward reservation can be made in favour of such a caste on the ground that it is a socially and educationally backward class of citizens within the meaning of Article 15 (4).	None
Reference in this connection may be made to the observations of this Court in M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore to the effect that it was not irrelevant to consider the caste of a class of citizens in determining their social and educational backwardness.	None
It was further observed that though the caste of a class of citizens may be relevant its importance should not be exaggerated and if classification of backward classes of citizens was based solely on the caste of the citizen, it might be open to objection.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It may be noticed that the list prepared by the State showed certain castes, and members of those castes according to the State were really classes of socially and educationally backward citizens.	None
It was observed in that case that the petitioners therein did not make any attempt to show that any caste mentioned in the list of educationally and socially backward classes of citizens was not educationally and socially backward and the list based on caste was upheld by the Constitution Bench and held to be not violative of Article 15(1).	None
In Triloki Nath Tiku Vs.	None
State of J K (I), 50 of the gazetted posts were to be filled up by promotion in favour of the Muslims of Jammu Kashmir.	None
The Court held that inadequate representation in State services would not be decisive for determining the backwardness of a section.	None
The Court accordingly gave directions for collecting further material relevant to the subject.	None
And in a subsequent decision, Triloki Nath (II) (supra), the court observed that the expression backward class is not used as synonymous with backward caste.	None
In Minor A. Peerikaruppan Vs. State of Tamil Nadu Ors.	None
(supra), this Court made reference to the earlier decisions especially in M.R. Balaji case (supra) and R. Chitralekha case (supra).	None
Hegde, J., at paragraph 29, observed  There is no gainsaying the fact that there are numerous castes in this country which are socially and educationally backward.	None
To ignore their existence is to ignore the facts of life.	None
Hence we are unable to uphold the contention that the impugned reservation is not in accordance with Article 15 (4).	None
But all the same the Government should not proceed on the basis that once a class is considered as a backward class it should continue to be backward class for all times.	None
Such an approach would defeat the very purpose of the reservation because once a class reaches a stage of progress which some modern writers call as take off stage then competition is necessary for their future progress.	None
The Government should always keep under review the question of reservation of seats and only the classes which are really socially and educationally backward should be allowed to have the benefit of reservation.	None
The learned Counsel for the petitioners also made reference to State of Uttar Pradesh Ors.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Pradip Tandon Ors.	None
wherein Chief Justice Ray observed at paragraph 14  Socially and educationally backward classes of citizens in Article 15 (4) could not be equated with castes.	None
In M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore and State of A.P. v. Sagar this Court held that classification of backwardness on the basis of castes would violate both Articles 15 (1) and 15 (4).	None
Another important decision is that of State of Kerala Anr.	None
Vs N.M.	Arguments of Respondent
Thomas Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(supra), wherein the constitutional validity of Rule 13AA of the Kerala State Subordinate Services Rules was under challenge.	None
The Rule gave exemption of 2 years to members belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in services, from passing the departmental test.	None
The High Court of Kerala struck down the Rule and in an appeal by the State the question of reservation was elaborately considered.	None
Mathew, J. in his concurring judgment, held that in order to give equality of opportunity for employment to the members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, it is necessary to take note of their social, educational and economic backwardness.	None
Not only is the Directive Principle embodied in Article 46 binding on the lawmakers as ordinarily understood, but it should equally inform and illuminate the approach of the court when it makes a decision, as the court is also a State within the meaning of Article 12 and makes law even though interstitially.	None
Existence of equality depends not merely on the absence of disabilities but on the presence of disabilities.	None
To achieve it, differential treatment of persons who are unequal is permissible.	None
This is what is styled as compensatory discrimination or affirmative action.	None
In K.C. Vasanth Kumar Vs. State of Karnataka (supra) the question of identifying socially and educationally backward class came up for consideration.	None
Desai, J., elaborately considered this question in paragraph 20 and observed  By its existence over thousands of years, more or less it was assumed that caste should be the criterion for determining social and educational backwardness.	None
In other words, it was said, look at the caste, its traditional functions, its position in relation to upper castes by the standard of purity and pollution, pure and not so pure occupation, once these questions are satisfactorily answered without anything more, those who belong to that caste must be labeled socially and educationally backward.	None
This oversimplified approach ignored a very realistic situation existing in each caste that in every such caste whose members claim to be socially and educationally backward, had an economically wellplaced segments.	None
Chinnappa Reddy, J., also dealt with the question elaborately and observed  However we look at the question of backwardness, whether from the angle of class, status or power, we find the economic factor at the bottom of it all and we find poverty, the culpritcause and the dominant characteristic.	None
Poverty, the economic factor brands all backwardness just as the erect posture brands the homosapiens and distinguishes him from all other animals, in the eyes of the beholder from Mars.	None
But, whether his racial stock is Caucasian, Mongoloid, Negroid, etc., further investigation will have to be made.	None
So too the further question of social and educational backwardness requires further scrutiny.	None
In India, the matter is further aggravated, complicated and pitilessly tyrannized by the ubiquitous caste system, a unique and devastating system of gradation and degradation which has divided the entire Indian and particularly Hindu society horizontally into such distinct layers as to be destructive of mobility, a system which has penetrated and corrupted the mind and soul of every Indian citizen.	None
It is a notorious fact that there is an upper crust of rural society consisting of the superior castes, generally the priestly, the landlord and the merchant castes, there is a bottom strata consisting of the outcastes of Indian Rural Society, namely the Scheduled Castes, and, in between the highest and the lowest, there are large segments of population who because of the low gradation of the caste to which they belong in the rural society hierarchy, because of the humble occupation which they pursue, because of their poverty and ignorance are also condemned to backwardness, social and educational, backwardness which prevents them from competing on equal terms to catch up with the upper crust.	None
Reference was also made to other decisions, namely, State of Andhra Pradesh Anr.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
P. Sagar and T. Devadasan Vs.	None
The Union of India Anr The earlier decisions took the view that caste shall not be a basis for determining the socially and educationally backward class of citizens.	None
But from the later decisions, we find a slight shift in the approach of the court.	None
If the classification of SEBCs is done exclusively on the basis of caste, it would fly in the face of Article 15(1) of the Constitution as it expressly prohibits any discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.	Reasoning
After a careful examination of the various previous decisions of this Court, in Indra Sawhney (supra), while examining the validity of the Backward Class List prepared by the Mandal Commisson, Jeevan Reddy.	None
J., speaking for the majority, held as under During the years 1968 to 1971, this Court had to consider the validity of identification of backward classes made by Madras and Andhra Pradesh Governments.	None
P. Rajendran v. State of Madras 3 13 related to specification of socially and educationally backward classes with reference to castes.	None
The question was whether such an identification infringes Article 15.	None
Wanchoo, CJ, speaking for the Constitution Bench dealt with the contention in the following words (SCR p. 79091)	None
The contention is that the list of socially and educationally backward classes for whom reservation is made under Rule 5 is nothing but a list of certain castes.	None
Therefore, reservation in favour of certain castes based only on caste considerations violates Article 15(1), which prohibits discrimination on the ground of caste only.	None
Now if the reservation in question had been based only on caste and had not taken into account the social and educational backwardness of the caste in question, it would be violative of Article 15(1).	None
But it must not be forgotten that a caste is also a class of citizens and if the caste as a whole is socially and educationally backward reservation can be made in favour of such a caste on the ground that is a socially and educationally backward class of citizens within the meaning of Article 15(4).	None
It is true that in the present cases the list of socially and educationally backward classes has been specified by caste.	None
But that does not necessarily mean that caste was the sole consideration and that persons belonging to these castes are also not a class of socially and educationally backward citizens.	None
As it was found that members of these castes as a whole were educationally and socially backward, the list which had been coming on from as far back as 1906 was finally adopted for purposes of Article 15(4).	None
In view however of the explanation given by the State of Madras, which has not been controverted by any rejoinder, it must be accepted that though the list shows certain castes, the members of those castes are really classes of educationally and socially backward citizens.	None
No attempt was made on behalf of the petitioners appellant to show that any caste mentioned in this list was not educationally and socially backward.	None
In this state of the pleadings, we must come to the conclusion that though the list is prepared castewise, the castes included therein are as a whole educationally and socially backward	None
and therefore the list is not violative of Article 15.	None
The challenge to Rule 5 must therefore fail.	None
In that decision it was further held that Backward Class in Article 16(4) cannot be read as Backward Caste.	None
And under Article 340 of the Constitution, the President may by order appoint a Commission consisting of such persons as he thinks fit to investigate the conditions of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens within the territory of India and the difficulties under which they labour and to make recommendations as to the steps that should be taken by the Union or any State to remove the difficulties and to improve their condition.	Reasoning
The object of this provision is to empower the President to appoint a Commission to ascertain the difficulties and problems of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	None
And in Indra Sawhneys case (supra), the majority held that the ideal and wise method would be to mark out various occupations which on the lower level in many cases amongst Hindus would be their caste itself and find out their social acceptability and educational standard, weigh them in the balance of economic conditions and, the result would be backward class of citizens needing a genuine protective umbrella.	None
And after having adopted occupation as the starting point, the next point should be to ascertain their social acceptability.	None
A person carrying on scavenging becomes an untouchable whereas others who were as law in the social strata as untouchables became depressed.	None
The Court has cautioned that the backwardness should be traditional.	None
Mere educational or social backwardness would not have been sufficient as it would enlarge the field thus frustrating the very purpose of the constitutional goal.	None
It was pointed out that after applying these tests, the economic criteria or the meanstest should be applied since poverty is the prime cause of all backwardness as it generates social and educational backwardness.	None
The learned Counsel for the petitioner contended that caste cannot be used even as one of the criteria for identifying the SEBCs as many persons have shifted their traditional occupations and have become doctors, engineers and lawyers.	Arguments of Petitioner
But these are only a few cases and even such persons continue to suffer social segregation based on caste.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Pradip Tandons case (supra) it was held at para 17 that The expression classes of citizens indicates a homogenous section of the people who are grouped together because of certain likenesses and common traits and who are identifiable by some common attributes.	None
The homogeneity of the class of citizens is social and educational backwardness.	None
Neither caste nor religion nor place of birth will be the uniform element of common attributes to make them a class of citizens.	None
The above statement is not fully correct.	None
Caste plays an important role in determining the backwardness of the individual.	None
In society, social status and standing depend upon the nature of the occupation followed.	None
In paragraph 779 of Indra Sawhneys case, it is stated Lowlier the occupation, lowlier the social standing of the class in the graded hierarchy.	None
In rural India, occupationcaste nexus is true even today.	None
A few members may have gone to cities or even abroad but when they return they do, barring a few exceptions they go into the same fold again.	None
It does not matter if he has earned money.	None
He may not follow that particular occupation.	None
Still, the label remains.	None
His identity is not changed for the purpose of marriage, death and all other social functions, it is his social class the caste that is relevant.	None
Caste is often used interchangeably with class and can be called as the basic unit in social stratification.	Reasoning
The most characteristic thing about a caste group is its autonomy in caste related matters.	Reasoning
One of the universal codes enforced by all castes is the requirement of endogamy.	Reasoning
Other rules have to do with the regulations pertaining to religious purity or cleanliness.	Reasoning
Sometimes it restricts occupational choices as well.	Reasoning
It is not necessary that these rules be enforced in particular classes as well, and as such a class may be distinguished from the broader realm of caste on these grounds.	Reasoning
Castes were often rated, on a purity scale, and not on a social scale.	Reasoning
The observations made by Venkataramaiah J. in K.C. Vasanth Kumar case are relevant in this regard We are aware of the meanings of the words caste, race, or tribe or religious minorities in India.	None
A caste is an association of families which practise the custom of endogamy i.e. which permits marriages amongst the members belonging to such families only.	None
Caste rules prohibit its members from marrying outside their caste.	None
There are subgroups amongst the castes which sometimes intermarry and sometimes do not.	None
A caste is based on various factors, sometimes it may be a class, a race or a racial unit.	None
A caste has nothing to do with wealth.	None
The caste of a person is governed by his birth in a family.	None
Certain ideas of ceremonial purity are peculiar to each caste.	None
Sometimes caste practices even led to segregation of same castes in the villages.	None
Even the choice of occupation of members of castes was predetermined in many cases, and the members of a particular caste were prohibited from engaging themselves in other types of callings, professions or occupations.	None
Certain occupations were considered to be degrading or impure.	None
A certain amount of rigidity developed in several matters and many who belonged to castes which were lower in social order were made to suffer many restrictions, privations and humiliations.	None
Untouchability was practised against members belonging to certain castes.	None
Interdining was prohibited in some cases.	None
None of these rules governing a caste had anything to do with either the individual merit of a person or his capacity.	None
The wealth owned by him would not save him from many social discriminations practised by members belonging to higher castes.	None
Children who grew in this caste ridden atmosphere naturally suffered from many social disadvantages apart from the denial of opportunity to live in the same kind of environment in which persons of higher castes lived.	None
Many social reformers have tried in the last two centuries to remove the stigma of caste from which people born in lower castes were suffering.	None
Many laws were also passed prohibiting some of the inhuman caste practices.	None
(p. 110)	None
Rivers, the leading anthropologist, criticizes the use of the terms caste and class as synonyms.	None
However, many others, such as Lowie and Kimball Young, use these terms as though they were identical.	None
Very common is the use of the word caste to indicate hereditary status.	None
Cecil Clare North, the noted sociologist, accepts the point of view that degrees of rigidity mark the difference between class and caste systems.	None
His definition reads A group in which status, occupation, and culture have become hereditary is known as a caste.	None
As a matter of fact, however, the distinction between a society based upon caste and one in which open classes prevail is simply one of degree.	None
North concludes by saying that the term caste applies to classes that have become fixed, and that all such classes tend to become castes.	None
MacIver, another leading authority in the field of social class theory, also identifies caste with hereditary status.	None
He attempts to tie his interpretation with the situation in India, a procedure not often followed by the other sociologists.	None
He writes thus, Caste as unchangeable status  	None
The feudal order approximated to a caste system.	None
When status is wholly predetermined, so that men are born to their lot in life without hope of changing it, then class takes the extreme form of caste.	None
This is the situation in Hindu society.	None
Every Hindu necessarily belongs to the caste of his parents, and in that caste he inevitably remains.	None
No accumulation of wealth and no exercise of talents can alter his caste status and marriage outside his caste is prohibited or severely discouraged.	None
Caste is a complete barrier to the mobility of class.	None
Therefore, a class always enjoys certain privileges or at least certain advantages over others in society.	None
When it is more or less rigorously closed, or enjoys hereditary privileges, it is called a caste.	None
However, there are other sociologists who are of the opinion that the Caste system has a hereditary function also.	None
Charles Horton Cooley opines that if the transmission of function from father to son has become established, a caste spirit, a sentiment in favour of such transmission and opposed to the passage from one class to another, may arise and be shared even by the unprivileged classes.	None
The individual then thinks of himself and his family as identified with his caste Therefore, according to the early sociological theories, the term caste has been used to mean class, hereditary or rigid status, and hereditary occupation.	None
The Mysore Census of 1901 is quoted, in this connection, as follows In any one of the linguistic divisions of India there are as many as two hundred castes which can be grouped in classes whose gradation is largely acknowledged by all.	None
But the order of social precedence amongst the individual castes of any class cannot be made definite, because not only is there no ungrudging acceptance of such rank but also the ideas of the people on this point are very nebulous and uncertain.	None
The following observations vividly bring out this state of things.	None
Excepting the Brahmin at one end and the admittedly degraded castes like the Holeyas at the other, the members of a large proportion of the immediate castes think or profess to think that their caste is better than their neighbours, and should be ranked accordingly.	None
On the other hand, it is possible that within a caste group there is a marked inequality of status, opportunity, or social standing which then defines the class within that particular caste system.	None
For example, all the Brahmins are not engaged in highly respectable employment, nor are all very wealthy.	None
It may even be that some Brahmins may be servants of members of a lower caste, or it may also be so that the personal servant of a rich Brahmin may be a poor Brahmin.	None
Hence, there is every reason to believe that within a single caste group there are some classes or groups of people to whom good fortune or perseverance has brought more dignity, social influence and social esteem than it has to others.	Reasoning
In India, caste, in a socioorganizational manner would mean that it is not characterized merely by the physical or occupational characteristics of the individuals who make it up rather, it is characterized by its codes and its closeknit social controls.	Reasoning
In the case of classes, however, there may not exist such closeknit unit social controls, and there may exist great disparity in occupational characteristics.	Reasoning
A social class is therefore a homogeneous unit, from the point of view of status and mutual recognition whereas a caste is a homogeneous unit from the point of view of common ancestry, religious rites and strict organizational control.	Reasoning
Thus the manner in which the caste is closed both in the organizational and biological sense causes it to differ from social class.	Reasoning
Moreover, its emphasis upon ritual and regulations pertaining to cleanliness and purity differs radically from the secular nature and informality of social class rules.	Reasoning
In a social class, the exclusiveness would be based primarily on status.	Reasoning
Social classes divide homogeneous populations into layers of prestige and esteem, and the members of each layer are able to circulate freely with it.	Reasoning
In a caste, however, the social distance between members is due to the fact that they belong to entirely different organizations.	Reasoning
It may be said, therefore, that a caste is a horizontal division and a class, a vertical division.	Reasoning
The Solicitor General, Mr. G.E. Vahanvati, pointed out that for the purpose of reservation under Article 16(4) of the Constitution, the Central List has been in operation for the past 14 years and not a single person has challenged any inclusion in the Central List as void or illegal.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that the National Commission for the Backward Classes and the State Commission for Backward Classes have prepared a list based on elaborate guidelines and these guidelines have been framed after studying the criteria indicators framed by the Mandal Commission and the Commissions set up in the past by different State Governments.	Arguments of Respondent
Various Commissions held public hearings at various places and the National Commission held 236 public hearings before it finalized the list.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also pointed out that during the period of its functioning, the National Commission had recommended 297 requests for inclusion and at the same time rejected 288 requests for inclusion of the main castes.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further pointed out that the Commission took into consideration detailed data with regard to social, educational and economic criteria.	Arguments of Respondent
The Commission has also looked into whether there has been any improvement or deterioration in the condition of the caste or community being considered for inclusion during the past twenty years.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that an elaborate questionnaire was prepared by the Commission and the answers in this questionnaire were considered in detail for inclusion rejection in the list.	Arguments of Respondent
It is clear that the lists of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens are being prepared not solely on the basis of the caste and if caste and other considerations are taken into account for determining backwardness, it cannot be said that it would be violative of Article 15(1) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
We hold that the determination of SEBCs is done not solely based on caste and hence, the identification of SEBCs is not violative of Article 15(1) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Whether Creamy Layer is to be excluded from SEBCs?	Reasoning
The SEBCs have been identified by applying various criteria.	None
Though for the purpose of convenience, the list is based on caste, it cannot be said that Backward Class has been identified solely on the basis of caste.	None
All the castes which suffered the social and educational backwardness have been included in the list.	None
Therefore, it is not violative of Article 15(1).	None
The only possible objection that could be agitated is that in many of the castes included in this list, there may be an affluent section (Creamy Layer) which cannot be included in the list of SEBCs.	None
When socially and educationally backward classes are determined by giving importance to caste, it shall not be forgotten that a segment of that caste is economically advanced and they do not require the protection of reservation.	None
It was argued on behalf of the petitioners that the principle of Creamy Layer should be strictly applied to SEBCs while giving affirmative action and the principles of exclusion of Creamy Layer applied in Indra Sawhneys case should be equally applied to any of the legislations that may be passed as per Article 15(5) of the Constitution.	None
The Counsel for the petitioners submitted that SEBCs have been defined under section 2 (g) of the Act and the Central Government has been delegated with the power to determine Other Backward Classes.	None
The Counsel for the petitioners have pointed out that the definition given in section 2(g) of the Act should be judicially interpreted.	None
That the backward class so stated therein should mean to exclude the Creamy Layer.	None
The learned Senior Counsel appearing for Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK)	None
stated that exclusion of Creamy Layer shall not apply for reservation in educational institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that in case the creamy layer is excluded, the other members of the backward class community would not be in a position to avail the benefit of reservation and the fee structure in many of these centrally administered institutions is exorbitantly high and the ordinary citizen would not be in a position to afford the payment of fees and thus the very purpose of the reservation would be frustrated.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Counsel for the respondents, the creamy layer elimination will only perpetuate caste inequalities.	Arguments of Respondent
It would enable the advanced castes to eliminate any challenge or competition to their leadership in the professions and services and that they will gain by eliminating all possible beneficiaries of reservation in the name of creamy layer especially in the institutions of higher learning.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that the analogy of Creamy Layer applied in reservations to jobs cannot be applied in reservations to educational institutions of higher learning.	Arguments of Respondent
The position of a student getting admission to an institution of higher learning is totally different and can never be compared to that of backward class person to get a job by virtue of reservation.	Arguments of Respondent
The study in any educational institution of higher learning is very expensive and the noncreamy layer backward class parent cannot afford his son or his daughter incurring such a huge expenditure.	Arguments of Respondent
Eliminating them from the Creamy Layer will frustrate the very object of providing reservation.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is wholly impracticable and highly counter productive to import the policy of Creamy Layer for reservation in these institutions.	Arguments of Respondent
And according to the learned Counsel there is a difference between services and education and that under the purview of Act 5 of 2007, around 3 lakh seats would be filled up every year.	Arguments of Respondent
Whereas the jobs are limited and they will not become vacant every year.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel pointed out that grouping of all castes together may enable a less backward caste among the backward classes to corner more seats than it deserves.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also possible that more backward classes cannot afford to compete with the less backward classes.	Arguments of Respondent
The only way to solve the said problem is by categorization of Backward Classes and sub classifying them so as to ensure that under each category only similarly circumstanced castes are grouped together.	Arguments of Respondent
The categorization of backward class has successfully worked in State of Tamil Nadu where most backward class is provided 20 reservation and the most backward castes and denotified tribes are grouped together and the backward classes are provided 30 reservation.	Arguments of Respondent
In the State of Karnataka, backward classes are divided into 5 categories and separate reservations have been provided.	Arguments of Respondent
And in the State of Andhra Pradesh, Backward Classes have been divided into 4 divisions and separate percentage of reservation has been provided.	Arguments of Respondent
147.	None
As noticed earlier, determination of backward class cannot be exclusively based on caste.	None
Poverty, social backwardness, economic backwardness, all are criteria for determination of backwardness.	None
It has been noticed in Indra Sawhneys case that among the backward class, a section of the backward class is a member of the affluent section of society.	None
They do not deserve any sort of reservation for further progress in life.	None
They are socially and educationally advanced enough to compete for the general seats along with other candidates.	None
In Indra Sawhneys case (supra) Jeevan Reddy, J., has observed In our opinion, it is not a question of permissibility or desirability of such test but one of proper and more appropriate identification of a class a backward class.	None
The very concept of a class denotes a number of persons having certain common traits which distinguish them from the others.	None
In a backward class under clause (4) of Article 16, if the connecting link is the social backwardness, it should broadly be the same in a given class.	None
If some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and, may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps.	None
They would be misfits in the class.	None
After excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class.	None
In fact, such exclusion benefits the truly backward.	None
(p. 724)	None
It is to be understood that creamy layer principle is introduced merely to exclude a section of a particular caste on the ground that they are economically advanced or educationally forward.	None
They are excluded because unless this segment of caste is excluded from that caste group, there cannot be proper identification of the backward class.	None
If the Creamy Layer principle is not applied, it could easily be said that all the castes that have been included among the socially and educationally backward classes have been included exclusively on the basis of caste.	None
Identification of SEBC for the purpose of either Article 15(4), 15(5) or 16(4) solely on the basis of caste is expressly prohibited by various decisions of this Court and it is also against Article 15(1) and Article 16(1) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
To fulfil the conditions and to find out truly what is socially and educationally backward class, the exclusion of creamy layer is essential.	None
It may be noted that the creamy layer principle is applied not as a general principle of reservation.	Reasoning
It is applied for the purpose of identifying the socially and educationally backward class.	Reasoning
One of the main criteria for determining the SEBC is poverty.	Reasoning
If that be so, the principle of exclusion of creamy layer is necessary.	Reasoning
Moreover, the majority in Indra Sawhneys case upheld the exclusion of creamy layer for the purpose of reservation in Article 16(4).	Reasoning
Therefore, we are bound the larger Bench decision of this Court in Indra Sawhneys case, and it cannot be said that the creamy layer principle cannot be applied for identifying SEBCs.	Reasoning
Moreover, Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are designed to provide opportunities in education thereby raising educational, social and economical levels of those who are lagging behind and once this progress is achieved by this section, any legislation passed thereunder should be deemed to have served its purpose.	Reasoning
By excluding those who have already attained economic well being or educational advancement, the special benefits provided under these clauses cannot be further extended to them and, if done so, it would be unreasonable, discriminatory or arbitrary, resulting in reverse discrimination.	Reasoning
Sawant, J. also made observation in Indra Sawhneys case to ensure removal of creamy layer.	None
He observed .at	None
least some individuals and families in the backward classes  gaining sufficient means to develop their capacities to compete with others in every field Legally, therefore, they are not entitled to be any longer called as part of the backward classes whatever their original birth mark  to continue to confer upon such advanced sections from the backward classes the special benefits, would amount to treating equals unequally violating the equality provisions of the Constitution.	None
Secondly, to rank them with the rest of the backward classes would equally violate the right to equality of the rest in those classes, since it would amount to treating the unequals equally.	None
It will lead to perverting the objectives of the special constitutional provisions since the forwards among the backward classes will thereby be enabled to tap up all the special benefits to the exclusion and to the cost of the rest in those classes, thus keeping the rest in perpetual backwardness.	None
All these reasonings are equally applicable to the reservation or any special action contemplated under Article 15(5).	Reasoning
Therefore, we are unable to agree with the contention raised by the respondents learned Counsel that if creamy layer is excluded, there may be practically no representation for a particular backward class in educational institutions because the remaining members, namely, the noncreamy layer, may not have risen to the level or standard necessary to qualify to get admission even within the reserved quota.	Reasoning
If the creamy layer is not excluded, the identification of SEBC will not be complete and any SEBC without the exclusion of creamy layer may not be in accordance with Article 15(1) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
What should be the parameters for determining the creamy layer group?	Issue
After the decision in Indra Sawhneys case (supra), the Government of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training) issued an Office Memorandum dated 08.09.1993 providing for 27 reservation for Other Backward Classes.	None
The Memorandum reads as follows OFFICE MEMORANDUM Subject Reservation for Other Backward Classes in Civil Posts and Services Under the Government of India  regarding  The undersigned is directed to refer to this Departments OM No. 36012/31/90Estt.	None
(SCT), dated the 13th August, 1990 and 25th September, 1991 regarding reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes in Civil Posts and Services under the Government of India and to say that following the Supreme Court judgment in the Indra Sawhney vs. Union of India (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 930 of 1990) the Government of India appointed an Expert Committee to recommend the criteria for exclusion of the socially advanced persons sections from the benefits of reservations for Other Backward Classes in Civil Posts and Services under the Government of India.	None
Consequent to the consideration of the Expert Committees recommendations this Departments Office Memorandum No. 36012/31/90Estt.	None
(SCT), dated 13.8.1990 referred to in para (1) above is hereby modified to provide as follows (a) 27 (twentyseven per cent) of the vacancies in Civil Posts and Services under the Government of India, to be filled through direct recruitment, shall be reserved for the Other Backward Classes.	None
Detailed instructions relating to the procedure to be followed for enforcing reservation will be issued separately.	None
(b) (c) (i) The aforesaid reservation shall not apply to persons sections mentioned in Column 3 of the Schedule to this office memorandum.	None
The rule of exclusion will not apply to persons working as artisans or engaged in hereditary occupations, callings.	None
A list of such occupations, callings will be issued separately by the Ministry of Welfare.	None
(d)(e) SCHEDULE Description of category To whom rule of exclusion will apply 1 2 3 CONSTITUTIONAL POSTS Son(s) and daughter(s) of President of India VicePresident of India (c.)	None
Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts Chairman Members of UPSC and of the State Public Service Commission Chief Election Commissioner Comptroller and Auditor General of India (e) persons holding constitutional positions of like nature.	None
II.	None
SERVICE CATEGORY Son(s) and daughter(s) of	None
A. Group	None
A Class I Officers of the All India Central and State Services (Direct Recruits) (a) parents, both of whom are Class I Officers (b) parents, either of whom is a Class I officer (c.) parents, both of whom are Class I Officers, but one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation (d) parents, either of whom is a Class I officer and such parent dies or suffers permanent incapacitation and before such death or such incapacitation has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation like UN, IMF, World Bank, etc. for a period of not less than 5 years (e) parents, both of whom are Class I officers die or suffer permanent incapacitation and before such death or such incapacitation of the both, either of them has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation like UN, IMF, World Bank, etc. for a period of not less than 5 years.	None
Provided that the rule of exclusion shall not apply in the following cases Son(s) and daughter(s) of parents either of whom or both of whom are class I officers and such parent(s) dies die or suffer permanent incapacitation A lady belonging to OBC category has got married to a Class I officer, and may herself like to apply for a job.	None
Group B Class II officers of the Central and State Services (Direct Recruitment) Son(s) and daughter(s) of Parents both of whom are Class II officers (b) parents of whom only the husband is a Class II officer and he get into Class I at the age of 40 or earlier (c) parents, both of whom are Class II officers and one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation and either one of them has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation like UN, IMF, World Bank etc. for a period of not less than 5 years before such death or permanent incapacitation (d) parents of whom the husband is a Class I officer (direct recruit or preforty promoted) and the wife is a Class II officer and the wife dies or suffers permanent incapacitation and (e) parents, of whom the wife is a Class I officer (direct recruit or preforty promoted) and the husband is a Class II officer and the husband dies or suffers permanent incapacitation Provided that the rule of exclusion shall not apply in the following cases Son(s) and daughter(s) of (a) parents both of whom are Class II officers and one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation (b) parents, both of whom are Class II officers and both of them die or suffer permanent incapacitation, even though either of them has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation like UN, IMF, World Bank etc.	None
for a period of not less than 5 years before their death or permanent incapacitation.	None
Employees in Public Sector Undertakings etc.	None
The criteria enumerated in A and B above in this category will apply mutatis mutandis to officers holding equivalent or comparable posts in PSUs, Banks, Insurance Organisations, Universities, etc. and also to equivalent or comparable posts and positions under private employment, pending the evaluation of the posts on equivalent or comparable basis in these institutions, the criteria specified in Category VI below will apply to the officers in these institutions.	None
III.	None
ARMED FORCES INCLUDING PARAMILITARY FORCES (Persons holding civil posts are not included) Son(s) and daughter(s) of parents either or both of whom is or are in the rank of Colonel and above in the Army and to equivalent posts in the Navy and the Air Force and the Paramilitary Forces Provided that If the wife of an Armed Forces officer is herself in the Armed Forces (i.e. the category under consideration) the rule of exclusion will apply only when she herself has reached the rank of Colonel The service ranks below Colonel of husband and wife shall not be clubbed together If the wife of an officer in the Armed Forces is in civil employment, this will not be taken into account for applying the rule of exclusion unless she falls in the service category under Item No. II in which case the criteria and conditions enumerated therein will apply to her independently.	None
IV.	None
PROFESSIONAL CLASS AND THOSE ENGAGED IN TRADE AND INDUSTRY Persons engaged in profession as a doctor, lawyer, chartered accountant, Income Tax consultant, financial or management consultant, dental surgeon, engineer, architect, computer specialist, film artists and other film professional, author, playwright, sports persons, sports professional, media professional or any other vocations of like status.	None
Persons engaged in trade, business and industry.	None
Criteria specified against Category VI will apply Criteria specified against Category VI will applyExplanation Where the husband is in same profession and the wife is in a Class II or lower grade employment, the income wealth test will apply only on the basis of the husbands income If the wife is in any profession and the husband is in employment in a Class II or lower rank post, then the income wealth criterion will apply only on the basis of the wifes income and the husbands income will not be clubbed with it.	None
PROPERTY OWNERS Agricultural holdings Plantations Coffee, tea, rubber etc.	None
Mango, citrus, apple plantations, etc. Vacant land and or buildings, in urban areas or urban agglomerations Son(s) and daughter(s) of persons belonging to a family (father, mother and minor children) which owns only irrigated land which is equal to or more than 85 of the statutory area or (a) both irrigated and unirrigated land, as follows The rule of exclusion will apply where the precondition exists that the irrigated area (having been brought to a single type under a common denominator) 40 or more of the statutory ceiling limit for irrigated land (this being calculated by excluding the unirrigated portion).	None
If this precondition of not less than 40 exists, then only the area of unirrigated land will be taken into account.	None
This will be done by converting the unirrigated land on the basis of the conversion formula existing, into the irrigated type.	None
The irrigated area so computed from unirrigated land shall be added to the actual area of irrigated land and if after such clubbing together the total area in terms of irrigated land is 80 or more of the statutory ceiling limit for irrigated land, then the rule of exclusion will apply and disentitlement will occur The rule of exclusion will not apply if the land holding of a family is exclusively unirrigated.	None
Criteria of income wealth specified in Category VI below will apply Deemed as agricultural holding and hence criteria at A above under this category will apply.	None
Criteria specified in Category VI below will apply.	None
Explanation Building may be used for residential, industrial or commercial purpose and the like two or more such purposes.	None
VI.	None
INCOME WEALTH TEST Son(s) and daughter(s) of (a) persons having gross annual income of Rs. 1 lakh or above or possessing wealth above the exemption limit as prescribed in the Wealth Tax Act for a period of three consecutive years (b) persons in Categories I, II, III and VA who are not disentitled to the benefit of reservation but have income from other sources of wealth which will bring them within the income wealth criteria mentioned in (a) above.	None
Explanation.	None
Income from salaries or agricultural land shall not be clubbed The income criteria in terms of rupee will be modified taking into account the change in its value every three years If the situation, however, so demands, the interregnum may be less.	None
Explanation	None
Wherever the expression permanent incapacitation occurs in this Schedule, it shall mean incapacitation which results in putting an officer out of service.	None
We make it clear that same principle of determining the creamy layer for providing 27 reservation for backward classes for appointment need not be strictly followed in case of reservation envisaged under Article 15(5) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
As pointed by Shri Ravivarma Kumar, learned Senior Counsel, if a strict income restriction is made for identifying the creamy layer, those who are left in the particular caste may not be able to have a sufficient number of candidates for getting admission in the central institutions as per Act 5 of 2007.	Reasoning
Government can make a relaxation to some extent so that sufficient number of candidates may be available for the purpose of filling up the 27 reservation.	Reasoning
It is for the Union Government and the State Governments to issue appropriate guidelines to identify the creamy layer so that SEBC are properly determined in accordance with the guidelines given by this Court.	Reasoning
If, even by applying this principle, still the candidates are not available, the State can issue appropriate guidelines to effectuate the implementation of the reservation purposefully.	Reasoning
As noticed earlier, backward class defined in Section 2(g) does not exclude creamy layer.	Reasoning
Therefore, we make it clear that backward class as defined in Section 2(g) of Act 5 of 2007 must be deemed to have been such backward class by applying the principle of exclusion of creamy layer.	Reasoning
Whether the creamy layer principle is applicable to Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes?	Reasoning
Learned Senior Counsel Dr. Rajeev Dhavan submitted that creamy layer principle is to be applied to SCs and STs.	Arguments of Petitioner
He drew inspiration from the observations made by Justice Krishna Iyer in N.M.	None
Thomass case (supra) and also from the observations made in Nagarajs case and reference was made to paragraphs 80, 110 and 120 to 123 of Nagarajs case (supra).	None
N.M.	None
Thomass case (supra) does not state that creamy layer principle should apply to SCs and STs.	None
In K.C. Vasanth Kumars case (supra) the creamy layer was used in the case of backward caste or class.	None
In K.C. Vasanth Kumar (supra), Desai J. quoted from N.M. Thomas (supra) as follows In the light of experience, here and elsewhere, the danger of reservation, it seems to me, is threefold.	None
Its benefits, by and large, are snatched away by the top creamy layer of the backward caste or class, thus keeping the weakest among the weak always weak and leave the fortunate layers to consume the whole cake.	None
(N.M. Thomas (supra) p. 363, para 124)	None
In Nagarajs case (supra) in paragraph 80, it is stated that while applying the creamy layer test, this Court held that if rosterpoint promotees are given consequential seniority, it will violate the equality principle which is part of the basic structure of the Constitution and in which even Article 16(4A) cannot be of any help to the reserved category candidates.	None
This was with reference to the observations made in Indra Sawhneys case (supra) and earlier in M.G. Badappanavar Anr.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Karnataka Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
Ajit Singh Ors.	None
(II) vs. State of Punjab Ors. and Union of India Ors.	None
Vs. Virpal Singh Chauhan Ors. .	None
Virpal Singh Chauhans case (supra) dealt with reservation of railway employees wherein it is held that once the number of posts reserved for being filled by reserved category candidates in a cadre, category or grade (unit for application of rule of reservation) are filled by the operation of roster, the object of the rule of reservation should be deemed to have been achieved.	None
Ajit Singh IIs case (supra) dealt with consequential seniority on promotion and held that roster points fixed at Level 1 are not intended to determine any seniority at Level 1 between general candidates and the reserved candidates and the roster point merely becomes operative whenever a vacancy reserved at Level 2 becomes available.	None
Thereby holding that if promotion is obtained by way of reservation, the consequential seniority will not be counted.	None
M.G. Badappanavars case (supra) followed the cases of Ajit Singh II (supra) and Virpal Singh (supra).	None
In none of these decisions it is stated that the creamy layer principle would apply to SCs and STs.	None
In Indra Sawhneys case (supra), it is specifically stated that the creamy layer principle will not apply to STs and SCs.	None
In Nagarajs case (supra) , in paragraphs 110 and 120 and finally in paragraphs 121, 122 and 123, it is only stated that when considering questions of affirmative action, the larger principle of equality such as 50 ceiling (quantitative limitation) and creamy layer (quantitative exclusion) may be kept in mind.	None
In Nagarajs case (supra) it has not been discussed or decided that the creamy layer principle would be applicable to SCs STs.	None
Therefore, it cannot be said that the observations made in Nagarajs case are contrary to the decision in Indra Sawhneys case (supra).	Reasoning
Moreover, the creamy layer principle is not yet applied as a principle of equality or as a general principle to apply for all affirmative actions.	None
The observations made by Chinnappa Reddy, J. in K.C. Vasanth Kumar case are relevant in this regard.	None
The learned Judge observed as under One cannot quarrel with the statement that social science research and not judicial impressionism should form the basis of examination, by courts, of the sensitive question of reservation for backward classes.	None
Earlier we mentioned how the assumption that efficiency will be impaired if reservation exceeds 50, if reservation is extended to promotional posts or if the carry forward rule is adopted, is not based on any scientific data.	None
One must, however, enter a caveat to the criticism that the benefits of reservation are often snatched away by the top creamy layer of backward class or caste.	None
That a few of the seats and posts reserved for backward classes are snatched away by the more fortunate among them is not to say that reservation is not necessary.	None
This is bound to happen in a competitive society such as ours.	None
Are not the unreserved seats and posts snatched away, in the same way, by the top creamy layer of society itself?	None
Seats reserved for the backward classes are taken away by the top layers amongst them on the same principle of merit on which the unreserved seats are taken away by the top layers of society.	None
(p. 763)	None
So far, this Court has not applied the creamy layer principle to the general principle of equality for the purpose of reservation.	None
The creamy layer so far has been applied only to identify the backward class, as it required certain parameters to determine the backward classes.	None
Creamy layer principle is one of the parameters to identify backward classes.	None
Therefore, principally, the creamy layer principle cannot be applied to STs and SCs, as SCs and STs are separate classes by themselves.	None
Ray, CJ., in an earlier decisions, stated that Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are not a caste within the ordinary meaning of caste.	None
And they are so identified by virtue of the Notification issued by the President of India under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution.	None
The President may, after consultation with the Governor, by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which for the purpose of the Constitution shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes of Scheduled Tribes.	None
Once the Notification is issued, they are deemed to be the members of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, whichever is applicable.	None
In E.V. Chinnaiah (supra), concurring with the majority judgment, S.B. Sinha, J. said The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes occupy a special place in our Constitution.	None
The President of India is the sole repository of the power to specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which shall for the purposes of the Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes.	None
The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 made in terms of Article 341(1) is exhaustive.	None
The object of Articles 341 and 342 is to provide for grant of protection to the backward class of citizens who are specified in the Scheduled Castes Order and Scheduled Tribes Order having regard to the economic and education backwardness wherefrom they suffer.	None
Any legislation which would bring them out of the purview thereof or tinker with the order issued by the President of India would be unconstitutional.	None
(Paras 52, 111 and 84)(emphasis supplied)	None
A plea was raised by the respondentState that categorization of Scheduled Castes could be justified by applying the creamy layer test as used in Indra Sawhneys case (supra) which was specifically rejected in paragraph 96 of the E.V. Chinnaiahs case (supra).	None
It is observed But we must state that whenever such a situation arises in respect of Scheduled Caste, it will be Parliament alone to take the necessary legislative steps in terms of clause (2) of Article 341 of the Constitution.	None
The States concededly do not have the legislative competence therefor.	None
(p. 430)	None
Moreover, right from the beginning, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were treated as a separate category and nobody ever disputed identification of such classes.	Reasoning
So long as creamy layer is not applied as one of the principles of equality, it cannot be applied to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	Reasoning
So far, it is applied only to identify the socially and educationally backward classes.	Reasoning
We make it clear that for the purpose of reservation, the principles of creamy layer are not applicable for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	Reasoning
Whether the principles laid down by the United States Supreme Court for affirmative action such as suspect legislation, strict scrutiny and compelling State necessity are applicable to principles of reservation or other affirmative action contemplated under Article 15(5) of the Constitution of India?	Issue
Based on the NinetyThird Constitutional Amendment Act, Act 5 of 2007 has been enacted.	None
According to the petitioners Counsel, this is a suspect legislation and therefore, it is to be subjected to strict scrutiny as laid by the United States Supreme Court and only by passing this test of strict scrutiny, such legislation could be put into practice.	None
At the outset, it must be stated that the decisions of the United States Supreme Court were not applied in the Indian context as it was felt that the structure of the provisions under the two Constitutions and the social conditions as well as other factors are widely different in both the countries.	None
Reference may be made to Bhikaji Narain Dhakras Ors.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
The State of Madhya Pradesh Anr.	None
and A.S. Krishna Vs.	None
State of Madras wherein this Court specifically held that the due process clause in the Constitution of the United States of America is not applicable to India.	None
While considering the scope and applicability of Article 19(1)(g) in Kameshwar Prasad and Others Vs. State of Bihar and Another, it was observed  As regards these decisions of the American Courts, it should be borne in mind that though the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States reading Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech.	None
appears to confer no power on the Congress to impose any restriction on the exercise of the guaranteed right, still it has always been understood that the freedom guaranteed is subject to the police power the scope of which however has not been defined with precision or uniformly.	None
(p. 378)	None
In Kesavananda Bharati case also, while considering the extent and scope of the power of amendment under Article 368 of the Constitution of India, the Constitution of the United States of America was extensively referred to and Ray, J., held The American decisions which have been copiously cited before us, were rendered in the context of the history of the struggle against colonialism of the American people, sovereignty of several States which came together to form a Confederation, the strains and pressures which induced them to frame a Constitution for a Federal Government and the underlying concepts of law and judicial approach over a period of nearly 200 years, cannot be used to persuade this Court to apply their approach in determining the cases arising under our Constitution.	None
(p. 615)	None
It may also be noticed that there are structural differences in the Constitution of India and the Constitution of the United States of America.	None
Reference may be made to the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.	None
Some of the relevant portions thereof are as follows All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.	None
No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.	None
Whereas in India, Articles 14 and 18 are differently structured and contain express provisions for special provision for the advancement of SEBCs, STs and SCs.	None
Moreover, in our Constitution there is a specific provision under the Directive Principles of State Policy in Part IV of the Constitution requiring the State to strive for justice social, economic and political and to minimize the inequalities of income and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities (Article 38).	Arguments of Respondent
Earlier, there was a view that Articles 16(4) and 15(5) are exceptions to Article 16(1) and 15(1) respectively.	Reasoning
This view was held in The General Manager Southern Railways Vs. Rangachari and M.R. Balaji Vs.	None
State of Mysore.	Arguments of Petitioner
In T. Devadasan (supra), Subba Rao J., gave a dissenting opinion wherein he held that Article 16(4) was not an exception to Article 16(1).	None
He observed The expression nothing in this article is a legislative device to express its intention in a most emphatic way that the power conferred thereunder is not limited in any way by the main provision but falls outside it.	Arguments of Respondent
It has not really carved out an exception, but has preserved a power untrammeled by the other provisions of the Article.	None
In two other subsequent decisions, i.e. in Triloki Nath (I) (supra) and T. Devadasan case (supra), it was held that article 15(4) and 16(4) are exceptions to Article 15(1) and 16(1) respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
But a 7Judge Bench in State of Kerala Vs. N.M.	None
Thomas (supra) held that Article 15(4) and 16(4) are not exceptions to Article 15(1) and 16(1) respectively.	Reasoning
Fazal Ali J., said This form of classification which is referred to as reservation, is in my opinion, clearly covered by Article 16(4) of the Constitution which is completely exhaustive on this point.	None
That is to say clause (4) of Article 16 is not an exception to Article 14 in the sense that whatever classification can be made, can be done only through clause (4) of Article 16.	None
Clause (4) of Article 16, however, is an explanation containing an exhaustive and exclusive provision regarding reservation which is one of the forms of classification.	None
This brought out a drastic change in the view of this Court.	None
In K.C. Vasanth Kumar Vs. State of Karnataka (supra), Venkatramaiah J. observed Article 14 of the Constitution consists of two parts.	None
It asks the State not to deny to any person equality before law.	None
It also asks the State not to deny the equal protection of the laws.	None
Equality before law connotes absence of any discrimination in law.	None
The concept of equal protection required the State to mete out differential treatment to persons in different situations in order to establish an equilibrium amongst all.	None
This is the basis of the rule that equals should be treated equally and unequals must be treated unequally if the doctrine of equality which is one of the cornerstone of our Constitution is to be duly implemented.	None
In order to do justice amongst unequals, the State has to resort to compensatory or protective discrimination.	None
Article 15(4) and Article 16(4) of the Constitution were enacted as measures of compensatory or protective discrimination to grant relief to persons belonging to socially oppressed castes and minorities.	None
The amendment to Article 15 by inserting Article 15(5) and the new Act (Act 5 of 2007) are to be viewed in the background of these constitutional provisions.	None
It may also be recalled that the Preamble to the Constitution and the Directive Principles of State Policy give a positive mandate to the State and the State is obliged to remove inequalities and backwardness from society.	None
While considering the constitutionality of a social justice legislation, it is worthwhile to note the objectives which have been incorporated by the Constitution makers in the Preamble of the Constitution and how they are sought to be secured by enacting fundamental rights in Part III and Directives Principles of State Policy in Part IV of the Constitution.	None
The Fundamental Rights represent the civil and political rights and the Directive Principles embody social and economic rights.	None
Together they are intended to carry out the objectives set out in the Preamble of the Constitution.	None
Granville Austin, in his book, states Both types of rights have developed as a common demand, products of the national and social revolutions, of their almost inseparable intertwining, and of the character of Indian politics itself.	None
From the constitutional history of India, it can be seen that from the point of view of importance and significance, no distinction can be made between the two sets of rights, namely, Fundamental Rights which are made justiciable and the Directives Principles which are made nonjusticiable.	None
The Directive Principles of State Policy are made nonjusticiable for the reason that the implementation of many of these rights would depend on the financial capability of the State.	None
Nonjusticiable clause was provided for the reason that an infant State shall not be made accountable immediately for not fulfilling these obligations.	None
Merely because the Directive Principles are nonjusticiable by the judicial process does not mean that they are of subordinate importance.	None
In Champakam Dorairajans case (supra), it was observed that the Directive Principles have to conform to and run subsidiary to the Chapter of Fundamental Rights.	None
But this view did not hold for a long time and was later changed in a series of subsequent decisions.	None
(See In Re.	None
Kerala Education Bill, 1957 Minerava Mills (supra))	None
In Minerva Mills (supra) Bhagwati, J observed The Fundamental Rights are no doubt important and valuable in a democracy, but there can be no real democracy without social and economic justice to the common man and to create socioeconomic conditions in which there can be social and economic justice to every one, is the theme of the Directive Principles.	None
It is the Directive Principles which nourish the roots of our democracy, provide strength and vigour to it and attempt to make it a real participatory democracy which does not remain merely a political democracy with Fundamental Rights available to all irrespective of their power, position or wealth.	None
The dynamic provisions of the Directive Principles fertilise the static provisions of the Fundamental Rights.	None
The object of the Fundamental Rights is to protect individual liberty, but can individual liberty be considered in isolation from the socioeconomic structure in which it is to operate.	None
There is a real connection between individual liberty and the shape and form of the social and economic structure of the society.	None
Can there be any individual liberty at all for the large masses of people who are suffering from want and privation and who are cheated out of their individual rights by the exploitative economic system?	None
Would their individual liberty not come in conflict with the liberty of the socially and economically more powerful class and in the process, get mutilated or destroyed?	None
It is exiomatic that the real controversies in the present day society are not between power and freedom but between one form of liberty and another.	None
Under the present socioeconomic system, it is the liberty of the few which is in conflict with the liberty of the many.	None
The Directive Principles therefore, impose an obligation on the State to take positive action for creating socioeconomic conditions in which there will be an egalitarian social order with social and economic justice to all, so that individual liberty will become a cherished value and the dignity of the individual a living reality, not only for a few privileged persons but for the entire people of the country.	None
It will thus be seen that the Directive Principles enjoy a very high place in the constitutional scheme and it is only in the framework of the socioeconomic structure envisaged in the Directive Principles that the Fundamental Rights are intended to operate, for it is only then they can become meaningful and significant for the millions of our poor and deprived people who do not have been the bare necessities of life and who are living below the poverty level.	None
Article 46 enjoins upon the State to promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people and to protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation whereas under the Constitution of the United States of America, we get an entirely different picture.	None
Though equality was one of the solemn affirmations of the American Declaration of Independence, slavery continued unabatedly and it was, to some extent, legally recognized.	None
In Dred Scott Vs.	None
Saunders wherein Chief Justice Taney held that AfricanAmericans were not entitled to get citizenship.	None
He was of the view that once a slave always a slave, and one slave never would become the citizen of America.	None
This view held by the Chief Justice Taney continued for a long time and after the Civil War, the 14th amendment was enacted in 1868 and this amendment gave (equal protection of laws to all persons).	None
In Plassy Vs. Ferguson which involved a challenge to a Louisiana statute that provided for equal but separate accommodations for black and white passengers in trains, the United States Supreme Court was of the view that racial segregation was a reasonable exercise of State police power for the promotion of the public good and upheld the law.	None
Several affirmative actions were challenged and the landmark decision of Brown Vs.	None
Board of Education was delivered in 1954.	None
In many cases, the strict scrutiny doctrine was being applied to all laws of racial classifications.	None
The learned Counsel for the petitioner made reference to Gratz Vs.	None
Bollinger (supra) and some of the earlier decisions of the United States Supreme Court.	None
During the past two decades, the Court has become sceptical of racebased affirmative action practiced or ordered by the State.	None
The Supreme Court of the US is of the view that affirmative action plans must rest upon a sufficient showing or predicate of past discrimination which must go beyond the effects of societal discrimination.	None
The 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States of America and Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, prohibit universities to discriminate on the basis of classifications such as race, colour, national origin and the like in all their operations.	None
In a number of decisions of the United States Supreme Court spanning decades of jurisprudence, a heavy burden has been placed on institutions whose affirmative action programmes are challenged before the United States Supreme Court on grounds that have been recognized as suspect or unconstitutional.	None
According to the United States Supreme Court, all such programmes are inherently suspect since they rely on suspect forms of classification (such as race).	Reasoning
Therefore, because such forms of classification are inherently suspect, the courts have subjected all affirmative action programmes relying on them to a very high standard of scrutiny, wherein those practicing these affirmative action programmes have to adhere to a very high standard of proof, which we know as the strict scrutiny test.	Reasoning
The case of Regents of the University of California Vs.	Reasoning
Bakke provided a starting point and from this case onwards, affirmative action programmes can be justified only on two distinct grounds, and only these grounds have been recognized as compelling enough to so as to satisfy the strict scrutiny test, as developed by the United States Supreme Court.	Reasoning
The two grounds are as follows Remedial Justification All efforts aimed at remedying past injustices against certain identified groups of people, who were unlawfully discriminated against in the past, serve as adequate justifications and all affirmative action programmes that are implemented with this aim serve the compelling institutional interest in removing all vestiges of discrimination that occurred in the past.	Reasoning
In the case of City of Richmond Vs.	Reasoning
J A Croson Co., the United States Supreme Court held that if a university is able to show some showing of prior discrimination in its existing affirmative action program furthering racial exclusion then the university may take affirmative steps to dismantle such a system.	Reasoning
However, it is to be noted that the US Supreme Court also attached a warning with the above observation.	Reasoning
While scrutinizing such programmes, it was held that the Court would make searching judicial inquiry into the justification for such racebased measures and to identify that discrimination with some specificity before they may use raceconscious relief.	Reasoning
(Crosons Case) Diversity All affirmative action programmes aimed at bringing about racial diversity among the scholarship of the institution(s) may be said to in furtherance of compelling institutional interest.	Reasoning
The starting point for this ground is Justice Powells detailed opinion regarding the issue of diversity in the case of Regents of the University of California	Reasoning
Vs. Bakke (supra).	None
In this case, according to Justice Powell, the attainment of a diverse student body is clearly a constitutionally permissible goal for an institution of higher education.	None
He quoted from two of the Supreme Courts decisions regarding academic freedom Sweezy Vs. New Hampshire and Keyishian Vs.	None
Board of Regents and observed It is the business of a university to provide that atmosphere which is most conducive to speculation, experiment and creationThe atmosphere of speculation, experiment and creation so essential to the quality of higher education is widely believed to be promoted by a diverse student body.	None
It is not too much to say that the nations future depends upon leaders trained through wide exposure to the ideas and mores of students as diverse as this Nation of many peoples.	None
The other part of the strict scrutiny test is the narrow tailoring test.	Reasoning
The University, whose affirmative action programme is in question before the United States Supreme Court, is required to prove that its affirmative action programme has been designed in the narrowest possible manner, in order to benefit only those specific people who are to be benefited, thus serving the compelling purposes of the affirmative action programme.	Reasoning
The program cannot be made in a broad manner to encompass a large group of people, and it has to serve the minimum possible requirement, in order to achieve its goal.	Reasoning
Otherwise, it may be possible that the rights of other people may be infringed upon, which would make the affirmative action programme unconstitutional.	Reasoning
Thus, the first limb of the strict scrutiny test that elucidates the compelling institutional interest is focused on the objectives that affirmative action programmes are designed to achieve.	Reasoning
The second limb, that of narrow tailoring, focuses on the details of specific affirmative action programmes and on the specific people it aims to benefit.	Reasoning
The United States Supreme Court has held that race may be one of the many factors that can be taken into account while structuring an affirmative action programme.	None
At this stage, an analogy may be drawn with the Indian situation wherein the Supreme Court of India, in various cases, has held that caste may be one of the factors that can be taken into account, while providing for reservations for the socially and educationally backward classes.	None
However, caste cannot be the only factor, just as race alone cannot be the only factor in the United States, while structuring reservation or affirmative action programmes.	None
Furthermore, the courts, both in India as well as in the United States of America, have looked with extreme caution and care at any legislation that aims to discriminate on the basis of race in the US and caste in India.	None
As the US Supreme Court elucidated in the case of Grutter Vs.	None
Bollinger (supra), Because the Fourteenth Amendment protects persons, not groups, all governmental action based on race ought to be subjected to a very detailed and careful judicial inquiry and scrutiny so as to ensure that the personal right to equal protection of the laws has not been infringed.	None
(See Adarand Constructors Inc.	None
Vs. Peqa).	None
It therefore follows that the government may treat people differently because of their race but only for those reasons that serve what is known as compelling government interest.	None
Furthermore, for any affirmative action programme to survive the strict standard of judicial scrutiny, the Courts want compelling evidence, that proves without any doubt that the affirmative action program is narrowly tailored and serves only the most compelling of interests.	None
Thus, the bar for the State or institution that practices affirmative action programmes based of suspect classifications has been effectively raised.	None
Therefore, in cases where a compelling interest is found, racebased methods may be used only after all other methods have been considered and found deficient, and that too only to that limited extent which is required to remedy a discrimination that has been identified, and only when it has been shown that the identified beneficiaries have suffered previously in the past, and lastly, only if all undue burdens that may impinge upon the rights of other non beneficiaries are avoided.	None
The aforesaid principles applied by the Supreme Court of the United States of America cannot be applied directly to India as the gamut of affirmative action in India is fully supported by constitutional provisions and we have not applied the principles of suspect legislation and we have been following the doctrine that every legislation passed by the Parliament is presumed to be constitutionally valid unless otherwise proved.	None
We have repeatedly held that the American decisions are not strictly applicable to us and the very same principles of strict scrutiny and suspect legislation were sought to be applied and this Court rejected the same in Saurabh Chaudhari Vs. Union of India.	None
Speaking for the bench, V.N. Khare, CJI, said The strict scrutiny test or the intermediate scrutiny test applicable in the United States of America as argued by Shri Salve cannot be applied in this case.	None
Such a test is not applied in Indian Courts.	None
In any event, such a test may be applied in a case where a legislation ex facie is found to be unreasonable.	None
Such a test may also be applied in a case where by reason of a statute the life and liberty of a citizen is put in jeopardy.	None
This Court since its inception apart from a few cases where the legislation was found to be ex facie wholly unreasonable proceeded on the doctrine that constitutionality of a statute is to be presumed and the burden to prove contra is on him who asserts the same.	None
Learned Counsel Shri Sushil Kumar Jain contended that the classification of OBCs was not properly done and it is not clear as to whose benefit the legislation itself is made therefore, it is a suspect legislation.	Reasoning
This contention cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the challenge of Act 5 of 2007 on the ground that it does not stand the strict scrutiny test and there was no compellable State necessity to enact this legislation cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
Whether delegation of power to the Union Government to determine as to who shall be the backward class is constitutionally valid?	Issue
The learned Counsel for the petitioners contended that though Backward Class is defined under Section 2(g) of Act 5 of 2007, it is not stated in the Act how the Backward Class would be identified and the delegation of such power to the Union of India to determine as to who shall be the backward class without their being proper guidelines is illegal as it amounts to excessive delegation.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Counsel for the petitioners, the Parliament itself should have laid down the guidelines and decided that who shall be included in the backward class as defined under Section 2(g) of the Act 5 of 2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
Backward class is not a new word.	None
Going by the Constitution, there are sufficient constitutional provisions to have an idea as to what backward class is.	None
Article 340 of the Constitution specifically empowers the President of India to appoint a Commission to investigate the conditions of the socially and educationally backward classes within the territory of India.	Reasoning
Socially and educationally backward classes of citizens are mentioned in Article 15(4) of the Constitution, which formed the First Amendment to the Constitution.	Reasoning
Backward class citizens are also mentioned in Article 16(4) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is only for the purpose of Act 5 of 2007 that the Union of India has been entrusted with the task of determining the backward class.	Reasoning
There is already a National Commission and also various State Commissions dealing with the affairs of the backward class of citizens in this country.	Reasoning
For the purpose of enforcement of the legislation passed under Article 16(4), the backward class of citizens have already been identified and has been in practice since the past 14 years.	Reasoning
It is in this background that the Union of India has been given the task of determining the backward classes.	Reasoning
The determination of backward classes itself is a laborious task and the Parliament cannot do it by itself.	Reasoning
It is incorrect to say that there are no sufficient guidelines to determine the backward classes.	Reasoning
Various parameters have been used and it may also be noticed that if any undeserving caste or group of persons are included in the backward class, it is open to any person to challenge the same through judicial review.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is incorrect to say that the Union of India has been given wide powers to determine the backward classes.	Reasoning
The challenge of Act 5 of 2007 on that ground fails.	Reasoning
Whether the Act is invalid as there is no time limit prescribed for its operation and no periodical review is contemplated?	Issue
The learned Counsel for the petitioners contended that the reservation of 27 provided for the backward classes in the educational institutions contemplated under the Act does not prescribe any time limit and this is opposed to the principle of equality.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned Counsel for the petitioners, this affirmative action that is to bring about equality is calculated to produce equality on a broader basis by eliminating de facto inequalities and placing the weaker sections of the community on a footing of equality with the stronger and more power section so that each member of the community, whatever is his birth, occupation or social position may enjoy equal opportunity of using to the full, his natural endowments of physique, of character and of intelligence.	Arguments of Petitioner
This compensatory state action can be continued only for a period till that inequality is wiped off.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the petitioners have contended that unless the period is prescribed, this affirmative action will continue for an indefinite period and would ultimately result in reverse discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that there is some force in the contention advanced by the learned Counsel for the petitioners but that may happen in future if the reservation policy as contemplated under the Act is successfully implemented.	Reasoning
But at the outset, it may not be possible to fix a time limit or a period of time.	Reasoning
Depending upon the result of the measures and improvements that have taken place in the status and educational advancement of the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, the matter could be examined by the Parliament at a future time but that cannot be a ground for striking down a legislation.	Reasoning
After some period, if it so happens that any section of the community gets an undue advantage of the affirmative action, then such community can very well be excluded from such affirmative action programme.	Reasoning
The Parliament can certainly review the situation and even though a specific class of citizens is in the legislation, it is the constitutional duty of the Parliament to review such affirmative action as and when the social conditions are required.	Reasoning
There is also the safeguard of judicial review and the court can exercise its powers of judicial review and say that the affirmative action has carried out its mission and is thus no longer required.	Reasoning
In the case of reservation of 27 for backward classes, there could be a periodic review after a period of 10 years and the Parliament could examine whether the reservation has worked for the good of the country.	Reasoning
Therefore, the legislation cannot be held to be invalid on that ground but a review can be made after a period of 10 years.	Reasoning
What shall be the educational standard to be prescribed to find out whether any class is educationally backward?	Issue
Learned Senior Counsel Shri P.P. Rao contended that under Article 15(5) of the Constitution, the reservation or any other affirmative action could be made for the advancement of only socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes and the educational standard to be assessed shall be matriculation or 102 and not more than that.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that many castes included in the backward class list have got a fairly good number of members who have passed 102 and thus such castes are to be treated as educationally forward and the present legislation, namely, Act 5 of 2007, is intended to give reservation to students in higher institutions of learning and the same is not permissible under Article 15(5) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the Parliament should not have made this legislation for reservation in the higher institutions of learning as it is not part of the duty of the State under Article 46 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Counsel, education contemplated under Article 46 is only giving education upto the standard of 102.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel argued that this was the desire of the Founding Fathers of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel contended further that the State is not taking adequate steps to improve primary education.	Arguments of Petitioner
189.	Arguments of Respondent
In reply to Shri P.P. Raos arguments, learned Solicitor General Shri G. E. Vahanvati drew our attention to various steps taken by the Union Government to improve the primary school education and also the upper primary school education.	Arguments of Respondent
It is incorrect to suggest that there have been no efforts on the part of successive Governments to concentrate on level of education towards universal elementary education.	Arguments of Respondent
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyanm (SSA) had been launched by the Government in 20012002.	Arguments of Respondent
The major components of SSA include opening of new schools, distribution of teaching equipments, school grant for teachers and maintenance for schools, community participation training, carrying out civil works in school buildings, additional class rooms, distribution of free text books for ST students and girls.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that in the year 20062007, nearly Rs. 15,000 crores had been spent for such education.	Arguments of Respondent
The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) scheme was started in 1975.	Arguments of Respondent
Latest figures show that progress has been made in the field of education.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that the primary school coverage has increased from 86.96 (2002) to 96 and that of Upper Primary School has increased from 78.11 to 85.3 with the opening of 1.34 Lakh Primary Schools and 1.01 lakh Upper Primary Schools.	Arguments of Respondent
The gross enrolment has also increased at the primary as well as upper primary stage.	Arguments of Respondent
Drop out rate has fallen by 11.3.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also pointed out that girls enrolment has increased from 43.7 (2001) to 46.7 (2004) at primary and from 40.9 to 44 at upper primary stage.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union of India has granted funds to various states for the purpose of meeting the education requirements.	Arguments of Respondent
The entire details were furnished to the Court and we do not think it necessary to go into these details.	Arguments of Respondent
Though at the time of attaining Independence, the basic idea was to improve primary and secondary level education, but now, after a period of more than 50 years, it is idle to contend that the backward classes shall be determined on the basis of their attaining education only to the level of 102 stage.	Arguments of Respondent
In India there are a large number of arts, science and professional colleges and in the field of education, it is anachronistic to contend that primary education or secondary education shall be the index for fixing backward class of citizens.	Arguments of Respondent
We find no force in the contention advanced by the learned Counsel for the petitioners and it is only to be rejected.	Arguments of Respondent
Whether the quantum of reservation provided for in the Act is valid and whether 27 of seats for SEBC was required to be reserved?	Reasoning
The main contention of the petitioners Counsel especially that of Shri Sushil Kumar Jain is that the entire Act is liable to be set aside as there was no necessity to provide any reservation to socially and educationally backward classes and according to him most of the castes included in the list which is prepared in accordance with the Mandal Commission are educationally very much advanced and the population of such group is not scientifically collected and the population ratio of backward classes is projected only on the basis of the 1931 census and the entire legislation is an attempt to please a section of the society as part of a vote catching mechanism.	None
A legislation passed by the Parliament can be challenged only on constitutionally recognized grounds.	Reasoning
Ordinarily, grounds of attack of a legislation is whether the legislature has legislative competence or whether the legislation is ultra vires of the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
If any of the provisions of the legislation violates fundamental rights or any other provisions of the Constitution, it could certainly be a valid ground to set aside the legislation by invoking the power of judicial review.	Reasoning
A legislation could also be challenged as unreasonable if it violates the principles of equality adumbrated in our Constitution or it unreasonably restricts the fundamental rights under Article 19 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
A legislation cannot be challenged simply on the ground of unreasonableness because that by itself does not constitute a ground.	Reasoning
The validity of a constitutional amendment and the validity of plenary legislation have to be decided purely as questions of constitutional law.	Reasoning
This Court in State of Rajasthan Ors.	None
Vs. Union of India and Others said if a question brought before the Court is purely a politically question not involving determination of any legal or constitutional right or obligation, the court would not entertain it, since the Court is concerned only with adjudication of legal rights and liabilities.	None
Therefore, the plea of the Petitioner that the legislation itself was intended to please a section of the community as part of the vote catching mechanism is not a legally acceptable plea and it is only to be rejected.	Reasoning
The quantum of reservation provided under the Act 5 of 2007 is based on the detailed facts available with the Parliament.	Reasoning
Various commissions have been in operation determining as to who shall form the SEBCs.	Reasoning
Though a castewise census is not available, several other data and statistics are available.	Reasoning
In the case of Indra Sawhney (supra), the Mandal Commission was accepted in principle though the details and findings of the commissions were not fully accepted by this Court.	Reasoning
27 of reservation in the matter of employment was accepted by this Court.	Reasoning
Petitioners have not produced any documents to show that the backward class citizens are less than 27, visvis, the total population of this country or that there was no requirement of 27 reservation for them.	Reasoning
The Parliament is invested with the power of legislation and must be deemed to have taken into consideration all relevant circumstances when passing a legislation of this nature.	Reasoning
It is futile to contend whether Parliament was not aware of the statistical details of the population of this country and, therefore, we do not think that 27 reservation provided in the Act is illegal or on that account, the Act itself is liable to be struck down.	Reasoning
Questions Whether the NinetyThird Amendment of the Constitution is against the basic structure of the Constitution?	Issue
The Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 does not violate the basic structure of the Constitution so far as it relates to the state maintained institutions and aided educational institutions.	Reasoning
Question whether the Constitution (NinetyThird Amendment) Act, 2005 would be constitutionally valid or not so far as private unaided educational institutions are concerned, is left open to be decided in an appropriate case.	Reasoning
(Paragraph 79) Whether Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually contradictory, hence Article 15(5) is to be held ultra vires?	Issue
Article 15(5) is constitutionally valid and Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are not mutually contradictory.	Reasoning
(Paragraph 100) Whether exclusion of minority educational institutions from Article 15(5) is violative of Article 14 of Constitution?	Issue
Exclusion of minority educational institutions from Article 15(5) is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution as the minority educational institutions, by themselves, are a separate class and their rights are protected by other constitutional provisions.	Reasoning
(Paragraph 102) Whether the Constitutional Amendment followed the procedure prescribed under Article 368 of the Constitution?	Issue
The NinetyThird Amendment of the Constitution does not affect the executive power of the State under Article 162 of the Constitution and hence, procedure prescribed under Proviso to Article 368(2) is not required to be followed.	Reasoning
(Paragraph 103) Whether the Act 5 of 2007 is constitutionally invalid in view of definition of Backward Class and whether the identification of such Backward Class based on caste is constitutionally valid?	Issue
Identification of backward class is not done solely based on caste.	None
Other parameters are followed in identifying the backward class.	Reasoning
Therefore, Act 5 of 2007 is not invalid for this reason.	Reasoning
(Paragraph 142) Whether Creamy Layer is to be excluded from SEBCs?	Issue
Creamy Layer is to be excluded from SEBCs.	Reasoning
The identification of SEBCs will not be complete and without the exclusion of creamy layer such identification may not be valid under Article 15(1) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
(Paragraph 152)	Reasoning
What should be the parameters for determining the creamy layer group?	Issue
The parameters contained in the Office Memorandum issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training) on 08.09.1993 may be applied.	None
And the definition of Other Backward Classes under Section 2(g) of the Act 5 of 2007 should be deemed to mean class or classes of citizens who are socially and educationally backward, and so determined by the Central Government and if the determination is with reference to caste, then the backward class shall be after excluding the creamy layer.	Reasoning
(Paragraphs 153 and 155)	Reasoning
Whether the creamy layer principle is applicable to Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes?	Reasoning
Creamy Layer principle is not applicable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
(Paragraph 163) Whether the principles laid down by the United States Supreme Court for affirmative action such as suspect legislation, strict scrutiny and compelling State necessity are applicable to principles of reservation or other affirmative action contemplated under Article 15(5) of the Constitution?	Issue
The principles laid down by the United States Supreme Court such as suspect legislation, strict scrutiny and compelling State necessity are not applicable for challenging the validity of Act 5 of 2007 or reservations or other affirmative action contemplated under Article 15(5) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
(Paragraphs 184)	Reasoning
Whether delegation of power to the Union Government to determine as to who shall be the backward class is constitutionally valid?	Issue
The delegation of power to the Union Government to determine as to who shall be the other backward classes is not excessive delegation.	Reasoning
Such delegation is constitutionally valid.	Reasoning
(Paragraph 186) Whether the Act is invalid as there is no time limit prescribed for its operation and no periodical review is contemplated?	Issue
The Act 5 of 2007 is not invalid for the reason that there is no time limit prescribed for its operation, but a review can be made after a period of 10 years.	Reasoning
(Paragraph 187)	Reasoning
What shall be the educational standard to be prescribed to find out whether any class is educationally backward?	Issue
The contention that educational standard of matriculation or (102) should be the benchmark to find out whether any class is educationally backward is rejected.	None
(Paragraph 189) Whether the quantum of reservation provided for in the Act is valid and whether 27 of seats for SEBC was required to be reserved?	Reasoning
27 of seats for other backward classes is not illegal and the Parliament must be deemed to have taken into consideration all relevant circumstances when fixing the 27 reservation.(Paragraph 193) These Writ Petitions are disposed off in light of the above findings, and the Other Backward Classes defined in Section 2(g) of Act 5 of 2007 is to be read as Socially and Educationally Backward Classes other than Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, determined as Other Backward Classes by the Central Government and if such determination is with reference to caste, it shall exclude Creamy Layer from among such caste.	None
In Contempt Petition (Civil) No. 112/2007 in Writ Petition (C) No. 265/2006, no orders are required.	Decision
It is dismissed.	None
Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. The issues involved in the present writ petitions have far reaching consequences and in essence pose several questions of seminal importance.	None
In essence, they raise questions which have no easy answers.	Facts
The complexity can be gauged from the fact that on one hand the petitioners have questioned the logic of providing reservations quotas for a class of people whom they described as unidentifiable or undetermined while the respondents justify their action by labelling them as measures taken for upliftment of vast majority of people who have suffered social humiliation and sneer for the social backwardness.	Facts
Complex questions like whether the expressions class and castes are synonyms, whether reservations provide the only solution for social empowerment measures, alleged lack of concern for the economically weaker group of citizens are some of the basic issues which need to be addressed.	Facts
It has been emphatically highlighted by the petitioners that when the ultimate objective is classless and casteless in Indian democracy, there is no question of unendingly providing the reservation and that too without any definite data regarding backwardness.	Facts
In essence, they contend that these measures perpetuate backwardness and do not remove them.	Facts
On the epicenter of challenge is the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act 2006 (in short the Act) and the 93rd Amendment to the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the Constitution).	Facts
Interestingly, both the petitioners and the respondents rely strongly on certain observations made by this Court in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India 1992 (Suppl. 3) SCC 217 (commonly known as Indra Sawhney No.1)	Facts
When the writ petitions were placed before a Bench of two Judges, considering the importance of the matter they were referred to be heard by a larger bench and certain questions which arise for consideration were formulated.	Facts
That is how these cases are before this Bench.	Facts
Arguments have been advanced by both the sides as to whether Constitution contemplates casteless society.	None
While the respondents submit that the Constitution really does not think of a casteless society, it prohibits untouchability in the background of Article 17.	None
It has to be noted that both in Articles 15 and 16 the stress is on nondiscrimination on the ground of castes.	None
The Preamble of the Constitution also throws light on this aspect.	None
Ultimately if the social status of a man goes in the higher direction because of his education, the difference in status gets obliterated.	None
Education is a great levellor.	None
In that sense, the ultimate object is that every Indian citizen should have the social status which is not inferior to another and that would be obliteration of the difference in status.	None
The ultimate objective is to see that no person gets discriminated because of his caste.	None
If that be so, it would not be right to say that the ultimate objective is not the casteless society.	None
Various Articles of the Constitution of India and the Preamble provide an insight to the monumental document i.e. the Constitution of India.	None
Article 14 guarantees equality before the law in addition to equal protection of law.	None
Article 15(1) mandates that there shall not be any discrimination against any citizen on the grounds of religion, caste, sex, race, or place of birth.	None
Article 16(1) makes the fundamental right of equality specific relating to job opportunities.	None
Article 16(2) significantly speaks of government employment by providing that no citizen shall be ineligible only on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth or any of them or discriminated against in respect of any employment or office under the State.	None
Article 16(4) is an important provision which empowers the State permitting the provision for the reservation of appointments and posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which in the opinion of the State is not adequately represented in the services of the State.	None
The stress is on backwardness of the citizens and inadequate representation in the services under the State.	None
If one takes a walk on the pathway relating to the views expressed by this Court in the matter of reservation or quotas for the other backward classes one comes across many milestones.	None
Some of them were noted extensively in Indra Sawhney No.1.	None
They are The State of Madras v. Sm.	None
Champakam Dorairajan Anr.	None
(AIR 1951 SC 226 ), Minor A Peeriakaruppan v. Sobha Joseph (1971 (1) SCC 38 ), The State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors.	None
v. U.S.V. Balram, etc. (1972 (1) SCC 660 ), Shri Janki Prasad Parimoo and Ors.	None
v. State of Jammu and Kashmir and Ors.	None
(1973(1) SCC 420), State of Uttar Pradesh and Ors.	None
v. Pradip Tandon and Ors.	None
(1975 (1) SCC 267 ), State of Kerala and Anr.	None
v. N.M.	None
Thomas and Ors.	None
(1976(2) SCC 310), Kumari K.S. Jayashree and Anr.	None
v. The State of Kerala and Anr.	None
(1976 (3) SCC 730 ), K.C. Vasanth Kumar and Anr.	None
v. State of Karnataka (1985 (Supp) SCC 714) and Indra Sawhney v. Union of India and Ors.	None
(2000 (1) SCC 168 ) (known as Indra Sawhney No.2).	None
Two recent decisions have also been highlighted by the parties.	None
They are M. Nagaraj and Ors.	None
v. Union of India and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(2006 (8) SCC 212 ) and Nair Service Society v. State of Kerala (2007 (4) SCC 1 ).	None
It is to be noted that some of the arguments which have been raised relate to broad principles of law and the jurisprudential approach.	None
They are the applicability of the foreign decisions, more particularly, the decisions of the American Courts.	None
They relate to the principles of strict scrutiny and narrow tailoring.	None
Learned counsel for the petitioners have stressed on these decisions to show as to what should be the approach in matters relating to social empowerment.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents have however submitted that the approach is to be different because the problems before the American Courts essentially related to individual rights while the Indian Courts are more concerned with group rights i.e. rights of class of citizens.	None
We shall deal with this in some length later.	None
The other issue which was hotly contested related to the exclusion of the creamy layer.	None
One of the major challenges raised by the petitioners is based on the allegation that there is no acceptable data for fixing the percentage of other backward classes.	None
This has been highlighted to show that there is no rational basis for fixing the percentage of reservation at 27 for the other backward classes.	None
It is pointed out that the figures appear to have been culled out from some survey done more than seven decades back i.e. 1931 to be precise.	None
Thereafter, there seems to be no definite data to know the actual percentage.	None
It is pointed out that in Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) this Court had laid considerable stress on having a Commission to identify and determine the criteria for determining the socially and educationally backward classes.	None
Very little appears to have been done.	None
It is surprising, it was contended, that there has been not even a single case of exclusion but on the other hand more than 250 new castes subcastes have been added.	None
This shows that there is really no serious attempt to identify the other backward classes.	None
On the other hand, there has been overjealous anxiety to include more number of people so that they can get the benefits of reservations quotas and this has been termed as vote bank politics.	None
It is highlighted that even when a serious matter relating to adoption of the Act was under consideration there was hardly any discussion and every political party was exhibiting its anxiety to get the Statute passed.	None
Crocodile tears were shed to show lip sympathy for the backwardness of the people.	None
In reality, the object was to give a wrong impression to the people that they were concerned about the backwardness of the people and they were the Messiahs of the poor and the down trodden.	None
In reality, in their hearts the ultimate object was to grab more votes.	None
The lack of seriousness of the debate exhibits that the debate was nothing but a redherring to divert attention from the sinister, politically motivated design masked by the tearful faces of the people masquerading as champions of the poor and down trodden.	None
It is pointed out that contrary to what was being projected by the parties when the discussions were going on, in an impassioned speech by late Rajeev Gandhi who was the leader of opposition at an earlier point of time, the fallacies in adopting the Mandal Report were highlighted.	None
It is surprising, it is submitted, that those very people who were the champions of antireservation and anti quota as members of opposition, have done summersault and were saying just the opposite.	None
It is pointed out that when one member Shri P.C. Alexandar exhibited real courage and highlighted the fallacies in the stand taken, his view appears to have been lightly brushed aside and the Statute hustled through.	None
It is also submitted that the objectivity and sanctity of the report submitted in the Parliament commonly known as Oversight Committee Report has been lightly brushed aside.	None
This only indicates that there was no serious debate about the consequences.	None
The foresight of late Rajiv Gandhi in saying that the country will be divided on caste basis and that would lead to disaster has been prophetically proved to be correct and it is a reality.	None
It is submitted that the enactment has created a sharp divide amongst the citizens of the country and it has not even an iota of good results flowing from it.	None
On the contrary, the country will be divided sharply leading to social unrest and castewars.	None
It is pointed out that in the recent past such caste wars have resulted in large scale loss of life and destruction of public properties.	None
The relevance of the parliamentary debate or the speech of the Minister has been highlighted by this Court in many cases.	None
It is a settled position in law that there can be only limited use of the parliamentary debate.	None
The Courts should not normally critically analyse the proceedings of Parliament.	None
This flows from a very fundamental aspect i.e. mutual respect of the Parliament and the Judiciary for each other.	None
Each of these great institutions in a democracy operates in different fields.	None
It is not expected that one wing of democracy would criticize the manner of functioning of another wing.	None
That would be against the basic desirability of mutual respect.	None
Any opinion or comment or criticism about the manner of functioning of one by the other would be not only undesirable but imperatively avoidable.	None
The citizens of this country expect a great deal from the Parliament and the Judiciary.	None
It is but natural that the people of this country would be disappointed and disheartened and their hopes will be shattered if instead of showing respect for each other, there is mudslinging, unwanted criticism or impermissible criticism about the manner of functioning or the rationale of a decision or a view taken.	None
In this context, it would be relevant to take note of what this Court said in Builders Association of India v. Union of India and Ors.	None
(1995 Supp (1) SCC 41), and K. Nagaraj and Ors.	None
v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Anr.	None
(1985 (1) SCC 523 ).	None
In State of Mysore v. R.V. Bidap (1974 (3) SCC 337 ), it was observed as follows AngloAmerican jurisprudence, unlike other systems, has generally frowned upon the use of parliamentary debates and press discussions as throwing light upon the meaning of statutory provisions.	None
Willes, J. in Miller v. Tayler, 1769 4 Burri, 2303, 2332., stated that the sense and meaning of an Act of Parliament must be collected from what it says when passed into law, and not from the history of changes it underwent in the House where it took its rise.	None
That history is not known to the other House or to the Sovereign.	None
In Assam Railways and Trading Company Ltd. v. I.R.C., 1935 A.C. 445 at p. 458, Lord Writ in the Privy Council said It is clear that the language of a Minister of the Crown in proposing in Parliament a measure which eventually becomes law is inadmissible and the report of commissioners is even more removed from value as evidence of intention, because it does not follow that their recommendations were accepted.	None
The rule of grammatical construction has been accepted in India before and after Independence.	None
In the State of TravancoreCochin and Ors.	None
v. Bombay Company Ltd., Alleppey, (AIR 1952 S.C. 366), Chief Justice Patanjali Sastri delivering the judgment of the Court, said  It remains only to point out that the use made by the learned Judges below of the speeches made by the members of the Constituent Assembly in the course of the debates on the draft Constitution is unwarranted.	None
That this form of extrinsic aid to the interpretation of statutes is not admissible has been generally accepted in England, and the same rule has been observed in the construction of Indian statutessee AdministratorGeneral of Bengal v. Prem Lal Mullick, 22 Ind. Appl.	None
107 (P.C.) at p. 118.	None
The reason behind the rule was explained by one of us in Gopalan v. State of Madras, (1950) S.C.R. 88	None
thus A speech made in the course of the debate on a bill could at best be indicative of the subjective intent of the speaker, but it could not reflect the inarticulate mental process lying behind the majority vote which carried the bill.	None
Nor is it reasonable to assume that the minds of all those legislators were in accord.	None
Or, as it is more tersely put in an American caseThose who did not speak may not have agreed with those who did and those who spoke might differ from each otherUnited States v. TransMissouri Freight Association, (1897) 169 U.S. 290 at p. 318 (sic).This rule of exclusion has not always been adhered to in America, and sometimes distinction is made between using such material to ascertain the purpose of a statute and using it for ascertaining its meaning.	None
It would seem that the rule is adopted in Canada and Australiasee Craies on Statute Law, 5th Edn.	None
p. 122	None
(pp. 3689).	None
In the American jurisdiction, a more natural note has sometimes been struck.	None
Mr. Justice Frankfurter was of the view that If the purpose of construction is the ascertainment of meaning, nothing that is logically relevant should be excluded, and yet, the Rule of Exclusion, which is generally followed in England, insists that, in interpreting statutes, the proceedings in the Legislatures, including speeches delivered when the statute was discussed and adopted, cannot be cited in courts.	None
Crawford on Statutory Construction at page 388 notes that The judicial opinion on this point is certainly not quite uniform and there are American decisions to the effect that the general history of a statute and the various steps leading up to an enactment including amendments or modifications of the original bill and reports of Legislative Committees can be looked at for ascertaining the intention of the legislature where it is in doubt but they hold definitely that the legislative history is inadmissible when there is no obscurity in the meaning of the statute.	None
The Rule of Exclusion has been criticised by jurists as artificial.	None
The trend of academic opinion and the practice in the European system suggest that interpretation of a statute being an exercise in the ascertainment of meaning, everything which is logically relevant should be admissible.	None
Recently, an eminent Indian jurist has reviewed the legal position and expressed his agreement with Julius Stone and Justice Frankfurter.	None
Of course, nobody suggests that such extrinsic materials should be decisive but they must be admissible.	None
Authorship and interpretation must mutually illumine and interact.	None
There is authority for the proposition that resort may be had to these sources with great caution and only when incongruities and ambiguities are to be resolved.	None
A.K. Gopalan v. State of Madras (1950 SCR 88 ).	None
There is a strong case for whittling down the Rule of Exclusion followed in the British courts and for less apologetic reference to legislative proceedings and like materials to read the meaning of the words of a statute.	None
Where it is plain, the language prevails, but where there is obscurity or lack of harmony with other provisions and in other special circumstances, it may be legitimate to take external assistance such as the object of the provisions, the mischief sought to be remedied, the social context, the words of the authors and other allied matters.	None
The law of statutory construction is a strategic branch of jurisprudence which must, it may be felt, respond to the great social changes but a conclusive pronouncement on the particular point arising here need not detain us because nothing decisive as between the alternative interpretations flows from a reliance on the Constituent Assembly proceedings or the broad purposes of the statutory scheme.	None
One thing however needs to be noted here that mere short length of debate cannot and does not become a ground for invalidity of the decision and the reverse is also not true.	None
Elaborate arguments have been advanced about the applicability of the foreign decisions, more particularly, the American Courts.	None
It is to be noted that the American cases which have been highlighted by the petitioners relate essentially to strict classification, strict scrutiny and narrow tailoring.	None
This issue is of considerable importance when so much debate is taking place about respect being shown by courts of a country to a decision of another country.	None
The factual scenario and the basic issues involved in the cases sometimes throw light on the controversy.	None
It has been rightly contended by Mr. Vahanvati and Mr. Gopal Subramanium that there is a conceptual difference between the cases decided by the American Supreme Court and the cases at hand.	None
In Saurabh Chaudri and Ors.	None
v. Union of India and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(2003 (11) SCC 146 ) it was held that the logic of strict classification and strict scrutiny does not have much relevance in the cases of the nature at hand.	None
If one looks at the different Statutes in India, Article 14 of the Constitution is conceptually different from 14th Amendment to the American Constitution as was noted in State of West Bengal vs. Anwar Ali Sarkar (1952 SCR 284) and State of Bombay and Anr.	None
v. F.N. Balsara (1952 SCR 682).	None
In Anwar Alis case (supra) at pages 363 and 364 it was noted as follows I find it impossible to read these portions of the Constitution without regard to the background out of which they arose.	None
I cannot blot out their history and omit from consideration the brooding spirit of the times.	None
They are not just dull, lifeless words static and hide bound as in some mummified manuscript, but, living flames intended to give life to a great nation and order its being, tongues of dynamic fire, potent to mould the future as well as guide the present.	None
The Constitution must, in my judgment, be left elastic enough to meet from time to time the altering conditions of a changing world with its shifting emphasis and differing needs.	None
I feel therefore that in each case judges must look straight into the heart of things and regard the facts of each case concretely much as a jury would do and yet, not quite as a jury, for we are considering here a matter of law and not just one of fact Do these laws which have been called in question offend a still greater law before which even they must bow?	None
99.	None
Doing that, what is the history of these provisions?	None
They arose out of the fight for freedom in this land and are but the endeavour to compress into a few pregnant phrases some of the main attributes of a sovereign democratic republic as seen through Indian eyes.	None
There was present to the collective mind of the Constituent Assembly, reflecting the mood of the peoples of India, the memory of grim trials by hastily constituted tribunals with novel forms of procedure set forth in Ordinances promulgated in haste because of what was then felt to be the urgent necessities of the moment.	None
Without casting the slightest reflection of the judges and the Courts so constituted, the fact remains that when these tribunals were declared invalid and the same persons were retired in the ordinary Courts, many were acquitted, many who had been sentenced to death were absolved.	None
That was not the fault of the judges but of the imperfect tools with which they were compelled to work.	None
The whole proceedings were repugnant to the peoples of this land, and to my mind, article 14 is but a reflex of this mood.	None
100.	None
What I am concerned to see is not whether there is absolute equality in any academical sense of the term but whether the collective conscience of a sovereign democratic republic can regard the impugned law, contrasted with the ordinary law of the land, as the sort of substantially equal treatment which men of resolute minds and unbiased views can regard as right and proper in a democracy of the kind we have proclaimed ourselves to be.	None
Such views must take into consideration the practical necessities of government, the right to alter the laws and many other facts, but in the forefront must remain the freedom of the individual from unjust and unequal treatment, unequal in the broad sense in which a democracy would view it.	None
In my opinion, law as used in Article 14 does not mean the legal precepts which are actually recognised and applied in tribunals of a given time and place but the more general body of doctrine and tradition from which those precepts are chiefly drawn, and by which we criticise, them.	None
It needs no emphasis that the formal equality concept came to be recognized in U.S.A. after about 10 years of its inception.	None
In the first phase of the U.S.A. Constitutional Law there was only affirmative action but in the Indian Constitution right from the beginning affirmative action has been provided, for example, provisions made for Scheduled Castes and Schedules Tribes.	None
A distinction has been noted in para 640 of Indra Sawhney No.1.	None
Articles 38(1) and 38(2) read with Article 46 of the Constitution make the position clear that the State is charged with the duty to secure interests of the weaker sections of the people and minimize the inequalities in income.	None
The Constitution from its inception contained Article 17 which abolishes untouchability.	None
In this context the following paras need to be noted.	None
In Minerva Mills Ltd. and Ors.	None
v. Union of India and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1980) 3 SCC 625) in para 63	None
it was held as follows The learned Attorney General argues that the State is under an obligation to take steps for promoting the welfare of the people by bringing about a social order in which social, economic and political justice shall inform all the institutions of the national life.	None
He says that the deprivation of some of the fundamental rights for the purpose of achieving this goal cannot possibly amount to a destruction of the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
We are unable to accept this contention.	Reasoning
The principles enunciated in Part IV are not the proclaimed monopoly of democracies alone.	None
They are common to all polities, democratic or authoritarian.	None
Every State is goaloriented and claims to strive for securing the welfare of its people.	None
The distinction between the different forms of Government consists in that a real democracy will endeavour to achieve its objectives through the discipline of fundamental freedoms like those conferred by Articles14 and 19.	None
Those are the most elementary freedoms without which a free democracy is impossible and which must therefore be preserved at all costs.	None
Besides, as observed by Brandies, J., the need to protect liberty is the greatest when Governments purposes are beneficent.	None
If the discipline of Article 14 is withdrawn and if immunity from the operation of that article is conferred, not only on laws passed by the Parliament but on laws passed by the State Legislatures also, the political pressures exercised by numerically large groups can tear the country asunder by leaving it to the legislature to pick and choose favoured areas and favourite classes for preferential treatment.	None
In His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala and Anr.	None
(1973 (4) SCC 225 )	None
it was held as under According to Mr. Palkhivala, the test of the true width of a power is not how probable it is that it may be exercised but what can possibly be done under it that the abuse or misuse of power is entirely irrelevant that the question of the extent of the power cannot be mixed up with the question of its exercise and that when the real question is as to the width of the power, expectation that it will never be used is as wholly irrelevant as an imminent danger of its use.	None
The court does not decide what is the best and what is the worst.	None
It merely decides what can possibly be done under a power if the words conferring it are so construed as to have an unbounded and limitless width, as claimed on behalf of the respondents.	None
It is difficult to accede to the submission on behalf of the respondents that while considering the consequences with reference to the width of an amending power contained in a Constitution any question of its abuse is involved.	None
It is not for the courts to enter into the wisdom or policy of a particular provision in a Constitution or a statute.	None
That is for the Constitution makers or for the parliament or the legislature.	None
But that the real consequences can be taken into account while judging the width of the power is well settled.	None
The Court cannot ignore the consequences to which a particular construction can lead while ascertaining the limits of the provisions granting the power.	None
According to the learned Attorney General, the declaration in the preamble to our Constitution about the resolve of the people of India to constitute it into a Sovereign, Democratic Republic is only a declaration of an intention which was made in 1947 and it is open to the amending body now under Article 368 to change the Sovereign Democratics Republic into some other kind of polity.	None
This by itself shows the consequence of accepting the construction sought to be put on the material words in that article for finding out the ambit and width of the power conferred by it.	None
In Sajan Singh v. Maharashtra Sugar Mills Ltd. (AIR 1965 SC 845 ) it was held as follows It is obvious that the fundamental rights enshrined in Part III are not included in the proviso, and so, if Parliament intends to amend any of the provisions contained in Articles 12 to 35 which are included in Part III, it is not necessary to take recourse to the proviso and to satisfy the additional requirements prescribed by it.	None
Thus far, there is no difficulty.	None
But in considering the scope of Art. 368, it is necessary to remember that Art. 226, which is included in Chapter V of Part VI of the Constitution, is one of the constitutional provisions which fall under clause (b) of the proviso and so, it is clear that if Parliament intends to amend the provisions of Art.	None
226, the bill proposing to make such an amendment must satisfy the requirements of the proviso.	None
The question which calls for our decision is what would be the requirement about making an amendment in a constitutional provision contained in Part III, if as a result of the said amendment, the powers conferred on the High Courts under Art.	None
226 are likely to be affected?	None
The petitioners contend that since it appears that the powers prescribed by Art.	None
226 are likely to be affected by the intended amendment of the provisions contained in Part III, the bill introduced for the purpose of making such an amendment, must attract the proviso, and as the impugned Act has admittedly not gone through the procedure prescribed by the proviso, it is invalid and that raises the question about the construction of the provisions contained in Art. 368 and the relation between the substantive part of Art.	None
368 with its proviso.	None
On the other hand, if the substantive part of Art.	None
368	None
is very liberally and generously construed and it is held that even substantial modification of the fundamental rights which may make a very serious and substantial inroad on the powers of the High Courts under Art.	None
226 can be made without invoking the proviso, it may deprive clause (b) of the proviso of its substance.	None
In other words, in construing both the parts of Art. 368, the rule of harmonious construction requires that if the direct effect of the amendment of fundamental rights is to make a substantial inroad on the High Courts powers under Art.	None
226, it would become necessary to consider whether the proviso would cover such a case or not.	None
If the effect of the amendment made in the fundamental rights on the powers of the High Courts prescribed by Art. 226, is indirect, incidental, or is otherwise of an insignificant order, it may be that the proviso will not apply.	None
The proviso would apply where the amendment in question seeks to make any change, inter alia, in Art. 226, and the question in such a case would be does the amendment seek to make a change in the provisions of Art.	None
226?	None
The answer to this question would depend upon the effect of the amendment made in the fundamental rights.	None
In dealing with constitutional questions of this character, courts generally adopt a test which is described as the pith and substance test.	None
In AttorneyGeneral for Ontario v. Reciprocal Insurers (1924 A.C. 328), the Privy Council was called upon to consider the validity of the Reciprocal Insurance Act, 1922 (12 13 Geo. 5, Ont., c. 62) and s. 508c which had been added to the Criminal Code of Canada by ss. 7 8 Geo. 5, c. 29 Dom.	None
Mr. Justice Duff, who spoke for the Privy Council, observed that in an enquiry like the one with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case, it has been formally laid down in judgments of this Board, that in such an inquiry the Courts must ascertain the true nature and character of the enactment Citizens Insurance Co. of Canada v. Parsons (1881 7 AC 96) its pith and substance Union Colliery Co. of British Columbia Ltd. v. Bryden (1899 A.C. 580) and it is the result of this investigation, not the form alone, which the statute may have assumed under the hand of the draughtsman, that will determine within which of the categories of subject matters mentioned in ss. 91 and 92 the legislation falls and for this purpose the legislation must be scrutinised in its entirety Great West Saddlery Co. v. The King (1921 2 A.C. 91,117).	None
It is not necessary to multiply authorities in support of the proposition that in considering the constitutional validity of the impugned Act, it would be relevant to inquire what the pith and substance of the impugned Act is.	None
This legal position can be taken to be established by the decisions of this Court which have consistently adopted the view expressed by Justice Duff, to which we have just referred.	None
Thus, it would be seen that the genesis of the amendments made by Parliament in 1951 by adding Articles 31A and 31B to the Constitution, clearly is to assist the State Legislatures in this country to give effect to the economic policy in which the party in power passionately believes to bring about much needed agrarian reform.	None
It is with the same object that the second amendment was made by Parliament in 1955, and as we have just indicated, the object underlying the amendment made by the impugned Act is also the same.	None
Parliament desires that agrarian reform in a broad and comprehensive sense must be introduced in the interests of a very large section of Indian citizens who live in villages and whose financial prospects are integrally connected with the pursuit of progressive agrarian policy.	None
Thus, if the pith and substance test is applied to the amendment made by the impugned Act, it would be clear that Parliament is seeking to amend fundamental rights solely with the object of removing any possible obstacle in the fulfilment of the socioeconomic policy in which the party in power believes.	None
If that be so, the effect of the amendment on the area over which the High Courts powers prescribed by Art.	None
226 operate, is incidental and in the present case can be described as of an insignificant order.	None
The impugned Act does not purport to change the provisions of Art.	None
226	None
and it cannot be said even to have that effect directly or in any appreciable measure.	None
That is why we think that the argument that the impugned Act falls under the proviso, cannot be sustained.	None
It is an Act the object of which is to amend the relevant Articles in Part III which confer fundamental rights on citizens and as such it falls under the substantive part of Art.	None
368	None
and does not attract the provisions of clause (b) of the proviso.	None
If the effect of the amendment made in the fundamental rights on Art.	None
226 is direct and not incidental and is of a very significant order, different considerations may perhaps arise.	None
But in the present case, there is no occasion to entertain or weigh the said considerations.	None
Therefore the main contention raised by the petitioners and the interveners against the validity of the impugned Act must be rejected.	None
In Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu and Ors.	None
(1992 Supp.	None
(2) SCC 651)	None
it was observed as follows The propositions that fell for consideration in Sankari Prasad Singhs and Sajjan Singhs cases are indeed different.	None
There the jurisdiction and power of the Courts under Articles 136 and 226 were not sought to be taken away nor was there any change brought about in those provisions either in terms or in effect, since the very rights which could be adjudicated under and enforced by the Courts were themselves taken away by the Constitution.	None
The result was that there was no area for the jurisdiction of the Courts to operate upon.	None
Matters are entirely different in the context of paragraph 7.	None
Indeed the aforesaid cases, by necessary implication support the point urged for the petitioners.	None
The changes in Chapter IV of Part V and Chapter V of Part VI envisaged by the proviso need not be direct.	None
The change could be either in terms of or in effect.	None
It is not necessary to change the language of Articles 136 and 226 of the Constitution to attract the proviso.	None
If in effect these Articles are rendered ineffective and made inapplicable where these articles could otherwise have been invoked or would, but for Paragraph 7, have operated there is in effect a change in those provisions attracting the proviso.	None
Indeed this position was recognised in Sajjan Singhs case (supra) where it was observed If the effect of the amendment made in the fundamental rights on Article 226 is direct and not incidental and is of a very significant order, different considerations may perhaps arise.	None
In the present cases, though the amendment does not bring in any change directly in the language of Article 136, 226 and 227 of the Constitution, however, in effect paragraph 7 curtails the operation of those Articles respecting matters falling under the Tenth Schedule.	None
There is a change in the effect in Article 136, 226 and 227 within the meaning of clause (b) of the proviso to Article 368(2).	None
Paragraph 7, therefore, attracts the proviso and ratification was necessary.	None
Accordingly, on Point B, we hold That having regard to the background and evolution of the principles underlying the Constitution (52nd Amendment) Act, 1985, in so far as it seeks to introduce the Tenth Schedule in the Constitution of India, the provisions of Paragraph 7 of the Tenth Schedule of the constitution in terms and in effect bring about a change in the operation and effect to Articles 136, 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India and, therefore, the amendment would require to be ratified in accordance with the proviso to subArticle (2) of Article 368 of the Constitution of India.	None
In Shri Sarwan Singh and Anr.	None
v. Shri Kasturi Lal (1977 (1) SCC 750 )	None
it was observed as follows Speaking generally, the object and purpose of a legislation assume greater relevance if the language of the law is obscure and ambiguous.	None
But, it must be stated that we have referred to the object of the provisions newly introduced into the Delhi Rent Act in 1975 not for seeking light from it for resolving in ambiguity, for there is none, but for a different purpose altogether.	None
When two or more laws operate in the same field and each contains a non obstante clause stating that its provisions will override those of any other law, stimulating and incisive problems of interpretation arise.	None
Since statutory interpretation has no conventional protocol, cases of such conflict have to be decided in reference to the object and purpose of the laws under consideration.	None
A piquant situation, like the one before us, arose in Shri Ram Narain v.	None
Simla Banking Industrial Co. Ltd.	None
competing statutes being the Banking Companies Act, 1949 as amended by Act 52 of 1953, and the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951.	None
Section 45A of the Banking Companies Act, which was introduced by the amending Act of 1953, and Section 3 of the Displaced Persons Act 1951 contained such a non obstante clause, providing that certain provisions would have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.	None
This Court resolved the conflict by considering the object and purpose of the two laws and giving precedence to the Banking Companies Act by observing It is, therefore, desirable to determine the overriding effect of one or the other of the relevant provisions in these two Acts, in a given case, on much broader considerations of the purpose and policy underlying the two Acts and the clear intendment conveyed by the language of the relevant provisions therein.	None
(p. 615) As indicated by us, the special and specific purpose which motivated the enactment of Section 14A and Chapter IIIA of the Delhi Rent Act would be wholly frustrated if the provisions of the Slum Clearance Act requiring permission of the competent authority were to prevail over them.	None
Therefore, the newly introduced provisions of the Delhi Rent Act must hold the field and be given full effect despite anything to the contrary contained in the Slum Clearance Act.	None
For resolving such inter se conflicts, one other test may also be applied though the persuasive force of such a test is but one of the factors which combine to give a, fair meaning to the language of the law.	None
That test is that the later enactment must prevail over the earlier one.	None
Section 14A and Chapter IIIA having been enacted with effect from December 1, 1975 are later enactments in reference to Section 19 of the Slum Clearance Act which, in Its present form, was placed on the statute book with effect from February 28, 1965 and in reference to Section 39 of the same Act, which came into force in 1956 when the Act itself was passed.	None
The legislature gave overriding effect to Section 14A and Chapter IIIA with the knowledge that Sections 19 and 39 of the Slum Clearance Act contained non obstante clauses of equal efficacy.	None
Therefore the later enactment must prevail over the former.	None
The same test was mentioned with approval by this Court in Shri Ram Narains case at page 615.	None
The argument of implied repeal has also no substance in it because our reason for according priority to the provisions of the Delhi Rent Act is not that the Slum Clearance Act stands impliedly repealed protanto.	None
Bearing in mind the language of the two laws, their object and purpose, and the fact that one of them is later in point of time and was enacted with the knowledge of the non obstante clauses in the earlier law, we have come to the conclusion that the provisions of Section 14A and Chapter IIIA of the Rent Control Act must prevail over those contained in Sections 19 and 39 of the Slum Clearance Act.	None
In J.K. Cotton Spinning and weaving co. Ltd. v. State of U.P. and Anr.	None
(1961 (3) SCR 185 ) it was observed as under There will be complete harmony however if we hold instead that clause 5(a) will apply in all other cases of proposed dismissal or discharge except where an inquiry is pending within the meaning of clause 23.	None
We reach the same result by applying another well known rule of construction that general provisions yield to special provisions.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral seemed to suggest that while this rule of construction is applicable to resolve the conflict between the general provision in one Act and the special provision in another Act, the rule cannot apply in resolving a conflict between general and special provisions in the same legislative instrument.	None
This suggestion does not find support in either principle or authority.	None
The rule that general provisions should yield to specific provisions is not an arbitrary principle made by lawyers and judges but springs from the common understanding of men and women that when the same person gives two directions one covering a large number of matters in general and another to only some of them his intention is that these latter directions should prevail as regards these while as regards all the rest the earlier direction should have effect.	None
In Pretty v. Solly (185953 ER 1032) (quoted in Craies on Statute Law at p. 205, 5th Edition) Romilly, M. R. mentioned the rule thus  	None
The rule is, that whenever there is a particular enactment and a general enactment in the same statute and the latter, taken in its most comprehensive sense, would overrule the former, the particular enactment must be operative, and the general enactment must be taken to affect only the other parts of the statute to which it may properly apply.	None
The rule has been applied as between different provisions of the same statute in numerous cases some of which only need be mentioned De Winton v. Brecon (1858) 28 L.J. Ch. 598, Churchill v. Crease (1828)	None
5 Bing. 177, United States v. Chase (1889) 135 U.S. 255 and Carroll v. Greenwich Ins. Co. (1905) 199 U.S. 401.	None
In R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla v. UOI (1957 SCR 930 )	None
it was held as under The question whether a statute which is void in part is to be treated as void in toto, or whether it is capable of enforcement as to that part which is valid is one which can arise only with reference to laws enacted by bodies which do not possess unlimited powers of legislation, as, for example, the legislatures in a Federal Union.	None
The limitation on their powers may be of two kinds It may be with reference to the subjectmatter on which they could legislate, as, for example, the topics enumerated in the Lists in the Seventh Schedule in the Indian Constitution, ss. 91 and 92 of the Canadian Constitution, and s. 51 of the Australian Constitution or it may be with reference to the character of the legislation which they could enact in respect of subjects assigned to them, as for example, in relation to the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution and similar constitutionally protected rights in the American and other Constitutions.	None
When a legislature whose authority is subject to limitations aforesaid enacts a law which is wholly in excess of its powers, it is entirely void and must be completely ignored.	None
But where the legislation falls in part within the area allotted to it and in part outside it, it is undoubtedly void as to the latter but does it on that account become necessarily void in its entirety?	None
The answer to this question must depend on whether what is valid could be separated from what is invalid, and that is a question which has to be decided by the court on a consideration of the provisions of the Act.	None
This is a principle well established in American Jurisprudence, Vide Cooleys Constitutional Limitations, Vol.	None
I, Chap.	None
VII, Crawford on Statutory Construction, Chap.	None
16 and Sutherland on Statutory Construction, 3rd Edn, Vol. 2, Chap.	None
24.	None
It has also been applied by the Privy Council in deciding on the validity of laws enacted by the legislatures of Australia and Canada, Vide AttorneyGeneral for the Commonwealth of Australia v. Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited 1914 A.C. 237 and AttorneyGeneral for Alberta v. AttorneyGeneral for Canada L.R. 1947 A.C. 503.	None
It was approved by the Federal Court in In re Hindu Womens Rights to Property Act 1941 F.C.R. 12 and adopted by this Court in The State of Bombay and another v. F. N. Balsara 1951 S.C.R. 682 and The State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd., and others 1953 S.C.R. 1069.	None
These decisions are relied on by Mr. Seervai as being decisive in his favour.	None
Mr. Palkhiwala disputes this position, and maintains that on the decision of the Privy Council in Punjab Province v. Daulat Singh and others 1946 F.C.R. 1 and of the decisions of this Court in Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras 1950 S.C.R. 594 and Chintaman Rao v. State of Madhya Pradesh 1950 S.C.R. 759, the question must be answered in this favour.	None
We must now examine the precise scope of these decisions.	None
The resulting position may thus be stated When a statute is in part void, it will be enforced as regards the rest, if that is severable from what is invalid.	None
It is immaterial for the purpose of this rule whether the invalidity of the statute arises by reason of its subjectmatter being outside the competence of the legislature or by reason of its provisions contravening constitutional prohibitions.	None
That being the position in law, it is now necessary to consider whether the impugned provisions are severable in their application to competitions of a gambling character, assuming of course that the definition of prize competition in s. 2(d) is wide enough to include also competitions involving skill to a substantial degree.	None
It will be useful for the determination of this question to refer to certain rules of construction laid down by the American Courts, where the question of severability has been the subject of consideration in numerous authorities.	None
They may be summarised as follows In determining whether the valid parts of a statute are separable from the invalid parts thereof, it is the intention of the legislature that is the determining factor.	None
The test to be applied is whether the legislature would have enacted the valid part if it had known that the rest of the statute was invalid.	None
Vide Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 82, p. 156 Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Vol. 2, pp. 176177.	None
If the valid and invalid provisions are so inextricably mixed up that they cannot be separated from one another, then the invalidity of a portion must result in the invalidity of the Act in its entirety.	None
On the other hand, if they are so distinct and separate that after striking out what is invalid, what remains is in itself a complete code independent of the rest, then it will be upheld notwithstanding that the rest has become unenforceable.	None
Vide Cooleys Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 1 at pp.	None
360361	None
Crawford on Statutory Construction, pp. 217218.	None
Even when the provisions which are valid are distinct and separate from those which are invalid, if they all form part of a single scheme which is intended to be operative as a whole, then also the invalidity of a part will result in the failure of the whole.	None
Vide Crawford on Statutory Construction, pp. 218219.	None
Likewise, when the valid and invalid parts of a statute are independent and do not form part of a scheme but what is left after omitting the invalid portion is so thin and truncated as to be in substance different from what it was when it emerged out of the legislature, then also it will be rejected in its entirety.	None
The separability of the valid and invalid provisions of a statute does not depend on whether the law is enacted in the same section or different sections (Vide Cooleys Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 1, pp. 361362)	None
it is not the form, but the substance of the matter that is material, and that has to be ascertained on an examination of the Act as a whole and of the setting of the relevant provisions therein.	None
If after the invalid portion is expunged from the statute what remains cannot be enforced without making alterations and modifications therein, then the whole of it must be struck down as void, as otherwise it will amount to judicial legislation.	None
Vide Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Vol. 2, p. 194.	None
In determining the legislative intent on the question of separability, it will be legitimate to take into account the history of the legislation, its object, the title and the preamble to it.	None
Vide Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Vol. 2, pp.	None
177178.	None
In AIIMS Students Union v. AIIMS (2002 (1) SCC 428 ) in para 35 it was observed as follows The principle of institutional continuity while seeking admission to higher levels of study as propounded by the learned counsel for the appellants though argued at length does not have much room available for innovative judicial zeal to play, for the ground already stands almost occupied by a set of precedents, more so when we are dealing with professional or technical courses of study.	None
It would suffice to have a brief resume thereof noticing the details wherever necessary.	None
It was again highlighted in para 44 as follows When protective discrimination for promotion of equalisation is pleaded, the burden is one the party who seeks to justify the ex facie deviation from equality.	None
The basic rule is equality of opportunity for every person in the country, which is a constitutional guarantee.	None
A candidate who gets more marks than another is entitled to preference for admission.	None
Merit must be the test when choosing the best, according to this rule of equal chance for equal marks.	None
This proposition has greater importance when we reach the higher levels and education like postgraduate courses.	None
Reservation, as an exception, may be justified subject to discharging the burden of proving justification in favour of the class which must be educationally handicappedthe reservation geared up to getting over the handicap.	None
The rationale of reservation in the case of medical students must be removal of regional or class inadequacy or like disadvantage.	None
Even there the quantum of reservation should not be excessive or societally injurious.	None
The higher the level of the speciality the lesser the role of reservation.	None
A bare reading of the provision goes to show that the burden is on the person who justifies deviation from equality.	None
Even then, this doctrine was upheld by the Supreme Court of U.S.A. in Plessy v. Ferguson (163 U.S. 537(1896).	None
This case involved a challenge to a Louisiana statute that provided for equal but separate accommodations for black and white passengers in trains.	None
The Court rejected the challenge.	None
Justice Brown famously observed If one race be inferior to the other socially, the constitution of the United States cannot put them upon the same plane.	None
(163 U.S. at 552)	None
He held that racial segregation was a reasonable exercise of State police power for the promotion of the public good and upheld the law.	None
Thus, even in this second phase, affirmative action was never truly initiated the country was still struggling to establish even a formally equal society.	None
At the same time, another very important development in its constitutional law was taking place, which would later have a serious impact on affirmative action programmes.	None
This was the birth of the doctrine of strict scrutiny.	None
Strict scrutiny is one of the three standards for judicial review of legislative and administrative action developed in the United States, the other being rational basis and intermediate scrutiny.	None
The origin of this standard can be traced to the decision in United States v Carolene Products (304 U.S. 144 (1938).	None
The question before the Court was whether the Filled Milk Act, 1923 which prohibited the shipment in interstate commerce of skimmed milk compounded with any fat or oil other than milk fat, so as to resemble milk or cream, transcended the power of Congress to regulate inter state commerce or infringed the Fifth Amendment.	None
Justice Harlan Stone, writing the opinion for the Court, upheld the law, holding that the existence of facts supporting the legislative judgment was to be presumed, for regulatory legislation affecting ordinary commercial transactions was not to be pronounced unconstitutional unless in the light of the facts made known or generally assumed it was of such a character as to preclude the assumption that it rested upon some rational basis within the knowledge and experience of the legislators.	None
However, he added what has been described as the most celebrated footnote in constitutional law.	None
There may be narrower scope for operation of the presumption of constitutionality when legislation appears on its face to be within a specific prohibition of the Constitution, such as those of the first ten Amendments, which are deemed equally specific when held to be embraced within the Fourteenth.	None
What the Court was saying was that economic legislation would be judged by a standard of rational basis so long as the law was a rational way of furthering a legitimate governmental purpose, it was valid.	None
However, where the legislation on its face appeared to be violating any of the fundamental rights, a more exacting standard would be applied.	None
The precise term strict scrutiny was used by the Court for the first time in Skinner v. Oklahoma (316 U.S. 535 (1942).	None
The Oklahoma Habitual Criminal Sterilisation Act provided for vasectomy to be performed on any person convicted two or more times for crimes amounting to felonies involving moral turpitude.	None
Justice Douglas, giving the opinion of the Court, described the statute as violating the right to have offspring a right which is basic to the perpetuation of a race.	None
The question before the Court was whether this statute violated the 14th Amendment.	None
Holding that it did, Justice Douglas observed Strict scrutiny of the classification which a State makes in a sterilization law is essential, lest unwittingly or otherwise invidious discriminations are made against groups or types of individuals in violation of the constitutional guarantee of just and equal laws.	None
In India there has to be collective commitment for upliftment of those who needed it.	None
In that sense, the question again comes back to the basic issue as to whether the action taken by the Government can be upheld after making judicial scrutiny.	None
Much assistance is not available to the petitioners from the American decisions.	None
It is to be noted that the doctrine of separation as is prevalent in the American Society is not of much consequence in the Indian scenario.	None
It needs to be clarified that the expression strict scrutiny has also been used by the Indian Courts in Narendra Kumar and Ors.	None
v. Union of India and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1960 (2) SCR 375 ) but it appears to have been used in different context.	None
What really appears to be the intention for the use of the expression is careful and deeper scrutiny and not in the sense of strict scrutiny of the provisions as is prevalent in the American jurisprudence.	None
It is used in different sense.	None
The application appears to be in technical sense in the American Courts, for example, Regents of University of California v. Allan Bakke (438 U.S. 265).	None
Some of the judgments of American Courts throwing light on the controversy need to be noted In Allan Bakkes case (supra) it was held as follows Hence, the purpose of helping certain groups whom the faculty of the Davis Medical School perceived as victims of societal discrimination does not justify a classification that imposes disadvantages upon persons like respondent, who bear no responsibility for whatever harm the beneficiaries of the special admissions.	None
The fatal flaw in petitioners preferential program is its disregard of individual rights as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.	None
Shelley v. Kraemer, 334 US, at 22, 92 L Ed 1161, 68 S Ct 836, 3 ALRd 441.	None
Such rights are not absolute.	None
But when a States distribution of benefits or imposition of burdens hinges on ancestry or the color of a persons skin or ancestry, that individual is entitled to a demonstration that the challenged classification is necessary to promote a substantial state interest.	None
Petitioner has failed to carry this burden.	None
In Grutter v. Bollinger (539 U.S. 306) it was held as follows 21, 22a We acknowledge that there are serious problems of justice connected with the idea of preference itself.	None
Bakke, 438 US, at 298, 57 L Ed 2d 750, 98 S Ct 2733 (opinion of Powell, J).	None
Narrow tailoring, therefore, requires that a raceconscious admissions program not unduly harm members of any racial group.	None
Even remedial racebased governmental action generally remains subject to continuing oversight to assure that it will work the least harm possible to other innocent persons competing for the benefit.	None
Id., at 308, 57 L Ed 2d 750, 98 S Ct 2733.	None
To be narrowly tailored, a raceconscious admissions program must not unduly burden individuals who are not members of the favored racial and ethnic groups.	None
Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. FCC, 497 Us 547, 630, 111 L Ed 2d 445, 110 S Ct 2997 (1990) (O Connor, J., dissenting).	None
22b, 23 We are satisfied that the Law Schools admissions program does not.	None
Because the Law School considers all pertinent elements of diversity, it can (and does) select nonminority applicants who have greater potential to enhance student body diversity over underrepresented minority applicants.	None
See Bakke, supra, at 317, 57 L Ed 2d 750, 98 S Ct 2733 (opinion of Powell, J).	None
As Justice Powell recognized in Bakke, so long as a raceconscious admissions program uses race as a plus factor in the context of individualized consideration, a rejected applicant will not have been foreclosed from all consideration for that seat simply because he was not the right color or had the wrong surname His qualifications would have been weighed fairly and competitively, and he would have no basis to complain of unequal treatment under the Fourteenth Amendment.	None
438 US, at 318, 57 L Ed 2d 750, 98 S Ct 2733. 13f, 22C We agree that, in the context of its individualized inquiry into the possible diversity contributions of all applicants, the Law Schools raceconscious admissions program does not unduly harm nonminority applicants.	None
24, 25a, 26 We are mindful, however, that a core purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to do away with all governmentally imposed discrimination based on race Palmore v Sidoti, 539 US 342 466 US 429, 432, 80 L Ed 2d, 421, 104 s	None
Ct 1879 (1984).	None
Accordingly, raceconscious admissions policies must be limited in time.	None
This requirement reflects that racial classifications, however, compelling their goals are potentially so dangerous that they may be employed no more broadly than the interest demands.	None
Enshrining a permanent justification for racial preferences would offend this fundamental equal protection principle.	None
We see no reason to exempt raceconscious admissions programs from the requirement that all governmental use of race must have a logical end point.	None
The Law School, too, concedes that all raceconscious programs must have reasonable durational limits.	None
Brief for Respondent Bollinger et al. 32. 25b	None
In the context of higher education, the durational requirement can be met by sunset provisions in raceconscious admissions policies and periodic reviews to determine whether racial preferences are still necessary to achieve student body diversity.	None
Universities in California, Florida, and Washington State, where racial preferences in admissions are prohibited by state law, are currently engaged in experimenting with a wide variety of alternative approaches.	None
Universities in other States can and should draw on the most promising aspects of these raceneutral alternatives as they develop.	None
Cf. United States v. Lopez, 514 US 549, 581, 131 L Ed 2d 626, 115 S Ct 1624 (1995) (Kennedy, J., concurring) (T he States may perform their role as laboratories for experimentation to devise various solutions where the best solution is far from clear).	None
The requirement that all raceconscious admissions programs have a termination point assures all citizens that the deviation from the norm of equal treatment of all racial and ethnic groups is a temporary matter, a measure taken in the service of the goal of equality itself.	None
Richmond v. J.A. Croson Co., 488 US, at 510, 102 L Ed 2d 854, 109 S Ct 706 (plurality opinion) see also Nathanson Bartnik.	None
The Constitutionality of Preferential Treatment for Minority Applicants to Professional Schools, 539 US 343 58 Chicago Bar Rec. 282, 293 (MayJune 1977) (It would be a sad day indeed, were America to become a quotaridden society, with each identifiable minority assigned proportional representation in every desirable walk of life.	None
But that is not the rationale for programs of preferential treatment the acid test of their justification will be their efficacy in eliminating the need for any racial or ethnic preferences at all.	None
The provisions of the American Constitution in United States relating to formal equality concept do not appear to have operated from the beginning of the American Constitution.	None
Although even under the 1919 and 1935 Government of India Acts the rights of certain class of people like Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the deprived classes have been recognized, in America, the rights have been conferred on individuals and so much on the groups.	None
The freedoms contemplated by the Indian Constitution originally related to seven categories which presently stand at six after the property rights were deleted.	None
The stand of Mr. Vahanvati and Mr. Gopal Subramanium is that the logic of strict scrutiny, compelling the Government and narrow tailoring do not have relevance so far as the present case is concerned.	None
In Thomass case (supra) it was clearly noticed by this Court that American conditions do not apply adequately for the Indian scenario.	None
Unlike U.S.A., the targeted beneficiaries are alien to our Constitution.	None
In India cognizance has been taken constitutionally.	None
The victims of untouchability, identifying social and economic backwardness have been accepted as permissible measures.	None
However, the question how long they can be continued is another aspect which shall be dealt with separately.	None
Rationality in that sense is a measure for the special provisions.	None
But the question that still needs to be addressed is whether these groups are really identifiable.	None
While formulating the policy all factors need not be specifically expressed but there must be some criteria to identify social and educational backwardness.	None
In A.K. Roy v. Union of India (1982 (1) SCC 271 )	None
it was noted as follows We are not, as we cannot be, unmindful of the danger to peoples liberties which comes in any community from what is called the tyranny of the majority.	None
Uncontrolled power in the executive is a great enemy of freedom and therefore, eternal vigilance is necessary in the realm of liberty.	None
But we cannot transplant, in the Indian context and conditions, principles which took birth in other soils, without a careful examination of their relevance to the interpretation of our Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
No two Constitutions are alike, for it is not mere words that make a Constitution.	None
It is the history of a people which lends colour and meaning to its Constitution.	None
We must therefore turn inevitably to the historical origin of the ordinance making power conferred by our Constitution and consider the scope of that power in the light of the restraints by which that power is hedged.	None
Neither in England nor in the United States of America does the executive enjoy anything like the power to issue ordinances.	None
In India, that power has a historical origin and the executive, at all times, has resorted to it freely as and when it considered it necessary to do so.	None
One of the larger States in India has manifested its addiction to that power by making an overgenerous use of it so generous indeed, that ordinances which lapsed by efflux of time were renewed successively by a chain of kindred creatures, one after another.	None
And, the ordinances embrace everything under the sun, from Prince to pauper and crimes to contracts.	None
The Union Government too, so we are informed passed about 200 Ordinances between 1960 and 1980, out of which 19 were passed in 1980.	None
One of the grey areas focused by learned counsel for the petitioners and the respondents is the ever perplexing question how long.	None
The respondents say that so long as the problems of backwardness exist they can be continued.	None
The petitioners have highlighted that notwithstanding the concerns shown in Indra Sawhney No.1 and in a large number of cases that the reservations are not meant to be a permanent feature there is a case for concern.	None
Admittedly, there is no deletion from the list of other backward classes.	None
It goes on increasing.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents have stated that in large number of cases where applications were made for inclusion they have been turned down.	None
But that is no answer to the question as to why and how there has been no exclusion.	None
Is it that backwardness has increased instead of decreasing.	None
If the answer is yes, as contended by the respondents, then one is bound to raise eyebrows as to the effectiveness of providing reservations or quotas.	None
The ultimate object is to bring those who are disadvantaged to a level where they no longer continue to be disadvantaged.	None
It needs no emphasis that individual rights are superior to the social rights.	None
All fundamental rights are to be read together.	None
The inequalities are to be removed.	None
Yet the fact that there has been no exclusion raises a doubt about the real concern to remove inequality.	None
The ultimate objective is to bring people to a particular level so that there can be equality of opportunity.	None
In that context, one has to keep in view the justice and redress principles.	None
There should not be mere equality in law but equality in fact.	None
The necessary ingredients of equality essentially involve equalization of unequals.	None
Linked with this question the problem posed by the petitioners is whether reservation is the only way to equalize unequals?	None
There are several methods and modes.	None
If reservation really does not work as contended by the petitioners, then the alternative methods can be adopted.	None
It is the stand of the respondents that not only reservations but other incentives like free lodging and boarding facilities have been provided in some States.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents have stated that the measures under challenge are nothing but a much needed leap towards attainment of the objectives.	None
If it is true, the leap has to end somewhere.	None
It cannot hang in the air as there is nothing immortal in this world much less, a progressive measure purportedly intended to benefit the other backward classes.	None
If after nearly six decades the objectives have not been achieved, necessarily the need for its continuance warrants deliberations.	None
It is to be noted that some of the provisions were intended to be replaced after a decade but have continued.	None
It indirectly shows that backwardness appears to have purportedly increased and not diminished.	None
It would therefore be rational and logical to restrict operation of the impugned Statute for a period of 10 years from its inception.	None
At this juncture, report of the Oversight Committee throws considerable light on the controversy.	None
Some parts of the Report need to be noted.	None
This report seeks to expand the provision of Higher Education while at the same time ensuring social inclusion and academic excellence.	None
A society which excludes a significant section of its population from access to higher education cannot be said to be providing equality of opportunity.	None
Equally, if academic excellence gets compromised in the process of expansion, it would lose its competitive edge in the emerging knowledge society an edge which can propel India into a position of global leadership.	None
Page X and XI of the report A simpler way of implementing reservations was to steamroll our way through, in the name of social equity, regardless of its impact on quality and excellence.	None
We have deliberately chosen the more difficult way which delivers equity in a manner that enhances excellence i.e. by making concomitant investments in faculty infrastructure and by bringing much needed governance related reforms involving institutional, financial and administrative autonomy and process reengineering in our Higher Educational Governance system.	None
It is easy to equalize by mindlessly leveling everyone down to lowest commondenominator.	None
Our effort has been to create an upward moving equalization process where the disabilities are overcome by the erstwhile excluded sections and the system brings out the best in them.	None
Besides the many out of the box innovative ideas concerning faculty and infrastructure related issues, I believe three of our recommendations, which cut horizontally across the five groups, are critical to the establishment of the goal of an inclusive society, in pursuit of excellence.	None
These four programmes are considered by the Oversight Committee to be integral to the above vision and should be considered to be inseverable part of our core recommendations.	None
(pagex)	None
We have to acknowledge that the challenges facing us in the entire education sector are enormous and in the Tertiary Education Sector these can be met, only if both public and private funding to educational institutions increased several fold.	None
The need for private participation in this mammoth task cannot be overemphasized but market forces themselves cannot deliver justice.	None
The relative importance of public vs. private funding is brought out very strongly by Joseph Stiglitz when he opined I had studied the failures of both markets and governments, and was not so naove to think that the government could remedy every failure.	None
Neither was I so foolish as to believe that markets by themselves solved every societal problem.	None
Inequality, unemployment, pollution these are all important issues in which Government has to take an importance role.	None
Expansion, Inclusion and Excellence has been our credo.	None
They have remained the abiding theme guiding all our deliberations.	None
I will be failing in my duty if the Oversight Committee does not acknowledge the source of inspiration for our deliberations.	None
It is the Prime Ministers speech giving the overpowering vision of the need to create the second wave of nation building which has inspired us in our thoughts and deliberations.	None
I would also like to express my gratitude to Honble HRD Minister, Sri Arjun Singhji for his affection and guidance right through.	None
(Pagexi) Treatment of the creamy Layer (Chapter IV Report of Oversight Committee Vol.	None
I) 4.2 (b)	None
The true benefit of reservations will be realized only when the high school enrolment of OBCs, especially in rural areas, increases significantly.	None
Attention will need to be paid to this issue in the coming years.	None
Chapter VI Estimate of Resources required for the expansion 6.1.	None
In overall terms, the total estimated expenditure on the expansion has now been assessed by the five SubGroups in their final reports at Rs.18,197.83 crore, as compared to the amount of Rs.16,563.34 crore, that was included by the Oversight Committee in its interim report.	None
The summary statement of additional student strength, faculty required and estimates of recurring and nonrecurring expenditure that have been projected by the Groups are as at Table 6.1 and the yearwise break up is at table 6.2.	None
6.3.	None
The Committee in its discussions with the individual Groups, had stressed the need to estimate the additional infrastructure and manpower that would be required after taking into account the slack, if any, in the existing facilities as also the scope for using IT as a resource multiplier.	None
While the Groups seems to have accepted this in principle, their expenditure projections, and the norms on which they are based seems to have just extrapolated past trends.	None
The Committee has had some input regarding global trends and the best practices being followed in the worlds leading institutions.	None
Based on this, and in consultation with experts, the Committee has developed a plan for a Gyan Vahini project, as has been explained in an earlier Chapter in this report.	None
The total expenditure on this component of the expansion and upgradation project would be Rs.1752 crore in 5 years.	None
Apart from significantly enhancing the quality of instruction and learning, and brining it close to the best levels in the world, this investment will certainly contribute to efficiency and to reducing the conventional costs of the higher education system.	None
Summary Statement of Expenditure Requirements(As given in the Final Reports of the Groups)	None
Chapter VII	None
The Way Forward 7.1.	None
As indicated earlier in this report, this opportunity for expansion, inclusion and excellence should only be the beginning of a larger process, which is to build a knowledge society in India and allow the country to take its rightful place in the comity of nations.	None
Our recent economic growth and the values of knowledge and education carried forward by a billion diverse people, point to Indias potential future as a knowledge society.	None
Other countries that visualize a similar future have planned massive investments in order to enhance both the quality and quantity of higher education and research.	None
China, for example, has made substantial increase in its allocation of resources of higher education.	None
In the first phase, China has provided a grant of US 125 million to each of the 10 leading universities and US 225 million to Beijing and Tsinghua Universities.	None
In the second phase, China proposes to provide additional grants to 30 universities, with the objective of having 100 high quality universities in China in the 21st century and with 15 of the citizens in the age group 1822 receiving tertiary education.	None
7.2.	None
India has suffered in the past because of severe under investment in higher education.	None
This has been caused partly by the thinking that looks at primary and higher education in an either or manner.	None
It is very clear however that large public investment is needed in both sectors.	None
As Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh said, while launching the Knowledge Commission, At the bottom of the knowledge pyramid, the challenge is one of improving access to primary education.	None
At the top of the pyramid there is need to make our institutions of higher education and research world class.	None
The time has come for India to embark on a second wave of nation building.	None
Denied this investment, the youth will become a social and economic liability.	None
It was emphasized by learned counsel for the petitioners that the massive financial burden question finds no place in the parliamentary debate.	None
In response, Mr. Vahanvati has submitted that before the Parliamentary Standing Committee, the report of the Oversight Committee was available.	None
When the Oversight Committees report was discussed in detail, needless to say the financial aspect was also considered.	None
It has been highlighted by Mr. P.P. Rao that unmindful of the duty to focus on primary and elementary education, large sums of money are intended to be used for implementation of Statute.	None
Various figures and datas have been highlighted to show that there is really no concern for the primary and elementary education.	None
Repelling these contentions Mr. Vahanvati has highlighted that there is no laxity so far as primary and elementary education is concerned.	None
He has referred to voluminous details relating to Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan.	None
It is contended that uniform policy of elementary education and the progress made upto 31.3.2007 shows the concern of the Government to translate into reality the constitutional objective of providing adequate education to all citizens.	None
It is true that there has been considerable effort in this regard.	None
But one question still remains to be answered.	None
There has to be balancing of priorities.	None
Mr. Vahanvati has said that this balancing is prerogative of the Government.	None
It is true that Government has a large area of discretion in choosing its priorities.	None
But one factor cannot be lost sight of.	None
The fundamental stress has to be on elementary education.	None
If that is done, as a consequence there would be reduction in the need for spending more money on higher education.	None
Stress on primary and elementary education would be a leap forward towards higher education.	None
There has been considerable number of drop outs in the higher classes.	None
This is a reality in spite of all steps which the Government claims to have adopted to ensure that every child of a particular age group has education as warranted by the Constitution as a fundamental right.	None
Unni Krishnan, J.P. and Ors.	None
v. State of A.P. and Ors.	None
(1993 (1) SCC 645 ) emphasized on the importance of education in the following words In Bandhua Mukti Morcha this Court held that the right to life guaranteed by Article 21 does take in educational facilities.	None
(The relevant portion has been quoted herein before).	None
Having regard to the fundamental significance of education to the life of, an individual and the nation, and adopting the reasoning and logic adopted in the earlier decisions of this Court referred to herein before, we hold, agreeing with the statement in Bandhua Mukti Morcha, that right to education is implicit in and flows from the right to life guaranteed by Article 21.	None
That the right to education has been treated as one of transcendental importance in the life of an individual has been recognised not only in this country since thousands of years, but all over the world.	None
In Mohini Jain, the impatience of education has been duly and rightly stressed.	None
The relevant observations have already been set out in para 7 herein before.	None
In particular, we agree with the observation that without education being provided to the citizens of this country, the objectives set forth in the Preamble to the Constitution cannot be achieved.	None
The Constitution would fail.	None
We do not think that the importance of education could have been better emphasised than in the above words.	None
The importance of education was emphasised in the Neethishatakam by Bhartruhari (First Century B.C. in the following words Translation Education is the special manifestation of man Education is the treasure which can be preserved without the fear of loss Education secures material pleasure, happiness and fame Education is the teacher of the teacher Education is God incarnate Education secures honour at the hands of the State, not money.	None
A man without education is equal to animal.	None
In Brown v. Board of Education (347 US 483 (1954) Earl Warren, C.J., speaking for the U.S. Supreme Court emphasized the right to education in the following words Today, education is perhaps the most important function of State and local governmentsIt is required in the performance of our most basic responsibilities, even service in the armed forces.	None
It is the very foundation of good citizenship.	None
Today it is the principal instrument in awakening the child to cultural values, in preparing him for later professional training, and in helping him to adjust normally to his environment.	None
In these days, it is doubtful any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an education.	None
Observations of this Court in AIIMS Students Union case (supra) highlight the importance of higher education and the modalities to be adopted for ensuring excellence are in the following words The Preamble to the Constitution of India secures, as one of its objects, fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the nation to we he people of India.	None
Reservation unless protected by the constitution itself, as given to us by the founding fathers and as adopted by the people of India, is subversion of fraternity, unity and integrity and dignity of the individual.	None
While dealing with Directive Principles of State Policy, Article 46 is taken note of often by overlooking Articles 41 and 47.	None
Article 41 obliges the State inter alia to make effective provision for securing the right to work and right to education.	None
Any reservation in favour of one, to the extent of reservation, is an inroad on the right of others to work and to learn.	None
Article 47 recognises the improvement of public health as one of the primary duties of the State.	None
Public health can be improved by having the best of doctors, specialists and super specialists.	None
Undergraduate level is a primary or basic level of education in medical sciences wherein reservation can be understood as the fulfilment of societal obligation of the State towards the weaker segments of the society.	None
Beyond this, a reservation is a reversion or diversion from the performance of primary duty of the State.	None
Permissible reservation at the lowest or primary rung is a step in the direction of assimilating the lesser fortunates in mainstream of society by bringing them to the level of others which they cannot achieve unless protectively pushed.	None
Once that is done the protection needs to be withdrawn in the own interest of protectees so that they develop strength and feel confident of stepping on higher rungs on their own legs shedding the crutches.	None
Pushing the protection of reservation beyond the primary level betrays bigwigs desire to keep the crippled crippled for ever.	None
Rabindra Nath Tagores vision of a free India cannot be complete unless knowledge is free and tireless striving stretches its arms towards perfection.	None
Almost a quarter century after the people of India have given the Constitution unto themselves, a chapter on fundamental duties came to be incorporated in the Constitution.	None
Fundamental duties, as defined in Article 51A, are not made enforceable by a writ of court just as the fundamental rights are, but it cannot be lost sight of that duties in Part IVA  Article 51A are prefixed by the same word fundamental which was prefixed by the founding fathers of the Constitution to rights in Part III.	None
Every citizen of India is fundamentally obliged to develop the scientific temper and humanism.	None
He is fundamentally duty bound to strive towards excellence in all spheres of individual and collective activity so that the nation constantly rises to higher levels of endeavour and achievements.	None
State is, all the citizens placed together and hence though Article 51A does not expressly cast any fundamental duty on the State, the fact remains that the duty of every citizen of India is the collective duty of the Sate.	None
Any reservation, apart from being sustainable on the constitutional anvil, must also be reasonable to be permissible.	None
In assessing the reasonability one of the factors to be taken into consideration would be  whether the character and quantum of reservation would stall or accelerate achieving the ultimate goal of excellence enabling the nation constantly rising to higher levels.	None
In the era of globalisation, where the nation as a whole has to compete with other nations of the world so as to survive, excellence cannot be given an unreasonable go by and certainly not compromised in its entirety.	None
Fundamental duties, though not enforceable by a writ of the court, yet provide a valuable guide and aid to interpretation of constitutional and legal issues.	None
In case of doubt or choice, peoples wish as manifested through Article 51A, can serve as a guide not only for resolving the issue but also for constructing or moulding the relief to be given by the courts.	None
Constitutional enactment of fundamental duties, if it has to have any meaning, must be used by courts as a tool to tab, even a taboo, on State action drifting away from constitutional values.	None
Respondents have vehemently contended that the concept of creamy layer may have relevance for the purpose of Article 16(4), but is really inconsequential so far as Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are concerned.	None
It is submitted that Article 16(4) is relatable to inadequate representation in Government services and in that context the well to do in the socially and educationally backward classes have to be excluded in view of the decisions of this Court.	None
But that logic cannot apply to the present dispute which relates to admissions to educational institutions.	None
Before considering the question as to the desirability of excluding creamy layer the concept of creamy layer needs to be focused upon.	None
Observations of this Court in various cases on this concept need to be noted.	None
In N.M.	None
Thomass case (supra) at page 363	None
, it was inter alia observed as follows A word of sociological caution.	None
In the light of experience, here and elsewhere, the danger of reservation, it seems to me, is threefold.	None
Its benefits, by and large, are snatched away by the top creamy layer of the backward caste or class, thus keeping the weakest among the weak always weak and leaving the fortunate layers to consume the whole cake.	None
Secondly, this claim is overplayed extravagantly in democracy by large and vocal groups whose burden of backwardness has been substantially lightened by the march of time and measures of better education and more opportunities of employment, but wish to wear the weaker section label as a means to score over their nearequals formally categorised as the upper brackets.	None
Lastly, a lasting solution to the problem comes only from improvement of social environment, added educational facilities and crossfertilisation of castes by intercaste and interclass marriages sponsored as a massive State programme, and this solution is calculatedly hidden from view by the higher backward groups with a vested interest in the plums of backwardism.	None
But social science research, not judicial impressionism, will alone tell the whole truth and a constant process of objective reevaluation of progress registered by the underdog categories is essential lest a once deserving reservation should be degraded into reverse discrimination.	None
Innovations in administrative strategy to help the really untouched, most backward classes also emerge from such sociolegal studies and audit exercises, if dispassionately made.	None
In fact, research conducted by the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, has revealed a dual society among harijans, a tiny elite gobbling up the benefits and the darker layers sleeping distances away from the special concessions.	None
For them, Articles 46 and 335 remain a noble romance, the bonanza going to the higher harijans.	None
I mention this in the present case because lower division clerks are likely to be drawn from the lowest levels of harijan humanity and promotion prospects being accelerated by withdrawing, for a time, test qualifications for this category may perhaps delve deeper.	None
An equalitarian breakthrough in a hierarchical structure has to use many weapons and Rule 13/AA perhaps is one.	None
Xx xx xx	None
It is platitudinous constitutional law that Articles 14 to 16 are a common code of guaranteed equality, the first laying down the broad doctrine, the other two applying it to sensitive areas historically important and politically polemical in a climate of communalism and jobbery.	None
In Vasant Kumars case (supra) at page 732 the view was reiterated in the following words In order to appreciate the view point advanced by Mr Desai which appeals to me both for its indepth study of the problem, and a fresh outlook on this vexed problem, at the outset let me take a look at the futuristic view of the Indian Society as envisaged in the Constitution.	None
No one is left in any doubt that the future Indian Society was to be casteless and classless.	None
Pandit Jawaharlal	None
Nehru the first Prime Minister of India said that Mahatma Gandhi has shaken the foundations of caste and the masses have been powerfully affected.	None
But an even greater power than Gandhi is at work, the conditions of modern life and it seems at last this hoary and tenacious ralic of past times must die.	None
Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation said, The caste system as we know is an anachronism.	None
It must go if both Hinduism and India are to live and grow from day to day.	None
In its onward march towards realising the constitutional goal, every attempt has to be made to destroy caste stratification.	None
Article 38(2) enjoins the State to strive to minimise the inequality in income and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities, not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations.	None
Article 46 enjoins duty to promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and in particular of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation.	None
Continued retention of the division of the society into various castes simultaneously introduces inequality of status.	None
And this inequality in status is largely responsible for retaining inequality in facilities and opportunities, ultimately resulting in bringing into existence an economically depressed class for transcending caste structure and caste barrier.	None
The society therefore was to be classless casteless society.	None
In order to set up such a society, steps have to be taken to weaken and progressively eliminate caste structure.	None
Unfortunately, the movement is in the reverse gear.	None
Caste stratification has become more rigid to some extent, and where concessions and preferred treatment schemes are introduced for economically disadvantaged classes, identifiable by caste label, the caste structure unfortunately received a fresh lease of life.	None
In fact there is a mad rush for being recognized as belonging to a caste which by its nomenclature would be included in the list of socially and educationally backward classes.	None
To illustrate Bakshi Commission in Gujarat recognized as many as 82 castes as being socially and educationally backward.	None
On the publication of its report, Government of Gujarat received representations by members of those castes who had not made any representation to the Bakshi Commission for treating them as socially and educationally backward.	None
This phenomenon was noticed by Mandal Commission when it observed Whereas the Commission has tried to make the Statewise lists of OBCs as comprehensive as possible, it is quite likely that several synonymy of the castes listed as backward have been left out.	None
Certain castes are known by a number of synonymy which vary from one region to the other and their complete coverage is almost impossible.	None
Mandal Commission found a way out by recommending that if a particular caste has been listed as backward then all its synonyms whether mentioned in the State lists or not should also be treated as backward.	None
Gujarat Government was forced to appoint a second commission known as Rane Commission.	None
Rane Commission took note of the fact that there was an organised effort for being considered socially and educationally backward castes.	None
Rane Commission recalled the observations in Balaji case that Social backwardness is on the ultimate analysis the result of poverty to a very large extent.	None
The Commission noticed that some of the castes just for the sake of being considered as socially and educationally backward, have degraded themselves to such an extent that, they had no hesitation in attributing different types of vices to and associating other factors indicative of backwardness, with their castes.	None
The Commission noted that the malaise requires to be remedied.	None
The Commission therefore, devised a method for determining socially and educationally backward classes without reference to caste, beneficial to all sections of people irrespective of the caste to which they belong.	None
The Commission came to an irrefutable conclusion that amongst certain castes and communities or class of people, only lower income groups amongst them are socially and educationally backward.	None
We may recall here a trite observation in case of N.M. Thomas which reads as under (SCC pg.363 para 124)	None
A word of sociological caution.	None
In the light of experience, here and elsewhere, the danger of reservation, it seems to me, is threefold.	None
Its benefits, by and large, are snatched away by the top creamy layer of the backward caste or class, thus keeping the weakest among the weak always weak and leaving the fortunate layers to consume the whole cake.	None
Secondly, this claim is overplayed extravagantly in democracy by large and vocal groups whose burden of backwardness has been substantially lightened by the march of time and measures of better education and more opportunities of employment, but wish to wear the weaker section label as a means to score over their nearequals formally categorised as the upper brackets.	None
A few other aspects for rejecting caste as the basis for identifying social and educational backwardness may be briefly noted.	None
If State patronage for preferred treatment accepts caste as the only insignia for determining social and educational backwardness, the danger looms large that this approach alone would legitimise and perpetuate caste system.	None
It does not go well with our proclaimed secular character as enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution.	None
The assumption that all members of same caste a re equally socially and educationally backward is not wellfounded.	None
Such an approach provides an oversimplification of a complex problem of identifying the social and educational backwardness.	None
The Chairman of the Backward Classes Commission, set up in 1953, after having finalised the report, concluded that it would have been better if we could determine the criteria of backwardness on principles other than caste.	None
Lastly it is recognised without dissent that the caste based reservation has been usurped by the economically wellplaced section in the same caste.	None
To illustrate, it may be pointed that some years ago, I came across a petition for special leave against the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in which the reservation of 2 per cent for admission to medical and engineering colleges in favour of Majhabi Sikhs was challenged by none other than the upper crust of the members of the Scheduled castes amongst Sikhs in Punjab, proving that the labeled weak exploits the really weaker.	None
Add to this, the findings of the Research Planning Scheme of sociologists assisting the Mandal Commission when it observed while determining the criteria of socially and educationally backward classes, social backwardness should be considered to be the critical element and educational backwardness to be the linked element though not necessarily derived from the former.	None
The team ultimately concluded that social backwardness refers to ascribed status, and it considered social backwardness as the critical element and educational backwardness to be the linked though not derived element.	None
The attempt is to identify socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	Reasoning
The caste, as is understood in Hindu Society, is unknown to Muslims, Christians, Parsis, Jews etc.	None
Caste criterion would not furnish a reliable yardstick to identify socially and educationally backward group in the aforementioned communities though economic backwardness would.	None
Reservation in one or other form has been there for decades.	None
If a survey is made with reference to families in various castes considered to be socially and educationally backward, about the benefits of preferred treatment, it would unmistakably show that the benefits of reservations are snatched away by the top creamy layer of the backward castes.	None
This has to be avoided at any cost.	None
Significantly in Indra Sawhney No.1 it was emphatically noted as follows Society does not remain static.	None
The industrialisation and the urbanisation which necessarily followed in its wake, the advance on political, social and economic fronts made particularly after the commencement of the Constitution, the social reform movements of the last several decades, the spread of education and the advantages of the special provisions including reservations secured so far, have all undoubtedly seen at least some individuals and families in the backward classes, however small in number, gaining sufficient means to develop their capacities to compete with others in every field.	None
That is an undeniable fact.	None
Legally, therefore, they are not entitled to be any longer called as part of the backward classes whatever their original birthmark.	None
It can further hardly be argued that once a backward class, always a backward class.	None
That would defeat the very purpose of the special provisions made in the Constitution for the advancement of the backward classes, and for enabling them to come to the level of and to compete with the forward classes, as equal citizens.	None
On the other hand, to continue to confer upon such advanced sections from the backward classes the special benefits, would amount to treating equals unequally violating the equality provisions of the Constitution.	None
Secondly, to rank them with the rest of the backward classes would equally violate the right to equality of the rest in those classes, since it would amount to treating the unequals equally.	None
What is more, it will lead to perverting the objectives of the special constitutional provisions since the forwards among the backward classes will thereby be enabled to lap up all the special benefits to the exclusion and at the cost of the rest in those classes, thus keeping the rest in perpetual backwardness.	None
The object of the special constitutional provisions is not to uplift a few individuals and families in the backward classes but to ensure the advancement of the backward classes as a whole.	None
Hence, taking out the forwards from among the backward classes is not only permissible but obligatory under the Constitution.	None
However, it is necessary to add that just as the backwardness of the backward groups cannot be measured in terms of the forwardness of the forward groups, so also the forwardness of the forwards among the backward classes cannot be measured in terms of the backwardness of the backward sections of the said classes.	None
It has to be judged on the basis of the social capacities gained by them to compete with the forward classes.	None
So long as the individuals belonging to the backward classes do not develop sufficient capacities of their own to compete with others, they can hardly be classified as forward.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
More backward and backward is an illusion.	None
No constitutional exercise is called for it.	None
What is required is practical approach to the problem.	None
The collectivity or the group may be backward class but the individuals from that class may have achieved the social status or economic affluence.	None
Disentitle them from claiming reservation.	None
Therefore, while reserving posts for backward classes, the departments should make a condition precedent that every candidate must disclose the annual income of the parents beyond which one could not be considered to be backward.	None
What should be that limit can be determined by the appropriate State.	None
Income apart, provision should be made that wards of those backward classes of persons who have achieved a particular status in society either political or social or economic or if their parents are in higher services then such individuals should be precluded to avoid monopolisation of the services reserved for backward classes by a few.	None
Creamy layer, thus, shall stand eliminated.	None
And once a group or collectivity itself is found to have achieved the constitutional objective then it should be excluded from the list of backward class.	None
Therefore, No reservation can be made on economic criteria.	None
It may be under Article 16(4) if such class satisfies the test of inadequate representation.	None
Exclusion of creamy layer is a social purpose.	None
Any legislative or executive action to remove such persons individually or collectively cannot be constitutionally invalid.	None
Xx xx	None
xx	None
Meanstest in this discussion signifies imposition of an income limit, for the purpose of excluding persons (from the backward class) whose income is above the said limit.	None
This submission is very often referred to as the creamy layer argument.	None
Petitioners submit that some members of the designated backward classes are highly advanced socially as well as economically and educationally.	None
It is submitted that they constitute the forward section of that particular backward class as forward as any other forward class member and that they are lapping up all the benefits of reservations meant for that class, without allowing the benefits to reach the truly backward members of that class.	None
These persons are by no means backward and with them a class cannot be treated as backward.	None
It is pointed out that since Jayasree almost every decision has accepted the validity of this submission.	None
On the other hand, the learned counsel for the States of Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and other counsel for respondents strongly oppose any such distinction.	None
It is submitted that once a class is identified as a backward class after applying the relevant criteria including the economic one, it is not permissible to apply the economic criteria once again and subdivide a backward class into two subcategories.	None
Counsel for the State of Tamil Nadu submitted further that at one stage (in July 1979) the State o f Tamil Nadu did indeed prescribe such an income limit but had to delete it in view of the practical difficulties encountered and also in view of the representations received.	None
In this behalf, the learned counsel invited our attention to Chapter 7H (pages 60 to 62) of the Ambashankar Commission (Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission) Report.	None
According to the respondents the argument of creamy layer is but a mere ruse, a trick, to deprive the ackward classes of the benefit of reservations.	None
It is submitted that no member of backward class has come forward with this plea and that it ill becomes the members of forward classes to raise this point.	None
Strong reliance is placed upon the observations of Chinnappa Reddy, J in Vasanth kumar to the following effect (SCC p.763, para 72)	None
One must, however, enter a caveat to the criticism that the benefits of reservation are often snatched away by the top creamy layer of backward class or caste.	None
That a few of the seats and posts reserved for backward classes are snatched away by the more fortunate among them is not to say that reservation is not necessary.	None
This is bound to happen in a competitive society such as ours.	None
Are not the unreserved seats and posts snatched away, in the same way, by the top creamy layer of society itself?	None
Seats reserved for the backward classes are taken away by the top layers amongst them on the same principle of merit on which the unreserved seats are taken away by the top layers of society.	None
How can it be bad if reserved seats and posts are snatched away by the creamy layer of backward classes, if such snatching away of unreserved posts by the top creamy layer of society itself is not bad?	None
In our opinion, it is not a question of permissibility or desirability of such test but one of proper and more appropriate identification of a class a backward class.	None
The very concept of a class denotes a number of persons having certain common traits which distinguish them from the others.	None
In a backward class under clause (4) of Article 16, if the connecting link is the social backwardness, it should broadly be the same in a given class.	None
If some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and, may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps.	None
They would be misfits in the class.	None
After excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class.	None
In fact, such exclusion benefits the truly backward.	None
Difficulty, however, really lies in drawing the line how and where to draw the line?	None
For, while drawing the line, it should be ensured that it does not result in taking away with one hand what is given by the other.	None
The basis of exclusion should not merely be economic, unless, of course, the economic advancement is so high that it necessarily means social advancement.	None
Let us illustrate the point.	None
A member of backward class, say a member of carpenter caste, goes to Middle East and works there as a carpenter.	None
If you take his annual income in rupees, it would be fairly high from the Indian standard.	None
Is he to be excluded from the Backward Class?	None
Are his children in India to be deprived of the benefit of Article 16(4)?	None
Situation may, however, be different, if he rises so high economically as to become say a factory owner himself.	None
In such a situation, his social status also rises.	None
He himself would be in a position to provide employment to others.	None
In such a case, his income is merely a measure of his social status.	None
Even otherwise there are several practical difficulties too in imposing an income ceiling.	None
For example, annual income of Rs.36,000 may not count for much in a city like Bombay, Delhi or Calcutta whereas it may be a handsome income in rural India anywhere.	None
The line to be drawn must be a realistic one.	None
Another question would be, should such a line be uniform for the entire country or a given State or should it differ from rural to urban areas and so on.	None
Further, income from agriculture may be difficult to assess and, therefore, in the case of agriculturists, the line may have to be drawn with reference to the extent of holding.	None
While the income of a person can be taken as a measure of his social advancement, the limit to be prescribed should not be such as to result in taking away with one hand what is given with the other.	None
The income limit must be such as to mean and signify social advancement.	None
At the same time, it must be recognised that there are certain positions, the occupants of which can be treated as socially advanced without any further enquiry.	None
For example, if a member of a designated backward class becomes a member of IAS or IPS or any other All India Service, his status is society (social status) rises he is no longer socially disadvantaged.	None
His children get full opportunity to realize their potential.	None
They are in no way handicapped in the race of life.	None
Keeping in mind all these considerations, we direct the Government of India to specify the basis of exclusion whether on the basis of income, extent of holding or otherwise of creamy layer.	None
This shall be done as early as possible, but not exceeding four months.	None
On such specification persons falling within the net of exclusionary rule shall cease to be the members of the Other Backward Classes (covered by the expression backward class of citizens) for the purpose of Article 16(4).	None
The impugned Office Memorandums dated August 13, 1990 and September 25, 1991 shall be implemented subject only to such specification and exclusion of socially advanced persons from the backward classes contemplated by the said O.M.	None
In other words, after the expiry of four months from today, the implementation of the said O.M. shall be subject to the exclusion of the creamy layer in accordance with the criteria to be specified by the Government of India and not otherwise.	None
In Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (1996) 6 SCC 506 ) at page 508)	None
it was noted as follows Thereafter the matter again came up before the Court on 2031995.	None
Finding that the State of Kerala has not taken any steps, this Court issued notice to show cause why action should not be taken for noncompliance of this Courts order.	None
Again the matter came up on 1071995.	None
Even on that date no report of compliance was submitted to the Court instead an affidavit sworn to by the Chief Secretary to the State was handed over explaining the circumstances why the implementation of the judgment was delayed.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
In the circumstances, out of sheer exhaustion and having regard to the fact that the constitutionality of the Kerala Act 16 of 1995 is pending disposal before this Court, we have decided to get the information ourselves regarding creamy layer issue through a High Level Committee.	None
Accordingly, we request the learned Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court to appoint a retired Judge of the High Court to be the Chairman of the High Level Committee who will induct not more than 4 members from various walks of life to identify the creamy layer among the designated other backward classes in Kerala State in the light of the ruling of this Court in Mandal case and forward the report to this Court within 3 months from the date of receipt of this order.	None
In Indra Sawhney No. 2 it was observed as follows 7.	None
Our Constitution is wedded to the concept of equality and equality is a basic feature.	None
Under Article 15(2), there is a prohibition that the State shall not discriminate against any citizen on the grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex and place of birth or any of them.	None
It is equally true that ours is a casteridden society.	None
Still, it is a constitutional mandate not to discriminate on the basis of caste alone.	None
Provisions can be made for the upliftment of socially and educationally backward classes, Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or for women and children.	None
Article 16(4) empowers the States for making any provision for reservation in appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which, in the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services under the State.	None
Reservation is permissible (i) in favour of any backward class of citizens and (ii) if it is not adequately represented in services under the State.	None
Caste only cannot be the basis for reservation.	None
Reservation can be for a backward class citizen of a particular caste.	None
Therefore, from that caste, the creamy layer and the nonbackward class of citizens are to be excluded.	None
If the caste is to be taken into consideration then for finding out the socially and economically backward class, the creamy layer of the caste is to be eliminated for granting benefit of reservation, because that creamy layer cannot be termed as socially and economically backward.	None
These questions are exhaustively dealt with by a nineJudge Bench of this Court in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India and it has been specially held that only caste cannot be the basis for reservation.	None
Inclusion of castes in the list of backward classes cannot be mechanical and cannot be done without adequate relevant data.	None
Nor can it be done for extraneous reasons Likewise, periodic examination of a backward class could lead to its exclusion if it ceases to be socially backward or if it is adequately represented in the services.	None
Once backward, always backward is not acceptable.	None
In any case, the creamy layer has no place in the reservation system.	None
If forward classes are mechanically included in the list of backward classes or if the creamy layer among backward classes is not excluded, then the benefits of reservation will not reach the really backward among the backward classes.	None
Most of the benefits will then be knocked away by the forward castes and the creamy layer.	None
That will leave the truly backward, backward forever.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
In Indra Sawhney on the question of exclusion of the creamy layer from the backward classes, there was agreement among eight out of the nine learned Judges of this Court.	None
There were five separate judgments in this behalf which required the creamy layer to be identified and excluded.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
As appears from the judgments of six out of the eight Judges, viz.	None
Jeevan Reddy (for himself and three others), Sawant and Sahai, JJ.	None
(i.e. six learned Judges out of nine), they specifically refer to those in higher services like IAS, IPS and All India Services or near about as persons who have reached a higher level of social advancement and economic status and therefore as a matter of law, such persons are declared not entitled to be treated as backward.	None
They are to be treated as creamy layer without further inquiry.	None
Likewise, persons living in sufficient affluence who are able to provide employment to others are to be treated as having reached a higher social status on account of their affluence, and therefore outside the backward class.	None
Those holding higher levels of agricultural landholdings or getting income from property, beyond a limit, have to be excluded from the backward classes.	None
This, in our opinion, is a judicial declaration made by this Court.	None
Xx xx	None
xx	None
As the creamy layer in the backward class is to be treated on a par with the forward classes and is not entitled to benefits of reservation, it is obvious that if the creamy layer is not excluded, there will be discrimination and violation of Articles 14 and 16(1) inasmuch as equals (forwards and creamy layer of backward classes) cannot be treated unequally .	None
Again, nonexclusion of creamy layer will also be violative of Articles 14, 16(1) and 16(4) of the Constitution of India since unequals (the creamy layer) cannot be treated as equals , that is to say, equal to the rest of the backward class.	Arguments of Petitioner
These twin aspects of discrimination are specifically elucidated in the judgment of Sawant, J. where the learned Judge stated as follows (SCC p. 553, para 520) To continue to confer upon such advanced sections special benefits, would amount to treating equals unequally.	None
Secondly, to rank them with the rest of the backward classes would amount to treating the unequals equally.	None
Thus, any executive or legislative action refusing to exclude the creamy layer from the benefits of reservation will be violative of Articles 14 and 16(1) and also of Article 16(4).	None
We shall examine the validity of Sections 3, 4 and 6 in the light of the above principle.	None
Xx xx xx	None
The Preamble to the Constitution of India emphasises the principle of equality as basic to our Constitution.	None
In Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala it was ruled that even constitutional amendments which offended the basic structure of the Constitution would be ultra vires the basic structure.	None
Sikri, C.J. laid stress on the basic features enumerated in the Preamble to the Constitution and said that there were other basic features too which could be gathered from the constitutional scheme (para 506A of SCC).	None
Equality was one of the basic features referred to in the Preamble to our Constitution.	None
Shelat and Grover, JJ. also referred to the basic rights referred to in the Preamble.	None
They specifically referred to equality (paras 520 and 535A of SCC).	None
Hegde and Shelat, JJ.	None
also referred to the Preamble (paras 648, 652).	None
Ray, J. (as he then was) also did so (para 886).	None
Jaganmohan Reddy, J. too referred to the Preamble and the equality doctrine (para 1159).	None
Khanna, J. accepted this position (para 1471).	None
Mathew, J. referred to equality as a basic feature (para 1621).	None
Dwivedi, J. (paras 1882, 1883) and Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) (see para 2086) accepted this position.	None
What we mean to say is that Parliament and the legislature in this country cannot transgress the basic feature of the Constitution, namely, the principle of equality enshrined in Article 14 of which Article 16(1) is a facet.	None
Whether the creamy layer is not excluded or whether forward castes get included in the list of backward classes , the position will be the same, namely, that there will be a breach not only of Article 14 but of the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
The nonexclusion of the creamy layer or the inclusion of forward castes in the list of backward classes will, therefore, be totally illegal.	None
Such an illegality offending the root of the Constitution of India cannot be allowed to be perpetuated even by constitutional amendment.	None
The Kerala Legislature is, therefore, least competent to perpetuate such an illegal discrimination.	None
What even Parliament cannot do, the Kerala Legislature cannot achieve.	None
Though in M. Nagarajs case (supra) some observations of general nature have been made so far as the applicability of the principles to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are concerned, really that case did not concern with Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
Similar is the position here.	None
The focus on the identity test in M. Nagarajs case (supra) is unexceptionable.	None
At paras 80 and 110, it was noted as follows Before concluding, we may refer to the judgment of this Court in M.G. Badappanavar.	None
In that case the facts were as follows.	None
Appellants were general candidates.	None
They contended that when they and the reserved candidates were appointed at Level1 and junior reserved candidates got promoted earlier on the basis of roster points to Level2 and again by way of rosterpoints to Level3, and when the senior general candidate got promoted to Level3, then the general candidate would become senior to the reserved candidate at Level3.	None
At Level3, the reserved candidate should have been considered along with the senior general candidate for promotion to Level4.	None
In support of their contention, appellants relied upon the judgment of the Constitution Bench in Ajit Singh (II).	None
The above contentions raised by the appellants were rejected by the tribunal.	None
Therefore, the general candidates came to this Court in appeal.	None
This Court found on facts that the Service Rule concerned did not contemplate computation of seniority in respect of roster promotions.	None
Placing reliance on the judgment of this Court in Ajit Singh (I) and in Virpal Singh, this Court held that roster promotions were meant only for the limited purpose of due representation of backward classes at various levels of service and, therefore, such roster promotions did not confer consequential seniority to the rosterpoint promotee.	None
In Ajit Singh (II) , the circular which gave seniority to the rosterpoint promotees was held to be violative of Articles 14 and 16.	None
It was further held in M.G. Badappanavar that equality is the basic feature of the Constitution and any treatment of equals as unequals or any treatment of unequals as equals violated the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
For this proposition, this Court placed reliance on the judgment in Indra Sawhney while holding that if creamy layer among backward classes were given some benefits as backward classes, it will amount to equals being treated unequals.	None
Applying the creamy layer test, this Court held that if rosterpoint promotees are given consequential seniority, it will violate the equality principle which is part of the basic structure of the Constitution and in which event, even Article 16(4A) cannot be of any help to the reserved category candidates.	None
This is the only judgment of this Court delivered by threeJudge bench saying that if rosterpoint promotees are given the benefit of consequential seniority, it will result in violation of equality principle which is part of the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
Accordingly, the judgment of the tribunal was set aside.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
As stated above, the boundaries of the width of the power, namely, the ceilinglimit of 50 (the numerical benchmark), the principle of creamy layer, the compelling reasons, namely, backwardness, inadequacy of representation and the overall administrative efficiency are not obliterated by the impugned amendments.	None
At the appropriate time, we have to consider the law as enacted by various States providing for reservation if challenged.	None
At that time we have to see whether limitations on the exercise of power are violated.	None
The State is free to exercise its discretion of providing for reservation subject to limitation, namely, that there must exist compelling reasons of backwardness, inadequacy of representation in a class of post(s) keeping in mind the overall administrative efficiency.	None
It is made clear that even if the State has reasons to make reservation, as stated above, if the impugned law violates any of the above substantive limits on the width of the power the same would be liable to be set aside.	None
There is an interesting article by an author dealing with Affirmative Action which reads as follows In his much referred to speech on 26 November 1949, Dr. Ambedkar said that India was wanting in its recognition of the principle of fraternity.	None
What does fraternity mean?	None
Fraternity means a sense of common brotherhood of all Indians  of India being one people.	None
The virtues of liberty by themselves do not create fraternity.	None
This is why several liberal theorists are unsure about whether or not state interventions should be allowed for when the issue of overcoming disprivileges are concerned.	None
The central concern then is how to inculcate a sense of common brotherhood among people with divergent histories and who occupy vastly different positions in the economic and social structure of a society.	None
Before we go further on discussing the specifics of caste and reservations in India it is worth recording that liberty and equality can sometimes be contradictorily positioned.	None
This is why it is important for democracy to redress these communitybased grievances within a framework that does not violate liberal principles.	None
While the individual needs to be protected, there are individuals in certain groups and communities that need safeguards and support as well.	None
After all it must be remembered that communities do not create citizens, but that there are citizens within communities.	None
Also, while it is rather risky to say that communities have rights, there is no doubt at all that within liberal democracies, individuals have rights.	None
Indeed, these rights were secured historically so that individuals did not have to be burdened by community and ascriptive pressures on them.	None
The rationale behind affirmative action is that it releases suppressed talents and expands the pool of social assets in society for the general good.	None
If today we are looking for a justification for affirmative action in this fashion, several decades ago it was precisely this enlarging of the social pool of talents that recommended equal treatment for women.	None
As L.T. Hobhouse argued then that when women are repressed then there is a loss of all the elements in the common stock which the free play of the womans mind would contribute.	None
By increasing the sum of realized talents in society individuals can actually gain greater intersubjectivity in their everyday lives.	None
As the set of resemblances between them is now so much larger, they can practice, pace Rawls, the moral precept of participating in one anothers fate.	None
In this process, fraternal values of citizenship gain materiality and fulfilment.	None
It should be recognized that fraternity can only come about through a basic set of resemblances between citizens.	None
This conception of resemblances is about citizens being equally able to avail of institutional facilities that ensure their acquisition of those skills that are considered to be socially valuable.	None
In other words, social opportunities exist for individual selfexpansion, and it is only individuals now who can exclude themselves.	None
If grinding poverty comes in the way of acquiring such socially valuable skills, then those blocks should be met by developmental interventions such as the antipoverty programmes.	None
But on no account should the removal of poverty be made synonymous with reservations.	None
Reservations are only meant to create a measure of confidence and dignity among those who didnt dare dream of an alternative life.	None
But that alone cannot create structural conditions that address the root causes of poverty.	None
If quality education and the imparting of socially valuable skills are provided across the board through reservations, then that would take care of the complaint that affirmative action is largely about the equality of results.	None
Rawls principle of justice as fairness only says that offices should be open to all.	None
But what if people do not qualify for these offices because their potentialities have remained unrealized on account of inadequate qualifications arising from a history of discrimination compounded by poverty, or, indeed, because of substandard education?	None
Does it mean that, through positive discrimination and reservations, they should be given these jobs anyway regardless of the welfare of institutions?	None
In this connection, Andre Beteilles warning that affirmative action should be sensitive to institutional wellbeing as well needs to be recalled.	None
Beteille sifted between the various imperatives that different organizations are subsumed under and accordingly advised a careful calibration of reservations such that these provisions of performance do not undermine efficiency of performance.	None
The resemblances that are being advocated in the context of affirmative action should not be interpreted in terms of homogeneous sameness.	None
Sameness is what medieval religious fundamentalists aim for.	None
On the other hand, the set of resemblances in a constitutional democracy enhances equality and not sameness by providing identical opportunities to all for selfexpression and development.	None
Citizenship is not about the sameness of lifestyles or of income.	None
Marshalls notion of citizenship as a status that tends towards equality should be interpreted in this light.	None
According to Marshall, the equality that citizenship guarantees should be the foundation on which other kinds of differences can develop.	None
It will no doubt be the case that differences will exist even after a minimum set of resemblances is established.	None
But these will no longer be outcomes of the accidents of birth.	None
When diversity exists outside of choice then that is not a state of affairs that a democratic society can rejoice in.	None
Affirmative action is instrumental in enlarging the scope of difference and diversity, but it succeeds in doing so by first ensuring that citizens resemble one another at a very critical level namely in their ability to acquire socially valuable skills.	None
Affirmative action gets somewhat complicated in India on account of caste politics.	None
Undeniably, India is the most stratified society in the world.	None
Over and above caste differentiations there are huge income disparities, religious and community differences that are deeply engraved into everyday social relations.	None
No doubt, the nature of caste and community interactions has changed over time, but considerations along ascriptive lines still remain important markers, both at the public and private domains.	None
Not only are we now confronted by identity assertions of earthy peasant castes, that were earlier ranked as lowly shudras (or menials), but also, of those who, till recently, were called untouchables.	None
Now we also know that none of these castes had ever ideologically accepted their degraded status.	None
Yet they lived out their humble lives quietly for generations for fear of offending the privileged strata.	None
We now know more of their origin tales that boast of the elevated positions they once held before an unsuspected chicanery, a lost war, or a mercurial god, demoted them to lowly rungs in popular perceptions.	None
Today these tales are an important source of symbolic energy for caste mobilizations and identity assertions.	None
Now that the Mandal recommendations are in place, reservations are not just for the Scheduled Castes and Tribes, but for the socalled other Backward Castes as well.	None
While there are a large number of castes listed as Backward, the demand for reservations for this category has been spearheaded by the class of ownercultivators, or peasant proprietors.	None
Before we assess Mandal reforms it would be useful to know how these peasant castes emerged.	None
After the zamindari abolition came into effect, adult franchise and landtothetiller programme together forced the earlier landed castes slowly to cede ground in the villages.	None
Soon, however, traditional peasant castes such as the Ahirs, Kurmis, Koeris, Lodhs, Rajputs and Jats began to dominate the political scape of northern India.	None
In the southern State of Tamil Nadu, the Vanniyars and Thevars have become assertive, and in Karnataka control was wrested in the mid1950s from the traditional rural elite within the Congress Party by the Vokkaligas and Linagayats.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
In pursuance of Article 340 of the Constitution, the Kalelkar Commission was set up in 1955 but it could not come to any satisfactory conclusion about who should be legitimately considered as OBCs.	None
The Mandal Commission came into existence in 1980 and it promptly came up with a long list of 3,743 backward castes on the basis of social, economic and educational backwardness.	None
The Mandal Commissions recommendations were implemented in 1990 by the then Prime Minister VP Singh.	None
This meant that a further 29 per cent of seats in educational institutions and government jobs would now be reserved for OBCs.	None
The implementation of reservations for OBCs set off a furore of protests, including a few suicides, all over the country by those who are considered to be members of forward castes.	None
Many felt that reservations for OBCs were not warranted for two reasons.	None
First, this would make India a caste society by law and, second, because many of those who are considered as OBCs are really quite powerful and dominant in rural India.	None
The obvious reference was to Jats and Yadavs.	None
A majority of social anthropologists wrote against reservations for OBCs primarily on these grounds.	None
Andre Beteilles criticism of the Mandal Commission recommendations was widely commented upon.	None
He distinguishes between reservations for OBCs following Mandal recommendations and the reservations that were already granted in the Constitution for Scheduled Castes and Tribes.	None
While provisions for Scheduled Castes and Tribes were with the intention of reaching towards greater equality, reservations for OBCs were really to bring about a balance of power on the calculus of caste.	None
The kind of deprivations that exuntouchables (Scheduled Castes) and Adivasis (Scheduled Tribes) encountered for centuries can in no way be compared to the traditional condition of the OBCs.	None
Besides, many OBCs are quite powerful in rural India, both economically and politically.	None
In fact, the Mandal Commission recommendations were actually giving in to a powerful rural lobby that did not really care for equality of opportunities as much as it did for equality of results.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
There are two considerations that escape many uncritical applications of affirmative action.	None
First, affirmative action must resist any tendency whereby its beneficiaries become vested interests.	None
And secondly, it must eventually seek its own dissolution.	None
While the second may be far away, it is by paying attention to the first issue that it is possible for affirmative action to eventually annihilate itself.	None
Paradoxical as it may appear, but when this happens it is then that positive discrimination has finally triumphed.	None
Affirmative action fails to reach this final destination when it is inconsistently applied, or when its beneficiaries form vested interest bloc within a democratic electoral system on the basis of ascriptive identity alone.	None
The latter poses a stronger practical and intellectual challenge to the policy of affirmative action.	None
As long as historical disprivileges and economic backwardness go together and the relationship between them is statistically very strong, colour or caste membership can act as ready reckoners for targeting beneficiaries of affirmative action.	None
This, however, does not mean that membership in these communities should advantage individuals in perpetuity once they are able to develop the minimum set of resemblances.	None
Therefore, as and when those who belong to targeted categories for affirmative action acquire socially useful talents and attributes, they should contribute them to the society as a whole, and not employ them only for sectional advantages.	None
Consequently, those who benefit from this policy owe it to society to put their newly acquired social talents back into the collective social pool.	None
This would mean that they would automatically fall outside the scope of affirmative action programme in the future.	None
The net would no longer cover them as they already have socially useful assets.	None
Indeed the society will be richer and better endowed on account of it as the beneficiaries of affirmative action will now begin to contribute to the social pool of talents.	None
This would both release and add to social and material resources required for continuing with the policy aimed at the enhancement of resemblances.	None
As a result, society will progressively acquire a higher strike rate with the policy of affirmative action by reaching out to those who have thus far fallen outside its ambit.	None
By increasing the number of those who possess the minimum set of resemblances, the society has now a larger wealth of talents in a variety of fields and specialities than it had before.	None
This is how affirmative action, which is aimed at the historically most disadvantaged sections, ultimately improves the lot of everybody in society.	None
If, on the other hand, either colour or race, which are only ready reckoners, become permanent considerations, without taking into account biographical profiles of actual and potential beneficiaries, then that would inhibit fraternity and sow seeds of permanent divisions in society.	None
Affirmative action begins by placing the assets of the better off in a collective pool, not for redistribution, but to create the infrastructure that is needed to enhance the minimum set of resemblances necessary for substantive citizenship.	None
With the help of this capital, socially valuable assets are now created in sites where there were none.	None
This measure has a strong practical dimension for out of this collective pooling new assets are being created.	None
The creation of such new assets is possible because the initial pooling of assets of the privileged section allows the society to underwrite the expenses incurred for the establishment of certain baseline similarities in society as a whole.	None
As the most important feature in this case is not ones ascriptive badge, but the creation of socially valuable assets, it is expected that those who have been the beneficiaries of the scheme will gradually slip out of the net.	None
They will cease to receive from the collective pool and instead will begin to contribute to it.	None
As far as public policy is concerned they are no long members of certain designated castes or communities.	None
They are now simply citizens.	None
In passing it is worth putting in perspective that the difference between reservations in India and affirmative action in America is that the former talks about extirpating caste whereas the latter is interested primarily in representing races.	None
If the accent is on representation then the ascriptive factor becomes a permanent badge that can never be overcome.	None
Again, Americans believe in race representation, not in quotas, and in not sacrificing standards for social justice.	None
But the great similarity between the two forms of preferential policy is that in both cases it is the public sector where positive discrimination is effectively realized.	None
In America, the State encourages private sector units to employ people of diverse backgrounds without specifying quotas for different races.	None
If these enterprises can show a fair racial mix then they can get preferential contracts from the government.	None
The State cannot force any private sector unit to implement affirmative action.	None
It is a combination of goodwill and rewards that takes affirmative action forward in the private sector of America.	None
For example, Bob Jones University does not receive any public money and, therefore, it refuses to accept affirmative action, even of the most muted kind.	None
It is only when organizations depend on state funding, or when they want to be rewarded by the State, that policy of affirmative action comes to life.	None
It has been rightly observed in Indra Sawhney No. 2 (supra) whether creamy layer is not excluded or whether forward classes can be excluded in the list of backward classes, the position would be the same and there will be breach not only of Article 14 but of the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
As was rightly observed in the said case, non exclusion of the creamy layer or inclusion of forward castes in the lists of backward classes will be totally illegal.	None
The illegality offends the roots and foundation of the Constitution and cannot be allowed to be perpetuated.	None
In Nair Service Societys case (supra) this Court observed as follows This Court, thus, has categorically laid down the law that determination of creamy layer is a part of the constitutional scheme.	None
In our view, even non exclusion of the creamy layer for the purpose of admission to the educational institutions cannot be countenanced.	None
It is inconceivable that a person who belongs to the creamy layer is socially and educationally backward.	None
The backward status vanishes when somebody becomes part of the creamy layer.	None
In Vasant Kumars case (supra) it was aptly described that the benefits of reservation are snatched away by the top creamy layer of the backward classes and this has to be avoided at any cost.	None
By inclusion of the creamy layer or in other words non inclusion thereof a fresh lease of life to those who should have been left out is given.	None
Their continuance would mean keeping weakest amongst the weak always weak and leaving the fortunate ones to enjoy the benefits.	None
If the ultimate aim is a casteless and classless society in line with the dream of the Constitution framers that has to be chewed out.	None
As Father of the Nation had once said if the caste system as we know is an anchronism, then it must go.	None
There is a feeling and it cannot be said without reason that reservation hits at the root of this belief and instead of its obliteration there is perceivable perpetuation.	None
It is true that obliteration cannot be done immediately or within a short span of time but that is no answer to the lack of seriousness in seeking obliteration.	None
In Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) the following observations on the question of giving priority over reservation are of significance.	None
It was held Preference without reservation may be adopted in favour of the chosen classes of citizens by prescribing for them a longer period for passing a test or by awarding additional marks or granting other advantages like relaxation of age or other minimum requirements.	None
(See the preferential treatment in State of Kerala and Anr.	None
v. N.M.	None
Thomas and Ors.	None
(1976) 1	None
SCR 906 ).	None
Furthermore, it would be within the discretion of the State to provide financial assistance to such persons by way of grant, scholarships, fee concessions etc.	None
Such preferences or advantages are like temporary crutches for additional support to enable the members of the backward and other disadvantaged classes to march forward and compete with the rest of the people.	None
These preferences are extended to them because of their inability otherwise to compete effectively in open selections on the basis of merits for appointment to posts in public services and the like or for selection to academic courses.	None
Such preferences can be extended to all disadvantaged classes of citizens, whether or not they are victims of prior discrimination.	None
What qualifies persons for preference is backwardness or disadvantage of any kind which the State has a responsibility to ameliorate.	None
The blind and the deaf, the dumb and the maimed, and other handicapped persons qualify for preference.	None
So do all other classes of citizens who are at a comparative disadvantage for whatever reason, and whether or not they are victims of prior discrimination.	None
All these persons may be beneficiaries of preferences short of reservation.	None
Any such preference, although discriminatory on its face, may be justified as a benign classification for affirmative action warranted by a compelling state interest.294.	None
In addition to such preferences, quotas may be provided exclusively reserving posts in public services or seats in academic institutions for backward people entitled to such protection.	None
Reservation is intended to redress backwardness of a higher degree.	None
Reservation prima facie is the very antithesis of a free and open selection.	None
It is a discriminatory exclusion of the disfavoured classes of meritorious candidates M.R. Balaji (supra).	None
It is not a case of merely providing an advantage or a concession or preference in favour of the backward classes and other disadvantaged groups.	None
It is not even a handicap to disadvantage the forward classes so as to attain a measure of qualitative or relative equality between the two groups.	None
Reservation which excludes from consideration all those persons falling outside the specially favoured groups, irrespective of merits and qualifications, is much more positive and drastic a discrimination  albeit to achieve the same end of qualitative equality  but unless strictly and narrowly tailored to a compelling constitutional mandate, it is unlikely to qualify as a benign discrimination.	None
Unlike in the case of other affirmative action programmes, backwardness by itself is not sufficient to warrant reservation.	None
What qualifies for reservation is backwardness which is the result of identified past discrimination and which is comparable to that of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.	None
Reservation is a remedial action specially addressed to the ill effects stemming from historical discrimination.	None
To ignore this vital distinction between affirmative action short of reservation and reservation by a predetermined quota as a remedy for past inequities is to ignore the special characteristic of the constitutional grant of power specially addressed to the constitutionally recognised backwardness.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
Reservation should be avoided except in extreme cases of acute backwardness resulting from prior discrimination as in the case of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and other classes of persons in comparable positions.	None
In all other cases, preferential treatment short of reservation can be adopted.	None
Any such action, though in some respects discriminatory, is permissible on the basis of a legitimate classification rationally related to the attainment of equality in all its aspects.	None
Xx xx	None
xx	None
323	None
(16).	None
In the final analysis, poverty which is the ultimate result of inequities and which is the immediate cause and effect of backwardness has to be eradicated not merely by reservation as aforesaid, but by free medical aid, free elementary education, scholarships for higher education and other financial support, free housing, self employment and settlement schemes, effective implementation of land reforms, strict and impartial operation of the lawenforcing machinery, industrialization, construction of roads, bridges, culverts, canals, markets, introduction of transport, free supply of water, electricity and other ameliorative measures particularly in areas densely populated by backward classes of citizens.	None
(underlined for emphasis)	None
Following observations in M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore (AIR 1963 SC 649 ) are also relevant In this connection, it is necessary to remember that the reservation made by the impugned order is in regard to admission in the seats of higher education in the State.	None
It is wellknown that as a result of the awakening caused by political freedom, all classes of citizens are showing a growing desire to give their children higher university education and so, the Universities are called upon to face the challenge of this growing demand.	None
While it is necessary that the demand for higher education which is thus increasing from year to year must be adequately met and properly channelised, we cannot overlook the fact that in meeting that demand standards of higher education in Universities must not be lowered.	None
The large demand for education may be met by starting larger number of educational institutions vocational schools and polytechnics.	None
But it would be against the national interest to exclude from the portals of our Universities qualified and competent students on the ground that all the seats in the Universities are reserved for weaker elements in society.	None
As has been observed by the University Education Commission, he indeed must be blind who does not see that mighty as are the political changes, far deeper are the fundamental questions which will be decided by what happens in the universities (p. 32).	None
Therefore, in considering the question about the propriety of the reservation made by the impugned order, we cannot lose sight of the fact that the reservation is made in respect of higher university education.	None
The demand for technicians, scientists, doctors, economists, engineers and experts for the further economic advancement of the country is so great that it would cause grave prejudice to national interests if considerations of merit are completely excluded by wholesale reservation of seats in all Technical, Medical or Engineering colleges or institutions of that kind.	None
Therefore, considerations of national interest and the interests of the community or society as a whole cannot be ignored in determining the question as to whether the special provision contemplated by Art. 15(4) can be special provision which excludes the rest of the society altogether.	None
In this connection, it would be relevant to mention that the University Education Commission which considered the problem of the assistance to backward communities, had observed that the percentage of reservation shall not exceed a third of the total number of seats, and it has added that the principle of reservation may be adopted for a period of ten years.	None
(p. 53).	None
We have already noticed that the Central Government in its communication to the State has suggested that reservation for backward classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes may be up to 25 with marginal adjustments not exceeding 10 in exceptional cases.	None
The learned AdvocateGeneral has suggested that reservation of a large number of seats for the weaker sections of the society would not affect either the depth or efficiency of scholarship at all, and in support of this argument, he has relied on the observations made by the Backward Classes Commission that it found no complaint in the States of Madras, Andhra, TravancoreCochin and Mysore where the system of recruiting candidates from other Backward Classes to the reserve quota has been in vogue for several decades.	None
The Committee further observed that the representatives of the upper classes did not complain about any lack of efficiency in the offices recruited by reservation (p. 135).	None
This opinion, however, is plainly inconsistent with what is bound to be the inevitable consequence of reservation in higher university education.	None
If admission to professional and technical colleges is unduly liberalised it would be idle to contend that the quality of our graduates will not suffer.	None
That is not to say that reservation should not be adopted reservation should and must be adopted to advance the prospects of the weaker sections of society, but in providing for special measures in that behalf care should be taken not to exclude admission to higher educational centres to deserving and qualified candidates of other communities.	None
A special provision contemplated by Art. 15(4) like reservation of posts and appointments contemplated by Art. 16(4) must be within reasonable limits.	None
The interests of weaker sections of society which are a first charge on the states and the Centres have to be adjusted with the interests of the community as a whole.	None
The adjustment of these competing claims is undoubtedly a difficult matter, but if under the guise of making a special provision, a State reserves practically all the seats available in all the colleges, that clearly would be subverting the object of Art. 15(4).	None
In this matter again, we are reluctant to say definitely what would be a proper provision to make.	None
Speaking generally and in a broad way, a special provision should be less than 50 how much less than 50 would depend upon the relevant prevailing circumstances in each case.	None
In this particular case it is remarkable that when the State issued its order on July 10, 1961, it emphatically expressed its opinion that the reservation of 68 recommended by the Nagan Gowda Committee would not be in the larger interests of the State.	None
What happened between July 10, 1961, and July 31, 1962, does not appear on the record.	None
But the State changed its mind and adopted the recommendation of the Committee ignoring its earlier decision that the said recommendation was contrary to the larger interests of the State.	None
In our opinion, when the State makes a special provision for the advancement of the weaker sections of society specified in Art. 15(4) it has to approach its task objectively and in a rational manner.	None
Undoubtedly, it has to take reasonable and even generous steps to help the advancement of weaker elements the extent of the problem must be weighted, the requirements of the community at large must be borne in mind and a formula must be evolved which would strike a reasonable balance between the several relevant considerations.	None
Therefore, we are satisfied that the reservation of 68 directed by the impugned order is plainly inconsistent with Art. 15(4).	None
The petitioners contend that having regard to the infirmities in the impugned order, action of the State in issuing the said order amounts to a fraud on the Constitutional power conferred on the State by Art. 15(4).	None
This argument is wellfounded, and must be upheld.	None
When it is said about an executive action that it is a fraud on the Constitution, it does not necessarily mean that the action is actuated by mala fides.	None
An executive action which is patently and plainly outside the limits of the constitutional authority conferred on the State in that behalf is struck down as being ultra vires the States authority.	None
If, on the other hand, the executive action does not patently or overtly transgress the authority conferred on it by the Constitution, but the transgression is covert or latent, the said action is struck down as being a fraud on the relevant constitutional power.	None
It is in this connection that courts often consider the substance of the matter and not its form and in ascertaining the substance of the matter, the appearance or the cloak, or the veil of the executive action is carefully scrutinized and if it appears that notwithstanding the appearance, the cloak or the veil of the executive action, in substance and in truth the constitutional power has been transgressed, the impugned action is struck down as a fraud on the Constitution.	None
We have already noticed that the impugned order in the present case has categorised the Backward Classes on the sole basis of caste which, in our opinion, is not permitted by Art. 15(4) and we have also held that the reservation of 68 made by the impugned order is plainly inconsistent with the concept of the special provision authorised by Art. 15(4).	None
Therefore, it follows that the impugned order is a fraud on the Constitutional power conferred on the State by Art. 15(4).	None
The learned AdvocateGeneral has made an earnest and strong plea before us that we should not strike down the order, but should strike down only such portions of the order which appear to us to be unconstitutional on the doctrine of severability.	None
He has urged that since 1958, the State has had to make five orders to deal with the problem of advancing the lot of the Backward Classes and the State is anxious that the implementation of the impugned order should not be completely prohibited or stopped.	None
We do not see how it would be possible to sever the invalid provisions of the impugned order.	None
If the categorisation of the Backward Classes is invalid, this Court cannot and would not attempt the task of enumerating the said categories and if the percentage of reservation is improper and outside Art. 15(4), this Court would not attempt to lay down definitely and in an inflexible manner as to what would be the proper percentage to reserve.	None
In this connection, it may be relevant to refer to one fact on which the petitioners have strongly relied.	None
It is urged for them that the method adopted by the Government of Maharashtra in exercising its power under Art. 15(4) is a proper method to adopt.	None
It appears that the Maharashtra Government has decided to afford financial assistance, and make monetary grants to students seeking higher education where it is shown that the annual income of their families is below a prescribed minimum.	None
The said scheme is not before us and we are not called upon to express any opinion on it.	None
However, we may observe that if any State adopts such a measure, it may afford relief to and assist the advancement of the Backward Classes in the State, because backwardness, social and educational, is ultimately and primarily due to poverty.	None
An attempt can also be made to start newer and more educational institutions, polytechnics, vocational institutions and even rural Universities and thereby create more opportunities for higher education.	None
This dual attack on the problem posed by the weakness of backward communities can claim to proceed on a rational, broad and scientific approach which is consistent with, and true to, the noble ideal of a secular welfare democratic State set up by the Constitution of this country.	None
Such an approach can be supplemented, if necessary by providing special provision by way of reservation to aid the Backward classes and Scheduled castes and Tribes.	None
It may well be that there may be other ways and means of achieving the same result.	None
In our country where social and economic conditions differ from State to State, it would be idle to expect absolute uniformity of approach but in taking executive action to implement the policy of Art. 15(4), it is necessary for the States to remember that the policy which is intended to be implemented is the policy which has been declared by Art.	None
46 and the preamble of the Constitution.	None
It is for the attainment of social and economic justice Art. 15(4) authorises the making of special provisions for the advancement of the communities there contemplated even if such provisions may be inconsistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed under Art. 15 or 29(2).	None
The context, therefore, requires that the executive action taken by the State must be based on an objective approach, free from all extraneous pressures.	None
The said action is intended to do social and economic justice and must be taken in a manner that justice is and should be done.	None
Whilst we are dealing with this question, it would be relevant to add to that the provisions of Art. 15(4) are similar to those of Art. 16(4) which fell to be considered in the case of The General Manager, Southern Railway v. Rangachari (1962 (2) SCR 586 ).	None
In that case, the majority decision of this Court held that the power of reservation which is conferred on the State under Art. 16(4) can be exercised by the State in a proper case not only by providing for reservation of appointments, but also by providing for reservation of selection posts.	None
This conclusion was reached on the basis that it served to give effect to the intention of the Constitution makers to make adequate safeguards for the advancement of Backward Classes and to secure their adequate representation in the Services.	None
The judgment shows that the only point which was raised for the decision of this Court in that case was whether the reservation made was outside Art.	None
16(4) and that posed the bare question about the construction of Art.	None
16(4).	None
The propriety, the reasonableness or the wisdom of the impugned order was not questioned because it was not the respondents case that if the order was justified under Art.	None
16(4)	None
, it was a fraud on the Constitution.	None
Even so, it was pointed out in the judgment that the efficiency of administration is of such a paramount importance that it would be unwise and impermissible to make any reservation at the cost of efficiency of administration that, it was stated, was undoubtedly the effect of Art. 335.	None
Therefore, what is true in regard to Art. 15(4) is equally true in regard to Art. 16(4).	None
There can be no doubt that the Constitutionmakers assumed, as they were entitled to, that while making adequate reservation under Art. 16(4), care would be taken not to provide for unreasonable, excessive or extravagant reservation, for that would, by eliminating general competition in a large field and by creating widespread dissatisfaction amongst the employees, materially affect efficiency.	None
Therefore, like the special provision improperly made under Art. 15(4), reservation made under Art. 16(4) beyond the permissible and legitimate limits would be liable to be challenged as a fraud on the Constitution.	None
In this connection it is necessary to emphasize that Art. 15(4) is an enabling provision it does not impose an obligation, but merely leaves it to the discretion of the appropriate government to take suitable action, if necessary.	None
To similar effect is the view expressed in K.C. Vasanth Kumars case (supra) at para 150 At this stage it should be made clear that if on a fresh determination some castes or communities have to go out of the list of backward classes prepared for Article 15(4) and Article 16(4) the Government may still pursue the policy of amelioration of weaker sections of the population amongst them in accordance with the directive principle contained in article 46 of the Constitution.	None
There are in all castes and communities poor people who if they are given adequate opportunity and training may be able to compete successfully with persons belonging to richer classes.	None
The Government may provide for them liberal grants of scholarships, free studentship, free boarding and lodging facilities, free uniforms, free mid day meals etc. to make the life of poor students comfortable.	None
The Government may also provide extra tutorial facilities, stationery and books free of costs and library facilities.	None
These and other steps should be taken in the lower classes so that by the time a student appears for the qualifying examination he may be able to attain a high degree of proficiency in his studies.	None
It has also been noted as follows I wish to add that the doctrine of protective discrimination embodied in Article 15(4) and 16(4) and the mandate of Article 29(2) cannot be stretched beyond a particular limit.	None
The State exists to serve its people.	None
There are some services where expertise and skill are of the essence.	None
For example, a hospital run by the State serves the ailing members of the public who need medical aid.	None
Medical services directly affect and deal with the health and life of the populace.	None
Profession expertise, born of knowledge and experience, of a high degree of technical knowledge and operation skill is required of pilots and aviation engineers.	None
The lives of citizens depend on such persons.	None
There are other similar fields of governmental activity where professional, technological, scientific or other special skill is called for.	None
In such services or posts under the Union or State, we think where can be no room for reservation of posts merit alone must be the sole and decisive consideration for appointments.	None
(underlined for emphasis) Lengthy arguments have been advanced as to the seriousness in identifying the backward classes.	None
On the basis of Indra Sawhney No.1s judgment, the Government of India issued orders in respect of reservations of appointments or on posts under the Government of India in favour of backward classes of citizens.	None
It was the subject matter of challenge in Indra Sawhney No.1.	None
In its judgment dated 16.11.1992 this Court directed the Government to constitute a permanent body by 15.3.1993 for entertaining and examining and recommending upon requests made for inclusion or complaints of over inclusion and under inclusion in the lists of backward classes of citizens.	None
Constituent Assembly Debates 1951 have also relevance for adjudicating the controversy.	None
The following portion needs to be extracted Parliamentary Standing Committee Report at paras 36, 37 and 46 read as follows The committee notes that there is a major limitation on data about the social economic and educational profile of our population in general and about OBCs in particular.	None
The last castebased census in India was done in 1931.	None
Accordingly there are no periodic data available on the demographic spread of OBCs and their access to amenities.	None
Even the Mandal Commission had used the 1931 Census data.	None
Whatever limited data are available, pertain to surveys conducted by NSSO from 199899 onwards, which are only sample surveys.	None
The Committee found that there exists no accepted mechanism criteria to group the people into different categories.	None
As a result, existing list of backward castes communities are termed in some cases, as inaccurate.	None
Besides, any regular process of review is also not in place.	None
Such a review implies both inclusion and exclusion.	None
The Committee, therefore, emphasizes the need for taking urgent measures steps for identifying and removing all such lacunae and removing all such lacunae and problems by putting in place scientific and objective mechanism benchmarks for this purpose.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
There have been suggestions countersuggestions on the issue of exclusion of the creamy layer amongst OBCs in the proposed legislation.	None
On the one hand, it was argued that the concept of creamy layer did not apply in the case of reservation in admission.	None
It was pointed out that the debate on the exclusion of the creamy layer was misplaced as the Supreme Courts observation regarding the exclusion of the creamy layer within the SCs and STs from the purview of reservation was only for public employment and promotion.	None
The other view in this regard was that the inclusion of the creamy layer in reservation would defeat the very purpose of providing reservation to the backward classes.	None
It was also stated that the exclusion of the creamy layer would ensure that the intended benefits of the reservation reach to the really deserving among the backward classes.	None
It was further stated that this in itself would not suffice and should be supplemented by categorization of the backward classes in various groups depending upon their degree of backwardness and apportioning of appropriate percentage of reservation to each group.	None
It was also brought to the committee that similar experiments in States of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka,Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra etc. have, in fact, stood the test of time and yielded the desired results.	None
One of the petitioners Youth for Equality had filed a representation before the Parliamentary Committee giving certain important data.	None
Relevant portions read as follows TOP WITHOUT BASE	None
The condition of infrastructure and staff at the primary and secondary level is of some concern and the government  especially the Ministry for Human Resource and Development which has proposed increased reservations, should work towards improvement in this area for Real affirmative action.	None
According to the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (in 2003)	None
the state of affairs at the primary level was as under In 62 996 schools in country do not have school building and are operating in tents or under the trees.	None
In 70,739 Primary Schools  No class room.	None
In 95,003 primary Schools  Single Class room.	None
In 8,269 Primary Schools No teacher In 1,15,267 Primary schools Single teacher In more than 60,000 schools the pupil Teacher ratio is greater than 100 1 while the acceptable ratio is less than 401.	None
In 84,848 schools No black board In More than 1 00 000	None
Schools  No electricity.	None
Apart from the above, according to the NCERT (In 1998), Only 34.6 of Govt.	None
Schools had safe Drinking water, 13.2 had urinal and 4.9 had urinals for girls and only 6.0 had a lavatory.	None
While the government promises a spending of about 6 of GDP for the development of education, the reality has been to the contrary.	None
The Government spending in the years was as under 20002001 4.1 20012002 4.3 20022004 3.8 20042005 3.5	None
The National Commission for Backward Classes Act, 1993 (in short Backward Classes Act) was accordingly enacted.	None
Few provisions of this Act need to be noted.	None
Section 2 (c) defines lists as follows Lists means lists prepared by the Government of India from time to time for purposes of making provisions for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of backward classes of citizens which, in the opinion of that Government, are not adequately represented in the services under the Government of India and any local or other authority within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India.	None
Important provisions are Sections 9 and 10 which read as follows Functions of the Commission (1) The Commission shall examine requests for inclusion of any class of citizens as a backward class in such lists and hear complaints of overinclusion or under inclusion of any backward class in such lists and tender such advice to the Central Government as it deems appropriate.	None
The advice of the Commission shall ordinarily be binding upon the Central Government.	None
Powers of the Commission The Commission shall, while performing its functions under subsection (1) of Section 9, have all the powers of a civil court trying a suit and in particular, in respect of the following matters, namely (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from any part of India and examining him on oath (b) requiring the discovery and production of any document (c) receiving evidence on affidavits (d) requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court of office (e) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses and documents and (f) any other matter which may be prescribed.	None
A periodic revision of the lists by the Central Government is a statutory mandate.	None
Petitioners have highlighted that there is no exclusion and on the other hand there has been inclusion.	None
On the question of castes enumeration it is emphasized that 1931 Census was not the basis for identification of other backward classes.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact the central OBC List is not drawn up on the basis of 1931 Census.	None
Each State has different modalities for identification.	None
Only for the purpose of quantum the population provides a foundation.	None
It needs no emphasis that if ultimately and indisputably the constitutional goal is the casteless and classless society, there has to be more effective implementation of the Backward Classes Act.	None
The exercise required to be undertaken under Section 11 of the said Act is not intended to be a routine exercise and also not an exercise in futility.	None
It has to be not only effective but also result oriented.	None
The petitioners have highlighted the lack of seriousness of the Government in carrying out the exercise.	None
Voluminous datas have been brought on record in this regard.	None
With reference to the reports of the Commission, learned counsel for the respondents on the other hand have stressed on the fact that the Commission has been working with all sincerity and with the object of effectively implementing the Backward Classes Act.	None
One thing needs to be noted here.	None
Concrete data about the number of backward classes in the country does not appear to be available.	None
The survey conducted by the National Sample Survey reveals that the percentage is not 52 as is highlighted by the respondents.	None
Section 2(g) of the Act is relevant in this regard.	None
It reads as follows Other Backward Classes means the class or classes of citizens who are socially and educationally backward, and are so determined by the Central Government.	None
At this juncture, it is to be noted that the Backward Classes Act in order to be wholly functional mandates determination by the Central Government of the backward classes for whom the Statute is intended.	None
Undisputedly, such determination has not been done.	None
The plea is that for more than half a century enough attention has not been given for the benefit of the other backward classes in the matter of admissions to higher educational institutions.	None
That cannot be a ground to act with hurry and with undetermined datas.	None
It may be as rightly contended by learned counsel for the respondents that the percentage can certainly be not less than 27.	None
But that is no answer to the important question as to the identity test.	None
In the background loom the socially and economically backward class of citizens.	None
Poverty knows no caste.	None
Poor has no caste.	None
It is an unfortunate class.	None
It is a matter of common knowledge that the institution of caste is a peculiarity of Indian institution when there is considerable controversy amongst the scholars as to how the caste system originated in this country.	None
Originally, there were four main castes known as Varnas .	None
But gradually castes and subcastes multiplied as the social fabric expanded with the absorption of different groups of people who belong to various cults and professing different religious faiths.	None
The caste system in its earlier stage was quite elastic but in course of time it gradually hardened into a rigid framework based upon heredity.	None
The inevitable result was social inequality.	None
At some point of time occupation was the background for determination of castes.	None
May be, at some point of time it depended on the income of the individual.	None
But it appears to have taken disastrous turn with difference of status of various castes.	None
But passage of time shows that the occupational label has lost much of its significance.	None
But at the same time, the poor and down trodden who belong to the caste of their own were the founders of poor.	None
In Indra Sawhney No.1 this factor was noticed.	None
It is said that one must take life in ones stride, let today embrace the past with remembrance and the future with longing.	None
Dont look for the path far away, the path exists under your feet.	None
What is past and what cannot be prevented should not be grieved for.	None
With reference to the Office Memorandum which provides for preference in favour of poorer sections over other members of the backward classes, the expression was held to be relatable to those who are socially and economically more backward.	None
The use of the word poorer in the context was held to be a measure of the social backwardness.	None
It is therefore unmistakenly recognized that economic backwardness is a factor which can never be lost sight of.	None
There are only two families in the world the haves and the have nots said Miquel De Cervantes Don Qutxote de ta Mancha.	None
Tolstoy has emphatically said We will do anything for the poor man anything but get of his back (quoted in Huntington Philanthrophy and Morality).	None
William Cobbett had said to be poor and independent is very nearly an impossibility.	None
(See His book Advise to Young Men).	None
We cannot turn Nelsons eye to the poor, those covered by all encompassing expression economically backward classes.	None
Should this class of people be kept out of the mainstream of governmental priorities and policies because they belong to a particular caste?	None
As noted above, the poor have no caste.	None
A person belonging to a higher caste should not be made to suffer for what his forefathers had done several generations back.	None
Franklin D Roosevelt in a speech in 1940 had said It is an unfortunate human failing that a full pocket book often groans more loudly than an empty stomach.	None
The haves and the have nots have to coexist.	None
If the creamy layer has to be excluded the economically backward classes have to be included.	None
That would be social balancing and that would be giving true meaning of the objectives of the Constitution.	None
Social empowerment cannot be and is certainly not a measure for only socially and educationally backward classes.	None
It also has to be for the socially and economically backward classes.	None
Unless this balance, which is very delicate, is maintained the system inevitably will develop a crack and this crack may after a certain point of time be difficult to be joined.	None
Instead of lightening the society from castes or classes it will be over burdened and a point of time may come when we shall not be able to bear the burden any further.	None
Timely steps in this regard will save the Indian society and democracy from a catastrophe of collapse because of something which the Constitution wants to obliterate.	None
On the question of time period for the reservation, it is submitted that length of the leap to be provided depends upon the gap to be filled.	None
It is fairly accepted by learned counsel for the respondents that as and when castes reach a higher level it is to be excluded from the zone of consideration.	None
It is further submitted that traditional occupation is being pursued by persons belonging to some castes and the system still subsists and has not broken down.	None
In the absence of alternative occupation which may not be lucrative, the persons who used to previously carry on the traditional occupation find it difficult to take up any other occupation.	None
It has been averred that consequent to several efforts, India has made enormous progress in terms of increase in institutions, teachers and students in elementary education.	None
But despite all the efforts large population of the children in the country still remain out of school.	None
One of the contentions is that by passage of time prolonged reservation becomes illicit.	None
In Motor General Traders and Anr.	None
v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors.	None
(1984 (1) SCC 222 ) following observations were made What may be unobjectionable as a transitional or temporary measure at an initial stage can still become discriminatory and hence violative of Article 14 of the Constitution if it is persisted in over a long period without any justification.	None
The trend of decisions of this Court on the above question may be traced thus.	None
In Bhaiyalal Shukla v. State of Madhya Pradesh 1962 Supp.	None
2 S.C.R. 257 one of the contentions urged was that the levy of sales tax in the area which was formerly known as Vindhya Pradesh (a Part C State) on building materials used in a works contract was discriminatory after the merger of that area in the new State of Madhya Pradesh which was formed on November 1,1956 under the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 as the sale of building materials in a works contract was not subject to any levy of sales tax in another part of the same new State namely the area which was formerly part of the area known as State of Madhya Pradesh (the Central Provinces and Berar area).	None
That contention was rejected by this Court with the following observations at pages 274275 The laws in different portions of the new State of Madhya Pradesh were enacted by different Legislatures, and under Section 119 of the States Reorganisation Act all laws inforce are to continue until repealed or altered by the appropriate Legislature.	None
We have already held that the sales tax law in Vindhya Pradesh was validly enacted, and it brought its validity with it under Section 119 of the States Reorganisation Act, when it became a part of the State of Madhya Pradesh.	None
Thereafter, the different laws in different parts of Madhya Pradesh can be sustained on the ground that the differentiation arises from historical reasons, and a geographical classification based on historical reasons has been upheld by this Court in M.K. Prithi Rajji v. The State of Rajasthan (Civil Appeal No. 327 of 1956 decided on November 2, 1960) and again in The State of Madhya Pradesh v. The Gwalior Sugar Co. Ltd. (Civil Appeals Nos. 98 and 99 of 1957 decided on November 30, 1960).	None
The latter case is important, because the sugarcane cess levied in the former Gwalior State but not in the rest of Madhya Bharat of which it formed a part, was challenged on the same ground as here, but was upheld as not affected by Article14.	None
We, therefore, reject this argument.	None
In N.M.	None
Thomass case (supra) the parameters of various clauses of Article 16 were highlighted as follows The rule of equality within Articles 14 and 16(1) will not be violated by a rule which will ensure equality of representation in the services for unrepresented classes after satisfying the basic needs of efficiency of administration.	None
Article 16(2) rules out some basis of classification including race, caste, descent, place of birth etc.	None
Article 16(4) clarifies and explains that classification on the basis of backwardness does not fall within Article 16(2) and is legitimate for the purposes of Article 16(1).	None
If preference shall be given to a particular underrepresented community other than a backward class or underrepresented State in an All India Service such a rule will contravene Article 16(2).	None
A similar rule giving preference to an underrepresented backward community is valid and will not contravene Articles 14, 16(1) and 16(2).	None
Article 16(4) removes any doubt in this respect.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
Our Constitution aims at equality of status and opportunity for all citizens including those who are socially, economically and educationally backward.	None
The claims of members of backward classes require adequate representation in legislative and executive bodies.	None
If members of Scheduled Castes and Tribes, who are said by this Court to be backward classes, can maintain minimum necessary requirement of administrative efficiency, not only representation but also preference may be given to them to enforce equality and to eliminate inequality.	None
Articles 15(4) and 16(4) bring out the position of backward classes to merit equality.	None
Special provisions are made for the advancement of backward classes and reservations of appointments and posts for them to secure adequate representation.	None
These provisions will bring out the content of equality guaranteed by Articles 14, 15(1) and 16(1).	None
The basic concept of equality is equality of opportunity for appointment.	None
Preferential treatment for members of backward classes with due regard to administrative efficiency alone can mean equality of opportunity for all citizens.	None
Equality under Article 16 could not have a different content from equality under Article 14.	None
Equality of opportunity for unequals can only mean aggravation of inequality.	None
Equality of opportunity admits discrimination with reason and prohibits discrimination without reason.	None
Discrimination with reasons means rational classification for differential treatment having nexus to the Constitutionally permissible object.	None
Preferential representation for the backward classes in services with due regard to administrative efficiency is permissible object and backward classes are a rational classification recognised by our Constitution.	None
Therefore, differential treatment in standards of selection is within the concept of equality.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
If we are all to be treated in the same manner, this must carry with it the important requirement that none of us should be better or worse in upbringing, education, than any one else which is an unattainable ideal for human beings of anything like the sort we now see.	None
Some people maintain that the concept of equality of opportunity is an unsatisfactory concept For, a complete formulation of it renders it incompatible with any form of human society.	None
Take for instance, the case of equality of opportunity for education.	None
This equality cannot start in schools and hence requires uniform treatment in families which is an evident impossibility.	None
To remedy this, all children might be brought up in state nurseries, but, to achieve the purpose, the nurseries would have to be run on vigorously uniform lines.	None
Could we guarantee equality of opportunity to the young even in those circumstances?	None
The idea is well expressed by Laski Equality means, in the second place, that adequate opportunities are laid open to all.	None
By adequate opportunities we cannot imply equal opportunities in a sense that implies identity of original chance.	None
The native endowments of men are by no means equal.	None
Children who are brought up in an atmosphere where things of the mind are accounted highly are bound to start the race of life with advantages no legislation can secure.	None
Parental character will inevitably affect profoundly the equality of the children whom it touches.	None
So long, therefore, as the family endures  and there seems little reason to anticipate or to desire its disappearance  the varying environments it will create make the notion of equal opportunities a fantastic one.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
Bernard A.O. Williams, in his article The Idea of Equality (supra) gives an illustration of the working of the principle of equality of opportunity Suppose that in a certain society great prestige is attached to membership of a warrior class, the duties of which require great physical strength.	None
This class has in the past been recruited from certain wealthy families only, but egalitarian reformers achieve a change in the rules, by which warriors are recruited from all sections of the society, on the result of a suitable competition.	None
The effect of this, however, is that the wealthy families still provide virtually all the warriors, because the rest of the populace is so undernourished by reason of poverty that their physical strength is inferior to that of the wealthy and well nourished.	None
The reformers protest that equality of opportunity has not really been achieved the wealthy reply that in fact it has, and that the poor now have the opportunity of becoming warriors  it is just bad luck that their characteristics are such that they do not pass the test We are not, they might say, excluding anyone for being poor we exclude people for being weak, and it is unfortunate that those who are poor are also weak.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
Today, the political theory which acknowledges the obligation of government under Part IV of the Constitution to provide jobs, medical care, old age pension, etc., extends to human rights and imposes an affirmative obligation to promote equality and liberty.	None
The force of the idea of a state with obligation to help the weaker sections of its members seems to have increasing influence in Constitutional law.	None
The idea finds expression in a number of cases in America involving social discrimination and also in the decisions requiring the state to offset the effects of poverty by providing counsel, transcript of appeal, expert witnesses, etc.	None
Today, the sense that government has affirmative responsibility for elimination of inequalities, social, economic or otherwise, is one of the dominant forces in Constitutional law.	None
While special concessions for the underprivileged have been easily permitted, they have not traditionally been required.	None
Decisions in the areas of criminal procedure, voting rights and education in America suggest that the traditional approach may not be completely adequate.	None
In these areas, the inquiry whether equality has been achieved no longer ends with numerical equality rather the equality clause has been held to require resort to a standard of proportional equality which requires the state, in framing legislation, to take into account the private inequalities of wealth, of education and other circumstances.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
The ultimate reason for the demand of equality for the members of backward classes is a moral perspective which affirms the intrinsic value of all human beings and calls for a society which provides these conditions of life which men need for development of their varying capacities.	None
It is an assertion of human equality in the sense that it manifests an equal concern for the well being of all men.	None
On the one hand it involves a demand for the removal of those obstacles and impediments which stand in the way of the development of human capacities, that is, it is a call for the abolition of unjustifiable inequalities.	None
On the other hand, the demand itself gets its sense and moral driving force from the recognition that the poorest he that is in England hath a life to live, as the greatest he.	None
Equality and excellence are two conflicting claims difficult to be reconciled.	None
The Constitution, in order to ensure true equality provides for special treatment to socially and educationally backward classes of citizens which is obviously desirable for providing social justice, though at the cost of merit.	None
However, the Constitution does not provide at all for institutional reservation.	None
Therefore, its constitutionality is to be judged on the touchstone of Article 14.	None
A large number of cases cropped up in this area concerning the institutional preference for admission into postgraduate medical education and super specialties.	None
The judiciary came forward and laid down detailed principles covering the need of such preference and to limit the extent of such reservation in view of the importance of merit in the context of national interest and international importance of universal excellence in super specialties.	None
It is to be noted that the foundation for fixing 27 appears to be the view that 52 of the population belong to OBC.	None
There is no supportable data for this proposition.	None
In fact, different Commissions at different points of time have different figures.	None
It is the stand of the respondents that no Commission has fixed the percentage below 52 and, therefore, there is nothing wrong in fixing the percentage at 27.	None
This is not the correct approach.	None
It may be that in no case the percentage of persons belonging to OBC is less than 27 but supposing in a given case considering the fact that the actual percentage is 40 a figure less than 27 should have been fixed.	None
The Commission set out pursuant to the directions of this Court seems to have somewhat acted on the petitions filed by the people claiming exclusion or inclusion.	None
That was not the real purpose of this Courts decision to direct appointment of Commission.	None
The very purpose was to identify the classes.	None
This was the exercise which was to be undertaken apart from considering the applications for inclusion or exclusion as the case may be.	None
As has been conceded at the beginning of the case affirmative action is not under challenge.	None
Affirmative action is nothing but a crucial component of social justice in the constitutional dispensation but at the same time it has to be kept in view that the same does not infringe the principles of equality of which it is a part and or unreasonably restraint or restrict other fundamental freedoms and that it does not violate the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
It needs no emphasis that Articles 15(4), 15(5) and 16(4) have to comply with the requirements of Article 14 and the discipline imposed in several other provisions like Articles 15(4)(a) and 15(4)(b), though, they form a part of the equality concept, each of which is so found in our Constitution.	None
It is a well settled principle in law that the Court cannot read anything into a statutory provision which is plain and unambiguous.	None
A statute is an edict of the Legislature.	None
The language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of legislative intent.	None
Words and phrases are symbols that stimulate mental references to referents.	None
The object of interpreting a statute is to ascertain the intention of the Legislature enacting it.	None
(See Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. M s Price Waterhouse and Anr.	None
(AIR 1998 SC 74 ).	None
The intention of the Legislature is primarily to be gathered from the language used, which means that attention should be paid to what has been said as also to what has not been said.	None
As a consequence, a construction which requires for its support, addition or substitution of words or which results in rejection of words as meaningless has to be avoided.	None
As observed in Crawford v. Spooner (1846 (6) Moore PC 1), Courts, cannot aid the Legislatures defective phrasing of an Act, we cannot add or mend, and by construction make up deficiencies which are left there.	None
(See The State of Gujarat and Ors.	None
v. Dilipbhai Nathjibhai Patel and Anr.	None
(JT 1998 (2) SC 253 ).	None
It is contrary to all rules of construction to read words into an Act unless it is absolutely necessary to do so.	None
(See Stock v. Frank Jones (Tiptan) Ltd. (1978 1 All ER 948 (HL).	None
Rules of interpretation do not permit Courts to do so, unless the provision as it stands is meaningless or of doubtful meaning.	None
Courts are not entitled to read words into an Act of Parliament unless clear reason for it is to be found within the four corners of the Act itself.	None
(Per Lord Loreburn L.C. in Vickers Sons and Maxim Ltd. v. Evans (1910)	None
AC 445 (HL), quoted in Jamma Masjid, Mercara v. Kodimaniandra Deviah and Ors.(AIR 1962 SC 847 ).	None
The question is not what may be supposed and has been intended but what has been said.	None
Statutes should be construed not as theorems of Euclid.	None
Judge Learned Hand said, but words must be construed with some imagination of the purposes which lie behind them.	None
(See Lenigh Valley Coal Co. v. Yensavage 218 FR 547).	None
The view was reiterated in Union of India and Ors.	None
v. Filip Tiago De Gama of Vedem Vasco De Gama (AIR 1990 SC 981 ).	None
In D.R. Venkatchalam and Ors. etc. v. Dy. Transport Commissioner and Ors. etc. (AIR 1977 SC 842 ), it was observed that Courts must avoid the danger of a priori determination of the meaning of a provision based on their own preconceived notions of ideological structure or scheme into which the provision to be interpreted is somewhat fitted.	None
They are not entitled to usurp legislative function under the disguise of interpretation.	None
While interpreting a provision the Court only interprets the law and cannot legislate it.	None
If a provision of law is misused and subjected to the abuse of process of law, it is for the legislature to amend, modify or repeal it, if deemed necessary.	None
(See Commissioner of Sales Tax, M.P. v. Popular Trading Company, Ujjain (2000 (5) SCC 511 ).	None
The legislative casus omissus cannot be supplied by judicial interpretative process.	None
Two principles of construction one relating to casus omissus and the other in regard to reading the statute as a whole appear to be well settled.	None
Under the first principle a casus omissus cannot be supplied by the Court except in the case of clear necessity and when reason for it is found in the four corners of the statute itself but at the same time a casus omissus should not be readily inferred and for that purpose all the parts of a statute or section must be construed together and every clause of a section should be construed with reference to the context and other clauses thereof so that the construction to be put on a particular provision makes a consistent enactment of the whole statute.	None
This would be more so if literal construction of a particular clause leads to manifestly absurd or anomalous results which could not have been intended by the Legislature.	None
An intention to produce an unreasonable result, said Danackwerts, L.J. in Artemiou v. Procopiou (1966 1 QB 878), is not to be imputed to a statute if there is some other construction available.	None
Where to apply words literally would defeat the obvious intention of the legislature and produce a wholly unreasonable result we must do some violence to the words and so achieve that obvious intention and produce a rational construction.	None
(Per Lord Reid in Luke v. IRC (1963 AC 557) where at p. 577 he also observed this is not a new problem, though our standard of drafting is such that it rarely emerges.	None
It is then true that, when the words of a law extend not to an inconvenience rarely happening, but due to those which often happen, it is good reason not to strain the words further than they reach, by saying it is casus omissus, and that the law intended quae frequentius accidunt.	None
But, on the other hand, it is no reason, when the words of a law do enough extend to an inconvenience seldom happening, that they should not extend to it as well as if it happened more frequently, because it happens but seldom (See Fenton v. Hampton (1858) XI Moore, P.C. 347).	None
A casus omissus ought not to be created by interpretation, save in some case of strong necessity.	None
Where, however, a casus omissus does really occur, either through the inadvertence of the legislature, or on the principle quod semel aut bis existit praeterunt legislatores (legislators says pass over that which happens only once or twice), the rule is that the particular case, thus left unprovided for, must be disposed of according to the law as it existed before such statute  Casus omissus et oblivioni datus dispositioni communis juris relinquitur a casus omissus, observed Buller, J. in Jones v. Smart (1 T.R. 52), can in no case be supplied by a court of law, for that would be to make laws.	None
The golden rule for construing wills, statutes, and, in fact, all written instruments has been thus stated The grammatical and ordinary sense of the words is to be adhered to unless that would lead to some absurdity or some repugnance or inconsistency with the rest of the instrument, in which case the grammatical and ordinary sense of the words may be modified, so as to avoid that absurdity and inconsistency, but no further (See Grey v. Pearson (1857 (6) H.L. Cas. 61).	None
The latter part of this golden rule must, however, be applied with much caution.	None
if, remarked Jervis, C.J., the precise words used are plain and unambiguous in our judgment, we are bound to construe them in their ordinary sense, even though it lead, in our view of the case, to an absurdity or manifest injustice.	None
Words may be modified or varied where their import is doubtful or obscure.	None
But we assume the functions of legislators when we depart from the ordinary meaning of the precise words used, merely because we see, or fancy we see, an absurdity or manifest injustice from an adherence to their literal meaning (See Abley v. Dale 11, C.B. 378).	None
Classifications on the basis of castes in the long run has tendency of inherently becoming pernicious.	None
Therefore, the test of reasonableness has to apply.	None
When the object is elimination of castes and not perpetuation to achieve the goal of casteless society and a society free from discrimination of castes judicial review within the permissible limits is not ruled out.	None
But at the same time compelling State interest can be considered while assessing backwardness.	None
The impact of poverty on backwardness cannot be lost sight of.	None
Economic liberation and freedom are also important.	None
In Nagarajs case (supra) it was inter alia observed as follows The above three concepts are independent variable concepts.	None
The application of these concepts in public employment depends upon quantifiable data in each case.	None
Equality in law is different from equality in fact.	None
When we construe Article 16(4), it is equality in fact which plays the dominant role.	None
Backward Classes seek justice.	None
General class in public employment seeks equity.	None
The difficulty comes in when the third variable comes in, namely, efficiency in service.	None
In the issue of reservation, we are being asked to find a stable equilibrium between justice to the backwards, equity for the forwards and efficiency for the entire system.	None
Equity and justice in the above context are hard concepts.	None
However, if you add efficiency to equity and justice, the problem arises in the context of the reservation.	None
This problem has to be examined, therefore, on the facts of each case.	None
Therefore, Article 16(4) has to be construed in the light of Article 335 of the Constitution.	None
Inadequacy in representation and backwardness of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are circumstances which enable the State Government to act under Article 16(4) of the Constitution.	None
However, as held by this Court the limitations on the discretion of the Government in the matter of reservation under Article 16(4) as well as Article 16(4A) come in the form of Article 335 of the Constitution.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
The point which we are emphasising is that ultimately the present controversy is regarding the exercise of the power by the State Government depending upon the fact situation in each case.	None
Therefore, vesting of the power by an enabling provision may be constitutionally valid and yet exercise of the power by the State in a given case may be arbitrary, particularly, if the State fails to identify and measure backwardness and inadequacy keeping in mind the efficiency of service as required under Article 335.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
It is the equality in fact which has to be decided looking at the ground reality.	None
Balancing comes in where the question concerns the extent of reservation.	None
If the extent of reservation goes beyond cutoff point then it results in reverse discrimination.	None
Antidiscrimination legislation has a tendency of pushing towards de facto reservation.	None
Therefore, a numerical benchmark is the surest immunity against charges of discrimination.	None
Reservation is necessary for transcending caste and not for perpetuating it.	None
Reservation has to be used in a limited sense otherwise it will perpetuate casteism in the country.	None
Reservation is underwritten by a special justification.	None
Equality in Article 16(1) is individualspecific whereas reservation in Article 16(4) and Article 16(4A) is enabling.	None
The discretion of the State is, however, subject to the existence of backwardness and inadequacy of representation in public employment.	None
Backwardness has to be based on objective factors whereas inadequacy has to factually exist.	None
This is where judicial review comes in.	None
However, whether reservation in a given case is desirable or not, as a policy, is not for us to decide as long as the parameters mentioned in Articles 16(4) and 16(4A) are maintained.	None
As stated above, equity, justice and merit (Article 335) efficiency are variables which can only be identified and measured by the State.	None
Therefore, in each case, a contextual case has to be made out depending upon different circumstances which may exist Statewise.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
In the matter of application of the principle of basic structure, twin tests have to be satisfied, namely, the width test and the test of identity.	None
As stated hereinabove, the concept of the catchup rule and consequential seniority are not constitutional requirements.	None
They are not implicit in clauses (1) and (4) of Article 16.	None
They are not constitutional limitations.	None
They are concepts derived from service jurisprudence.	None
They are not constitutional principles.	None
They are not axioms like, secularism, federalism, etc. Obliteration of these concepts or insertion of these concepts does not change the equality code indicated by Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution.	None
Clause (1) of Article 16 cannot prevent the State from taking cognizance of the compelling interests of Backward Classes in the society.	None
Clauses (1) and (4) of Article 16 are restatements of the principle of equality under Article 14.	None
Clause (4) of Article 16 refers to affirmative action by way of reservation.	None
Clause (4) of Article 16, however, states that the appropriate Government is free to provide for reservation in cases where it is satisfied on the basis of quantifiable data that Backward Class is inadequately represented in the services.	None
Therefore, in every case where the State decides to provide for reservation there must exist two circumstances, namely, backwardness and inadequacy of representation.	None
As stated above, equity, justice and efficiency are variable factors.	None
These factors are contextspecific.	None
There is no fixed yardstick to identify and measure these three factors, it will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
These are the limitations on the mode of the exercise of power by the State.	None
None of these limitations have been removed by the impugned amendments.	None
If the State concerned fails to identify and measure backwardness, inadequacy and overall administrative efficiency then in that event the provision for reservation would be invalid.	None
These amendments do not alter the structure of Articles 14, 15 and 16 (equity code).	None
The parameters mentioned in Article 16(4) are retained.	None
Clause (4A) is derived from clause (4) of Article 16.	None
Clause (4A) is confined to SCs and STs alone.	None
Therefore, the present case does not change the identity of the Constitution.	None
The word amendment connotes change.	None
The question is whether the impugned amendments discard the original Constitution.	None
It was vehemently urged on behalf of the petitioners that the Statement of Objects and Reasons indicates that the impugned amendments have been promulgated by Parliament to overrule the decisions of this Court.	None
We do not find any merit in this argument.	None
Under Article 141 of the Constitution the pronouncement of this Court is the law of the land.	None
The judgments of this Court in Virpal Singh, Ajit Singh (I), Ajit Singh (II) and Indra Sawhney were judgments delivered by this Court which enunciated the law of the land.	None
It is that law which is sought to be changed by the impugned constitutional amendments.	None
The impugned constitutional amendments are enabling in nature.	None
They leave it to the States to provide for reservation.	None
It is well settled that Parliament while enacting a law does not provide content to the right.	None
The content is provided by the judgments of the Supreme Court.	None
If the appropriate Government enacts a law providing for reservation without keeping in mind the parameters in Article 16(4) and Article 335 then this Court will certainly set aside and strike down such legislation.	None
Applying the width test, we do not find obliteration of any of the constitutional limitations.	None
Applying the test of identity, we do not find any alteration in the existing structure of the equality code.	None
As stated above, none of the axioms like secularism, federalism, etc. which are overarching principles have been violated by the impugned constitutional amendments.	None
Equality has two facets formal equality and proportional equality.	None
Proportional equality is equality in fact whereas formal equality is equality in law.	None
Formal equality exists in the rule of law.	None
In the case of proportional equality the State is expected to take affirmative steps in favour of disadvantaged sections of the society within the framework of liberal democracy.	None
Egalitarian equality is proportional equality.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
It is important to bear in mind the nature of constitutional amendments.	None
They are curative by nature.	None
Article 16(4) provides for reservation for Backward Classes in cases of inadequate representation in public employment.	None
Article 16(4) is enacted as a remedy for the past historical discriminations against a social class.	None
The object in enacting the enabling provisions like Articles 16(4), 16(4A) and 16(4B) is that the State is empowered to identify and recognise the compelling interests.	None
If the State has quantifiable data to show backwardness and inadequacy then the State can make reservations in promotions keeping in mind maintenance of efficiency which is held to be a constitutional limitation on the discretion of the State in making reservation as indicated by Article 335.	None
As stated above, the concepts of efficiency, backwardness, inadequacy of representation are required to be identified and measured.	None
That exercise depends on availability of data.	None
That exercise depends on numerous factors.	None
It is for this reason that enabling provisions are required to be made because each competing claim seeks to achieve certain goals.	None
How best one should optimise these conflicting claims can only be done by the administration in the context of local prevailing conditions in public employment.	None
This is amply demonstrated by the various decisions of this Court discussed hereinabove.	None
Therefore, there is a basic difference between equality in law and equality in fact (see Affirmative Action by William Darity).	None
If Articles 16(4A) and 16(4B) flow from Article 16(4) and if Article 16(4) is an enabling provision then Articles 16(4A) and 16(4B) are also enabling provisions.	None
As long as the boundaries mentioned in Article 16(4), namely, backwardness, inadequacy and efficiency of administration are retained in Articles 16(4A) and 16(4B) as controlling factors, we cannot attribute constitutional invalidity to these enabling provisions.	None
However, when the State fails to identify and implement the controlling factors then excessiveness comes in, which is to be decided on the facts of each case.	None
In a given case, where excessiveness results in reverse discrimination, this Court has to examine individual cases and decide the matter in accordance with law.	None
This is the theory of guided power.	None
We may once again repeat that equality is not violated by mere conferment of power but it is breached by arbitrary exercise of the power conferred.	None
In Minerva Mills Ltd. v. Union of India (1980) 3 SCC 625) it was observed as follows This is not mere semantics.	None
The edifice of our Constitution is built upon the concepts crystallised in the preamble.	None
We resolved to constitute ourselves into a Socialist State which carried with it the obligation to secure to our people justice social, economic and political.	None
We, therefore, put Part IV into our Constitution containing directive principles of State policy which specify the socialistic goal to be achieved.	None
We promised to our people a democratic polity which carries with it the obligation of securing to the people liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship equality of status and of opportunity and the assurance that the dignity of the individual will at all costs be preserved.	None
We, therefore, put Part III in our Constitution conferring those rights on the people.	None
Those rights are not an end in themselves but are the means to an end.	None
The end is specified in Part IV.	None
Therefore, the rights conferred by Part III are subject to reasonable restrictions and the Constitution provides that enforcement of some of them may, in stated uncommon circumstances, be suspended.	None
But just as the rights conferred by Part III would be without a radar and a compass if they were not geared to an ideal, in the same manner the attainment of the ideals set out in Part IV would become a pretence for tyranny if the price to be paid for achieving that ideal is human freedoms.	None
One of the faiths of our founding fathers was the purity of means.	None
Indeed, under our law, even a dacoit who has committed a murder cannot be put to death in the exercise of right of selfdefence after he has made good his escape.	None
So great is the insistence of civilised laws on the purity of means.	None
The goals set out in Part IV have, therefore, to be achieved without the abrogation of the means provided for by Part III.	None
It is in this sense that Parts III and IV together constitute the core of our Constitution and, combine to form its conscience.	None
Anything that destroys the balance between the two parts will ipso facto destroy an essential element of the basic structure of our Constitution.	None
The view was affirmed in T.M.A. Pai Foundation and Ors.	None
v. State of Karnataka and Ors.	None
(2002 (8) SCC 481 )	None
It has been highlighted that Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are irreconcilable.	None
It is pointed out that Article 30 is not intended to pamper any class of people, but is intended to assure minorities regarding the right to establish.	None
In that sense, Article 19(1)(g) is applicable.	None
The said right is an inalienable and sacrosanct right.	None
According to Mr. Venugopal, Article 15(5) carved out an area from Article 15(4).	None
Article 29(2) has to be read into Article 15(5) as Articles 15(4) and 15(5) operated side by side.	None
As a result of Article 15(5) by special provision minorities unaided rights are excluded.	None
Article 30 does not relate to any special right for protection against majority and it cannot be termed to be any higher right and, therefore, Article 19(1)(g) restriction is not there.	None
The object is not to create inequality.	None
It is pointed out that both Articles 15(4) and 15(5) begin with non obstante provision.	None
Article 15(5) is a later introduction.	None
It is stated that Article 15(1) has to prevail over Article 15(4) and the right given to certain class of people in Article 15(4) gets eliminated because of Article 15(5).	None
Provisions of the Constitution have to be read harmoniously and no part can be treated to be redundant.	None
In our considered view both the provisions operate in different areas though there may be some amount of overlapping but that does not in any way lead to the conclusion that Article 15(5) takes away what is provided in Article 15(4).	Arguments of Respondent
A construction which reduces the statute to a futility has to be avoided.	None
A statute or any enacting provision therein must be so construed as to make it effective and operative on the principle expressed in the maxim ut res magis valeat quam pereat i.e. a liberal construction should be put upon written instruments, so as to uphold them, if possible, and carry into effect the intention of the parties.	None
See Brooms Legal Maxims (10th Edn.), p. 361, Craies on Statutes (7th Edn.), p. 95 and Maxwell on Statutes (11th Edn.).	None
A statute is designed to be workable and the interpretation thereof by a court should be to secure that object unless crucial omission or clear direction makes that end unattainable.	None
(See Whitney v. IRC (1926 AC 37) at p. 52 referred to in CIT v. S. Teja Singh (AIR 1959 SC 352 ) and Gursahai Saigal v. CIT (AIR 1963 SC 1062 ).	None
The courts will have to reject that construction which will defeat the plain intention of the legislature even though there may be some inexactitude in the language used.	None
(See Salmon v. Duncombe (1886)	None
11AC 627 at p.634, Curtis v. Stovin (1889) 22 QBD 513) referred to in S. Teja Singh case.)	None
If the choice is between two interpretations, the narrower of which would fail to achieve the manifest purpose of the legislation, we should avoid a construction which would reduce the legislation to futility, and should rather accept the bolder construction, based on the view that Parliament would legislate only for the purpose of bringing about an effective result.	None
(See Nokes v. Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries (1940 (3) All ER 549) referred to in Pye v. Minister for Lands for NSW (1954) 3 All ER 514.	None
The principles indicated in the said cases were reiterated by this Court in Mohan Kumar Singhania v. Union of India (1992 Supp (1) SCC 594).	None
The statute must be read as a whole and one provision of the Act should be construed with reference to other provisions in the same Act so as to make a consistent enactment of the whole statute.	None
The court must ascertain the intention of the legislature by directing its attention not merely to the clauses to be construed but to the entire statute it must compare the clause with other parts of the law and the setting in which the clause to be interpreted occurs.	None
(See R.S. Raghunath v. State of Karnataka (1992) 1 SCC 335 )	None
Such a construction has the merit of avoiding any inconsistency or repugnancy either within a section or between two different sections or provisions of the same statute.	None
It is the duty of the court to avoid a headon clash between two sections of the same Act.	None
(See Sultana Begum v. Prem Chand Jain 1997 (1) SCC 373.)	None
Whenever it is possible to do so, it must be done to construe the provisions which appear to conflict so that they harmonise.	None
It should not be lightly assumed that Parliament had given with one hand what it took away with the other.	None
The provisions of one section of the statute cannot be used to defeat those of another unless it is impossible to effect reconciliation between them.	None
Thus a construction that reduces one of the provisions to a useless lumber or dead letter is not a harmonized construction.	None
To harmonise is not to destroy.	None
The Constitution of India is not intended to be static.	None
It is by its very nature dynamic.	None
It is a living and organic thing.	None
It is an instrument which has greatest value to be construed.	None
Ut Res Valeat Potius Quam Pereat (the construction should be preferred which makes the machinery workable).	None
Our Constitution reflects the beliefs and political aspirations of those who had framed it.	None
It is therefore desirable that while considering the question as to whether 27 fixed for the other backward classes to be maintained without definite data the rights of those who belong to the unfortunate categories of other economic backward classes deserve to be concerned, else there shall be no definite determination of number of other backward classes.	None
While fixing the measure for creamy layer it would not be difficult also to fix the norms for the socially and economically backward classes rather the latter exercise would be easier to undertake.	None
In Indra Sawhneys No.1 the desirability of excluding some posts from the zone of reservation was highlighted.	None
It was also emphasized that periodic review of policy of reservation was imperative.	None
It was interalia observed as follows While on Article 335, we are of the opinion that there are certain services and positions where either on account of the nature of duties attached to them or the level (in the hierarchy) at which they obtain, merit as explained hereinabove, alone counts.	None
In such situations, it may not be advisable to provide for reservations.	None
For example technical posts in research and development organizations departments institutions, in specialties and superspecialties in medicine, Engineering and other such courses in physical sciences and mathematics in defence services and in the establishment connected therewith.	None
Similarly, in the case of posts at the higher echelons e.g. Professors (in Education), Pilots in Indian Airlines and Air India, Scientists and Technicians in Nuclear and Space application, provision for reservation would not be advisable.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
We may point out that the services posts enumerated above, on account of their nature and duties attached, are such as call for highest level of intelligence, skill and excellence.	None
Some of them are second level and third level posts in the ascending order.	None
Hence, they form a category apart.	None
Reservation therein may not be consistent with efficiency of administration contemplated by Article 335.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
We may summarise our answers to the various questions dealt with and answered hereinabove (1) (a) It is not necessary that the provision under Article 16(4) should necessarily be made by the Parliament Legislature.	None
Such a provision can be made by the Executive also.	None
Local bodies, statutory Corporations and other instrumentalities of the State falling under Article 12 of the Constitution are themselves competent to make such a provision, if so advised.	None
An executive order making a provision under Article 16(4) is enforceable the moment it is made and issued.	None
(2) (a) Clause (4) of Article 16 is not an exception to clause (1).	None
It is an instance and an illustration of the classification inherent in clause (1).(b) Article 16(4) is exhaustive of the subject of reservation in favour of backward class of citizens, as explained in this judgment.	None
Reservations can also be provided under clause (1) of Article 16.	None
It is not confined to extending of preferences, concessions or exemptions alone.	None
These reservations, if any, made under clause (1) have to be so adjusted and implemented as not to exceed the level of representation prescribed for backward class of citizens as explained in this judgment.	None
3. (a) A caste can be and quite often is a social class in India.	None
If it is backward socially, it would be a backward class for the purposes of Article 16(4).	None
Among nonHindus, there are several occupational groups, sets and denominations, which for historical reasons are socially backward.	None
They too represent backward, social collectivities for the purposes of Article 16(4).	None
Neither the Constitution nor the law prescribes the procedure or method of identification of backward classes.	None
Nor is it possible or advisable for the court to lay down any such procedure or method.	None
It must be left to the authority appointed to identify.	None
It can adopt such method procedure as it thinks convenient and so long as its survey covers the entire populace, no objection can be taken to it.	None
Identification of the backward classes can certainly be done with reference to castes among, and alongwith, other occupational groups, classes and sections of people.	None
One can start the process either with occupational groups or with castes or with some other groups.	None
Thus one can start the process with castes, wherever they are found, apply the criteria (evolved for determining backwardness) and find out whether it satisfy the criteria.	None
If it doeswhat emerges is a backward class of citizens within the meaning of and for the purposes of Article 16(4).	None
Similar process can be adopted in the case of other occupational groups, communities and classes so as to cover the entire populace.	None
The central idea and overall objective should be to consider all available groups, sections and classes in society.	None
Since caste represents an existing, identifiable social group class encompassing an overwhelming minority of the countrys population, one can well begin with it and then go to other groups, sections and classes.	None
It is not correct to say that the backward class of citizens contemplated in Article 16(4) is the same as the socially and educationally backward classes referred to in Article 15(4).	None
It is much wider.	None
The accent in Article 16(4) is on social backwardness.	None
Of course, social, educational and economic backwardness are closely intertwined in the Indian context.	None
Creamy layer can be, and must be excluded.	None
It is not necessary for a class to be designated as a backward class that it is situated similarly to the Scheduled Castes Scheduled Tribes.	None
The adequacy of representation of a particular class in the services under the State is a matter within the subjective satisfaction of the appropriate Government.	None
The judicial scrutiny in that behalf is the same as in other matters within the subjective satisfaction of an authority.	None
(4) (a) A backward class of citizens cannot be identified only and exclusively with reference to economic criteria.	None
It is, of course, permissible for the Government or other authority to identify a backward class of citizens on the basis of occupation cum income, without reference to caste, if it is so advised.	None
There is no constitutional bar to classify the backward classes of citizens into backward and more backward categories.	None
6. (a) and (b)	None
The reservations contemplated in clause (4) of Article 16 should not exceed 50.	None
While 50 shall be the rule, it is necessary not to put out of consideration certain extra ordinary situation inherent in the great diversity of this country and the people.	None
In Vasanth Kumars case (supra) at para 2(4), it was observed as follows 2(4).	None
The policy of reservations in employment, education and legislative institutions should be reviewed every five years or so.	None
That will at once afford an opportunity (i) to the State to rectify distortions arising out of particular facets of the reservation policy and (ii) to the people, both backward and nonbackward, to ventilate their views in a public debate on the practical impact of the policy of reservations.	None
In State of A.P. Anr.	None
v. P. Sagar (1968 (3) SCR 595 ) at para 15, it was observed as follows Article 15 guarantees by the first clause a fundamental right of farreaching importance to the public generally.	None
Within certain defined limits an exception has been engrafted upon the guarantee of the freedom in cl.	None
(1), but being in the nature of an exception, the conditions which justify departure must be strictly shown to exist.	None
When a dispute is raised before a Court that a particular law which is inconsistent with the guarantee against discrimination is valid on the plea that it is permitted under clause (4) of Art.	None
15 the assertion by the State that the officers of the State had taken into consideration the criteria which had been adopted by the Courts for determining who the socially and educationally backward classes of the Society are, or that the authorities had acted in good faith in determining the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, would not be sufficient to sustain the validity of the claim.	None
The Courts of the country are invested with the power to determine the validity of the law which infringes the fundamental rights of citizens and others and when a question arises whether a law which prima facie infringes a guaranteed fundamental right is within an exception, the validity of that law has to be determined by the Courts on materials placed before them.	None
By merely asserting that the law was made after full consideration of the relevant evidence and criteria which have a bearing thereon, and was within the exception, the jurisdiction of the Courts to determine whether by making the law a fundamental right has been infringed is not excluded.	None
Significant observations were made in Kumari K.S. Jayasree and Anr.	None
v. The State of Kerala and Anr.	None
(1976 (3) SCC 730 ).	None
At para 22 it was noted as follows The problem of determining who are socially and educationally backward classes is undoubtedly not simple.	None
Sociological and economic considerations come into play in evolving proper criteria for its determination.	None
This is the function of the State.	None
The Courts jurisdiction is to decide whether the tests applied are valid.	None
If it appears that tests applied are proper and valid the classification of socially and educationally backward classes based on the tests will have to be consistent with the requirements of Article 15(4).	None
The Commission has found on applying the relevant tests that the lower income group of the communities named in Appendix VIII of the Report constitute the socially and educationally backward classes.	None
In dealing with the question as to whether any class of citizens is socially backward or not, it may not be irrelevant to consider the caste of the said group of citizens.	None
It is necessary to remember that special provision is contemplated for classes of citizens and not for individual citizens as such, and so though the caste of the group of citizen may be relevant, its importance should not be exaggerated.	None
If the classification is based solely on caste of the citizen, it may not be logical.	None
Social backwardness is the result of poverty to a very large extent.	None
Caste and poverty are both relevant for determining the backwardness.	None
But neither caste alone nor poverty alone will be the determining tests.	None
When the Commission has determined a class to be socially and educationally backward it is not on the basis of income alone, and the determination is based on the relevant criteria laid down by the Court.	None
Evidence and material are placed before the Commission.	None
Article 15(4) which speaks of backwardness of classes of citizens indicates that the accent is on classes of citizens.	None
Article 15(4) also speaks of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
Therefore, socially and educationally backward classes of citizens in Article 15(4) cannot be equated with castes.	None
In R. Chitralekha and Anr.	None
v. State of Mysore and Ors.	None
(1964 (6) SCR 368 )	None
this Court said that the classification of backward classes based on economic conditions and occupations does not offend Article 15(4).	None
Further, in Minor A. Peeriakaruppan, Sobha Joseph v. State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. (1971 (1) SCC 38 ) at para 29 it was observed as follows Rajendrans case (1968 (2) SCR 786 ) is an authority for the proposition that the classification of backward classes on the basis of castes is within the purview of Article 15(4) if those castes are shown to be socially and educationally backward.	None
No further material has been placed before us to show that the reservation for backward classes with which we are herein concerned is not in accordance with Article 15(4).	None
There is no gainsaying the fact the there are numerous castes in this country which are socially and educationally backward.	None
To ignore their existence is to ignore the facts of life.	None
Hence we are unable to uphold the contention that impugned reservation is not in accordance with Article 15(4).	None
But all the same the Government should not proceed on the basis that once a class is considered as a backward class it should continue to be backward class for all times.	None
Such an approach would defeat the very purpose of the reservation because once a class reaches a stage of progress which some modern writers call as take off stage then competition is necessary for their future progress.	None
The Government should always keep under review the question of reservation of seats and only the classes which are really socially and educationally backward should be allowed to have the benefit of reservation.	None
Reservation of seats should not be allowed to become a vested interest.	None
The fact that candidates of backward classes have secured about 50 of the seats in the general pool does show that the time has come for a de novo comprehensive examination of the question.	None
It must be remembered that the Governments decision in this regard is open to judicial review.	None
It has been highlighted that the Act has been made applicable to Central Educational Institutions established, maintained or aided by the Central Government.	None
Central Educational Institutions have been defined in Section 2(d) as follows 2(d) Central Educational Institution means a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act an institution of national importance set up by an Act of Parliament an institution, declared as a deemed University under Section 3 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 and maintained by or receiving aid from the Central Government an institution maintained by or receiving aid from the Central Government, whether directly or indirectly, and affiliated to an institution referred to in clause (i) or clause (ii), or a constituent unit of an institution referred to in clause (iii) an educational institution set up by the Central Government under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.	None
It is pointed out that there cannot be any reservations in respect of super specialities and institutions imparting education of highly complex subjects.	None
The example of All India Institute of Medical Sciences has been given.	None
It has been pointed out that its status as an institution for super speciality has been judicially recognized.	None
It needs to be noted that in terms of Section 4(b) of the Act certain educational institutions have been excluded from the operation of the Act.	None
The Act has been made inapplicable to them.	None
It is to be noted that in the said provision, institutions of research, institutions of excellence, institutions of national and strategic importance have been specified in the Schedule to the Act.	None
The proviso permits the Central Government as and when considered necessary to amend the Schedule.	None
In other words, on an appropriate case being presented and established before the Central Government that the Institution is of excellence and or a research institute and or an institution of national and strategic importance, the Central Government can amend the Schedule and include such institution in the Schedule.	None
In other words, it is permissible for the petitioners and anybody else to highlight to the Government about the desirability to include an Institution in the Schedule of the Act.	None
One of the major issues highlighted by Mr. P.P. Rao was that in several cases the matriculation standard of education was considered to be the measure for measuring backwardness.	None
It is, therefore, submitted that when at least half of the persons belonging to a particular caste have reached the matriculation level of education, they cannot be considered to be educationally backward any longer.	None
It is therefore submitted that if that be taken as a yardstick for measuring backwardness then the reservation of seats for technical education or in higher studies cannot be sustained.	None
It has also been highlighted that the shift of emphasis from primary and basic education to higher education is against the constitutional mandate making education compulsory in terms of Article 21A of the Constitution.	None
It is not correct to contend that in fixing the priorities the Government is the best Judge as contended by the respondents.	None
It may be correct in matters relating to simple policy decisions but when the constitutional mandate is under consideration the underlying object has also to be kept in view.	None
In this context reference is made to Article 46 of the Constitution.	None
It is in that background pointed out by learned counsel for the petitioners that what cannot be lost sight of is the fact that is the foundation for basic, elementary and primary education.	None
The educational backwardness can be obliterated when at least half of the persons belonging to a particular caste come up to a matriculation level.	None
There is substance in this plea.	None
It is not merely the existence of schemes but the effective implementation of the schemes that is important.	None
It is to be noted that financial constraint cannot be a ground to deny fundamental rights and the provision for the schemes and the utilization of the funds are also relevant factors.	None
It appears that better coordination between the funds provider and the utiliser is necessary.	None
It is suggested that putting stress on cut off limit by shifting from matriculation to Class XII level education as a benchmark of gauging educational backwardness will be a step in the right direction.	None
Though as rightly contended by Mr. P.P. Rao that in several decisions, for example, M.R. Balajis case (supra), Balrams case (supra) and Kumari K.S. Jayasrees case (supra) the secondary education was taken to be the benchmark, ground reality cannot be lost sight of that with the limited availability of jobs and the spiraling increase in population, secondary or matriculation examination can no longer be considered to be an appropriate bench mark.	None
It has to be at the most graduation.	None
But the question arises whether technical education can be included while considering educational backwardness.	None
A delicate balancing has to be done in this regard.	None
While technical education cannot be the sole criteria for gauging educational backwardness it definitely will form part of 50 per cent norms fixed by this Court.	None
Slightly variable plus or minus would be the appropriate standard to gauge educational backwardness.	None
One of the grey areas which have been highlighted by learned counsel for the petitioners is that caste is not a substitute for class and nevertheless the two terms are not synonyms.	None
Much of the argument in this regard is centred round the paragraphs 782 and 783 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra).	None
The same read as under Coming back to the question of identification, the fact remains that one has to begin somewhere with some group, class or section.	None
There is no set or recognised method.	None
There is no law or other statutory instrument prescribing the methodology.	None
The ultimate idea is to survey the entire populace.	None
If so, one can well begin with castes, which represent explicit identifiable social classes groupings, more particularly when Article 16(4) seeks to ameliorate social backwardness.	None
What is unconstitutional with it, more so when caste, occupation poverty and social backwardness are so closely intertwined in our society?	None
Individual survey is out of question, since Article 16(4) speaks of class protection and not individual protection.	None
This does not mean that one can wind up the process of identification with the castes.	None
Besides castes (whether found among Hindus or others) there may be other communities, groups, classes and denominations which may qualify as backward class of citizens.	None
For example, in a particular State, Muslim community as a whole may be found socially backward.	None
(As a matter of fact, they are so treated in the State of Karnataka as well as in the State of Kerala by their respective State Governments).	None
Similarly, certain sections and denominations among Christians in Kerala who were included among backward communities notified in the former princely State of Travancore as far back as in 1935 may also be surveyed and so on and so forth.	None
Any authority entrusted with the task of identifying backward classes may well start with the castes.	None
It can take caste A, apply the criteria of backwardness evolved by it to that caste and determine whether it qualifies as a backward class or not.	None
If it does qualify, what emerges is a backward class, for the purposes of clause (4) of Article 16.	None
The concept of caste in this behalf is not confined to castes among Hindus.	None
It extends to castes, wherever they obtain as a fact, irrespective of religious sanction for such practice.	None
Having exhausted the castes or simultaneously with it, the authority may take up for consideration other occupational groups, communities and classes.	None
For example, it may take up the Muslim community (after excluding those sections, castes and groups, if any, who have already been considered) and find out whether it can be characterised as a backward class in that State or region, as the case may be.	None
The approach may differ from State to State since the conditions in each State may differ from State to State since the conditions in each State may differ.	None
Nay, even within a State, conditions may differ from region to region.	None
Similarly, Christians may also be considered.	None
If in a given place, like Kerala, there are several denominations, sections or divisions, each of these groups may separately be considered.	None
In this manner, all the classes among the populace will be covered and that is the central idea.	None
The effort should be to consider all the available groups, sections and classes of society in whichever order one proceeds.	None
Since caste represents an existing, identifiable, social group spread over an over whelming majority of the countrys population, we say one may well begin with castes, if one so chooses, and then go to other groups, sections and classes.	None
We may say, at this stage, that we broadly commend the approach and methodology adopted by the Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy Commission in this respect.	None
We do not mean to suggest we may reiterate that the procedure indicated hereinabove is the only procedure or method approach to be adopted.	None
Indeed, there is no such thing as a standard or model procedure approach.	None
It is for the authority (appointed to identify) to adopt such approach and procedure as it thinks appropriate, and so long as the approach adopted by it is fair and adequate, the court has no say in the matter.	None
The only object of the discussion in the preceding para is to emphasise that if a Commission Authority begins its process of identification with castes (among Hindus) and occupational groupings among others, it cannot by that reason alone be said to be constitutionally or legally bad.	None
We must also say that there is no rule of law that a test to be applied for identifying backward classes should be only one and or uniform.	None
In a vast country like India, it is simply not practicable.	None
If the real object is to discover and locate backwardness, and if such backwardness is found in a caste, it can be treated as backward if it is found in any other group, section or class, they too can be treated as backward.	None
On a closer reading of the paragraphs it appears that this Court took note of the fact that several religions do not have any caste.	None
Therefore, the first sentence of para782 lays emphasis to begin somewhere with some group, class or section.	None
It also states that there is no set or recognized method and there is no law or other statutory instrument prescribing the methodology.	None
In this context, it has also been stated that one can well begin with castes which represent explicit identifiable social classes or groupings.	None
Therefore, the emphasis was on beginning with castes which represent as explicit identifiable social classes or grouping.	None
Again in paragraph 783, it has been stated that in a vast country like India it is simply not practicable to fix the test for identifying backward classes.	None
In that background it was held that if the real objective is to discover and locate the real backwardness and if such backwardness is found in a caste it can be considered as backwardness.	None
Similarly if it is found in any other group, section or class they too can be treated as backward.	None
The intention therefore is clear that if caste is found to be backward it can certainly be treated as backward.	None
To give any other meaning would be adding or subtracting to what has been specifically stated in the decision.	None
It is also relevant to take note of certain earlier decisions referred to in Indra Sawhney No.1 case (supra) which throw beacon light on the issue.	None
They are as under M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore,1963 Supp (1) SCR 439 Article 15(4) authorises the State to make a special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, as distinguished from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
No doubt, special provision can be made for both categories of citizens, but in specifying the categories, the first category is distinguished from the second.	None
Subclauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 define Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes respectively, but there is no clause defining socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, and so, in determining the question as to whether a particular provision has been validly made under Article 15(4) or not, the first question which falls to be determined is whether the State has validly determined who should be included in these Backward Classes.	None
It seems fairly clear that the backward classes of citizens for whom special provision is authorised to be made are, by Article 15(4) itself, treated as being similar to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes which have been defined were known to be backward and the Constitutionmakers felt no doubt that special provision had to be made for their advancement.	None
It was realised that in the Indian Society there were other classes of citizens who were equally, or may be somewhat less, backward than the Scheduled Castes and Tribes and it was thought that some special provision ought to be made even for them.	None
Let us take the question of social backwardness first.	None
By what test should it be decided whether a particular class is socially backward or not?	None
The group of citizens to whom Article 15(4) applies are described as classes of citizens, not as castes of citizens.	None
A class, according to the dictionary meaning, shows division of society according to status, rank or caste.	None
In the Hindu social structure, caste unfortunately plays an important part in determining the status of the citizen.	None
Though according to sociologists and vedic scholars, the caste system may have originally begun on occupational or functional basis, in course of time, it became rigid and inflexible.	None
The history of the growth of caste system shows that its original functional and occupational basis was later overburdened with considerations of purity based on ritual concepts, and that led to its ramifications which introduced inflexibility and rigidity.	None
This artificial growth inevitably tended to create a feeling of superiority and inferiority, and to foster narrow caste loyalties.	None
Therefore, in dealing with the question as to whether any class of citizens is socially backward or not, it may not be irrelevant to consider the caste of the said group of citizens.	None
In this connection it is, however, necessary to bear in mind that the special provision is contemplated for classes of citizens and not for individual citizens as such, and so, though the caste of the group of citizens may be relevant, its importance should not be exaggerated.	None
If the classification of backward classes of citizens was based solely on the caste of the citizen, it may not always be logical and may perhaps contain the vice of perpetuating the castes themselves.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
Besides, if the caste of the group of citizens was made the sole basis for determining the social backwardness of the said group, that test would inevitably break down in relation to many sections of Indian society which do not recognise castes in the conventional sense known to Hindu society.	None
How is one going to decide whether Muslims, Christians or Jains, or even Lingayats are socially backward or not?	None
The test of castes would be inapplicable to those groups, but that would hardly justify the exclusion of these groups in toto from the operation of Article 15(4).	None
It is not unlikely that in some States some Muslims or Christians or Jains forming groups may be socially backward.	None
That is why we think that though castes in relation to Hindus may be a relevant factor to consider in determining the social backwardness of groups or classes of citizens, it cannot be made the sole or the dominant test in that behalf.	None
Social backwardness is on the ultimate analysis the result of poverty to a very large extent.	None
The classes of citizens who are deplorably poor automatically become socially backward.	None
They do not enjoy a status in society and have, therefore, to be content to take a backward seat.	None
It is true that social backwardness which results from poverty is likely to be aggravated by considerations of caste to which the poor citizens may belong, but that only shows the relevance of both caste and poverty in determining the backwardness of citizens.	None
R. Chitralekha v State of Mysore AIR 1964 SC 1823 Justice Subba Rao referred to the observations in M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore and observed Two principles stand out prominently from the said observations, namely, (i) the caste of a group of citizens may be a relevant circumstance in ascertaining their social backwardness and (ii) though it is a relevant factor to determine the social backwardness of a class of citizens, it cannot be the dole or dominant test in that behalf.	None
The observations extracted in the judgment of the High Court appear to be in conduct with the observations of this Court.	None
While this Court said that caste is only a relevant circumstance and that it cannot be the dominant test in ascertaining the backwardness of a class of citizens, the High Court said that it is an important basis in determining the class of backward Hindus and that the Government should have adopted caste as one of the tests.	None
As the said observations made by the High Court may lead to some confusion in the mind of the authority concerned who may be entrusted with the duty of prescribing the rules for ascertaining the backwardness of classes of citizens within the meaning of Art. 15(4) of the Constitution, we would hasten to make it clear that caste is only a relevant circumstance in ascertaining the backwardness of a class and there is nothing in the judgment of this Court which precludes the authority concerned from determining the social backwardness of a group of citizens if it can do so without reference to caste.	None
While this Court has not excluded caste from ascertaining the backwardness of a class of citizens, it has not made it one of the compelling circumstances affording a basis for the ascertainment of backwardness of a class.	None
To put it differently, the authority concerned may take caste into consideration in ascertaining the backwardness of a group of persons but, if it does not, its order will not be bad on that account, if it can ascertain the backwardness of a group of persons on the basis of other relevant criteria.	None
The important factor to be noticed in Art. 15(4) is that it does not speak of castes, but only speaks of classes.	None
If the makers of the Constitution intended to take castes also as units of social and educational backwardness, they would have said so as they have said in the case of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.	None
Though it may be suggested that the wider expression classes is used in clause (4) of Art.	None
15 as there are communities without castes, if the intention was to equate classes with castes, nothing prevented the makers of the Constitution from using the expression backward classes or castes.	None
The juxtaposition of the expression backward classes and Scheduled Castes in Art. 15(4) also leads to a reasonable inference that the expression classes is not synonymous with castes.	None
It may be that for ascertaining whether a particular citizen or a group of citizens belong to a backward class or not, his or their caste may have some relevance, but it cannot be either the sole or the dominant criterion for ascertaining the class to which he or they belong.	None
This interpretation will carry out the intention of the Constitution expressed in the aforesaid Articles.	None
It helps the really backward classes instead of promoting the interests of individuals or groups who, though they belong to a particular caste a majority whereof is socially and educationally backward, really belong to a class which is socially and educationally advanced.	None
To illustrate, take a caste in a State which is numerically the largest therein.	None
It may be that though a majority of the people in that caste are socially and educationally backward, an effective minority may be socially and educationally far more advanced than another small subcaste the total number of which is far less than the said minority.	None
If we interpret the expression classes as castes, the object of the Constitution will be frustrated and the people who do not deserve any adventitious aid may get it to the exclusion of those who really deserve.	None
This anomaly will not arise if, without equating caste with class, caste is taken as only one of the considerations to ascertain whether a person belongs to a backward class or not.	None
On the other hand, if the entire subcaste, by and large, is backward, it may be included in the Scheduled Castes by following the appropriate procedure laid down by the Constitution.	None
We do not intend to lay down any inflexible rule for the Government to follow.	None
The laying down of criteria for ascertainment of social and educational backwardness of a class is a complex problem depending upon many circumstances which may vary from State to State and even from place to place in a State.	None
But what we intend to emphasize is that under no circumstances a class can be equated to a caste, though the caste of an individual or a group of individual may be considered along with other relevant factors in putting him in a particular class.	None
We would also like to make it clear that if in a given situation caste is excluded in ascertaining a class within the meaning of Art. 15(4) of the Constitution, it does not vitiate the classification if it satisfied other tests.	None
Minor P. Rajendran v State of Madras (1968 (2) SCR 787)	None
The first challenge is to r. 5 on the ground that it violates Art. 15 of the Constitution.	None
Article 15 forbids discrimination against any citizen on the grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.	None
At the same time Art. 15(4) inter alia permits the State to make any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	None
The contention is that the list of socially and educationally backward classes for whom reservation is made under r. 5 is nothing but a list of certain castes.	None
Therefore, reservation in favour of certain castes based only on caste considerations violates Art. 15(1), which prohibits discrimination on the ground to caste only.	None
Now if the reservation in question had been based only on caste and had not taken into account the social and educational backwardness of the caste in question, it would be violative of Art. 15(1).	None
But it must not be forgotten that a caste is also a class of citizens and if the caste as a whole is socially and educationally backward reservation can be made in favour of such a caste on the ground that it is a socially and educationally backward class of citizens within the meaning of Art. 15(4).	None
Reference in this connection may be made to the observations of this Court in M. R. Balaji v. State of Mysore (1963 Supp.	None
1 S.C.R. 439 at p. 459460) to the effect that it was not irrelevant to consider the caste of a class of citizens in determining their social and educational backwardness.	None
It was further observed that though the caste of a class of citizens may be relevant its importance should not be exaggerated and if classification of backward classes of citizens was based solely on the caste of the citizen, it might be open to objection.	None
It is true that in the present cases the list of socially and educationally backward classes has been specified by caste.	None
But that does not necessarily mean that caste was the sole consideration and that persons belonging to these castes are also not a class of socially and educationally backward citizens.	None
In its reply, the State of Madras has given the history as to how this list of backward classes was made, starting from the year 1906 and how the list has been kept upto date and necessary amendments made therein.	None
It has also been stated that the main criterion for inclusion in the list was the social and educational backwardness of the caste based on occupations pursued by these castes.	None
Because the members of the caste as a whole were found to be socially and educationally backward, they were put in the list.	None
The matter was finally examined after the Constitution came into force in the light of the provisions contained in Art. 15(4).	None
As it was found that members of these castes as a whole were educationally and socially backward, the list which had been coming on from as far back as 1906 was finally adopted for purposes of Art. 15(4).	None
In short the case of the State of Madras is that the castes included in the list are only a compendious indication of the class of people in those castes and these classes of people had been put in the list for the purpose of Art. 15(4) because they had been found to be socially and educationally backward.	None
This is the position as explained in the Affidavit filed on behalf of the State of Madras.	None
On the other hand the only thing stated in the petitions is that as the list is based on caste alone it is violative of Art. 15(1).	None
In view however of the explanation given by the State of Madras, which has not been controverted by any rejoinder, it must be accepted that though the list shows certain castes, the members of those castes are really classes of educationally and socially backward citizens.	None
No attempt was made on behalf of the petitioners appellant to show that any caste mentioned in this list was not educationally and socially backward.	None
No such averment was made in the affidavit in support of their cases, nor was any attempt made to traverse the case put forward on behalf of the State of Madras by filing a rejoinder affidavit to show that even one of the castes included in the list was not educationally and socially backward.	None
In this state of the pleadings, we must come to the conclusion that though the list is prepared castewise, the castes included therein are as a whole educationally and socially backward	None
and therefore the list is not violate of Art.	None
15.	None
The challenge to r. 5 must therefore fail.	None
State of Andhra Pradesh v P. Sagar (1968 (3) SCR 595 )	None
In the context in which it occurs the expression class means a homogeneous section of the people grouped together because of certain likenesses or common traits and who are identifiable by some common attributes such as status, rank, occupation, residence in a locality, race, religion and the like.	None
In determining whether a particular section forms a class, caste cannot be excluded altogether.	None
But in the determination of a class a test solely based upon the caste or community cannot also be accepted.	None
By cl.	None
(1) Art.	None
15 prohibits the State from discriminating against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.	None
By cl.	None
(3) of Art.	None
15 the State is, notwithstanding the provision contained in cl.	None
(1), permitted to make special provision for women and children.	None
By cl.	None
(4) a special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is outside the purview of cl.	None
(1).	None
But cl.	None
(4) is an exception to cl.	None
(1).	None
Being an exception, it cannot be extended so as in effect to destroy the guarantee of cl.	None
(1).	None
The Parliament has by enacting cl.	None
(4) attempted to balance as against the right of equality of citizens the special necessities of the weaker sections of the people by allowing a provision to be made for their advancement.	None
In order that effect may be given to cl.	None
(4), it must appear that the beneficiaries of the special provision are classes which are backward socially and educationally and they are other that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and that the provision made is for their advancement.	None
Minor A. Peeriakaruppan (Minor) v. State of T.N., (1971) 1 SCC 38	None
A caste has always been recognized as a class.	None
In construing the expression classes of His Majestys subject found in Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code, Wassoodew, J., observed in Narayan Vasudev v. Emperor AIR 1940 Bomb 379 In my opinion, the expression classes of His Majestys subjects in Section 153A of the Code is used in restrictive sense as denoting a collection of individuals or groups bearing a common and exclusive designation and also possessing common and exclusive characteristics which may be associated with their origin, race or religion, and that the term class within that section carries with it the idea of numerical strength so large as could be grouped in a single homogeneous community.	None
In para 10, Chapter V of the Backward Classes Commissions Report, it is observed We tried to avoid caste	None
but we find it difficult to ignore caste in the present prevailing conditions.	None
We wish it were easy to dissociate caste from social backwardness at the present juncture.	None
In modern time anybody can take to any profession.	None
The Brahman taking to tailoring, does not become a tailor by caste, nor is his social status lowered as a Brahman.	None
A Brahman may be a seller of boots and shoes, and yet his social status is not lowered thereby.	None
Social backwardness, therefore, is not today due to the particular profession of a person, but we cannot escape caste in considering the social backwardness in India.	None
In para 11 of that Report it is stated It is not wrong to assume that social backwardness has largely contributed to the educational backwardness of a large number of social groups.	None
Finally in para 13, the committee concludes with following observations All this goes to prove that social backwardness is mainly based on racial, tribal, caste and denominational differences.	None
The validity of the impugned list of backward classes came up for consideration before this Court in Rajendran case and this is what this Court observed therein The contention is that the list of socially and educationally backward classes for whom reservation is made under Rule 5 nothing but a list of certain castes.	None
Therefore, reservation in favour of certain castes based only on caste considerations violates Article 15(1), which prohibits discrimination on the ground of caste only.	None
Now if the reservation in question had been based only on caste and had not taken into account the social and educational backwardness of the justice in question, it would be violative of Article 15(1).	None
But it must not be forgotten that a caste is also a class of citizens and if the caste as a whole is socially and educationally backward, reservation can be made in favour of such a caste on the ground that it is a socially and educationally backward class of citizens within the meaning of Article 15(4).	None
Rajendran case is an authority for the proposition that the classification of backward classes on the basis of castes is within the purview of Article 15(4) if those castes are shown to be socially and educationally backward.	None
No further material has been placed before us to show that the reservation for backward classes with which we are herein concerned is not in accordance with Article 15(4).	None
There is no gainsaying the fact that there are numerous castes in this country which are socially and educationally backward.	None
To ignore their existence is to ignore the facts of life.	None
Hence we are unable to uphold the contention that the impugned reservation is not in accordance with Article 15(4).	None
But all the same the Government should not proceed on the basis that once a class is considered as a backward class it should continue to be backward class for all times.	None
Such an approach would defeat the very purpose of the reservation because once a class reaches a stage of progress which some modern writers call as take off stage then competition is necessary for their future progress.	None
The Government should always keep under review the question of reservation of seats and only the classes which are really socially and educationally backward should be allowed to have the benefit of reservation.	None
Reservation of seats should not be allowed to become a vested interest.	None
The fact that candidates of backward classes have secured about 50 of the seats in the general pool does show that the time has come for a de novo comprehensive examination of the question.	None
It must be remembered that the Governments decision in this regard is open to judicial review.	None
State of A.P. v. U.S.V. Balram, (1972) 1 SCC 660 , at page 685 82In the determination of a class to be grouped as backward, a test solely based upon caste or community cannot be accepted as valid.	None
But, in our opinion, though Directive Principles contained in Article 46 cannot be enforced by courts.	None
Article 15(4) will have to be given effect to in order to assist the weaker sections of the citizens, as the State has been charged with such a duty.	None
No doubt, we are aware that any provision made under this clause must be within the well defined limits and should not be on the basis of caste alone.	None
But it should not also be missed that a caste is also a class of citizens and that a caste as such may be socially and educationally backward.	None
If after collecting the necessary data, it is found that the caste as a whole is socially and educationally backward, in our opinion, the reservation made of such persons will have to be upheld notwithstanding the fact that a few individuals in that group may be both socially and educationally above the general average.	None
There is no gainsaying the fact that there are numerous castes in the country, which are socially and educationally backward and therefore a suitable provision will have to be made by the State, as charged in Article 15(4) to safeguard their interest.	None
xx	None
xx xx	None
To conclude, though prima facie the list of Backward Classes which is under attack before us may be considered to be on the basis of caste, a closer examination will clearly show that it is only a description of the group following the particular occupations or professions, exhaustively referred to by the Commission.	None
Even on the assumption that the list is based exclusively on caste, it is clear from the materials before the Commission and the reasons given by it in its report that the entire caste is socially and educationally backward and therefore their inclusion in the list of Backward Classes is warranted by Article 15(4).	Arguments of Respondent
The groups mentioned therein have been included in the list of Backward Classes as they satisfy the various tests, which have been laid down by this Court for ascertaining the social and educational backwardness of a class.	None
Janki Prasad Parimoo v. State of JK, (1973) 1 SCC 420 , at page 432 22.	None
Article 15(4) speaks about socially and educationally backward classes of citizens while Article 16(4) speaks only of any backward class citizens.	None
However, it is now settled that the expression backward class of citizens in Article 16(4) means the same thing as the expression any socially and educationally backward class of citizens in Article 15(4).	None
In order to qualify for being called a backward class citizen he must be a member of a socially and educationally backward class.	None
It is social and educational backwardness of a class which is material for the purposes of both Articles 15(4) and 16(4).	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
It is not merely the educational backwardness or the social backwardness which makes a class of citizens backward the class identified as a class as above must be both educationally and socially backward.	None
In India social and educational backwardness is further associated with economic backwardness and it is observed in Balaji case referred to above that backwardness, socially and educationally, is ultimately and primarily due to proverty.	None
But if proverty is the exclusive test, a very large proportion of the population in India would have to be regarded as socially and educationally backward, and if reservations are made only on the ground of economic considerations, an untenable situation may arise.	None
Even in sectors which are recognised as socially and educationally advanced there are large pockets of poverty.	None
In this country except for a small percentage of the population the people are generally poor some being more poor, others less poor.	None
Therefore, when a social investigator tries to identify socially and educationally backward classes, he may do it with confidence that they are bound to be poor.	None
His chief concern is, therefore, to determine whether the class or group is socially and educationally backward.	None
Though the two words socially and educationally are used cumulatively for the purpose of describing the backward class, one may find that if a class as a whole is educationally advanced it is generally also socially advanced because of the reformative effect of education on that class.	None
The words advanced and backward are only relative terms there being several layers or strata of classes, hovering between advanced and backward, and the difficult task is which class can be recognised out of these several layers as been socially and educationally backward.	None
Indeed all sectors in the rural areas deserve encouragement but whereas the former by their enthusiasm for education can get on without special treatment, the latter require to be goaded into the social stream by positive efforts by the State.	None
That accounts for the raisondetre of the principle explained in Balaji case which pointed out that backward classes for whose improvement special provision was contemplated by Article 15(4) must be comparable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes who are standing examples of backwardness socially and educationally.	None
If those examples are steadily kept before the mind the difficulty in determining which other classes should be ranked as backward classes will be considerably eased.	None
State of Kerala v. N.M.	None
Thomas, (1976) 2 SCC 310 , at page 367 We may clear the clog of Article 16(2) as it stems from a confusion about caste in the terminology of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.	None
This latter expression has been defined in Articles 341 and 342.	None
A bare reading brings out the quintessential concept that they (sic there) are no castes in the Hindu fold but an amalgam of castes, races, groups, tribes, communities or parts thereof found on investigation to be the lowliest and in need of massive State aid and notified as such by the President.	None
To confuse this backwardmost social composition with castes is to commit a constitutional error, misled by a compendious appellation.	None
So that, to protect harijans is not to prejudice any caste but to promote citizen solidarity.	None
Article 16(2) is out of the way and to extend protective discrimination to this mixed bag of tribes, races, groups, communities and noncastes outside the fourfold Hindu division is not to compromise with the acceleration of castelessness enshrined in the subarticle.	None
The discerning sense of the Indian Corpus Juris has generally regarded scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, not as caste but as a large backward group deserving of societal compassion State of U.P. v. Pradip Tandon, (1975) 1 SCC 267 , at page 273 Article 15(4) speaks of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	None
The State described the rural, hill and Uttrakhand areas as socially and educationally backward areas.	None
The Constitution does not enable the State to bring socially and educationally backward areas within the protection of Article 15(4).	None
The AttorneyGeneral however submitted that the affidavit evidence established the rural, hill and Uttrakhand areas to have socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	None
The backwardness contemplated under Article 15(4) is both social and educational.	None
Article 15(4) speaks of backwardness of classes of citizens.	None
The accent is on classes of citizens.	None
Article 15(4) also speaks of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
Therefore, socially and educationally backward classes of citizens in Article 15(4) could not be equated with castes.	None
In M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore and State of A.P. v. Sagar this Court held that classification of backwardness on the basis of castes would violate both Articles 15(1) and 15(4).	None
Broadly stated, neither caste nor race nor religion can be made the basis of classification for the purposes of determining social and educational backwardness within the meaning of Article 15(4).	None
When Article 15(1) forbids discrimination on grounds only of religion, race, caste, caste cannot be made one of the criteria for determining social and educational backwardness.	None
If caste or religion is recognised as a criterion of social and educational backwardness Article 15(4) will stultify Article 15(1).	None
It is true that Article 15(1) forbids discrimination only on the ground of religion, race, caste, but when a classification takes recourse to caste as one of the criteria in determining socially and educationally backward classes the expression classes in that case violates the rule of expressio unius est exclusio alterius.	None
The socially and educationally backward classes of citizens are groups other than groups based on caste.	None
The expression socially and educationally backward classes in Article 15(4) was explained in Balaji case to be comparable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
The reason is that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes illustrated social and educational backwardness.	None
It is difficult to define the expression socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.	None
The traditional unchanging occupations of citizens may contribute to social and educational backwardness.	None
The place of habitation and its environment is also a determining factor in judging the social and educational backwardness.	None
The expression classes of citizens indicates a homogeneous section of the people who are grouped together because of certain likenesses and common traits and who are identifiable by some common attributes.	None
The homogeneity of the class of citizens is social and educational backwardness.	None
Neither caste nor religion nor place of birth will be the uniform element of common attributes to make them a class of citizens.	None
K.S. Jayasree (Kumari) v. State of Kerala, (1976) 3 SCC 730 , at page 733 Backward classes for whose improvement special provisions are contemplated by Article 15(4) are in the matter of their backwardness comparable to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.	None
This Court has emphasised in decisions that the backwardness under Article 15(4) must be both social and educational.	None
In ascertaining social backwardness of a class of citizens, the caste of a citizen cannot be the sole or dominant test.	None
Just as caste is not the sole or dominant test, similarly poverty is not the decisive and determining factor of social backwardness.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
In ascertaining social backwardness of a class of citizens it may not be irrelevant to consider the caste of the group of citizens.	None
Caste cannot however be made the sole or dominant test.	None
Social backwardness is in the ultimate analysis the result of poverty to a large extent.	None
Social backwardness which results from poverty is likely to be aggravated by considerations of their caste.	None
This shows the relevance of both caste and poverty in determining the backwardness of citizens.	None
Poverty by itself is not the determining factor of social backwardness.	None
Poverty is relevant in the context of social backwardness.	None
The commission found that the lower income group constitutes socially and educationally backward classes.	None
The basis of the reservation is not income but social and educational backwardness determined on the basis of relevant criteria.	None
If any classification of backward classes of citizens is based solely on the caste of the citizen it will perpetuate the vice of caste system.	None
Again, if the classification is based solely on poverty it will not be logical.	None
The society is taking steps for uplift of the people.	None
In such a task groups or classes who are socially and educationally backward are helped by the society.	None
That is the philosophy of our Constitution.	None
It is in this context that social backwardness which results from poverty is likely to be magnified by caste considerations.	None
Occupations, place of habitation may also be relevant factors in determining who are socially and educationally backward classes.	None
Social and economic considerations come into operation in solving the problem and evolving the proper criteria of determining which classes are socially and educationally backward.	None
That is why our Constitution provided for special consideration of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens as also scheduled castes and tribes.	None
It is only by directing the society and the State to offer them all facilities for social and educational uplift that the problem is solved.	None
It is in that context that the commission in the present case found that income of the classes of citizens mentioned in Appendix VIII was a relevant factor in determining their social and educational backwardness.	None
In Chitrelekhas case (supra) it was stated that the caste is the starting point.	None
This is subject of course to the parameters that if the caste itself satisfies the test of backwardness which is implicit and inherent as noted in para 782 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra).	None
In that case caste becomes the relevant factor.	None
The view expressed in Chitralekhas case (supra) was not dissented from in Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra).	None
In fact Justice Jeevan Reddy in the majority judgment in Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) referred to Chitrelekhas case (supra) at para 704.	None
As noted above in para 782 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) it has not been held that caste is class.	None
In the said paragraph it has been stated that individual survey is out of question since Article 16(4) speaks of class protection and not individual protection.	None
In that context also it has been said that it does not mean that one can wind up the process of identification for the castes.	None
It has also been emphasized in the said paragraph that having exhausted the castes or simultaneously with it, the authority may take up for consideration other occupational groups, communities and classes.	None
If caste is a substitute for class, the question of any simultaneous consideration of others does not arise.	None
Therefore, the Court observed that one may well begin with castes if one chooses and then go to other groups, sections and classes.	None
If the Court meant to substitute the word caste with class the question of going to other classes would not arise.	None
Reference may also be made to Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh (Railway) v. Union of India (UOI) and Ors.	None
(1981(1) SCC 246) where at para 22 it was noted as follows This is not mere harmonious statutory construction of Article 16(1) and (4) but insightful perception of our constitutional culture, reflecting the current of resurgent India bent on making, out of a sick and stratified society of inequality and poverty, a brave new Bharat.	None
If freedom, justice and equal opportunity to unfold ones own personality, belong alike to bhangi and brahmin, prince and pauper, if the panchama proletariat is to feel the social transformation Article 16(4) promises, the State must apply equalising techniques which will enlarge their opportunities and thereby progressively diminish the need for props.	None
The success of State action under Article 16(4) consists in the speed with which resultoriented reservation withers away as, no longer a need, not in the everwidening and everlasting operation of an exception Article 16(4) as if it were a superfundamental right to continue backward all the time.	None
To lend immortality to the reservation policy is to defeat its raison deetre to politicise this provision for communal support and Party ends is to subvert the solemn undertaking of Article16(1), to casteify reservation even beyond the dismal groups of backwardmost people, euphemistically described as SC ST, is to run a grave constitutional risk.	None
Caste, ipso facto, is not class in a secular State.	None
Much emphasis has been laid on the use of the word only.	None
It is to be noted that while the respondents contend that where it is demonstrated that caste is not the only consideration the permissible provision will operate.	None
Reference was made to Venkataramans case (supra).	None
As has been rightly contended by learned counsel for the petitioners the true effect of the word only has been clarified in the decision itself.	None
It is unnecessary to decide as it has been contended by learned counsel for the petitioners whether the concept of strict scrutiny is a measure of judicial scrutiny as highlighted by the conditions in India.	None
It is submitted that label is not relevant.	None
The ultimate object is the eradication of castes and that is the foundation for reservation.	None
While considering the method adopted for eradication by adopting the process of reservation indirectly the facet of strict scrutiny comes in.	None
The strict scrutiny test was applied in the background of Article 19 visavis compelling State needs.	None
The principle was recognized in Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1950 SCR 759 ).	None
It was interalia quoted as follows The question for decision is whether the statute under the guise of protecting public interests arbitrarily interferes with private business and imposes unreasonable and unnecessarily restrictive regulations upon lawful occupation in other words, whether the total prohibition of carrying on the business of manufacture of bidis within the agricultural season amounts to a reasonable restriction on the fundamental rights mentioned in article 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution.	None
Unless it is shown that there is a reasonable relation of the provisions of the Act to the purpose in view, the right of freedom of occupation and business cannot be curtailed by it.	None
The phrase reasonable restriction connotes that the limitation imposed on a person in enjoyment of the right should not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature, beyond what is required in the interests of the public.	None
The word reasonable implies intelligent care and deliberation, that is, the choice of a course which reason dictates.	None
Legislation which arbitrarily or excessively invades the right cannot be said to contain the quality of reasonableness and unless it strikes a proper balance between the freedom guaranteed in Article 19(1)(g) and the social control permitted by clause (6) of Article19, it must be held to be wanting in that quality.	None
Again in State of Madras v. V.G. Row (	None
AIR 1952 SC 196 )	None
it was observed as follows Before proceeding to consider this question we think it right to point out, what is sometimes overlooked, that our Constitution contains express provisions for judicial review of legislation as to its conformity with the constitution unlike as in America where the Supreme Court has assumed extensive power of reviewing legislative acts under cover of the widely interpreted due process clause in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.	None
If, then, the courts in this country face up to such important and none too easy task, it is not out of any desire to tilt at legislative authority in a crusaders spirit, but in discharge of a duty plainly laid upon them by the Constitution.	None
This is especially true as regards the fundamental rights as to which this Court has been assigned the role of a sentinel on the qui vive.	None
While the Court naturally attaches great weight to the legislative judgment, it cannot dessert its own duty to determine finally the constitutionality of an impugned statute.	None
We have ventured on these obvious remarks because it appears to have been suggested in some quarters that the courts in the new set up are out to seek clashes with the legislatures in the country.	None
At the outset, it may be pointed out that the stand of petitioners is that the primary consideration in selection of candidates for admission to the higher educational institutions must be merit.	None
The object of any rules, which may be made for regulating admissions to such institutions therefore, must be to secure the best and most meritorious students.	None
The national interest and the demand of universal excellence may even override the interests of the weaker sections.	None
In this context, Krishna Iyer J aptly observed To sympathise mawkishly with the weaker sections by selecting substandard candidates, is to punish society as a whole by denying the prospect of excellence, say, in hospital service.	None
Even the poorest, when stricken by critical illness, needs the attention of superskilled specialists not humdrum second rates.	None
Thus, the interest of no person, class or region can be higher than that of the nation.	None
The philosophy and pragmatism of universal excellence through equality of opportunity for education and advancement across the nation is part of the constitutional creed.	None
It is, therefore, the best and most meritorious students that must be selected for admission to technical institutions and medical colleges and no citizen can be regarded as outsider in the constitutional setup without serious detriment to the unity and integrity of the nation.	None
The Supreme Court has laid down that so far as admissions to post graduate course such as MS, MD and the like are concerned, it would be imminently desirable not to provide for any reservation based on residence or institutional preference.	None
However, a certain percentage of seats are allowed to be reserved on the ground of institutional preference.	None
But even in this regard, so far as super specialties such as neurosurgery and cardiology are concerned there should be no reservation at all even on the basis of institutional reference and admissions should be granted purely on allIndia basis.	None
Further, classification made on the basis of superspecialties may serve the interests of the nation better, though interests of individual states may to a small extent, be affected.	None
The need of a region or institution cannot prevail at the highest scale of specialty where the best skill or talent must be handpicked by selecting them according to capability.	None
At the level of Ph.D., M.D. or levels of higher proficiency where international measure of talent is made, where losing one great scientist or technologist in the making is a national loss, the considerations we have expanded upon as important, lose their potency.	None
The inevitable conclusion is that the impugned Statute can be operative only after excluding the creamy layer from identifiable OBCs.	None
There has to be periodic review of the classes who can be covered by the Statute.	None
The periodicity should be five years.	None
To strike constitutional balance there is need for making provision for suitable percentage for socially and economically backward classes in the 27 fixed.	None
To sum up, the conclusions are as follows For implementation of the impugned Statute creamy layer must be excluded.	None
There must be periodic review as to the desirability of continuing operation of the Statute.	None
This shall be done once in every five years.	None
The Central Government shall examine as to the desirability of fixing a cut off marks in respect of the candidates belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs).	None
By way of illustration it can be indicated that five marks grace can be extended to such candidates below the minimum eligibility marks fixed for general categories of students.	None
This would ensure quality and merit would not suffer.	None
If any seats remain vacant after adopting such norms they shall be filled up by candidates from general categories.	None
So far as determination of backward classes is concerned, a Notification should be issued by the Union of India.	None
This can be done only after exclusion of the creamy layer for which necessary data must be obtained by the Central Government from the State Governments and Union Territories.	None
Such Notification is open to challenge on the ground of wrongful exclusion or inclusion.	None
Norms must be fixed keeping in view the peculiar features in different States and Union Territories.	None
There has to be proper identification of Other Backward Classes (OBCs.).	None
For identifying backward classes, the Commission set up pursuant to the directions of this Court in Indra Sawhney No.1 has to work more effectively and not merely decide applications for inclusion or exclusion of castes.	None
While determining backwardness, graduation (not technical graduation) or professional shall be the standard test yardstick for measuring backwardness.	None
To strike the constitutional balance it is necessary and desirable to earmark certain percentage of seats out of permissible limit of 27 for socially and economically backward classes.	None
In the Constitution for the purposes of both Articles 15 and 16, caste is not synonyms with class and this is clear from the paragraphs 782 and 783 of Indra Sawhney No.1.	None
However, when creamy layer is excluded from the caste, the same becomes an identifiable class for the purpose of Articles 15 and 16.	None
Stress has to be on primary and secondary education so that proper foundation for higher education can be effectively laid.	None
So far as the constitutional amendments are concerned Articles 16(1) and 16(4) have to be harmoniously construed.	None
The one is not an exception to the other.	None
Articles 15(4) and 15(5) operate in different fields.	Reasoning
Article 15(5) does not render Article 15(4) inactive or inoperative.	Reasoning
While interpreting the constitutional provisions, foreign decisions do not have great determinative value.	None
They may provide materials for deciding the question regarding constitutionality.	None
In that sense, the strict scrutiny test is not applicable and indepth scrutiny has to be made to decide the constitutionality or otherwise, of a statute.	None
If material is shown to the Central Government that the Institution deserves to be included in the Schedule, the Central Government must take an appropriate decision on the basis of materials placed and on examining the concerned issues as to whether Institution deserves to be included in the Schedule.	None
Challenge relating to private unaided educational institutions has not been examined because no such institution has laid any challenge.	None
It is to be noted that the petitioners have made submissions in the background of Article 19(6) of the Constitution.	None
Since none of the affected institutions have made any challenge we do not propose to consider it necessary to express any opinion or decide on the question.	None
In view of the abovesaid conclusions, the writ petitions and the Contempt Petition (Civil) No.112/2007 in W.P. (C) No.265/2006 are disposed of.	Decision
V. Raveendran J.	None
It has been my privilege to read the drafts of the Judgments proposed by the learned Chief Justice, learned brothers Pasayat J. and Bhandari J. I respectfully agree with them as indicated below Validity of 93rd Amendment to the Constitution of India.	None
I agree with the learned Chief Justice and Pasayat, J. that clause (5) of Article 15 is valid with reference to state maintained educational institutions and aided educational institutions and that the question whether Article 15(5) would be unconstitutional on the ground that it violates the basic structure of the Constitution by imposing reservation in respect of private unaided educational institutions is left open.	Arguments of Petitioner
I have indicated an additional reason for rejecting the challenge to Article 15(5) on the ground that it renders Article 15(4) inoperative ineffective.	None
Validity of Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admissions) Act, 2006  Act No.5 of 2007 I agree with the learned Chief Justice and Pasayat J. that (i) identification of other backward classes solely on the basis of caste will be unconstitutional (ii) failure to exclude the creamy layer from the benefits of reservation would render the reservation for other backward classes under Act 5 of 2007 unconstitutional and (iii) Act 5 of 2007 providing for reservation for other backward classes will however be valid if the definition of other backward classes is clarified to the effect that if the identification of other backward classes is with reference to any caste considered as socially and economically backward, creamy layer of such caste should be excluded.	None
I have indicated briefly my reasons for the same.	None
I agree with the decision of learned Chief Justice that the Act is not invalid merely because no time limit is prescribed for caste based reservation, but preferably there should be a review after ten years to take note of the change of circumstances.	None
A genuine measure of reservation may not be open to challenge when made.	None
But during a period of time, if the reservation is continued in spite of achieving the object of reservation, the law which was valid when made, may become invalid.	None
(C).	None
What should be parameters for determining the creamy layer in respect of OBCs?	None
I agree with the learned Chief Justice that OM dated 8.9.1993 of the Government of India can be applied for such determination.	None
Whether reservation to an extent of 27 in regard to other backward class under Act 5 of 2007 is valid?	None
I agree with the decision of learned Chief Justice that reservation of 27 for other backward classes is not illegal.	None
I would however leave open the question whether members belonging to other backward classes who get selected in the open competition field on the basis of their own merit should be counted against the 27 quota reserved for other backward classes under an enactment enabled by Article 15(5) of the Constitution, for consideration in an appropriate case.	None
Let me now briefly add a few words on two of the questions.	None
Whether Article 15(5) renders Article 15(4) ineffective?	None
This Court has held that clause (4) of Article 15 is neither an exception nor a proviso to clause (1) of Article 15.	None
Clause (4) has been considered to be an instance of classification inherent in clause (1) and an emphatic restatement of the principle implicit in clause (1) of Article 15 (see State of Kerala v. N.M.	None
Thomas  1976 (2) SCC 310 , K.C. Vasanth Kumar v. State of Karnataka  1985 Supp.	None
SCC 714 and Indra Sawhney v. Union of India  1992 Supp.	None
(3) SCC 217).	None
Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 15 bar discrimination.	None
Clause (1) contains a prohibition that State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only on religion, caste, creed, sex or birth.	None
Clause (2) declares that no citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them be subject to any disability, liability, restriction or condition with regard to access to shops, public restaurants, hotels and places of public entertainment, or the use of wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and places of public resort maintained wholly or partly out of State funds or dedicated to the use of the general public.	None
Clauses (3) to (5) enable the State to make special provisions in specified areas.	None
While clause (3) is a part of the Article as originally framed, Clause (4) was added by Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951.	None
Clause (5) was added by Constitution (Ninetythird Amendment) Act, 2005.	None
Each of these three enabling provisions operate independent of each other.	None
The opening words Nothing in this article occurring in each of these clauses (3), (4) and (5) obviously refer to clauses (1) and (2) of Art.	None
15 and not to the other enabling clauses.	None
Clauses (3), (4) and (5) of Article 15 are not to be read as being in conflict with each other, or prevailing over each other, but are to be read harmoniously.	None
The need for exclusion of creamy layer.	None
Section 3 of Act 5 of 2007 mandates reservation of seats in central educational institutions for other backward classes to an extent of 27.	None
The term other backward classes is defined as meaning the class or classes of citizens who are socially and economically backward, and are so determined by the central Government.	None
The Act does not define the term socially and educationally backward classes, nor does it contain any norms or guidelines as to how the central Government should determine any class or classes as socially and educationally backward, so as to entitle them to the benefit of reservation under the Act.	None
The petitioners contend that the Act vests unguided power in the executive to pick and choose arbitrarily certain classes for the benefit of reservation.	None
The Central Government has however indicated that it intends to proceed on the basis that castes which have already been identified for the benefit of reservations under Article 16(4) by the Mandal Commission with the additions thereto made by the National Commission for Backward Classes, from time to time, will be considered, for the present, to constitute the socially and educationally backward classes for the purpose of availing the benefit of 27 reservation under the Act.	None
This again is challenged by the petitioners on the ground that identification of any class of citizens as backward, for the purpose of Article 16(4), cannot be considered as identification of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens under Article 15(5).	None
It is contended that the term backward classes in Article 16(4) is much wider than socially and educationally backward classes of citizens occurring in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 15.	None
Article 15(4) provides that nothing in that Article or in clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward class of citizens or for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	Reasoning
Article 29(2) provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution managed by the State or receiving aid out of State funds, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, clause (5) of Article 15 provides that notwithstanding anything contained in that Article or in Article 19(1)(g), State may make a special provision for advancement of socially and educationally backward class of citizens or for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes by providing for reservation relating to admission in any educational institution either aided or unaided by the State, other than the minority educational institutions referred to in Article 30(1).	Reasoning
It is submitted that as clause (5) of Article 15 does not override or exclude Article 29(2), any law made in exercise of power under Article 15(5) will be subject to Article 29(2), and consequently there cannot be any affirmative action by way of reservation on the ground of caste alone.	None
It is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that the object of the Constitution is to achieve an egalitarian society and any attempt to divide the citizens or the society on the ground of race, religion or caste should be straightaway rejected.	None
It is further submitted that the Constitution nowhere recognizes or refers to caste (except Scheduled Castes and Tribes) as a criterion for conferment of any right or benefit that both clauses (4) and (5) of Article 15 refer to socially and educationally backward classes and not socially and educationally backward castes that Constitution has always referred to caste in a negative sense, that is to prohibit any discrimination or affirmative action on the basis of caste  Vide Article 15(1) and (2), 16(2) and 29(2) and that when Constitution bars discrimination in admissions to educational institutions on ground only of caste, it is surprising that caste is sought to be made the criterion by the State for purposes of making a special provision for socially and educationally backward classes in regard to such admissions.	None
It is submitted that there cannot be any special provision for any group of citizens merely on the ground that they belong to a particular caste or community (except Scheduled Castes and Tribes who are separately mentioned in Articles 15(4), 15(5), 16(4), 335, 341 and 342 etc.).	None
This Court in a series of decisions commencing from M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore 1963 Supp.	None
(1) SCR 439, R.Chitralekha v. State of Mysore 1964 (6) SCR 368 , State of Andhra Pradesh v. P.Sagar 1968 (3) SCR 595 , Janki Prasad Parimoo v. State of Jammu Kashmir 1973 (1) SCC 420 , State of Kerala v. N.M.Thomas 1976 (2) SCC 310 and K.C.Vasanth Kumar v. State of Karnataka 1985 Supp.	None
SCC 714 has explained what is social and educational backwardness.	None
All these decisions have laid down the principle that caste cannot be made the sole or dominant test to determine backwardness, and any classification determining backwardness only with reference to caste will be invalid.	None
These decisions recognized the fact that caste is not equated to class and all backwardness, either social or educational, is ultimately and primarily due to poverty or economic conditions.	None
However, in Minor P.Rajendran v. State of Madras 1968 (2) SCR 786 , it was held that if a caste, as a whole, is socially and educationally backward then reservation can be made in favour of such a caste on the ground that it is a socially and educationally backward class within the meaning of Article 15(4).	None
The decision followed Balaji and therefore proceeded on the basis that where the extent of social and educational backwardness of the caste in question is virtually the same as the social and educational backwardness of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, reservation can be made on the basis of caste itself.	None
In that case, it was found as a question of fact that members of certain castes as a whole, were socially and educationally backward, and therefore it was held that the reservation the basis of caste was permissible in respect of those castes.	None
In A.Periakaruppan v. Sobha Joseph 1971 (1) SCC 38 , this Court referred to the cases starting from Balaji to Rajendran.	None
It reiterated the principle stated in Rajendran that if a caste as a whole is socially and educationally backward, reservation can be made in favour of such a caste on the ground that it is a socially and educationally backward class of citizens within the meaning of Article 15(4).	None
It also cautioned that the Government should not proceed on the basis that once a class is considered as a backward class, it will continue to be backward class for all times.	None
Vasanth Kumar (supra) held that only a caste comparable to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of backwardness, could be considered to be a socially and educationally backward class in favour of which reservation could be made on the basis of caste.	None
Vasanth Kumar therefore, reiterated Balaji.	None
What requires to be noticed is neither Rajendran nor Periakaruppam nor Vasanth Kumar really departed from or diluted the principle laid down in Balaji.	None
On the other hand, the principle laid down in Balaji was reiterated.	None
Rajendran and Periakaruppam only show that in extreme cases where it is found that the caste under consideration was, as a whole, socially and educationally backward, and therefore akin to a Scheduled Caste, reservation can be made on the basis of caste alone.	None
Then came to the decision of nine Judges in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India 1992 Supp.	None
(3) SCC 217.	None
This Court held that the use of the word class in Article 16(4) refers to social class, and that reservation under Article 16(4) is in favour of a backward class and not a caste.	None
It held that backward class of citizens contemplated in Article 16(4) is not the same as socially and educationally backward classes referred to in Article 15(4), but much wider.	None
It held that there was no reason to qualify or restrict the meaning of the expression backward class of citizens by saying that it means only those other backward classes who are situated similarly to Scheduled Castes and or Scheduled Tribes (para 795).	None
This Court held If any group of class is situated similarly to the Scheduled Castes, they may have a case for inclusion in that class but there seems to be no basis either in fact or in principle for holding that other classes groups must be situated similarly to them for qualifying as backward classes.	None
There is no warrant to import any such a priori notions into the concept of Other Backward Classes.	None
At the same time, we think it appropriate to clarify that backwardness, being a relative term, must in the context be judged by the general level of advancement of the entire population of the country or the State, as the case may be.	None
More than this, it is difficult to say.	None
In the context of Article 16(4)	None
this Court also observed that a caste can be and quite often is a social class in India and if it is backward socially, it would be a backward class for the purposes of Article 16(4).	None
It held that the accent in Article 16(4) is on social backwardness, whereas the accent in Article 15(4) is on social and educational backwardness.	None
Ultimately, this Court held Neither the Constitution nor the law prescribes the procedure or method of identification of backward classes.	None
Nor is it possible or advisable for the court to lay down any such procedure or method.	None
It must be left to the authority appointed to identify.	None
It can adopt such method procedure as it thinks convenient and so long as its survey covers the entire populace, no objection can be taken to it.	None
Identification of the backward classes can certainly be done with reference to castes among, and along with, other occupational groups, classes and sections of people.	None
The Court however made it clear that a caste can be the starting point for determining a backward class of citizens as it represents an existing, identifiable social group class and that if a caste should be designated as a backward class then the creamy layer from such caste should be excluded.	None
This Court observed In a backward class under clause (4) of Article 16, if the connecting link is the social backwardness, it should broadly be the same in a given class.	None
If some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and, may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps.	None
They would be misfits in the class.	None
After excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class.	None
While we agree that clause (4) aims at group backwardness, we feel that exclusion of such socially advanced members will make the class a truly backward class and would more appropriately serve the purpose and object of clause (4) It is thus seen that Indra Sawhney certainly went a step further than Balaji and other cases in holding that a caste can be the starting point for determination of backwardness.	None
But it is clear from the decision that caste itself is not the final destination, that is, a caste by itself, cannot be determinative of social and educational backwardness.	None
A caste can be identified to be socially and economically backward, only when the creamy layer is removed from the caste and a compact class emerges which can be identified as a socially and educationally backward class.	None
Thus the determination is not by first identifying a caste as a socially and educationally backward class and, thereafter, remove or exclude the creamy layer for the purpose of bestowing the benefits flowing to such class.	None
On the other hand, until and unless, the creamy layer is removed from a caste, there is no compact class which can be termed as socially and educationally backward class at all.	None
Thus, while the process of identifying socially and educationally backward class can conveniently start with a socially and educationally backward caste, remove the creamy layer therefrom results in the emergence of compact class which can be termed as a socially and educationally backward class.	None
In this sense, it can be said that Indra Sawhney is only a development of the principles laid down in Balaji, R.Chitralekha and Vasanth Kumar, which pointed out that the advanced section of a backward caste constituting the creamy layer is virtually the same as forward class.	None
If the creamy layer is not excluded the benefit of reservation will be appropriated by such advanced sections.	None
Referring to this aspect, Indra Sawhney (supra) stated To continue to confer upon such advanced sections, special benefits, would amount to treating equals unequally.	None
Secondly, to rank them with the rest of the backward classes would amount to treating the unequals equally.	None
The need for exclusion of creamy layer is reiterated in the subsequent decisions of this Court in Ashoka Kumar Thakur v. State of Bihar  1995 (5) SCC 403 , Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (II)  1996 (6) SCC 506 , M.Nagaraj v. Union of India  2006 (8) SCC 212.	None
When Indra Sawhney has held that creamy layer should be excluded for purposes of Article 16(4), dealing with backward class which is much wider than socially and educationally backward class occurring in Article 15(4) and (5), it goes without saying that without the removal of creamy layer there cannot be a socially and educationally backward class.	None
Therefore when a caste is identified as a socially and educationally backward caste, it becomes a socially and educationally backward class only when it sheds its creamy layer.	None
Caste has divided this country for ages.	None
It has hampered its growth.	None
To have a casteless society will be realization of a noble dream.	None
To start with, the effect of reservation may appear to perpetuate caste.	None
The immediate effect of caste based reservation has been rather unfortunate.	None
In the prereservation era people wanted to get rid of the backward tag  either social or economical.	None
But post reservation, there is a tendency even among those who are considered as forward, to seek backward tag, in the hope of enjoying the benefits of reservations.	None
When more and more people aspire for backwardness instead of forwardness the country itself stagnates.	None
Be that as it may.	None
Reservation as an affirmative action is required only for a limited period to bring forward the socially and educationally backward classes by giving them a gentle supportive push.	None
But if there is no review after a reasonable period and if reservation is continued, the country will become a caste divided society permanently.	None
Instead of developing an united society with diversity, we will end up as a fractured society for ever suspicious of each other.	None
While affirmative discrimination is a road to equality, care should be taken that the road does not become a rut in which the vehicle of progress gets entrenched and stuck.	None
Any provision for reservation is a temporary crutch.	None
Such crutch by unnecessary prolonged use, should not become a permanent liability.	None
It is significant that Constitution does not specifically prescribe a casteless society nor tries to abolish caste.	None
But by barring discrimination in the name of caste and by providing for affirmative action Constitution seeks to remove the difference in status on the basis of caste.	None
When the differences in status among castes are removed, all castes will become equal.	None
That will be a beginning for a casteless egalitarian society.	None
I agree that the petitions shall stand disposed of in the manner stated by the learned Chief Justice.	None
Dalveer Bhandari, J. The 93rd Amendment to the Constitution directly or indirectly affects millions of citizens of this country.	None
It has been challenged in a number of writ petitions.	None
This Court heard these petitions intermittently over the course of several months.	None
Appearing on behalf of petitioners and respondents, the countrys finest legal minds assisted us.	None
The fundamental question that arises in these writ petitions is Whether Article 15(5), inserted by the 93rd Amendment, is consistent with the other provisions of the Constitution or whether its impact runs contrary to the Constitutional aim of achieving a casteless and classless society?	None
On behalf of the petitioners, Senior Advocate Mr. F.S. Nariman, eloquently argued that if Article 15(5) is permitted to remain in force, then, instead of achieving the goal of a casteless and classless society, India would be converted into a casteridden society.	None
The country would forever remain divided on caste lines.	None
The Government has sought to repudiate this argument.	None
Petitioners argument, however, echoes the grave concern of our Constitutions original Framers.	None
On careful analysis of the Constituent Assembly and the Parliamentary Debates, one thing is crystal clear our leaders have always and unanimously proclaimed with one voice that our constitutional goal is to establish a casteless and classless society.	None
Mahatma Gandhi said The caste system as we know is an anachronism.	None
It must go if both Hinduism and India are to live and grow from day to day.	None
The first Prime Minister, Pt. Jawahar Lal Nehru, said that no one should be left in any doubt that the future Indian Society was to be casteless and classless.	None
Dr. B. R. Ambedkar called caste antinational.	None
After almost four decades of independence, while participating in the Parliamentary Debate on the Mandal issue, then Prime Minister Shri Rajiv Gandhi on 6th September, 1990 again reiterated the same sentiments I think, nobody in this House will say that the removal of casteism is not part of the national goal, therefore, it would be in the larger interest of the nation to get rid of the castes as early as possible.	None
It is our bounden duty and obligation to examine the validity of the 93rd Amendment in the background of the Preamble and the ultimate goal that runs through the pages of the Constitution.	None
To attain an egalitarian society, we have to urgently remove socioeconomic inequalities.	None
All learned counsel for the petitioners asserted that we must deliver the benefits of reservation to only those who really deserve it.	None
This can only be done if we remove the creamy layer.	None
Learned counsel for the Union of India and other respondents opposed this assertion.	None
The principle of creamy layer emanates from the broad doctrine of equality itself.	None
Unless the creamy layer is removed from admissions and service reservation, the benefits would not reach the group in whose name the impugned legislation was passed  the poorest of the poor.	None
Therefore, including the creamy layer would be inherently unjust.	None
Creamy layer exclusion, however, is just one of the many issues raised by the parties.	None
I need to examine various facets of this case in order to decide the validity of the 93rd Amendment and the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Bill, 2006 (passed as Act 5 of 2007) (hereinafter called the Reservation Act).	None
I shall focus my analysis on the following issues 1A. Whether the creamy layer be excluded from the 93rd Amendment (Reservation Act)?	None
1B. What are the parameters for creamy layer exclusion?	None
1C. Is creamy layer exclusion applicable to SC ST?	None
Can the Fundamental Right under Article 21A be accomplished without great emphasis on primary education?	None
Does the 93rd Amendment violate the Basic Structure of the Constitution by imposing reservation on unaided institutions?	None
Whether the use of caste to identify SEBCs runs afoul of the casteless classless society, in violation of Secularism.	None
Are Articles 15(4) and 15(5) mutually contradictory, such that 15(5) is unconstitutional?	None
Does Article 15(5)s exemption of minority institutions from the purview of reservation violate Article 14 of the Constitution?	None
Are the standards of review laid down by the U.S. Supreme Court applicable to our review of affirmative action under Art 15(5) and similar provisions?	None
With respect to OBC identification, was the Reservation Acts delegation of power to the Union Government excessive?	None
Is the impugned legislation invalid as it fails to set a timelimit for castebased reservation?	None
At what point is a student no longer Educationally Backward and thus no longer eligible for special provisions under 15(5)?	None
Would it be reasonable to balance OBC reservation with societal interests by instituting OBC cutoff marks that are slightly lower than that of the general category?	None
I have carefully examined the pleadings and written submissions submitted at length.	None
Admittedly, the provisions of the Constitution and the Preamble lead to the irresistible conclusion that the Nation has always wanted to achieve a casteless and classless society.	None
If we permit this impugned legislation to be implemented, I am afraid, instead of a casteless and classless India, we would be left with a casteridden society.	None
The first place where caste can be eradicated is the classroom.	None
It all starts with education.	None
In other words, if you belong to a lower caste but are well qualified, hardly anyone would care about your caste.	None
Free and compulsory education is now a fundamental right under Article 21A.	None
The State is duty bound to implement this Article on a priority basis.	None
There has been grave laxity in its implementation.	None
This laxity adversely affects almost every walk of life.	None
In my opinion, nothing is more important for the Union of India than to implement this critical Article.	None
I direct the Union of India to set a timelimit within which this Article is going to be completely implemented.	None
This timelimit must be set within six months.	None
In case the Union of India fails to fix the timelimit, then perhaps this work will also have to be done by the Court.	None
The Union of India should appreciate in proper prospective that the root cause of social and educational backwardness is poverty.	None
All efforts have to be made to eradicate this fundamental problem.	None
Unless the creamy layer is removed, the benefit would not reach those who are in need.	None
Reservation sends the wrong message.	None
Everybody is keen to get the benefit of backward class status.	None
If we want to really help the socially, educationally and economically backward classes, we need to earnestly focus on implementing Article 21A.	None
We must provide educational opportunity from day one.	None
Only then will the casteless classless society be within our grasp.	None
Once children are of collegegoing age, it is too late for reservation to have much of an effect.	None
The problem with the Reservation Act is that most of the beneficiaries will belong to the creamy layer, a group for which no benefits are necessary.	None
Only noncreamy layer OBCs can avail of reservations in college admissions, and once they graduate from college they should no longer be eligible for postgraduate reservation.	None
27 is the upper limit for OBC reservation.	None
The Government need not always provide the maximum limit.	None
Reasonable cut off marks should be set so that standards of excellence greatly effect.	None
The unfilled seats should revert to the general category.	None
These issues first arise out of the text of the impugned Amendment.	None
Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes of Citizens (SEBCs) was introduced by the 93rd Amendment.	None
Article 15(5) states Nothing in this article or in subclause (g) of clause (1) of article 19 shall prevent the State from making any special provision, by law, for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in so far as such special provisions relate to their admission to educational institutions including private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State, other than minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of article 30.	Reasoning
Excluding the Creamy Layer from receiving special benefits Affirmative action is employed to eliminate substantive social and economic inequality by providing opportunities to those who may not otherwise gain admission or employment.	None
Articles 14, 15 and 16 allow for affirmative action.	None
To promote Article 14 egalitarian equality, the State may classify citizens into groups, giving preferential treatment to one over another.	None
When it classifies, the State must keep those who are unequal out of the same batch to achieve constitutional goal of egalitarian society.	None
Arguments of the Union of India in regard to the creamy layer Mr. G.E. Vahanvati, learned Solicitor General and Mr. K. Parasaran, Senior Advocate appearing for the Government contend that creamy layer exclusion is a bad policy.	None
They argue that if you exclude the creamy layer, there would be a shortage of candidates who can afford to pay for higher education.	None
This argument harms rather than helps the Government.	None
It cannot be seriously disputed that most of the collegegoing OBCs belong to the creamy layer for whom reservations are unnecessary they have the money to attend good schools, tuitions and coaching courses for entrance exams.	None
Naturally, these advantages result in higher test scores visvis the noncreamy layer OBCs.	None
The result is that creamy OBCs would fill the bulk of the OBC quota, leaving the noncreamy no better off than before.	None
If the creamy get most of the benefit, why have reservations in the first place?	None
Learned Senior Counsel for petitioners, Mr. Harish Salve, is justified in arguing that before carrying out Constitutional Amendments the Union of India must clearly target its beneficiaries.	None
He rightly submitted that we should not make law first and thereafter target the laws beneficiaries.	None
Failure to exclude the creamy layer is but one example of this problem.	None
The Government further submitted that the creamy layer should be included to ensure that enough qualified candidates fill 27 of the seats reserved to OBCs.	None
The Oversight Committee disagreed.	None
The Committee relied on data from Karnataka to disprove the contention that seats go unfilled when the creamy is excluded the apprehension that seats will not be filled up if the creamy layer is excluded has been comprehensively shown to be unfounded.	None
See Oversight Committee, Vol. 1, Sept. 2006, p. 69, para 1.7.	None
We shall later review the Oversight Committee opinion in greater detail.	None
The reasons for which the creamy layer should be excluded At the outset, I note that the Parliament rejected the Hindi version of the Reservation Act.	None
The Hindi version of the Reservation Act would have expressly excluded the creamy layer.	None
See Prof.	None
Rasa Singh Rawats comments in the Parliamentary Debate on the Reservation Act, 14 December 2006 The Parliament eventually passed the English version in which the creamy layer is not mentioned, making its intention clear.	None
It wanted to include the creamy layer.	None
For all practical purposes, it did so.	None
Therefore, I will treat it as included.	None
Counsel for the Union of India argued that it is still theoretically possible for the executive to exclude the creamy layer.	None
Much is possible in theory.	None
Given the executives failure to take action since the time the Act was passed, I find this argument unavailing.	None
With the Parliaments intention in view, I will deal in some detail with the reasons as to why the creamy layer should be excluded from reservation.	None
I do so because I want to emphasize that the creamy layer must never be included in any affirmative action legislation.	None
It also becomes imperative to gather the original Framers and the Framers intention.	None
At the outset, we recognise a distinction between the original Framers and the Framers, i.e., Members of the First Parliament.	None
Members of the Constituent Assembly and the First Parliament were one in the same.	None
But the distinction is necessary to the extent that the First Parliament deviated from its constitutional philosophy.	None
By examining the debate on Article 15(4), I may ascertain whether the Framers wanted to exclude the creamy layer.	None
The First Parliament believed that economic was included in the social portion of socially and educationally backward.	None
Prime Minister Nehru said as much One of the main amendments or ideas put forward is in regard to the addition of the word economical.	None
Frankly, the argument put forward, with slight variation, I would accept, but my difficult is this that when we chose those particular words there, for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes, we chose them because they occur in article 340 and we wanted to bring them bodily from there.	None
Otherwise I would have had not the slightest objection to add economically.	None
But if I added economically I would at the same time not make it a kind of cumulative thing but would say that a person who is lacking in any of these things should be helped.	None
Socially is a much wider word including many things and certainly including economically.	None
Therefore, I felt that socially and educationally really cover the ground and at the same time you bring out a phrase used in another part of the Constitution in a slightly similar context.	None
(See the Parliamentary Debates on First Amendment Bill, 1 June 1951, p. 9830.)	None
Had it not been for a desire to achieve symmetry in drafting, economically would have been included.	None
Had this been done, the creamy layer would have been excluded ab initio.	None
In the 15(4) debate, Shri M.A. Ayyangars wanted to add economic to ensure that the rich SEBCs would not receive special provisions.	None
I thought economic might be added so that rich men may not take advantage of this provision.	None
In my part of the country there are the Nattukkottai Chettiars who do not care to have English education, but they are the richest of the lot  should there be special reservation for them?	None
(See The Parliamentary Debates on First Amendment Bill, 1 June 1951, p. 9817.)	None
(emphasis added).	None
This hesitation aside, Shri M.A. Ayyangar was satisfied that the term economic was included in the term social.	None
The Framers were worried about creamy layer inclusion, albeit under a different name.	None
They wanted to ensure that the richest of the backward lot would not benefit from special provisions.	None
With their sentiment on our side, we are even more confident that we should strike out in the direction that strikes down laws that include the creamy layer.	None
Including the creamy layer means unequals are treated as equals in violation of the right to equality under Articles 14, 15 and 16.	None
In the present case, Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, the learned Senior Counsel and Mr. S.K. Jain, the learned counsel vehemently argued on behalf of petitioners that it is precisely because equality is at issue that the creamy layer must be removed.	None
The creamy layer has been the subject matter of a number of celebrated judgments of this Court.	None
In a seven Judge Bench in State of Kerala Another v. N. M. Thomas Others (1976) 2 SCC 310 , Justice Mathew, in his concurring judgment, dealt with the right to equality in the following words The guarantee of equality before the law or the equal opportunity in matters of employment is a guarantee of something more than what is required by formal equality.	None
It implies differential treatment of persons who are unequal.	None
Egalitarian principle has therefore enhanced the growing belief that Government has an affirmative duty to eliminate inequalities and to provide opportunities for the exercise of human rights and claims.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In Indra Sawhney Others v. Union of India Others (1992)	None
Supp (3) SCC 217, (hereinafter referred to as Sawhney I), this Court has aptly observed that reservation is given to backward classes until they cease to be backward, and not indefinitely.	None
This Court in para 520 (Sawant, J.) has stated as under Society does not remain static.	None
The industrialisation and the urbanisation which necessarily followed in its wake, the advance on political, social and economic fronts made particularly after the commencement of the Constitution, the social reform movements of the last several decades, the spread of education and the advantages of the special provisions including reservations secured so far, have all undoubtedly seen at least some individuals and families in the backward classes, however small in number, gaining sufficient means to develop their capacities to compete with others in every field.	None
That is an undeniable fact.	None
Legally, therefore, they are not entitled to be any longer called as part of the backward classes whatever their original birthmark.	None
It can further hardly be argued that once a backward class, always a backward class.	None
That would defeat the very purpose of the special provisions made in the Constitution for the advancement of the backward classes, and for enabling them to come to the level of and to compete with the forward classes, as equal citizens.	None
(emphasis supplied).	None
For our purposes, creamy layer OBCs and noncreamy layer OBCs are not equals when it comes to moving up the socioeconomic ladder by means of educational opportunity.	None
Failing to remove the creamy layer treats creamy layer OBCs and noncreamy layer OBCs as equals.	None
In the same paragraph, Justice Sawant stated that to rank the creamy layer with the rest of the backward classes would  amount to treating the unequals equally violating the equality provisions of the Constitution.	None
According to the Kerala Legislature, there was no creamy layer in Kerala.	None
The legislation was challenged in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India Others (2000) 1 SCC 168 , (hereinafter referred to as Sawhney II).	None
The Court struck the two provisions that barred creamy layer exclusion, concluding that noninclusion of the creamylayer and inclusion of forward castes in reservation violates the right to equality under Article 14 and the basic structure.	None
In Sawhney II at para 65, the Court had gone to the extent of observing that not even the Parliament, by constitutional amendment, could dismantle the basic structure by including the creamy layer in reservation What we mean to say is that the Parliament and the legislature in this country cannot transgress the basic feature of the Constitution, namely, the principle of equality enshrined in Article 14 of which Article 16(1) is a facet.	None
Whether the creamy layer is not excluded or whether forward castes get included in the list of backward classes, the position will be the same, namely, that there will be a breach not only of Article 14 but of the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
The nonexclusion of the creamy layer or the inclusion of forward castes in the list of backward classes will, therefore, be totally illegal.	None
Such an illegality offending the root of the Constitution of India cannot be allowed to be perpetuated even by constitutional amendment.	None
By definition, the creamy and noncreamy are unequal when it comes to schooling.	None
Relative to their noncreamy counterparts, the creamy have a distinct advantage in gaining admission.	None
While the creamy and noncreamy are given equal opportunity to gain admission in the reserved category, this equality exists in name only.	None
Will the OBC daughter of a Minister, IAS officer or affluent business owner attend better schools than her noncreamy counterpart?	None
Yes.	None
Will she go to private tuitions unaffordable to her noncreamy counterpart?	None
Certainly.	None
And where will she cram for the alldecisive entrance exams?	None
In a coaching center?	None
Of course.	None
Will she come home from school to find a family member waiting?	None
Probably.	None
And when she seeks help from her parents, are they educated and able to give superior assistance with schoolwork?	None
Most likely.	None
I take judicial notice of these anecdotes, for they flesh out a simple fact she has all the resources that her noncreamy counterpart lacks.	None
It is no surprise that she will outperform the noncreamy.	None
On average, her lot will take the reserved seats.	None
I cannot consider the OBC Ministers daughter and the noncreamy OBC as equals in terms of their chances at earning a university seat nor can I allow them to be treated equally.	None
To lump them in the same category is an unreasonable classification.	None
Putting them in headtohead competition for the same seats violates the right to equality in Articles 14, 15 and 16.	None
In its conclusion at para 122, M. Nagaraj Others v. Union of India Others (2006) 8 SCC 212 , a Constitution Bench of this Court while dealing with Article 16(4A) and 16(4B) with regard to SC and ST observed as under We reiterate that the ceiling limit of 50, the concept of creamy layer and the compelling reasons, namely, backwardness, inadequacy of representation and overall administrative efficiency are all constitutional requirements without which the structure of equality of opportunity in Article 16 would collapse.	None
It was contended that Nagraj is obiter in regard to creamy layer exclusion.	None
According to Nagraj, reservation in promotion for SC ST is contingent on exclusion of the creamy layer.	None
(paras 122, 123 and 124).	None
The contention of the Union of India cannot be accepted.	None
The discussion regarding creamy layer is far from obiter in Nagraj.	None
If the State fails to exclude the SC ST creamy layer, the reservation must fall.	None
Placing this contingency in the conclusion makes the discussion of creamy layer part of the ratio.	None
In sum, creamy layer inclusion violates the right to equality.	None
That is, nonexclusion of creamy layer and inclusion of forward castes in reservation violates the right to equality in Articles 14, 15 and 16 as well as the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
If you belong to the creamy layer, you are not SEBC.	None
One of the prominent questions raised in the writ petitions is whether creamy layer OBCs should be considered socially and educationally backward under the provisions of Article 15(5).	None
While interpreting this provision, a basic syllogism must govern our decision.	None
If you belong to the creamy layer, you are socially advanced and cannot be given the benefit of reservation.	None
(See Sawhney I).	None
Once one is socially advanced, he cannot be socially and educationally backward.	None
He who is socially forward is likely to be educationally forward as well.	None
If either condition (social or educational) goes unmet, one cannot qualify for the benefit of reservation as SEBC.	None
Being socially advanced, the creamy layer is not socially backward pursuant to Articles 15(4) and 15(5) of the Constitution.	None
Even the text of Articles 15(4) and 15(5) provides for creamy layer exclusion.	None
In this sense, one could say that the term creamy layer is synonymous with nonSEBC.	None
Similar interpretation is given to backward classes under Article 16(4).	None
The Parliament could not reasonably make reservation for nonbackwards.	None
Such a Bill on the face of it would violate the Constitution.	None
In Sawhney I, the Government of India issued an O.M. on 13 August 1990, reserving 27 of Government posts to SEBCs.	None
Writing for the majority, at para 792 of page 724, Justice Reddy explained that the creamy layer was not SEBC.	None
The very concept of a class denotes a number of persons having certain common traits which distinguish them from the others.	None
In a backward class under Clause (4) of Article 16, if the connecting link is the social backwardness, it should broadly be the same in a given class.	None
If some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and, may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps.	None
They would be misfits in the class.	None
After excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class.	None
In fact, such exclusion benefits the truly backward.	None
Even though the O.M. was silent on the issue of creamy layer, Justice Reddy excluded the creamy layer at para 859(3)(d).	None
The O.M. could not go into effect until the creamy layer was excluded.	None
para 861(b).	None
Exclusion was only in regard to OBC SC ST were not touched.	None
(para 792).	None
In Sawhney I, the entire discussion was confined only to Other Backward Classes.	None
Similarly, in the instant case, the entire discussion was confined only to Other Backward Classes.	None
Therefore, I express no opinion with regard to the applicability of exclusion of creamy layer to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
Creamy Layer OBCs are not educationally backward In addition to social backwardness, the text of 15(5) demands that recipients are also educationally backward.	None
Even though the creamy layers status as socially advanced is sufficient to disqualify them for preferential treatment, the creamy layer from any community is usually educated and will want the same for its children.	None
They know that education is the key to success.	None
For most, it made them.	None
People belonging to this group do not require reservation.	None
Creamy Layer Inclusion Robs the Poor and Gives to the Rich	None
In a number of judgments, the view has been taken that the creamy layers inclusion takes from the poor and gives to the rich.	None
Our Courts in following cases had taken the same view.	None
See N.M Thomas (supra), para 124 (sevenJudge Bench)	None
K.C.	None
Vasanth Kumar Another v. State of Karnataka, 1985 (Supp) SCC 714, paras 2, 24 and 28 (fiveJudge Bench)	None
Sawhney I., paras 520, 793 and 859(3)(d) (nineJudge Bench)	None
Ashoka Kumar Thakur v. State of Bihar Others (1995) 5 SCC 403 , paras 3, 17 and 18 (twoJudge Bench)	None
Sawhney II,	None
paras 810, 27, 48 and 6566 (threeJudge Bench)	None
Nagaraj (supra), paras, 120124 (fiveJudge Bench)	None
Nair Service Society v. State of Kerala, (2007) 4 SCC 1 paras 31 and 4954 (twoJudge Bench).	None
In Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh (Railway) v. Union of India Others (1981) 1 SCC 246 , Justice Iyer had this to say about the creamy layer Maybe, some of the forward lines of the backward classes have the best of both the worlds and their electoral muscle qua caste scares away even radical parties from talking secularism to them.	None
We are not concerned with that dubious brand.	None
In the long run, the recipe for backwardness is not creating a vested interest in backward castes but liquidation of handicaps, social and economic, by constructive projects.	None
All this is in another street and we need not walk that way now.	None
Nor does the specious plea that because a few harijans are better off, therefore, the bulk at the bottom deserves no jackup provisions merit scrutiny.	None
A swallow does not make a summer.	None
Maybe, the State may, when social conditions warrant, justifiably restrict harijan benefits to the harijans among the harijans and forbid the higher harijans from robbing the lowlier brethren.	None
Creamy layer inclusion was not enough to strike an entire provision in this case.	None
He suggests that creamy layer exclusion is an issue to be dealt with at a later time.	None
The argument that there are rich and influential harijans who rob all the privileges leaving the serflevel sufferers as suppressed as ever.	None
The Administration may well innovate and classify to weed out the creamy layer of SCs STs but the court cannot force the State in that behalf.	None
Thus, Justice Iyer does not mandate creamy layer exclusion rather, he leaves the question to the State.	None
Apart from judicial pronouncements, the Oversight Committee suggested that failure to exclude the creamy layer would lead to unfair results.	None
The Committee was cautious to reach a conclusion.	None
In its Report, it stated that the decision taken was to leave the matter to the Government of India, keeping in mind the fact that the creamy layer is not covered in the Reservation Act, 2006.	None
(See Oversight Committee, Vol. 1, p. 33 and 4.2.)	None
Before leaving the matter to the Government, the Committee nevertheless made its recommendation In case it is decided not to exclude the creamy layer, the poorest among the OBCs will be placed at a disadvantage.	None
(emphasis added).	None
(See Oversight Committee at Appendix I in its Report at p. 70, para 1.13).	None
At page 69 of Vol.	None
I of its Report, the Committee offered data to support this conclusion 1.6 Appendix2 examines in detail the status of the socioeconomic development of OBCs in respect of such parameters as relate to poverty, health, education, unemployment, workforce participation, land ownership etc.	None
The analysis of the NSS data clearly brings out that inclusion of the creamy layer will result in reserved seats getting preempted by the OBCs from the top two deciles at the cost of the poorer income deciles of the OBCs.	None
Thus almost all rural OBCs as well as Urban OBCs from the Northern, Central and Eastern regions of India will be deprived of the intended benefits of reservation.	None
emphasis added 1.7 On the other hand, it was argued that if the creamy layer of OBCs is denied access to reservation in education paripassau with the principle applied in the case of employment, the reserved seats may not get filled up, again defeating the purpose of bringing in reservation for the OBCs.	None
In a case study from Karnataka (included in Annexure X), it has been clearly shown that the OBC quotas have been utilized without any compromise with academic excellence in a situation where the creamy layer has been excluded.	None
The apprehension that seats will not be filled up if the creamy layer is excluded has been comprehensively shown to be unfounded.	None
The case study shows that the performance of students from below the creamy layer is outstanding and much better than general category students.	None
The Committee could have played it safe.	None
Despite some opposition, the Committee included its opinion on the matter.	None
And that opinion is unequivocal the creamy must be excluded.	None
What is allegedly for the poor goes to the rich.	None
Is that reasonable?	None
Trumpeted by the Parliament as a boost to the morale of the downtrodden and in the right direction of ensuring social justice to other backward classes and ensuring social justice to those weaker sections, Article 15(5) dupes those who actually need preferential treatment.	None
(See Prof. Basudeb Barman, M.P., the Parliamentary Debates, p. 531, December 21, 2005 Prof. M. Ramadass, M.P., at p. 510 and Shri C.K. Chandrappan, M.P., at p. 494 respectively).	None
For the poorest of the poor, reservation in college is an empty promise.	None
Few of the financially poor OBCs attend high school, let alone college.	None
Instead of rewarding those that complete Plus 2, the 93rd Amendment (Art 15(5)) poses another barrier they will have to compete with the creamy layer for reserved seats.	None
As explained, the poor lack the resources to compete with the creamy, who snatch away those seats.	None
N. M. Thomas (supra), para 124 (Iyer, J.).	None
With the creamy excluded, poor OBCs would compete with poor OBCs the playing field levelled.	None
As it stands, the Amendment and Act serve one purpose they provide a windfall of seats to the rich and powerful amongst the OBCs.	None
It is unreasonable to classify rich and poor OBCs as a single entity.	None
As noted, this violates the Article 14 right to equality.	None
Unless the creamy layer is removed, OBCs cannot exercise their group rights.	None
The Union of India and other respondents argued that creamy layer exclusion is wrong because the text of the 93rd Amendment bestows a benefit on classes, not individuals.	None
While it is a group right, the group must contain only those individuals that belong to the group.	None
I first take the entire lot of creamy and non creamy layer OBCs.	None
I then remove the creamy layer on an individual basis based on their income, property holdings, occupation, etc.	None
What is left is a group that meets constitutional muster.	None
It is a group right that must also belong to individuals, if the right is to have any meaning.	None
If one OBC candidate is denied special provisions that he should have received by law, it is not the groups responsibility to bring a claim.	None
He would be the one to do so.	None
He has a right of action to challenge the ruling that excluded him from the special provisions afforded to OBCs.	None
In this sense, he has an individual right.	None
Group and individual rights need not be mutually exclusive.	None
In this case, it is not one or the other but both that apply to the impugned legislation.	None
Whether the Creamy Layer exists outside India?	None
An interesting question arises does the concept of creamy layer exist outside India?	None
A 2003 study carried out in the United States suggests that it does.	None
The study by William Bowen, former president of Princeton University, found that when you look at students with the same Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) scores, certain groups have a better chance of being admitted to college.	None
The New Affirmative Action, by David Leonhardt, New York Times, 30 September 2007, p. 3.	None
All things being equal, ones chance of gaining admission is augmented by belonging to one of the preferred groups.	None
Individuals belonging to these groups are given preferential treatment over those who do not.	None
The study demonstrated that Black, Latino and NativeAmericans with the same SAT scores as White or Asian students had a 28 better chance than the White or Asian students at gaining admission those whose parents attended the college had a 20 advantage over those whose parents did not and the poor received no advantage whatsoever over the rich.	None
(See New York Times article, p. 3.)	None
The statistics indicate that the failure to exclude the creamy layer ultimately leads to a situation in which deserving students are excluded.	None
When we revert to the Indian scenario, as long as the Government gives handouts to certain groups, the creamy layer therein will lap them up.	None
A scheme in which the poor receive no advantage can be remedied by excluding the creamy layer.	None
Even the Mandal Commission, which was established in 1979 with a mandate to identify the socially and educationally backward, admitted that the creamy layer was robbing fellow OBCs of reservation.	None
In reference to Tamil Nadu, it said In actual operation, the benefits of reservation have gone primarily to the relatively more advanced castes amongst the notified backward classes.	None
(See P.37, 8.13 of the Report of the Backward Classes Commission, First Part, Vols. 12, 1980).	None
It also stated that it is no doubt true that the major benefits of reservation will be cornered by the more advanced sections.	None
but reasoned that this was acceptable because reform is presumably slow and should start with the more advanced of the backward.	None
(See Page 62, para 13.7 (recommendations)).	None
In N. M. Thomas Others case (supra), Krishna Iyer, J. in his concurring judgment in para 124 noted that the research conducted by the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, had revealed a dual society among harijans in which a tiny elite gobbles up the benefits.	None
Severing the Creamy Layer Technically speaking, I am severing the implied inclusion of the creamy layer.	None
It is severable for two reasons.	None
First, a nineJudge Bench in Sawhney I severed a similar provision wherein the creamy layer was not expressly included, upholding the rest of the O.M.s reservation scheme.	None
Second, because the Parliament must have known that Sawhney I had excluded the creamy layer, it seems likely that the Parliament also realized that this Court may do the same.	None
A cursory review of the Parliamentary Debates regarding Article 15(5) clearly reveals that the Parliament discussed the Sawhney I judgment in detail.	None
(See for example, comments made by Shri Mohan Singh, p.474 and Shri Devendra Prasad, pages 478479 on 21 December 2005).	None
Had the Parliament insisted on creamy layer inclusion, it could have said as much in the text of 15(5).	None
Instead, the Parliament left the text of 15(5) silent on the issue, delegating the issue of OBC identification to the executive in Section 2(g) of the Reservation Act.	None
The test for severability asks a subjective question had the Parliament known its provision would be struck would it still have passed the rest of the legislation?	None
(See R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla Another v. Union of India Another, AIR 1957 SC 628 at page 637 at para 23).	None
It is never easy to say what the Parliament would have done had it known that part of its amendment would be severed.	None
Nevertheless, I find it hard to imagine that the Parliament would have said, if the creamy is excluded, the rest of the OBCs should be denied reservation in education.	None
It seems unlikely that it would have been an allornothing proposition for the Parliament, when the very goal of the impugned legislation of promoting OBC educational advancement does not depend on creamy layer inclusion.	None
For these reasons, I sever or exclude the implied inclusion of the creamy layer.	None
Identification of Creamy Layer Income as the criterion for creamy layer exclusion is insufficient and runs afoul of Sawhney I. (See page 724 at para 792).	None
Identification of the creamy layer has been and should be left to the Government, subject to judicial direction.	None
For a valid method of creamy layer exclusion, the Government may use its postSawhney I criteria as a template.	None
(See O.M. of 891993, para 2(c) Column 3, approved by this Court in Ashoka Kumar Thakur (supra), para 10).	None
This schedule is a comprehensive attempt to exclude the creamy layer in which income, Government posts, occupation and land holdings are taken into account.	None
The Office Memorandum is reproduced hereunder No	None
. 36012/22/93	None
Estt (SCT) Government of India Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances Pension (Department of Personnel Training)	None
New Delhi, the 8th September, 1993 OFFICE MEMORANDUM Subject Reservation for Other Backward Classes in Civil Posts and Services under the Government of India  Regarding.	None
The undersigned is directed to refer to this Departments O.M. No.36012/31/90Estt(SCT) dated 13th	None
August, 1990 and 25th September, 1991 regarding reservation for Socially and Economically Backward Classes in Civil Posts and Services under the Government of India and to say that following the Supreme Court judgment in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India Others (Writ Petition (Civil) No.930 of 1990) the Government of India appointed an Expert Committee to recommend the criteria for exclusion of the socially advanced persons sections from the benefits of reservation for Other Backward Classes in civil posts and services under Government of India.	None
Consequent to the consideration of the Expert Committees recommendation this Departments Office Memorandum No.36012/31/90Estt.	None
(SCT), dated 13.8.1990 referred to in para (1) above is hereby modified to provide as follows (a) 27 (Twenty seven percent) of the vacancies in civil posts and services under the Government of India, to be filled through direct recruitment, shall be reserved for the Other Backward Classes.	None
Detailed instructions relating to the procedure to be followed for enforcing reservation will be issued separately.	None
Candidates belonging to OBCs recruited on the basis of merit in an open competition on the same standards prescribed for the general candidates shall not be adjusted against the reservation quota of 27.	None
(c) (i) The aforesaid reservation shall not apply to persons sections mentioned in column 3 of the Schedule to this Office Memorandum.	None
(ii) The rule of exclusion will not apply to persons working as artisans or engaged in hereditary occupations, callings.	None
A list of such occupations, callings will be issued separately by the Ministry of Welfare.	None
The OBCs for the purpose of the aforesaid reservation would comprise, in the first phase, the castes and communities which are common to both the lists in the report of the Mandal Commission and the State Governments Lists.	None
A list of such castes and communities is being issued separately by the Ministry of Welfare.	None
The aforesaid reservation shall take immediate effect.	None
However, this will not apply in vacancies where the recruitment process has already been initiated prior to the issue of this order.	None
Similar instructions in respect of public sector undertakings and financial institutions including public sector banks will be issued by the Department of Public Enterprises and by the Ministry of Finance respectively from the date of this Office Memorandum.	None
SCHEDULE Description of Category To whom rule of exclusion will apply.	None
CONSTITUTIONAL POSTS Son(s) and daughter(s) of President of India Vice President of India Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts Chairman Members of UPSC and of the State Public Service Commission Chief Election Commissioner Comptroller Auditor General of India Persons holding Constitutional positions of like nature.	None
II.	None
SERVICE CATEGORY Group	None
A Class 1 officers of the All India Central and State Services (Direct Recruits) Son(s) and daughter(s) of (a) parents, both of whom are Class I officers (b) parents, either of whom is a Class I officer (c) parents, both of whom are Class I officers, but one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation.	None
(d) parents, either of whom is a Class I officer and such parent dies or suffers permanent incapacitation and before such death or such incapacitation has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation like UN, IMF, World Bank, etc. for a period of not less than 5 years.	None
(e) parents, both of whom are class I officers die or suffer permanent incapacitation and before such death or such incapacitation of the both, either of them has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation like UN, IMF, World Bank, etc. for a period of not less than 5 years.	None
Provided that the rule of exclusion shall not apply in the following cases Sons and daughters of parents either of whom or both of whom are ClassI officers and such parent(s) dies die or suffer permanent incapacitation.	None
A lady belonging to OBC category has got married to a ClassI officer, and may herself like to apply for a job.	None
Group B Class II officers of the Central State Services (Direct Recruitment) Son(s) and daughter(s) of (a) parents both of whom are Class II officers.	None
(b) parents of whom only the husband is a Class II officer and he gets into Class I at the age of 40 or earlier.	None
(c) parents, both of whom are Class II officers and one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation and either one of them has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation like UN, IMF, World Bank, etc. for a period of not less than 5 years before such death or permanent incapacitation (d) parents, of whom the husband is a Class I officer (direct recruit or preforty promoted) and the wife is a Class II officer and the wife dies or suffers permanent incapacitation and (e) parents, of whom the wife is a Class I officer (Direct Recruit or preforty promoted) and the husband is a Class II officer and the husband dies or suffers permanent incapacitation.	None
Provided that the rule of exclusion shall not apply in the following cases Sons and daughters of Parents both of whom are Class II officers and one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation.	None
Parents, both of whom are Class II officers and both of them die or suffer permanent incapacitation, even though either of them has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation like UN, IMF, World Bank, etc. for a period of not less than 5 years before their death or permanent incapacitation.	None
Employees in Public Sector Undertakings etc.	None
The criteria enumerated in A B above in this Category will apply mutatis mutandi to officers holding equivalent or comparable posts in PSUs, banks, Insurance Organisations, Universities, etc. and also to equivalent or comparable posts and positions under private employment, Pending the evaluation of the posts on equivalent or comparable basis in these institutions, the criteria specified in Category VI below will apply to the officers in these Institutions.	None
III.	None
ARMED FORCES INCLUDING PARAMILITARY FORCES (Persons holding civil posts are not included) Son(s) and daughter(s) of parents either or both of whom is or are in the rank of Colonel and above in the Army and to equivalent posts in the Navy and the Air Force and the Para Military Forces Provided that if the wife of an Armed Forces Officer is herself in the Armed Forces (i.e., the category under consideration) the rule of exclusion will apply only when she herself has reached the rank of Colonel the services ranks below Colonel of husband and wife shall not be clubbed together if the wife of an officer in the Armed Forces is in civil employment, this will not be taken into account for applying the rule of exclusion unless the falls in the service category under item No.II in which case the criteria and conditions enumerated therein will apply to her independently.	None
IV.	None
PROFESSIONAL CLASS AND THOSE ENGANGED IN TRADE AND INDUSTRY Persons engaged in profession as a doctor, lawyer, Chartered Accountant, IncomeTax Consultant, financial or management consultant, dental surgeon, engineer, architect, computer specialist, film artists and other film professional, author, playwright, sports person, sports professional, media professional or any other vocations of like status.	None
Criteria specified against Category VI will apply (II) Persons engaged in trade, business and industry Criteria specified against Category VI will apply Criteria specified against Category VI will apply Explanation Where the husband is in some profession and the wife is in a Class II or lower grade employment, the income wealth test will apply only on the basis of the husbands income.	None
If the wife is in any profession and the husband is in employment in a Class II or lower rank post, then the income wealth criterion will apply only on the basis of the wifes income and the husbands income will not be clubbed with it.	None
PROPERTY OWNERS Agricultural holdings Son(s) and daughter(s) of persons belonging to a family (father, mother and minor children) which owns (a) only irrigated land which is equal to or more than 85 of the statutory ceiling area, or (b) both irrigated and unirrigated land, as follows The rule of exclusion will apply where the precondition exists that the irrigated area (having been brought to a single type under a common denominator) 40 or more of the statutory ceiling, limit for irrigated land (this being, calculated by excluding the unirrigated portion).	None
If this precondition of not less than 40 exists, then only the area of unirrigated land will be taken into account.	None
This will be done by converting the unirrigated land on the basis of the conversion formula existing, into the irrigated type.	None
The irrigated area so computed from unirrigated land shall be added to the actual area of irrigated land and if after such clubbing together the total area in terms of irrigated land is 80 or more of the statutory ceiling limit for irrigated land, then the rule of exclusion will apply and disentitlement will occur.	None
The rule of exclusion will not apply if the land holding of a family is exclusively unirrigated.	None
Plantations Coffee, tea, rubber, etc.	None
Mango, citrus, apple plantations etc.	None
Criteria of income wealth specified in Category VI below will apply.	None
Deemed as agricultural holding and hence criteria at A above under this Category will apply.	None
Vacant land and or buildings in urban areas or urban agglomerations Criteria specified in Category VI below will apply.	None
Explanation Building may be used for residential, industrial or commercial purpose and the like two or more such purposes.	None
VI.	None
INCOME WEALTH TEST Son(s) and daughter(s) of Persons having gross income of Rs.1 lakh or above or possessing wealth above the exemption limit as prescribed in the Wealth Tax Act for a period of three years.	None
Persons in Categories I, II, III and VA who are not disentitled to the benefit of reservation but have income from other sources of wealth which will bring them within the income wealth criteria mentioned in (a) above.	None
Explanation Income from salaries or agricultural land shall not be clubbed The income criteria in terms of rupee will be modified taking into account the change in its value every three years.	None
If the situation, however, so demands, the interregnum may be less.	None
Explanation	None
Wherever the expression permanent incapacitation occur in this schedule, it shall mean incapacitation which results in putting an officer out of service.	None
Smt.	None
Sarita Prasad Joint Secretary to the Government of India.	None
In sum, the schedule excludes the children of those who hold constitutional posts, e.g., the children of the President of India, Supreme Court Judges, Chairman and Members of UPSC and others are excluded.	None
Class 1 Officers children are not eligible for OBC perks either.	None
When both parents are ClassII	None
Officers, their children are excluded.	None
The same criteria that apply to ClassI and II officers apply to children of parents who work at high levels within the private sector.	None
Agricultural owners are excluded when their irrigated holdings are more than or equal to 85 of the statutory ceiling.	None
The O.M. further excludes persons having a gross annual income of Rs.2.5 lakh or more.	None
The Government raised the income limit from Rs.1 to Rs.2.5 lakh on 09.03.2004 vide O.M. 36033/3/2004.	None
The creamy layer schedule of the O.M. dated 8.9.93, in my opinion, is not comprehensive.	None
This should be revised periodically  preferably once in every 5 years, in order to ensure that creamy layer criteria take changing circumstances into account.	None
Apart from the people who have been excluded vide the office memo, I urge the Government to make it more comprehensive.	None
The Government should consider excluding the children of sitting and former Members of Parliament (MP) and Members of Legislative Assemblies (MLA) from special benefits.	None
If constitutional authorities have been excluded from benefits because of their status or resources, the same should apply to children of former and sitting MPs and MLAs.	None
I hope the judiciary will not have to involve itself in this matter.	None
Applying Article 21A to the Reservation Act On 18 December 2006, in the Rajya Sabha Debate on the Reservation Act, Member of Parliament and former Governor, Dr. P.C. Alexander summed up what would become one of Petitioners arguments.	None
Should Rs.17,000 crores be spent on implementing the Reservation Act for higher education when primary secondary schooling is in such bad shape?	None
Dr. Alexander stated Sir, this spending Rs.17,000 crores or whatever amount is needed for adding seats in the Engineering colleges, IIMs and IITs is reversing our priorities.	None
If you have the money for education, spend it on schools.	None
Spend it on the rural areas for primary schools spend it on the schools, which are poorly starved in the urban areas.	None
Instead of doing that, you spend it by adding to the numbers because you want to appease the socalled poorer sections in the higher castes.	None
So, we have taken care of you and you tell the backward classes we are taking care of all of you.	None
This is where we land ourselves in trouble.	None
We have cash resources.	None
They should be spent where priorities are fixed clearly in our eyes and we dont want to do that.	None
Spending on higher at the expense of lower education raises the specter of conflict with Article 21A.	None
By the 86th Amendment, Article 21A was inserted in our Constitution.	None
Article 21A reads as follows The State shall provide free and compulsory education to all children of the age of six to fourteen years in such manner as the State may, by law, determine.	None
Under Article 21A, it is a mandatory obligation of the State to provide free and compulsory education to all children aged six to fourteen.	None
In order to achieve this constitutional mandate, the State has to place much greater emphasis on allocating more funds for primary and secondary education.	None
There is no corresponding constitutional right to higher education.	None
The entire Nations progress virtually depends upon the proper and effective implementation of Article 21A. This Court in Unni Krishnan, J.P. Others v. State of Andhra Pradesh Others (1993) 1 SCC 645 para 166 held as under right to education is implicit in and flows from the right to life guaranteed by Article 21.	None
That the right to education has been treated as one of transcendental importance in the life of an individual and has been recognized not only in this country since thousands of years, but all over the world without education being provided to citizens of this country, the objectives set forth in the Preamble to the Constitution cannot be achieved.	None
The Constitution would fail.	None
This observation encouraged the Parliament to insert Article 21A into the Constitution.	None
In Unni Krishnan (supra), Justice Reddy observed that the quality of education in Government schools was extremely poor and that the schools were woefully inadequate to the needs of the children.	None
He noted that many countries spend 6 to 8 of Gross Domestic Product on education.	None
Our expenditure on education is just 4 of GDP.	None
Though an improvement over past performance, the overall education picture leaves much to be desired.	None
The bad news is really bad.	None
Even where we have seen improvement, there is still failure.	None
A survey by Pratham, an NGO, fleshes out the acute problems found in rural schools.	None
(See ASER 2007  Rural Annual Status of Education Report for 2007, published on January 16, 2008).	None
The survey covered 16,000 villages.	None
As Pratham indicates, there are an estimated 140 million children in the age group 6 to 14 years in primary schools.	None
Of these 30 million cannot read, 40 million can recognize a few alphabets, 40 million can read some words, and 30 million can read paragraphs.	None
Over 55 million of these children will not complete four years of school, eventually adding to the illiterate population of India.	None
The national literacy rate is 65. 63.	None
24 districts with more than 50,000 out of school children means we have failed 24 times over.	None
71 districts in which there are 60 students per teacher is just as bad, if not worse.	None
According to Pratham (and in line with the Ministry of HRDs sixmonth review), the number of out of school children has hovered around 7,50,000.	None
page 6.	None
Moreover, it goes without saying that children need proper facilities.	None
Today, just 59 of schools can boast of a useable toilet.	None
page 49.	None
The quality of education is equally troubling.	None
For standards I and II, only 78.3 of students surveyed could recognize letters and read words or more in their own language.	None
page 47.	None
In 2006, it was even worse  only 73.1 could do so.	None
It is disheartening to peruse the statistics for standards III to V, where only 66.4 could read Standard I text or more in their own language in 2007.	None
page 47.	None
As Pratham stated at page 7 What should be more worrying though, is the fact that in class 2, only 9 percent children can read the text appropriate to them, and 60 percent cannot even recognise numbers between 10 and 99.	None
In the third to fifth standards, 40 of students surveyed could not subtract.	None
The latest figures indicate that 58.3 children in the fifth standard read at the level appropriate for second Standard students.	None
page 32.	None
In both 2005 and 2007, only 74.1 of enrolled children were in attendance.	None
page 49.	None
The learned Solicitor General, Mr Vahanvati, submitted that the Government has now placed sufficient emphasis on primary education.	None
In 20012002, the Government launched Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA).	Arguments of Respondent
This national programmes goal is to universalize elementary education.	None
It supplements Governmental spending on education.	None
As the Solicitor General explained, it was founded on the idea that education for those between the ages of six to fourteen is a fundamental right.	None
In this way, SSA seeks to fulfill the Governments obligation under Article 21A to provide free and compulsory education to this age group.	None
Some of the SSAs accomplishments merit mention.	None
By March 2007, 2,03,577 toilets had been constructed or were under construction, covering 87 of the goal more than six crore free textbooks had been supplied  96 of the goal 1,93,220 new schools had been completed or were under construction, i.e., 80 of the desired mark.	None
The learned Solicitor General further provided that enrolment for all districts in 200405 for classes IV was 11,82,96,540.	None
In 200506, the number increased to 12,46,15,546.	None
A similar increase was seen in Classes VIVII VIII from 3,77,17,490 to 4,36,67,786.	None
The total number of teachers increased from 36,67,637 in 200304 to 46,90,176 in 200506.	None
It is the learned Solicitor Generals contention that SSA was responsible for many of the gains cited above.	None
This includes the improved statistics on the studentteacher ratio, out of school children and enrollment rate for girls.	None
While the Government is on the right track with regard to improving the infrastructure of our system, books and buildings only go so far.	None
They are necessary but not sufficient for achieving the ultimate goals of (1) keeping children in school, (2) ensuring that they learn how to think critically and (3) ensuring that they learn skills that will help them secure gainful employment.	None
The quality of education provided in the majority of primary schools is woeful.	None
That is why I find it necessary to review Government spending on education  especially at the primary secondary level.	None
Undoubtedly, the Government has allocated more funds of late for education, but we need to have far more allocation of funds and much greater emphasis on free and compulsory education.	None
Anything less would flout Article 21As mandate.	None
According to H.R.D. Annual Reports read with the Union of India Budget 200809, we spend roughly seven times as much on the individual college student than the individual primary or secondary student.	None
Spending per Student Comparing that which is spent on each primary secondary student versus each higher education student Year Level of Schooling Estimated of Enrolled Students Total Rs.	None
Allocated Expenditure per student in Rs.20062007 School Education Literacy 219083879 168970000000 771 20062007 Tertiary Education 11777296 69120900000 5868 20072008 School Education Literacy 219083879 231913500000 1059 20072008 Tertiary Education 11777296 63973600000 5432 20082009 School Education Literacy 219083879 278500000000 1271 20082009 Tertiary Education 11777296 108528700000 9215	None
Estimated number of students for primary secondary level is taken from 20042005 Annual Report, p. 250 at http www.education.nic.in AR AR0607en.pdf.	None
In the same Annual Report, 11777296 students were enrolled in higher education in 20042005.	None
For consistencys sake, I have used the 20042005 estimates.	None
I have found no information that suggests that enrolment for one has significantly outpaced the other.	None
Government of India, Expenditure Budget Vol. 1, 20082009, p. 6, Total Expenditure of Ministries Departments (school education literacy and higher education have been added).	None
In a country where only 18 of those in the relevant age group make it to higher education, this is incredible.	None
See NSSO 19992000.	None
It is not suggested that higher education needs to be neglected or that higher education should not receive more funds, but there has to be much greater emphasis on the primary education.	None
Our priorities have to be changed.	None
Nothing is really more important than to ensure total compliance with Article 21A.	None
How can a sizeable portion of the population be precluded from realizing the benefits of development when almost everyone acknowledges that the children are our future?	None
Education for children up to the age of fourteen years should be free.	None
This has also been suggested in the recommendations of the Kothari Commission on Education in 1966.	None
Taking the countrys rampant poverty into account, free education up to the age 14 years is absolutely imperative.	None
There is no other way for the poor to climb their way out of this predicament.	None
Mr. P.P. Rao, learned Senior Advocate, rightly submitted that when you lack a school building, teachers, books and proper facilities, your schooling might be free but it is not an education in any proper sense.	None
Adequate number of schools must be established with proper infrastructure without further delay.	None
In order to achieve the constitutional goal of free and compulsory education, we have to appreciate the reality on the ground.	None
A sizeable section of the country is still so poor that many parents are compelled to send their children to work.	None
The State must carve out innovative policies to ensure that parents send their children to school.	None
The MidDay Meal Scheme will go a long way in achieving this goal.	None
But, apart from MidDay Meals, the Government should provide financial help to extremely poor parents.	None
In addition to free education and or other financial assistance, they should also be given books, uniforms and any other necessary benefits so that the object of Article 21A is achieved.	None
Time and again, this Court, in a number of judgments, has observed that the State cannot avoid its constitutional obligation on the ground of financial inabilities.	None
(See Hussainara Khatoon Others (III) v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar, Patna (1980) 1 SCC 98 , 107 at para 10).	None
In Vasanth Kumar (supra) at para 150, Justice Venkataramiah suggested that the State provide preferential treatment such as tuition, scholarships, free boarding and lodging, etc.	None
According to UNESCOs Education for All, Global Monitoring Report (2008) at page 115, at least fourteen countries have cashtransfer programmes that target poor households with schoolage children.	None
The largest programme is in Brazil, where 46 million people receive an education transfer of up to 44 USD monthly per household in extreme poverty with children below age 16.	None
According to the Report, the programme has reduced dropout rates by up to 75 among beneficiaries in its more recent stage.	None
Such a programme is not foreign to India.	None
According to UNICEF, the State of Gujarat put the idea of financial incentives for youth into action Figures indicate that the school enrolment drive of the state Government supported by incentives like Vidyalaxmi bond of Rs.1,000 given to each girl who completes primary education and 60 kg of wheat for tribal girls attending school, has met with significant success.	None
In addition to the various incentives by the Government, many a corporate houses and community have also come forward to motivate parents and children by donating school bags, uniforms, stationery, etc.	None
As a result, the dropout rate has come down from 35.31 in 19971998 to 3.24 in 20062007 in class 15.	None
In girls, this rate has dropped from 38.95 to 5.97 in the same time period.	None
In January 2008, Haryana Chief Minister Mr. Bhupinder Singh Hooda unfurled an incentive scheme for SC students in which students would receive a onetime payment in addition to a monthly stipend for attending school.	None
(See Incentives announced to curb dropout rate, The Tribune, 5 Jan. 2008).	None
The relevant portion is mentioned herein below Secretary, education, Rajan Gupta said a onetime allowance of Rs.740 to Rs.1,450 would be given to SC students from class I to XII.	None
Under the monthly incentive scheme, boys and girls studying in class I to V would be given Rs100 and Rs.150, respectively, per month and boys and girls of class VI to VIII Rs.150 and Rs.200.	None
Similarly, boys and girls of class IX to XII would be given Rs.200 and Rs.300, respectively, and boys and girls studying science subjects in class XI and XII Rs.300 and Rs.400, respectively.	None
This monthly incentive to the students would be deposited in their bank accounts to maintain transparency in the scheme, he added.	None
In the name of transparency, students attendance records could be made available to administrators and parents.	None
Students would be paid to attend school.	None
They would receive a sum for each day of school that they attended.	None
If you only attend 7 out of 10 school days, you would only receive 70 of the stipend.	None
Ultimately, this is the most important aspect of implementing Article 21A, incentives should be provided to parents so that they are persuaded to send their children to school.	None
More than punishment, creative incentive programmes will go a long way in the implementation of the fundamental right enshrined under Article 21A. Historical Perspective on Compulsory Education Almost two centuries ago, Clause 43 of The Charter Act of 1813 made education a State responsibility.	None
See Free and Compulsory Education Genesis and Execution of Constitutional Philosophy, Dr. P.L. Mehta and Rakhi Poonga, Deep and Deep Publications, New Delhi (1997).	None
pages 4247.	None
The Hunter Commission (188283) was the first to recommend universal education in India.	None
Thereafter, the Patel Bill, 1917 was the first compulsory education legislation.	None
It proposed to make education compulsory from ages 6 to 11.	None
The Government of India Act, 1935 provided that education should be made free and compulsory for both boys and girls.	None
Free and compulsory education got a further boost when the Zakir Hussain Commission recommended that the State should provide it.	None
The 1944 Sargent Report strongly recommended free and compulsory education for children aged six to fourteen.	None
By 1947, primary education had been made compulsory in 152 urban areas and 4995 rural areas.	None
The State has been making some endeavour to provide free and compulsory education since 1813 in one form or the other.	None
When the original Framers gathered at the Constituent Assembly, their desire to provide free and compulsory education was well established.	None
The real question in the Debate was whether the original Framers would make free and compulsory education justiciable or not.	None
They oscillated between the options, first placing it in the fundamental rights and later moving it to the directive principles of State policies under Article 45 of the Constitution.	None
Over 50 years later, the Parliament revisited the subject.	None
The Parliamentary debate on Article 21A offers a glimpse into the history of compulsory education in other countries.	None
The then Minister of Human Resource Development, Dr. M.M. Joshi, referred to the speech of Shri Gopal Krishna Gokhale on compulsory education.	None
While debating a bill in the imperial legislative council in 1911, Shri Gokhale said that in most countries elementary education is both compulsory and free, and in a few, though the principle of compulsion is not strictly enforced or has not been introduced it is either wholly or for the most part gratitutious, in India alone it is neither compulsory nor free.	None
Thus in Great Britain and Ireland, France, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Belguim, Norway, Sweden, the United States of America, Canada, Australia and Japan it is compulsory and free.	None
In Spain, Portugal, Greece, Bulgaria, Servia and Rumania, it is free, and in theory, compulsory, though compulsion is not strictly enforced.	None
Lok Sabha Debates, 28 November, 2001, Vol.20, page 476.	None
In 1948, the United Nations made its own pronouncement on compulsory education.	None
Article 26(1) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights made free and compulsory education a lofty if not enforceable goal.	None
While many states consider it an authoritative interpretation of the United Nations Charter, the Declaration is not a treaty and is not intended to be legally binding.	None
Article 26(1) states Everyone has the right to education.	None
Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages.	None
Elementary education shall be compulsory.	None
Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.	None
Our original Framers put a similar emphasis on the matter, placing free and compulsory education in the Directive Principles.	None
The unamended Article 45 provided that The State shall endeavour to provide, within a period of ten years from the commencement of this Constitution, for free and compulsory education for all children until they complete the age of fourteen years.	None
At this juncture, I deem it appropriate to refer to the Parliamentary Debate on the aspect of free and compulsory education.	None
In the Lok Sabha debate of 28 November 2001 at Vol. 20, Shri M.V.V.S. Murthi, at page 499, stated Unless the Government makes primary education compulsory, no village can develop.	None
If I say what they are doing in Andhra Pradesh, some Members may again cry foul.	None
In Andhra Pradesh, we are having Education Committees.	None
If there are any dropouts, the Committee will go to the village and find out the reason as to why they have dropped out.	None
It is very important.	None
The Report of the Kothari Commission, 19641966, headed by Prof. D. S. Kothari, provided important recommendations on compulsory education.	None
Nevertheless, the circumstances of the day compelled it to soften its suggestions.	None
The Nation was relatively poor and could not afford drastic increases in education spending.	None
Some excerpts of this report are reproduced as under 5.01.	None
But in any given society and at a given time, the decisions regarding the type, quantity and quality of educational facilities depend partly upon the resources available and partly upon the social and political philosophy of the people.	None
Poor and traditional societies are unable to develop even a programme of universal primary education.	None
But rich and industrialized societies provide universal secondary education and expanding and broadbased programmes of higher and adult education.	None
Feudal and aristocratic societies emphasize education for a few.	None
But democratic and socialistic societies emphasize mass education and equalization of educational opportunities.	None
The principal problem to be faced in the development of human resources, therefore, is precisely this How can available resources be best deployed to secure the most beneficial form of educational development?	None
How much education, of what type or level of quality, should society strive to provide and for whom?5.03 Increasing the Educational Level of Citizens.	None
In the next two decades the highest priority must be given to programmes aimed at raising the educational level of the average citizen.	None
Such programmes are essential on grounds of social justice, for making democracy viable and for improving the productivity of the average worker in agriculture and industry.	None
The most crucial of these programmes is to provide, as directed by Article 45 of the Constitution, free and compulsory education of good quality to all children up to the age of 14 years.	None
In view of the immense human and physical resources needed, however, the implementation of this programme will have to be phased over a period of time.	None
When Article 21A was introduced, some Members of Parliament argued that financially poor parents who fail to send their children to school should not be punished and that the word compulsion in this Article should be understood to apply exclusively to the State.	None
Let me examine this argument.	None
The 86th Amendment made three changes to the Constitution.	None
It added Articles 21A and 51A(k) and amended Article 45.	None
I turn my focus to Article 51A(k).	None
In addition to rejecting an amendment that would have neutered compulsory education, the Parliament made a positive gesture.	None
Though it never passed legislation seeking to implement compulsory education, it had not completely ignored the subject.	None
From Article 51A(k), it becomes clear that parents would be responsible for sending their children to school.	None
Article 51A read with 51A(k) is reproduced as under It shall be the duty of every citizen of India who is a parent or guardian to provide opportunities for education to his child or, as the case may be, ward between the age of six and fourteen years.	None
Just as Article 51A(a) does not penalize disrespect of the National Flag, Article 51A(k) does not penalize parents guardian for failing to send children to school.	None
There is, of course, legislation that gives teeth to Article 51A(a).	None
(See The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, Section 3A).	None
Article 51A(k) indicates that it is parents, not the State, who are responsible for making sure children wake up on time and reach school.	None
Thus, Article 21A read with Article 51A(k) distributes an obligation amongst the State and parents the State is concerned with free education, parents with compulsory.	None
Notwithstanding parental duty, the State also has a role to play in ensuring that compulsory education is feasible  a topic I will cover below.	None
The Central Government has made some effort to fulfill its obligation under Article 21A with regard to free education.	None
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan is one such example.	None
When it comes to compulsory education, the Central Government has made no such effort.	None
The Parliament has not passed any legislation.	None
The executive has not issued any order.	None
What we have is a patchwork of different State and Union Territory laws.	None
These States UTs (and NCR) include Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhatisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Andaman Nicobar Islands.	None
The majority of the States and Union Territories levy very small fines on parents.	None
I note that these laws do not go into effect with one unexcused absence.	None
Notice is given to the parents, giving them time to remedy the problem.	None
Of course, enforcement is almost always a different story.	None
In contrast to the relatively light aforementioned sentences, the Compulsory Education Bill, 2006 introduced in the Rajya Sabha would provide six months imprisonment as a penalty for those who preclude children from going to school.	None
If this Bill becomes law, Section 7 would dictate the following If any person including parents of children prevents any boy or girl child from going to school or causes hindrance or obstruction in any way, he shall be punishable with imprisonment, which may extend to six months.	None
It seems that the Bill simultaneously targets employers and parents.	None
Employers would be punished when they hire a child to work too much or during school hours.	None
Similarly, parents would also be punished for allowing this to happen.	None
The Bill would also provide for scholarships, free hostel facilities and other incentives, whenever necessary and as may be prescribed.	None
In Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India Others, (1997) 10 SCC 549 at page 557 at para 11, the Court explained why education should be compulsory.	None
In essence, a citizen is only free when he can make a meaningful challenge to his fellow citizens or Governments attempt to curtail his natural freedom.	None
For this to happen, he needs a certain degree of education.	None
This is why Article 21A may be the most important fundamental right.	None
Without it, a citizen may never come to know of his other rights nor would he have the resources to adequately enforce them.	None
The relevant passage at para 11 reads as under A free educated citizen could meaningfully exercise his political rights, discharge social responsibilities satisfactorily and develop a spirit of tolerance and reform.	None
Therefore, education is compulsory.	None
Primary education to the children, in particular, to the child from poor, weaker sections, Dalits and Tribes and minorities is mandatory.	None
The basic education and employmentoriented vocational education should be imparted so as to empower the children within these segments of the society to retrieve them from poverty and, thus, develop basic abilities  to live a meaningful life  Compulsory education, therefore, to these children is one of the principal means and primary duty of the State for stability of the democracy, social integration and to eliminate social tensions.	None
In contrast to Article 51A(k), State and Union Territory laws and Parliamentary intent with regard to Article 21A, the Court in Mukti Morcha was inclined to suggest, not hold, that the State was exclusively responsible for compulsory education.	None
It went on to reaffirm M.C. Mehta v. State of Tamil Nadu Others (child labour matter) (1996) 6 SCC 756.	None
In that case, the Court took up the issue of child labour in hazardous fields when it learnt of an accident in a cracker factory in Sivakasi.	None
The said case at para 28 identified poverty as the root cause of child labour Of the aforesaid causes, it seems to us that  poverty is basic reason which compels parents of a child, despite their unwillingness, to get it employed.	None
The Survey Report of the Ministry of Labour (supra) had also stated so.	None
Otherwise, no parents, specially no mother, would like that a tenderaged child should toil in a factory in a difficult condition, instead of its enjoying its childhood at home under the paternal gaze.	None
In other words, parents send children to work because parents have no other choice.	None
Food comes first.	None
If the State does not provide extra income so as to remove the incentive to send children to work, it is wasting its time on mere gesture.	None
The Court in para 29 concluded that action must be taken It may be that child labour would be taken care of to some extent by insisting on compulsory education.	None
Indeed, Neera Burns thinks that if there is at all a blueprint for tackling the problem of child labour, it is education.	None
Even if it were to be so, the child of a poor parent would not receive education, if per force it has to earn to make the family meet both the ends.	None
Therefore, unless the family is assured of income aliunde, problem of child labour would hardly get solved and it is this vital question which has remained almost unattended.	None
We are, however, of the view that till an alternative income is assured to the family, the question of abolition of child labour would really remain willothewisp.	None
(emphasis added).	None
It is interesting to note that compulsory education has been introduced in one form or the other in various countries.	None
From the historical experience of these nations, we learn that the legislation pertaining to compulsory education has played an important role in improving educational outcomes.	None
Compulsory educations roots in the United States Compulsory education has had a long history outside of India.	None
In 1852, the State of Massachusetts enacted the first compulsory attendance law in the United States though compulsory education laws existed much earlier in many states, the first dating back to 1642 in Massachusetts.	None
Were Compulsory Attendance and Child Labor Laws Effective?	None
(See An analysis from 1915 to 1939.	None
(2001) at p. 2.	None
Prof. Adriana LlerasMuney of Princeton University.)	None
Reasons from abroad for implementing compulsory education Prof. LlerasMuney explains that those who advocated for compulsory education believed that universal education was necessary to promote democracy and guarantee a common American culture.	None
(Page 11).	None
Given the influx of immigrants, some of whom came from undemocratic countries, many supporters of legislation viewed compulsory education as an instrument for assimilation.	None
Other reasons cited by compulsory education proponents in the United States included the reduction of crime, racism and inequality.	None
Prof. Oreopoulos of the University of Toronto cites to sources that make it appear as though the reasons for adopting compulsory education in Canada mirrored those cited in the United States the emphasis was on good citizenship and economic development	None
Archibald Macallum, an Ontario teacher, summarized the latter argument vigorously in an 1875 report favouring the introduction of compulsory schooling in Canada Society has suffered so cruelly from ignorance, that its riddance is a matter of necessity, and by the universal diffusion of knowledge alone can ignorance and crime be banished from our midst in no other way can the best interests of society be conserved and improved than by this one remedy  the compulsory enforcement of this great boon  the right of every Canadian child to receive that education that will make him a good, loyal subject, prepared to serve his country in the various social functions which he may be called on to fill during his life and prepare him, through grace, for the life to come (Annual Report of the Ontario Teachers Association, 1875, as cited in Prentice and Houston 1975, 1756).	None
(See The Canadian Journal of Economics, Vol. 39, No.1, February (2006)	None
The compelling effects of compulsory schooling the evidence from Canada, Prof. Oreopoulos, at page 23).	None
Empirical data indicating that compulsory education has a positive effect Prof. Oreopoulos provides data that show the fruits of imposing education on citizens.	None
Crime may be lowered, health improved and civic activity increased.	None
Compulsory education may also lead to a substantial increase in income for individuals.	None
Moreover, compulsory education, if it does not cause, may at least contribute to an increase in bilingualism and employment and a reduction in poverty.	None
The relevant portion is reproduced hereunder (Page 24).	None
Other papers find evidence of social returns, but for nonpecuniary outcomes.	None
Lochner and Moretti (2002), for example, find that compulsory schooling lowers crime, while LlerasMuney (2002) finds a correlation with improved health.	None
In studies of the United States and United Kingdom, Dee (2003) and Milligan, Moretti, and Oreopoulos (2003) estimate that tighter restrictions on leaving school early correspond to increased levels of civic activity (like voting and discussing politics).	None
My analysis suggests that students compelled to complete an extra grade of school have historically experienced an average increase of 915 in annual income.	None
(Page 48).	None
I find that the introduction of tighter provincial restrictions on leaving school between 1920 and 1990 raised average grade attainment and incomes.	None
Students compelled to attend an extra year of school experienced an average increase in annual income of about 12.	None
I also find that compulsory schooling is associated with significant benefits in terms of other socioeconomic outcome measures ranging from bilingualism, employment, and poverty status.	None
These results hold up against many specifications checks and are entirely consistent with previous studies.	None
In addition to increased income, Prof. LlerasMuney found that legally requiring a child to attend school for one more year increased educational attainment by roughly five percentage points.	None
(Page 8).	None
Educational attainment refers to time spent in school.	None
Example of compulsory education statutes The causes of low enrolment, high dropout rates and frequent truancy in the U.S. and India differ, but the consequences thereof do not.	None
In either case, citizens who lack education are at an extreme disadvantage.	None
In India, poverty has been identified as the ultimate cause of lackluster enrolment and attendance rates.	None
Children are compelled to work.	None
In developed countries like the United States or Canada, children rarely fail to attend school because of economic constraints.	None
Instead, a number of different factors may contribute to truancy.	None
High school students may drop out because they detest school, lack motivation, or anticipate little reward from graduation.	None
(See The Canadian Journal of Economics, The compelling effects of compulsory schooling the evidence from Canada, Prof. Oreopoulos, p. 23, (quoting from Eckstein, Zvi, and Kenneth I. Wolpin (1999) Why youths drop out of high school the impact of preferences, opportunities, and abilities, Econometrica 67, 1295339).	None
As I detail below, students and parents in the United States often face the same fines when students fail to attend school.	None
Fines for students make more sense when low selfcontrol is the reason for which they fail to attend school.	None
At the same time, punishing Indian students who have no choice but to work would make no sense.	None
Such a punishment should not be borrowed from the United States.	None
In many jurisdictions in the United States, the attendance officer is responsible for enforcing compulsory attendance laws for his area or school.	None
Given the overwhelming problem of subpar enrolment and attendance in India, we doubt that one school official could sufficiently do the work of inspecting places of employment for children who have violated attendance laws.	None
Indeed, existing legislation in India already envisages the employment of attendance officers.	None
The Delhi Primary Education Act, 1960, Sec. 7.	None
Yet, there is nothing to suggest that these employees have adequately dealt with truancy.	None
As mentioned, this is, in part, due to the economic conditions in which many parents find themselves.	None
Financial assistance or incentives must be given.	None
Only then, may the Government actively enforce compulsory attendance legislation.	None
We must also remember that it is not only the child who fails to attend but also the child who fails to enroll that has violated an attendance law.	None
Before taking issue with State Union Territory compulsory education statutes, I note that education has traditionally been reserved for the States.	None
Only in 1976, vide the 42nd Amendment of the Constitution, did education become a part of Concurrent List of Schedule 7.	None
In its 165th Report, the Law Commission of India has also recommended enactment of Central Legislation in this respect.	None
Putting education in the Concurrent List turns out to be a positive development, given the States failure to provide effective legislation.	None
The States laws fail on two accounts.	None
First, they are too lenient to have a deterrent effect.	None
Second, the legislation is not adequately enforced, in part, because it does not require police officers to do the job.	None
If we analyze the legislation passed by different States, another conclusion becomes obvious no State has provided for an adequate punishment whose effect would be to deter citizens from committing a violation.	None
It is necessary to reproduce some of the various compulsory education laws of the States.	None
Under Section 7 of The Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Act, 1994 Every parent or guardian of a child of school age who fails to discharge his duty under section 4 duty of parent to cause child to attend elementary school shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees.	None
Section 18(1) of The Delhi Primary Education Act, 1960 states	None
If any parent fails to comply with an attendance order passed under Section 13, he shall be punishable with fine not exceeding two rupees, and, in the case of continuing contravention, with an additional fine not exceeding fifty naye paise for every day during which such contravention continues after conviction for the first of such contraventions.	None
Provided that the amount of fine payable by any one person in respect of any child in any one year shall not exceed fifty rupees.	None
Analysis of these State laws reveals that they are weak in character and perhaps have never been implemented.	None
If we compare these laws with their sister statutes in United States, we realize that the U.S. laws are far stronger.	None
In Wisconsin, parents who fail to send their children to school may have to pay a fine of not more than 500 or face imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both.	None
Wisconsin Statute Sections 118.15(1)(a) and 118.15(5)(a)1.a.	None
For a second or subsequent offense, they may face a fine of not more than 1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days or both.	None
Wisconsin Statute Sections 118.15(1)(a) and 118.15(5)(a)1.b.	None
Alternatively, they may be sentenced to perform community service.	None
Wisconsin Statute Sections 118.15(1)(a) and 118.15(5)(a)2.	None
Unlike Wisconsin, Tamil Nadu and Delhis laws have no teeth.	None
The other main problem is implementation of these laws.	None
Neither the State Governments nor their police agencies are at all serious about implementing these compulsory laws.	None
There are hardly any cases where even fines have been imposed.	None
Some form of compulsory education has been on the statute books since 1917.	None
We have seen Western countries enforce these laws.	None
Most Western countries enjoy almost universal literacy while 35 of our population is illiterate.	None
While a robust financial incentive programme may not have been possible in 1917, it is today.	None
If we wish to develop further, we must educate each and every citizen aged six to fourteen.	None
In order to give effect to the constitutional right under Article 21A, it is imperative that the Central Government pass suitable legislation.	None
The fine should be suitably increased.	None
Imprisonment should be a sentencing option as well.	None
The current patchwork of State UT legislation on compulsory education is insufficient.	None
Small monetary fines do not go far enough to ensure the implementation of Article 21A. A disclaimer is attached to these recommendations.	None
The recommendations for the enforcement of compulsory education are contingent upon the implementation of a financial incentive program that would make education viable for the poor.	None
The carrot must come before the stick.	None
If there is no financial incentive program in place, the Government cannot expect the poorest of the poor to send their children to school.	None
The Parliament should criminally penalize those parents who receive financial benefits and, despite such payments, send their children to work and penalize those employers who preclude children from attending school or completing homework.	None
It has become necessary that the Government set a realistic target within which it must fully implement Article 21A regarding free and compulsory education for the entire country.	None
The Government should suitably revise budget allocations for education.	None
The priorities have to be set correctly.	None
The most important fundamental right may be Article 21A, which, in the larger interest of the nation, must be fully implemented.	None
Without Article 21A, the other fundamental rights are effectively rendered meaningless.	None
Education stands above other rights, as ones ability to enforce ones fundamental rights flows from ones education.	None
This is ultimately why the judiciary must oversee Government spending on free and compulsory education.	None
At the same time, spending is an area in which the judiciary must not overstep its constitutional mandate.	None
The power of the purse is found in Part V, Chapter II of the Constitution, which is dedicated to the Parliament.	None
(See Articles 109 and 117 for Money Bills.)	None
Nevertheless, it remains within the judiciarys scope to ensure that the fundamental right under Article 21A of Part III is upheld.	None
In M.C. Mehta v. Union of India (vehicular pollution) (1998) 6 SCC 63 , this Court did not ignore the Article 21 right to life when deadly levels of pollution put the right at stake.	None
Nor will this Court ignore the Article 21A	None
right to education, when a dearth of quality schooling put it in jeopardy.	None
The Governments education programmes and expenditures, wanting in many respects, are an improvement over past performance.	None
They nearly fall short of the constitutional mark.	None
Lackluster performance in primary secondary schools is caused in part because Government places college students on a higher pedestal.	None
Money will not solve all our education woes, but a correction of priorities in step with the Constitutions mandate will go a long way.	None
Opposition to Compulsory Education Compulsory connotes enforcement.	None
The Parliament rejected an amendment that would have saved parents from penal penalties.	None
If education were not compulsory, who checks in with parents who have sent their children to work?	None
If no authorities inquire, the message is clear We, the State, do not care if your child goes to school.	None
Taking the opposing view, Shri G.M. Banatwalla wanted to make sure parents were not punished this word compulsion needs to be properly defined.	None
The word, compulsion is not to be related to the student or the parents.	None
Parents cannot be penalized for being too poor to send their children to school.	None
The word, compulsion has to be understood in relation to the State and the obligation of the State to provide for free education.	None
p. 523.	None
(See The Parliamentary Debates on Article 21A, p. 523, 28 November 2001 at Vol. 20, No. 610)	None
The Parliament had the opportunity to accept such a definition of compulsory.	None
But they chose otherwise.	None
Amendment number four, moved by Shri G.M. Banatwalla at p. 548, stated that Provided that in making any law to provide for free and compulsory education under this article, the State shall not  (b) enforce any penal sanctions on a parent or guardian.	None
Of paramount importance, this Amendment was negatived.	None
See p. 548.	None
Those who wanted a safehaven from penal sanction for parents lost.	None
From this vote, we know that the Parliament intended to allow for future legislation that would impose penal sanctions for violations of legislation under Article 21A. Conclusion on Free and Compulsory Education Given that so many children drop out of, or are absent from, school before they turn fourteen, free education alone cannot solve the problem.	None
The current patchwork of laws on compulsory education is insufficient.	None
Monetary fines do not go far enough to ensure that Article 21A is upheld.	None
A carrotandstick approach appears to be the best way to implement Article 21A. Financial incentive programmes have worked well in other countries.	None
We should follow their lead.	None
Once that is done, the Government should strictly enforce effective compulsory education laws.	None
Such a policy is bound to pay off.	None
In sum, the Central Government should enact legislation that (a) provides lowincome parents guardians with financial incentives such that they may afford to send their children to school (b) criminally penalizes those who receive financial incentives and despite such payment send their children to work (c) penalizes employers who preclude children from attending school or completing homework (d) the penalty should include imprisonment the aforementioned Bill would serve as an example.	None
The State is obligated under Article 21A to implement free and compulsory education in toto Until we have achieved the object of free and compulsory education, the Government should continue to increase the education budget (f) the Parliament should set a deadline by which time free and compulsory education will have reached every child.	None
This must be done within six months.	None
With regard to (a), the state cannot cite budgetary constraints or lack of resources as an excuse for failing to provide financial assistance incentives to poor parents.	None
See Hussainara Khatoon (supra), at page 107, para 10.	None
Article 21As reference to education must mean something.	None
This conclusion is bolstered by the Parliaments Statement of Objects and Reasons for Article 21A	None
The Constitution of India in a Directive Principle contained in article 45, has made a provision for free and compulsory education for all children up to the age of fourteen years within ten years of promulgation of the Constitution.	None
We could not achieve this goal even after 50 years of adoption of this provision.	None
The task of providing education to all children in this age group gained momentum after the National Policy of Education (NPE) was announced in 1986.	None
The Government of India, in partnership with the State Governments, has made strenuous efforts to fulfill this mandate and, though significant improvements were seen in various educational indicators, the ultimate goal of providing universal and quality education still remains unfulfilled.	None
In order to fulfill this goal, it is felt that an explicit provision should be made in the Part relating to Fundamental Rights of the Constitution.	None
With a view to making right to free and compulsory education a fundamental right, the Constitution (Eightythird Amendment)	None
Bill, 1997 was introduced in the Parliament to insert a new article, namely, article 21A conferring on all children in the age group of 6 to 14 years the right to free and compulsory education.	None
The said Bill was scrutinized by the Parliament Standing Committee on Human Resource Development and the subject was also dealt with in its 165th Report by the Law Commission of India.	None
After taking into consideration the report of the Law Commission of India and the recommendations of the Standing Committee of the Parliament, the proposed amendments in Part III, Part IV and Part IVA of the Constitution are being made which are as follows  The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects The Article seeks to usher in the ultimate goal of providing universal and quality education.	None
(emphasis supplied).	None
Implied within education is the idea that it will be quality in nature.	None
Current performance indicates that much improvement needs to be made before we qualify education with quality.	None
Of course, for children who are out school, even the best education would be irrelevant.	None
It goes without saying that all children aged six to fourteen must attend school and education must be quality in nature.	None
Only upon accomplishing both of these goals, can we say that we have achieved total compliance with Article 21A.	None
Though progress has been made, the Parliaments observation upon passing Art 21A still applies the goal of providing universal and quality education still remains unfulfilled.	None
Does the 93rd Amendment violate the Basic Structure of the Constitution by imposing reservation on unaided institutions?	None
Imposing reservation on unaided institutions violates the basic structure by obliterating citizens 19(1)(g) right to carry on an occupation.	None
Unaided entities, whether they are educational institutions or private corporations, cannot be regulated out of existence when they are providing a public service like education.	None
That is what reservation would do.	None
That is an unreasonable restriction.	None
When you do not take a single paisa of public money, you cannot be subjected to such restriction.	None
The 93rd Amendments reference to unaided institutions must be severed.	None
No unaided institution filed a writ petition in this case.	None
Had either this Court or respondents had an objection, they could have raised it at any time during the proceedings.	None
We listened to the parties for months.	None
We received voluminous written submissions from the parties, yet no objection was made with regard to the fact that no unaided institution had filed a writ petition.	None
While we would usually implead a party if we felt their presence was necessary to the resolution of the dispute, the facts of this case are peculiar.	None
The best lawyers in the country argued the case for both sides, and a brief from an unaided institution would not have added much if anything to the substance of the arguments.	None
The Government will likely target unaided institutions in the future.	None
At that time, this Court will have to go through this entire exercise de novo to determine if unaided institutions should be subject to reservation.	None
Such an exercise would unnecessarily cause further delay.	None
The fate of lakhs of students and thousands of institutions would remain up in the air.	None
(See Minerva Mills Ltd.	None
Others v. Union of India Others (1980) 3 SCC 625).	None
Therefore, looking to the extraordinary facts, I have decided to proceed with this aspect of the matter in the larger public interest.	None
Amendments by their very nature are often enabling provisions.	None
If they clear the way for future legislation that would in fact violate the basic structure, the Court need not wait for a potential violation to become an actual one.	None
It can strike the entire amendment ab initio.	None
The question of potential width was resolved in Minerva Mills (supra), paras 3839.	None
The Court acknowledged that it generally does not anticipate constitutional issues before they arise, but it held that circumstances required it to act before unconstitutional provisions could be passed under the authority of an unconstitutional amendment.	None
But, we find it difficult to uphold the preliminary objection because, the question raised by the petitioners as regards constitutionality of Sections 4 and 55 of the 42nd Amendment is not an academic or a hypothetical question.	None
The 42nd Amendment is there for anyone to see and by its Sections 4 and 55 amendments have been made to Articles 31C and 368 of the Constitution.	None
An order has been passed against the petitioners under Section 18A of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, by which the petitioners are aggrieved.	None
Besides there are two other relevant considerations which must be taken into account while dealing with the preliminary objection.	None
There is no constitutional or statutory inhibition against the decision of questions before they actually arise for consideration.	None
In view of the importance of the question raised and in view of the fact that the question has been raised in many a petition, it is expedient in the interest of justice to settle the true position.	None
Secondly, what we are dealing with is not an ordinary law which may or may not be passed so that it could be said that our jurisdiction is being invoked on the hypothetical consideration that a law may be passed in future which will injure the rights of the petitioners.	None
We are dealing with a constitutional amendment which has been brought into operation which, of its own force, permits the violation of certain freedoms through laws passed for certain purposes.	None
We, therefore, overrule the preliminary objection and proceed to determine the point raised by the petitioners.	None
emphasis added There is not one precise definition of the width test, however.	None
The test asks if an amendment is so wide that in effect (actual or potential), it goes beyond the Parliaments amending power.	None
Kesavananda, paras 531532	None
But that the real consequences can be taken into account while judging the width of the power is settled.	None
The Court cannot ignore the consequences to which a particular construction can lead To make such a determination, it follows that the Court should ask whether an amendment infringes constitutional limitations as opposed to those evolved from mere common law.	None
(See Nagaraj, para 103).	None
As a preliminary matter, I turn to the cases by which the basic structure doctrine has been established.	None
It has been stated that, Kesavananda had propounded the doctrine, the Indira Gandhi Election case had upheld it, and Minerva engraved it on stone.	None
(See Granville Austin, Working a Democratic Constitution, at page 506.	None
Kesavananda and its progeny provide that an amendment to the Constitution must not alter the Constitutions basic structure.	None
To reach a conclusion regarding a basic structure challenge, I employ the following general standard an amendment alters the basic structure if its actual or potential effect would be to damage a facet of the basic structure to such an extent that the facets original identity is compromised.	None
To determine if legislation infringes constitutional limitations and is thus invalid, we use the twostep effect test (also known as the impact or rights test).	None
Step One requires us to first ask if legislation affects a facet of the basic structure.	None
If it does, then at Step Two we ask if the effect on the facet of the structure is to such an extent that the facets original identity has been altered.	None
Applying the effect test is another way of saying that the form of an amendment is irrelevant it is the consequence thereof that matters.	None
(See Kesavanda at para 532 and I.R. Coelho v. State of Tamilnadu (2007) 2 SCC 1 at Conclusion (ii) at page 111).	None
The terms abridge and abrogate have been employed by this Court to distinguish between acceptable and unacceptable legislation.	None
Whether legislation abridges or abrogates is a question of degree.	None
Using these terms is another way of asking whether the legislation had such an effect that it changed the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
If legislation merely abridges the basic structure, the structures identity remains.	None
The legislation is upheld.	None
In this sense, the Parliament may take away or destroy fundamental rights by amending the Constitution, provided that the basic structure is not altered.	None
If it abrogates the basic structure, the structure and thus the Constitution lose their identities.	None
The legislation must be struck down.	None
This is determined on a casebycase basis by applying the effect test (impact rights tests).	None
(See Coehlo).	None
I further note that a total deprivation of fundamental rights, even in one limited area, may amount to an abrogation of the basic structure.	None
(See Minerva Mills, para 59).	None
Step One Does Article 15(5) affect a facet of the basic structure?	None
In the instant case, Article 15(5) expressly precludes the application of Article 19(1)(g).	None
Whenever reservations are implemented under Article 15(5), citizens are stripped of their fundamental rights under Article 19(1)(g).	None
By excluding Article 19(1)(g), Article 15(5) obviously affects Article 19(1)(g), a facet of the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
Step One is therefore cleared.	None
What is more, Article 19(1)(g) belongs to the Golden Triangle  Articles 14, 19 and 21 are the three fundamental rights that stand above the rest.	None
Writing for the majority in Minerva Mills, Justice Chandrachud provides an eloquent justification for shielding the Golden Triangle from attack.	None
To achieve a more egalitarian society, individual liberty must be protected Para 74 of Minerva Mills Three Articles of our Constitution, and only three, stand between the heaven of freedom into which Tagore wanted his country to awake and the abyss of unrestrained power.	None
They are Articles 14, 19 and 21.	None
Article 31C has removed two sides of that golden triangle which affords to the people of this country an assurance that the promise held forth by the Preamble will be performed by ushering an egalitarian era through the discipline of fundamental rights, that is, without emasculation of the rights to liberty and equality which alone can help preserve the dignity of the individual.	None
The Golden Triangles significance becomes clear when we consider that Government may suspend Article 14 and 19 rights in order to implement an emergency.	None
(See Articles 358 and 359) (prior to the 44th Amendment, all Part III rights could be curtailed during emergency this Amendment precludes the State from denying Articles 20 and 21 to citizens during emergency).	None
In a sense, democracy is only restored when the Triangle is returned to the citizens.	None
Without the Triangle, democracy is impossible para 63 Every State is goaloriented and claims to strive for securing the welfare of its people.	None
The distinction between the different forms of Government consists in that a real democracy will endeavour to achieve its objectives through the discipline of fundamental freedoms like those conferred by Articles 14 and 19.	None
Those are the most elementary freedoms without which a free democracy is impossible and which must therefore be preserved at all costs.	None
Besides, as observed by Brandies, J., the need to protect liberty is the greatest when Governments purposes are beneficent.	None
If the discipline of Article 14 is withdrawn and if immunity from the operation of that article is conferred, not only on laws passed by the Parliament but on laws passed by the State Legislatures also, the political pressures exercised by numerically large groups can tear the country asunder by leaving it to the legislature to pick and choose favoured areas and favourite classes for preferential treatment.	None
United States Supreme Court Justice Brandeis word of caution is relevant to todays dispute wherein the Government trumpets reservation in higher education as an answer to our ageold problems of poverty and caste.	None
At first blush, it sounds as if reservation in higher education would help the backward help themselves.	None
The road out of poverty is paved with education.	None
However, the devil is the details.	None
With elementary freedom on the line, I must carefully scrutinize those details.	None
The right to freedom under Article 19 has been long recognized as a natural and inalienable right that belongs to all citizens.	None
Indeed, what would Independence mean without it?	None
Chief Justice Sikri cites the following passage in Kesavananda at para 300 That article (Article 19) enumerates certain freedoms under the caption right to freedom and deals with those great and basic rights which are recognised and guaranteed as the natural rights inherent in the status of a citizen of a free country.	None
(Per Patanjali Sastri, C.J., in State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose 1954 S.C.R. 587, 596).	None
With fundamental rights in jeopardy, I shall review the cases in which the basic structure doctrine has been implemented to invalidate constitutional amendments.	None
By looking at these cases synoptically, we get a sense as to how much damage the basic structure can withstand before crumbling.	None
In Kesavananda, the second part of Article 31C precluded courts from reviewing whether a law under Article 39(b) or (c) promoted the policy for which it was enacted.	None
This violated the basic structure.	None
Article 31C was introduced by the 25th Amendment.	None
In Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain	None
Another (1975) Supp SCC 1, the Court struck Article 329A(4) as violative of the basic structure.	None
This provision appropriated the Courts power to adjudicate election laws, encroaching on the judiciary in violation of separation of powers.	None
See Justice Matthews opinion at para 325.	None
It was introduced by the 39th Amendment.	None
In Minerva Mills, the Court held sections 4 and 55 of the 42nd Amendment in violation of the basic structure.	None
Section 4 sought to expand 31C such that all laws giving effect to Directive Principles, not just those intended to promote Article 39(b) or (c), would be immune to an Article 14 or 19 challenge.	None
Section 55 would have barred judicial review of constitutional amendments.	None
In P. Sambamurthy v. State of A.P. (1987) 1 SCC 362 , the Court invalidated Article 371D(5), finding that the Parliament had violated the rule of law and consequently the basic structure, by removing judicial review from the High Court and placing it in the hands of one of the parties  the State Government.	None
In L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India (1997) 3 SCC 261 , the Court held that Articles 323A2D and 323B3D violated the basic structure in that they removed judicial review of the High Courts and Supreme Court under Articles 226/227 and 32, respectively.	None
These articles were introduced by the 42nd Amendment to empower the Parliament or the State Legislatures to establish Tribunals for various substantive areas of law tax, labour, criminal, etc.	None
Two broad themes surface from these cases.	None
When judicial review is barred, democracy evaporates.	None
And when Fundamental Rights are at stake, they must be harmonized with, not made subject to, the Directive Principles.	None
Sections 4 and 55 of the 42nd Amendment were especially egregious violations of the basic structure.	None
Had Section 4 been upheld, citizens fundamental rights would have been at the mercy of one organ of Government.	None
If Governments always could be trusted, there would have been no need for Fundamental rights.	None
Mr. Palkhivala in oral arguments in Kesavananda, quoting from the learned Mr. H.M. Seervai, who was opposing counsel in that case.	None
Mr. Palkhivala was reading from Seervai, H.M., Fundamental Rights A Basic Issue, published in three installments in the Times of India, 14, 15, 16 February 1955.	None
(See Granville Austin at pages 263264 in Working a Democratic Constitution)	None
Government cannot be trusted that is precisely why we divide its powers into separate organs.	None
If it could be trusted, there would be no need for coequal branches in which power is shared.	None
Separation of powers is an axiom of democracy.	None
Had Section 55 of the 42nd Amendment been upheld, the basic structure of the Constitution could have been destroyed by a single slash.	None
Future constitutional amendments would not have been reviewed.	None
The impugned Amendment looks rather mild in comparison to the damage that would have been wrought by the 42nd Amendment.	None
The impugned legislation limits one fundamental right in one limited circumstance.	None
Yet an amendment need not be as invidious as the 42nd Amendment for us to invalidate it.	None
If the standard were that high, amendments could destroy the basic structure or the essence of the Constitution by a thousand slashes.	None
Since Kesavanandas time, many amendments have been passed and many challenges under the basic structure have been made.	None
This Court has used caution and has refrained from using the doctrine, even when it may have been justified.	None
For example, there were grounds for striking the entire 10th Schedule as violative of the basic structure in Kihoto Hollohan v Zachillhu Others 1992 Supp (2) SCC 651.	None
Rather than resort to the basic structure, this Court made a narrow ruling on procedural grounds.	None
(See S.P. Sathe, Judicial Activism in India Transgressing Borders and Enforcing Limits, 2nd Edn., 2002 (Oxford University Press) pages 9293).	None
The Court upheld the 10th Schedule, only severing a paragraph from the same.	None
I agree that an abundance of caution ought to be taken before employing the basic structure doctrine.	None
The violation must truly abrogate the basic structure.	None
Anything short of this standard must be upheld the will of the people, through their elected representatives, heard.	None
Before making such a determination, it is prudent to briefly revisit the rulings of two landmark cases P.A. Inamdar Others v. State of Maharashtra Others, (2005) 6 SCC 537 T.M.A. Pai Foundation Others v. State of Karnataka Others (2002) 8 SCC 481.	None
In Inamdar (supra), paras 2627 (sevenJudge Bench), unaided (minority and nonminority) professional institutions filed petitions to determine, inter alia, whether the State could impose quotas on unaided (minority and nonminority) institutions.	None
A sevenJudge Bench was constituted such that Islamic Academys clarification of Pai could be reviewed.	None
Islamic Academy was a fiveJudge Bench.	None
Given that Pai was an elevenJudge Bench, Inamdar could clarify but not overrule Pai.	None
At para 124, Inamdar held that the State cannot impose quotas on unaided (minority and nonminority) institutions.	None
To do so would nationalize seats, contrary to Pai.	None
(See Inamdar at para 125).	None
In dictum, Pai suggested that the State could compel unaided institutions to admit a reasonable percentage of students via reservation.	None
(Pai, para 68).	None
Inamdar clarified this point, stating that Pai should be read to mean that the State and unaided institutions may enter into consensual agreement regarding reservation.	None
(See Inamdar at para 126).	None
Unaided institutions (minority and nonminority) can admit as they choose, provided their process is fair, transparent, nonexploitative and meritbased.	None
Inamdar stated 124 So far as appropriation of quota by the State and enforcement of its reservation policy is concerned, we do not see much of difference between nonminority and minority unaided educational institutions.	None
We find great force in the submission made on behalf of the petitioners that the States have no power to insist on seat sharing in the unaided private professional educational institutions by fixing a quota of seats between the management and the State.	None
The State cannot insist on private educational institutions which receive no aid from the State to implement States policy on reservation for granting admission on lesser percentage of marks, i.e. on any criterion except merit.	None
As per our understanding, neither in the judgment of Pai Foundation nor in the Constitution Bench decision in Kerala Education Bill, which was approved by Pai Foundation, there is anything which would allow the State to regulate or control admissions in the unaided professional educational institutions so as to compel them to give up a share of the available seats to the candidates chosen by the State, as if it was filling the seats available to be filled up at its discretion in such private institutions.	None
This would amount to nationalization of seats which has been specifically disapproved in Pai Foundation.	None
Such imposition of quota of State seats or enforcing reservation policy of the State on available seats in unaided professional institutions are acts constituting serious encroachment on the right and autonomy of private professional educational institutions.	None
Such appropriation of seats can also not be held to be a regulatory measure in the interest of minority within the meaning of Article 30(1) or a reasonable restriction within the meaning of Article 19(6) of the Constitution.	None
Merely because the resources of the State in providing professional education are limited, private educational institutions, which intend to provide better professional education, cannot be forced by the State to make admissions available on the basis of reservation policy to less meritorious candidate.	None
Unaided institutions, as they are not deriving any aid from State funds, can have their own admissions if fair, transparent, nonexploitative and based on merit.	None
To the extent that Islamic Academy had approved of quotas in unaided institutions, a scheme in which the States could fix quota for seat sharing between management and the State, Islamic was overruled.	None
Inamdar at para 130 In T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) para 2 (eleven Judge Bench), private educational institutions, aided and unaided, filed writ petitions to challenge regulations that impeded their rights.	None
They wanted to establish and administer educational institutions, unfettered by Government interference.	None
para 2.	None
Reading Article 29(2) and 30(1) harmoniously, the sixJustice majority held that (1) unaided institutions could admit students free of Government interference, as long as their admission process was transparent and meritbased (2) minority aided institutions may still admit their own students, contingent upon admitting a reasonable number of nonminority students per the percentage provided by the State Government.	None
For our purposes, it is important to note that education falls within the meaning of occupation under 19(1)(g).	None
This is so because a large number of persons are employed as teachers and administrative staff.	None
For them, education is an occupation.	None
Pai stated 20 Article 19(1)(g) employs four expressions, viz., profession, occupation, trade and business.	None
Their fields may overlap, but each of them does have a content of its own.	None
Education is per se regarded as an activity that is charitable in nature	None
See The State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala, Education has so far not been regarded as a trade or business where profit is the motive.	None
Even if there is any doubt about whether education is a profession or not, it does appear that education will fall within the meaning of the expression occupation.	None
Article 19(1)(g) uses the four expressions so as to cover all activities of a citizen in respect of which income or profit is generated, and which can consequently be regulated under Article 19(6).	None
25	None
The establishment and running of an educational institution where a large number of persons are employed as teachers or administrative staff, and an activity is carried on that results in the imparting of knowledge to the students, must necessarily be regarded as an occupation, even if there is no element of profit generation.	None
It is difficult to comprehended that education, per se, will not fall under any of the four expressions in Article 19(1)(g).	None
Occupation would be an activity of a person undertaken as a means of livelihood or a mission in life.	None
emphasis added Stripping private unaided institutions of their right to select students would be unreasonable para 40	None
Any system of student selection would be unreasonable if it deprives the private unaided institution of the right of rational selection, which it devised for itself, subject to the minimum qualification that may be prescribed and to some system of computing the equivalence between different kinds of qualifications, like a common entrance test.	None
Such a system of selection can involve both written and oral tests for selection, based on principle of fairness.	None
Like Article 15(5) in the instant case, Unni Krishnan effectively nationalized education.	None
Pai overturned Unni Krishnan.	None
(See para 45).	None
38	None
The scheme in Unni Krishnans case has the effect of nationalizing education in respect of important features, viz., the right of a private unaided institution to give admission and to fix the fee.	None
By framing this scheme, which has led to the State Governments legislating in conformity with the scheme the private institutions are undistinguishable from the Government institutions curtailing all the essential features of the right of administration of a private unaided educational institution can neither be called fair or reasonable.	None
Pai traces the autonomy of institutions back to Chitralekha and Rajendran.	None
The proposition is simple he who funds or runs the institution holds the power to select students.	None
The State cannot ask these institutions to abridge this right in exchange for affiliation recognition.	None
The relevant paragraphs are reproduced hereunder 36 The private unaided educational institutions impart education, and that cannot be the reason to take away their choice in matters, inter alia, of selection of students and fixation of fees.	None
Affiliation and recognition has to be available to every institution that fulfills the conditions for grant of such affiliation and recognition.	None
The private institutions are right in submitting that it is not open to the Court to insist that statutory authorities should impose the terms of the scheme as a condition for grant of affiliation or recognition this completely destroys the institutional autonomy and the very objective of establishment of the institution.	None
In R. Chitralekha and Anr.	None
v. State of Mysore and Ors.citation omitted, while considering the validity of a vivavoce test for admission to a Government medical college, it was observed at page 380 that colleges run by the Government, having regard to financial commitments and other relevant considerations, would only admit a specific number of students.	None
It had devised a method for screening the applicants for admission.	None
While upholding the order so issued, it was observed that once it is conceded, and it is not disputed before us, that the State Government can run medical and engineering colleges, it cannot be denied the power to admit such qualified students as pass the reasonable tests laid down by it.	None
This is a power which every private owner of a College will have, and the Government which runs its own Colleges cannot be denied that power.	None
(italics added by Pai underscore is mine).	None
Again, in Minor P. Rajendran v. State of Madras and Ors., it was observed at page 795 that so far as admission is concerned, it has to be made by those who are in control of the Colleges, and in this case the Government, because the medical colleges are Government colleges affiliated to the University.	None
In these circumstances, the Government was entitled to frame rules for admission to medical colleges controlled by it subject to the rules of the university as to eligibility and qualifications.	None
The aforesaid observations clearly underscore the right of the colleges to frame rules for admission and to admit students.	None
The only requirement or control is that the rules for admission must be subject to the rules of the university as to eligibility and qualifications.	None
The Court did not say that the university could provide the manner in which the students were to be selected.	None
In the case of unaided private schools, maximum autonomy has to be with the management with regard to administration, including the right of appointment, disciplinary powers, admission of students and the fees to be charged.	None
Unaided institutions may admit students of their choice, subject to an objective and rational procedure of selection.	None
They might admit a small percentage of students belonging to the weaker sections of the society by granting those sections freeships or scholarships, if not granted by the Government.	None
See Pai at para 53.	None
Given a transparent and reasonable selection process, it is up to the institution to define merit according to its own values.	None
Pai stated The reputation of an educational institution is established by the quality of its faculty and students, and the educational and other facilities that the colleges has to offer.	None
The private educational institutions have a personality of their own, and in order to maintain their atmosphere and traditions, it is but necessary that they must have the right to choose and select the students who can be admitted to their courses of studies.	None
If is for this reason that in the St. Stephens College case, this Court upheld the scheme whereby a cutoff percentage was fixed for admission, after which the students were interviewed and thereafter selected.	None
While an educational institution cannot grant admission on its whims and fancies, and must follow some identifiable or reasonable methodology of admitting the students, any scheme, rule or regulation that does not give the institution the right to reject candidates who might otherwise be qualified according to say their performance in an entrance test, would be an unreasonable restriction under Article 19(6), though appropriate guidelines modalities can be prescribed for holding the entrance test a fair manner.	None
Even when students are required to be selected on the basis of merit, the ultimate decision to grant admission to the students who have otherwise qualified for the grant of admission must be left with the educational institution concerned.	None
However, when the institution rejects such students, such rejection must not be whimsical or for extraneous reasons.	None
The Court distinguishes between reasonable and unreasonable regulations by asking which functions lie at the heart of an institutions autonomy.	None
Regulations that strike at the core of autonomy are unreasonable.	None
For example, prescribing minimum qualifications for teachers is a reasonable regulation actually selecting the teachers is not.	None
But the essence of a private educational institution is the autonomy that the institution must have in its management and administration.	None
There, necessarily, has to be a difference in the administration of private unaided institutions and the Governmentaided institutions.	None
Whereas in the latter case, the Government will have greater say in the administration, including admissions and fixing of fees, in the case of private unaided institutions, maximum autonomy in the daytoday administration has to be with the private unaided institutions.	None
Bureaucratic or Governmental interference in the administration of such an institution will undermine its independence.	None
While an educational institution is not a business, in order to examine the degree of independence that can be given to a recognized educational institution, like any private entity that does not seek aid or assistance from the Government, and that exists by virtue of the funds generated by it, including its loans or borrowings, it is important to note that the essential ingredients of the management of the private institution include the recruiting students and staff, and the quantum of fee that is to be charged.	None
The same argument was framed in similar terms in St. Stephens College v. University of Delhi, 1992 (1) SCC 558.	None
In that case, the Court distinguished regulations based on whether they directly or indirectly affected management.	None
Those that indirectly affected management were reasonable those that directly affected the management of the institution were not.	None
Pai at para 125.	None
In St. Stephens, this Court referred to the earlier decisions, and with regard to Article 30(1) observed at page 596, paragraph 54, as follows But the standards of education are not a part of the management as such.	None
The standard concerns the body politic and is governed by considerations of the advancement of the country and its people.	None
Such regulations do not bear directly upon management although they may indirectly affect it.	None
The State, therefore has the right to regulate the standard of education and allied matters.	None
Once a private institution (nonminority) takes aid, it is subject to (1) reservation and (2) regulation of administration and maintenance of the institution.	None
Pai stated 71 While giving aid to professional institutions, it would be permissible for the authority giving aid to prescribe by rules or regulations, the conditions on the basis of which admission will be granted to different aided colleges by virtue of merit, coupled with the reservation policy of the state.	None
72	Arguments of Respondent
Once aid is granted to a private professional educational institution, the Government or the state agency, as a condition of the grant of aid, can put fetters on the freedom in the matter of administration and management of the institution.	None
The state, which gives aid to an educational institution, can impose such conditions as are necessary for the proper maintenance of the high standards of education as the financial burden is shared by the state.	None
I now query if the Parliament may subject Article 19(1)(g) to Article 15(5), when this Court has held that reservation in unaided institutions is an unreasonable restriction that cannot be saved by Article 19(6).	None
I answer this question in the affirmative.	None
The structure of our Constitution permits fundamental rights, and even the Golden Triangle of Articles 14, 19 and 21, to be abridged in limited circumstances.	None
To say that subjecting Articles 19(1)(g) to 15(5) violates the basic structure per se is to ignore the examples in which the most fundamental of rights is limited.	None
Article 16(4) expressly limits the right to formal equality in 16(1), a specific facet of Article 14.	None
In this light, Article 16(4) impliedly limits the general right to formal equality in Article 14.	None
The right to equality is expressed in the negative in 15(1) the State shall not discriminate based on religion, race, caste, etc.	None
In other words, the State shall treat citizens of different religions, races and castes equally.	None
Like Article 16(4), Article 15(4) limits 15(1)  another facet of Article 14 formal equality  such that egalitarian equality may be pursued.	None
Generally speaking, Articles 15(3) and (4) and 16(4) allow the State to impose affirmative action programs on the public sector.	None
Such provisions necessarily limit the right to formal equality.	None
If the right to equality, considered by some as a basic postulate of the Constitution, has been limited, a fortiori Article 19(1)(g) can be too.	None
Along these lines, I could turn to Articles 31A, 31B and 31C for further support.	None
Those Articles exclude challenges under Articles 14 and 19.	None
In agreement with Dr. Dhavans submission, I decline to rely on Articles 31A, 31B and 31C for support.	None
As explained in Minerva Mills, the Court had previously upheld Article 31A out of concern for stare decisis.	None
The Court never approved of the exclusion of Articles 14 and 19 on a principled basis.	None
Nor did it make a ruling as to whether the exclusion violated the basic structure.	None
(See para 7172 of Minerva Mills.	None
See also para 43 of Waman Rao, (1981) 2 SCC 362) .	None
A basic structure challenge becomes an issue of institutional competence.	None
Is it for the legislature to decide what is a reasonable restriction under 19(1)(g) read with 19(6)?	None
Or is it for the judiciary?	None
It is well established that the Parliament, expressing the will of the people, may enact amendments to overrule a judgment of this Court.	None
The First Parliament added Article 15(4) to the Constitution to overrule State of Madras v. Champakam Dorairajan, AIR 1951 SC 226 .	None
Other examples include the 77th Amendment, which overruled Sawhney I by adding Article 16(4A) the 81st Amendment further overruled Sawhney I by adding Art 16 (4B) the 82nd Amendment overruled S. Vinod Kumar Another v. Union of India Another (1996) 6 SCC 580 by amending Article 335 and the 85th Amendment overruled Virpal Singh Chauhann and Ajit Singh I by amending Article 16(4A), (1995) 6 SCC 684 and (1996) 2 SCC 715 , respectively.	None
Nevertheless, the duty to interpret the content of our fundamental rights has been left to the Courts.	None
The important point to be noted is that the content of a right is defined by the Courts.	None
The final word on the content of the right is of this Court.	None
(Nagaraj at para 21).	None
(emphasis added).	None
While the Parliament may amend the Constitution, it cannot alter the Constitutions basic structure.	None
(See Kesavananda, Indira Nehru Gandhi (Election Case), Minerva Mills, Sambamurthy, L. Chandra Kumar and Coelho).	None
Step Two Does Article 15(5) affect Article 19(1)(g) to such an extent that Article 19(1)(g)s original identity has been altered?	None
In other words, does Art 15(5) in effect merely abridge or completely abrogate Article 19(1)(g).	None
If the former, 15(5) stands.	None
If the latter, it falls.	None
As noted above, Coelho directs me to apply the impact rights test to determine whether the basic structure has been violated.	None
See Coehlo at Conclusion (ii) at page 111.	None
Thus, my query is whether to consider the impact on the entire constitutional framework, or to examine the effect on citizens engaged in unaided education as an occupation.	None
I think it is the latter.	None
I am not concerned here with those engaged in education in aided institutions.	None
One is naturally subject to greater regulation when one relies on Government funding.	None
(See Pai Inamdar).	None
Individual liberty and freedom, as protected by the Golden Triangle, must carry greater weight for those who set off on their own and refuse Government money.	None
This brings me to the question as to how large I should draw the circle when I ask who is affected by reservation in unaided institutions.	None
Justice Chandrachud provides that a total deprivation of fundamental rights, even in a limited area, can amount to abrogation of fundamental right just as a partial deprivation in every area can.	None
(See Minerva Mills, para 59).	None
Freedom under Article 19 belongs to individual citizens.	None
Article 19(1)(g) provides that all citizens shall have the right to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.	None
The reference to all citizens means that each and every individual citizen possesses Article 19 rights.	None
For the impugned legislation to fall, it need not touch every sphere of society.	None
If even one individuals freedom has been curtailed, this Court is duty bound to entertain his or her claim.	None
It is he or she who possesses the Article 19(1)(g) right to carry on an occupation.	None
If 15(5) were implemented, the educator in unaided institutions would still have students to educate.	None
I use educator in the broadest sense of the term and include teachers, professors, lecturers, faculty, staff, administrators and those who finance institutions.	None
Without one of the aforementioned, the institution cannot function properly.	None
Though affected by reservation, the educator still has a job.	None
His occupation remains intact.	None
Students will come.	None
Classes will commence.	None
Marks will be distributed.	None
The greatest impact on the educator is that neither he nor his institution will choose whom to teach.	None
Almost half of the time (49.5), the State would decide for them.	None
Selecting students or employees goes to the heart of an organizations autonomy.	None
The essence of an unaided educational institution is the freedom to manage its affairs, according to Pai at paragraph 55.	None
That is, the essential ingredients of the management of the private institution include the recruiting of students and staff.	None
The same argument was framed in similar terms (at para 54) in St. Stephens College (regulations imposing standards of education upheld, because they do not bear directly upon management although they may indirectly affect it).	None
This Court has stated in Pai as clarified by Inamdar that subjecting unaided institutions is an unreasonable restriction.	None
As noted, Article 19(6) provides no safe haven for reservations.	None
The Governmentimposed selection of students in turn has wideranging consequences for unaided institutions and their educators.	None
I am required to examine the effect of the impugned Amendment.	None
At least four problems will likely arise (1) academic standards suffer (2) attracting and retaining good faculty becomes more difficult (3) the incentive to establish a first rate unaided institution is diminished (4) and ultimately the global reputation of our unaided institutions is severely compromised.	None
First, once the State tells them whom to teach, standards of excellence will suffer.	None
This is because those institutions will no longer be able to admit the highestscoring students.	None
As good as some of our institutions are, they do not teach blank slates.	None
The best universities are the best, in part, because they attract the best students.	None
The same can be said for almost any organization.	None
In the case of higher education, the universities that admit the best will likely churn out the best.	None
The precise extent to which the university made the best so good cannot be qualified.	None
The point is that universities alone cannot produce qualified job candidates.	None
Forced to admit students with lower marks, the universitys final product will not be as strong.	None
Once the creamy is excluded, cutoff marks would likely drop considerably in order to fill the 27 quota for non creamy layer OBCs.	None
When the creamy layer is not removed, as in the case of Tamil Nadu, the difference in cut off marks for the general and backward categories may be insignificant.	None
(See para 408 of Sawhney I).	None
Of course, the extent to which standards of excellence would suffer would vary by institution.	None
As I mention below, I urge the Government to set OBC cut off marks no lower than 10 marks below that of the general category.	None
This is only a recommendation, however.	None
It may never be adopted.	None
Second, reservations weaken the incentive to establish unaided institutions if the State usurps the right to select students, would one still spend the time and money to establish an unaided institution?	None
The question is all the more relevant today.	None
Counsel for petitioners posit that tomorrows knowledge economy requires a welleducated populace.	None
Welleducated does not imply a string of degrees from less than taxing institutions.	None
Rather, it means that one will possess the skills, knowledge and creativity to compete globally.	None
Our unaided institutions must remain places where these traits are refined.	None
Third, those inclined to teach the brightest students have even less of a reason to leave private sector jobs for the teaching profession or to join the profession in the first place.	None
Brightest would come with an asterisk.	None
They would be the brightest available under the Governments reservation scheme.	None
These potential teachers may ask themselves how will I teach a class in which half the students are advanced relative to the other half?	None
In many institutions, the shortage of toprate faculty will only get worse.	None
Fourth, reservations may have a negative impact on students seeking employment in the burgeoning knowledge economy.	None
Recruiters have begun to trickle into campuses.	None
They hail from domestic as well as international entities, and they too may take note of reservations in unaided institutions.	None
The effect on educators, from the top down, would be felt.	None
For them, little more than a semblance of occupation would remain.	None
Given the dramatic effect that reservations would have on educators, the unaided institutions in which they teach and, consequently, society as a whole, Article 19(1)(g) has been more than abridged.	None
When education is effectively nationalized, freedom stands obliterated.	None
The identity of the Constitution is altered when unreasonable restrictions make a fundamental right meaningless.	None
The 93rd Amendments imposition of reservation on unaided institutions has abrogated Article 19(1)(g), a basic feature of the Constitution, in violation of our Constitutions basic structure.	None
Therefore, I sever the 93rd Amendments reference to unaided institutions as ultra vires of the Constitution.	None
The case law on severability asks the following question had the Parliament known its provision would be severed would it still have passed the rest of the legislation?	None
(See R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla (supra)).	None
At page 943 of R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla (supra), the Court relied in part on The State of Bombay Another v. F.N. Balsara (1951)	None
SCR 682 , where the question at issue was whether the Bombay Prohibition Act was valid Sections 12 and 13 of the Act imposed restrictions on the possession, consumption and sale of liquor, which had been defined in s. 2(24) of the Act as including (a) spirits of wine, methylated spirits, wine, beer, toddy and all liquids consisting of or containing alcohol, and (b) any other intoxicating substance which the Provincial Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be liquor for the purposes of this Act.	None
Certain medicinal and toilet preparations had been declared liquor by notification issued by the Government under s. 2(24)(b).	None
The Act was attacked in its entirety as violative of the rights protected by Art. 19(1)(f).	None
But this Court held that the impugned provisions were unreasonable and therefore void in so far as medicinal and toilet preparations were concerned, but valid as to the rest.	None
Then, the contention was raised that as the law purports to authorise the imposition of a restriction on a fundamental right in language wide enough to cover restrictions both within and without the limits of constitutionally permissible legislative action affecting such right, it is not possible to uphold it even so far as it may be applied within the constitutional limits, as it is not severable.	None
In rejecting this contention, the Court observed These items being thus treated separately by the legislature itself and being severable, and it is not being contended, in view of the directive principles of State policy regarding prohibition, that the restrictions imposed upon the right to possess or sell or buy or consume or use those categories of properties are unreasonable, the impugned sections must be held valid so far as these categories are concerned.	None
This decision is clear authority that the principle of severability is applicable even when Acts invalidity arises by reason of its contravention of constitutional limitations.	None
At page 944, the court in R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla sought guidance from American case law on severability In discussing the effect of a severability clause, Brandies, J. observed in Dorchy v. State of Kansas (1924) 264 US 286 that it provides a rule of construction, which may sometimes aid in determining that intent.	None
But it is an aid merely not an inexorable command.	None
The weight to be attached to a classification of subjects made in the statute itself cannot, in our opinion, be greater than that of a severability clause.	None
The court in R.M.D Chambarbaugwalla went on to cite Patanjali Sastri, C.J., in The State of Bombay Another v. The	None
United Motors (India) Ltd.	None
Others (1953)	None
SCR 1069 dealing with the contention that a law authorizing the imposition of a tax on sales must be declared to be wholly void because it was bad in part as transgressing constitutional limits observed It is a sound rule to extend severability to include separability in enforcement in such cases, and we are of opinion that the principle should be applied in dealing with taxing statutes in this country.	None
Here, I believe the Parliament would have gone forward without unaided institutions.	None
While some Members of Parliament sought to overrule Pai and Inamdar, the Parliaments actions speak louder than its words.	None
Once it had passed Article 15(5), it limited itself to imposing greater reservations on aided institutions.	None
Had unaided institutions been the Parliaments priority, it could have included them in the Reservation Act.	None
It seems that the Parliaments intent is to pass as much reservation as possible.	None
That would explain why it has gone forward with 27 reservation for OBCs without confirming that at least 27 of the population is OBC.	None
For these reasons, I conclude that had the Parliament known that unaided institutions were going to be severed, it would have nevertheless carried out its reservation scheme for aided institutions.	None
The Casteless and Classless Society versus Castebased Reservation	None
The caste system is peculiar to this country.	None
Perhaps the entire society has been divided on the basis of caste.	None
This social problem can be compared to some extent with that of American society.	None
In the U.S., the problem of racial discrimination has existed for centuries.	None
The cases of affirmative action decided in the United States are relevant.	None
They show us how that society has dealt with the problem of racial discrimination.	None
At the outset, I would like to make it clear that decisions of foreign countries are not binding on Indian courts.	None
Indian Courts have not adopted American standards of review.	None
But the judgments delivered by U.S. courts on affirmative action have great persuasive value and they may provide broad guidelines as to how we should tackle our prevailing condition.	None
A large number of English laws have been inherited by India and America.	None
English and American cases are frequently cited by our courts.	None
We need to keep our window open and permit the light of knowledge to enter from any source.	None
In this light, I shall refer to some US decisions.	None
Affirmative Action cases and standards of review from the United States In 1978	None
, Regents of the University of California v. Bakke put an end to reservation (quotas) in education (reserving 16 out of 100 seats for minorities in medical school deemed unconstitutional).	None
(438 U.S. 265).	None
Justice Powells concurring judgment is considered the key opinion in the case.	None
Justice Powell concluded that diversity was a compelling State interest that could withstand strict scrutiny.	None
Relying on Bakke, the court later reaffirmed preferential treatment in college admissions as a means to ensure diversity in the classroom  racial diversity being just one among many types of diversity (overcoming personal adversity and family hardship was another form of diversity), (See Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 306, 338 (2003)).	None
The Grutter Case insisted that universities make an individualized evaluation of a student seeking admission, rather than one that mechanically accepted or rejected students on the basis of race.	None
(Grutter at 337).	None
Such an evaluation would ensure that race was only considered as one type of diversity, rather than a pretext for achieving racial balance.	None
Quotas could not be covertly installed in the name of diversity.	None
This reasoning led the court to strike down an admission scheme that automatically assigned more points to minority students than to residents of the State or to athletes, for example.	None
(Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 244, 270).	None
Justice OConner for the majority in Grutter came to a very significant conclusion.	None
She suggested that there was time limit on preferential treatment for certain races as a means of promoting diversity.	None
Justice OConnor stated we expect that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary to further the interest approved today.	None
In Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No.1 et al, reported in 168 Lawyers Ed.	None
2d 508 517 (2007), school districts used a students race to assign that student to a particular school within the district.	None
In Seattle, this was done to achieve racial balance amongst the districts schools.	None
One school should not be overwhelmingly white, another all nonwhite.	None
Unlike the system approved in Grutter, race was not just one among many types of diversity that was considered by the district in assigning students.	None
Seattle at 525.	None
Instead, it was, at times, the decisive factor.	None
The court held the programmes unconstitutional.	None
Chief Justice Roberts summed up the pluralitys view on racial classifications the way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.	None
This was far from a complete victory for the plurality.	None
In his concurring opinion, Justice Kennedy found the programmes unconstitutional.	None
However, he would not go so far as to treat all racial balancing as per se unconstitutional.	None
He considered the plurality opinion to represent an alltoounyielding insistence that race cannot be a factor in instances, when, in his view, it may be taken into account.	None
(Seattle at 565).	None
Justice Kennedy found that schools have a compelling interest to prevent racial isolation or achieve a diverse student population.	None
(Seattle at 572).	None
Like Justice Powells concurring opinion in Bakke, Justice Kennedys concurring opinion leaves the door open for further use of racial classification for socalled benign purposes in school admissions.	None
More important than any one case are the standards by which the court scrutinized discriminatory legislation.	None
Of course, Indian courts have not accepted the principles of narrow tailoring and strict scrutiny.	None
Nevertheless, we should seek guidance from any corner and permit the light from any quarter.	None
Whenever legislation is challenged as unconstitutional, courts must ask themselves how much deference they will give to the legislature.	None
The answer is that it depends on the nature of the impugned legislation.	None
The United States Supreme Court has evolved three standards of review for Government action that treats different people differently.	None
The first is the rational basis standard.	None
When the classification is rationally related to any legitimate Government purpose, the court defers to the State and upholds the classification.	None
This is the most deferential of the three standards.	None
The second standard is intermediate scrutiny, which is less deferential to Government.	None
Here, the court asks whether the classification is substantially related to any important Government purpose.	None
The third and highest level of review is known as strict scrutiny, whereby the court requires that the classification are narrowly tailored to a compelling state interest.	None
Strict scrutiny test is the least deferential to Government.	None
Of the classifications on which there is case law, the one that most closely resembles caste is race.	None
This is because both are immutable traits.	None
They are used by the powerful, or those seeking power, to justify oppression.	None
Racism and casteism have long haunted both Nations.	None
In the United States, race raises red flags.	None
It is often, though not always, reviewed under strict scrutiny Government action dividing people by race is inherently suspect because such classifications promote notions of racial inferiority and lead to a politics of racial hostility, (Croson at 102 L. Ed. 2d 854) and racial classifications are simply too pernicious to permit any but the most exact connection between the justification and the classification.	None
(Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 244, 270 (quoting J. Stevens dissent in Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U.S. 448, 537)).	None
Legislation whose text does not classify based on race is considered facially neutral.	None
When facially neutral legislation has a disproportionate impact on a particular race, American courts ask whether it was passed with an intention to discriminate.	None
If no intention is found, the rational basis test applies.	None
See Hernandez v New York, 500 U.S. 352 (1991) (quoting from Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development Corp., 429 U.S. 252, 264265 (1977)	None
A court addressing this issue must keep in mind the fundamental principle that official action will not be held unconstitutional solely because it results in a racially disproportionate impact. . . .	None
Proof of racially discriminatory intent or purpose is required to show a violation of the Equal Protection Clause.	None
See also Washington v. Davis, 426 U.S. 229, 239 (1976).	None
The exception to this rule is Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U.S. 356 (1886), where extreme disproportionate impact warranted greater scrutiny.	None
Where there is disproportionate impact and discriminatory intention, then even facially neutral legislation triggers strict scrutiny.	None
However, in this framework, affirmative action classifies on the face of legislation and automatically gets strict scrutiny treatment.	None
As I have observed, American courts carefully review racial classifications.	None
Given that the 93rd Amendment on its face discriminates against general category students, we should give it careful scrutiny.	None
The Article 14 right to formal equality deserves as much.	None
If 49.5 castebased reservation was upheld in Sawhney I for Government employment, it follows that 49.5 castebased reservation is permitted in aided educational institutions.	None
While I compelled by Sawhney I to hold that the impugned legislation passes careful scrutiny with respect to reservation in aided institutions, its implementation is contingent upon the directions given in this opinion.	None
The Framers ultimate goal the Classless and Casteless society Did the original Framers intend to provide castebased reservation in education to the lower classes?	None
No, the original Framers did not.	None
Soon after the Constitution was adopted, the very same Framers acted quickly to permit reservation for SC ST SEBCs in education by adding Art 15(4), vide the First Amendment, to the Constitution.	None
In doing so, they deviated from their own goal the casteless society would have to wait.	None
In Sawhney I, the Court upheld this decision and bound us to a certain degree on this point.	None
I have no choice but to uphold the impugned legislation by which the Government may still identify SEBCs, in part, by using caste.	None
Castebased reservation was initially a temporary measure that was to only last for ten years.	None
The original Framers considered castebased reservation a necessary evil.	None
Thus, they limited it in time.	None
Extending this time limit has only exacerbated casteism.	None
The Parliamentary Debates clearly reflect that the ultimate aim of reservation was a casteless and classless society for India.	None
To this end, reservation should only be given for a specific period of time.	None
If these reservations or benefits have to continue perpetually, then the basic goal of achieving casteless and classless society would never be accomplished.	None
The need for castebased reservation has worn out over time.	None
Evidence for the proposition that caste is no longer a valid determinant of ones ability to move up in society is strong.	None
More than the way society judges you based on caste, the relevant question is whether caste precludes you from rising.	None
If caste doesnt, then what does?	None
The answer is simple money.	None
Income is a much better determinant of educational achievement than caste.	None
The table below was derived from the Reproductive Child and Health Survey, 20022004 (600,000 households surveyed).	None
Average years of schooling SC  OBC  Upper caste Hindu Poorest Rural Quintile 1.6  1.7  2.2 Richest Rural Quintile 5.1  5.5  6.1 For the upper caste, caste barely helps.	None
These numbers indicate that it is ones income, not caste, that makes a real difference in determining how much schooling one completes.	None
Therefore, if income be the bar to education, economic criteria should be the means by which we identify beneficiaries of special provisions under Article 15(5).	None
No original intent to provide castebased quotas in education As drafters, the original Framers were prolific.	None
They made our Constitution the worlds longest  removing as many doubts as possible and in that way limiting the Courts role.	None
The Constitution contains a number of Articles that reserve seats for various groups.	None
The original Framers, however, imposed various limitations on reservation.	None
These limitations provide insight into the original Framers compromise between formal and substantial egalitarian equality.	None
Reservation is only provided for certain groups (SC, ST and backward classes) in certain areas of the public sector.	None
(See Article 16(4) (reservation of posts in Government service for backward classes), Article 330 (reservation of seats for SC and ST in the Lok Sabha) and Article 332 (reservation of seats for SC and ST in Legislative Assemblies of the States)).	None
Dr Ambedkar stated that the report of the Minorities Committee provided that all minorities should have two benefits or privileges, namely representation in the legislatures and representation in the services.	None
(emphasis added) (See CAD, 26 August 1949, vol. 9, p. 702).	None
Given this limitation, we must take extra caution when reviewing the constitutionality of adding additional benefits.	None
Article 334 fixed a 10year time limit on the legislative reservations provided in Articles 330 and 332.	None
In the discussion regarding draft Article 292, Sardar Hukam Singh said, we are accepting this reservation of seats in legislative bodies as an unavoidable evil for the present, thought it is only for the Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes.	None
(See p. 645, Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 9, 24 August 1949).	None
Shri Singhs comment sums up the limitations on legislative reservation.	None
OBC SEBCs were excluded, and reservations were limited in time.	None
Unlike the legislative reservations, Article 16(4) contains no fixed time limit.	None
It does, however, preclude the State from making reservations in Government service if the backward classes are adequately represented.	None
The idea is that, at some point in time, the backward classes would no longer need reservations.	None
In discussing draft Article 10 (Article 16(4) of the Constitution), Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru stated We are all aware that when the Report of the Minorities Committee was considered by the House, the entire House was anxious that reservations of whatever kind should be done away with as quickly as possible.	None
Whatever protection might be considered necessary now, should be granted temporarily only, so that the population of the county might become fully integrated, and no community or class might be tempted to claim special advantage for itself.	None
(CAD Vol.7 dated 30th November 1948, p. 681) (emphasis supplied) Instead of moving to remove reservations, the Parliament has gone the other way by extending time limits and adding beneficiaries.	None
Article 15(5) is just the latest example.	None
While the original Framers went out of their way to put SC ST in the Parliament and State Assemblies and SC ST backward classes in Government service, they did not reserve a single classroom seat.	None
Instead, Article 29(2) prohibited castebased discrimination in admissions, and Article 15(2) prohibited castebased discrimination in general.	None
Education was to remain reservationfree.	None
When preferential treatment was given in regard to education, it was limited to educational grants.	None
There was no question of doling out reservations for special groups.	None
Article 337 provided educational grants to AngloIndian schools for the benefit of that community.	None
In the spirit of conciliation, the original Framers allowed the grants that were already going to those schools to continue for 10 years.	None
(See p 936941 of Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 8 1949).	None
Rather than advocate for reservation, the original Framers preferred free compulsory education and scholarships.	None
In the debate on Draft Article 294, Shri Brajeshwar Prasad stated that reservation in legislative bodies would fail to uplift SC ST.	None
Instead, he suggested that it should be laid down clearly in express terms that  free education shall be imparted to them.  	None
and for the tribals and Harijans provision must be made in the constitution that free agricultural lands should be given to them.	None
If we cannot give any one of these, I am quite clear in my own mind that by giving them a few seats here and there, their economic condition and their educational level will in no way be improved.	None
(CAD, Vol. 9, 24 August 1948, pages 663664) (emphasis supplied)	None
Shri Prasads comments are relevant because he recognizes the limited effect of reservation.	None
Rather than reserve seats for a few, he advocated for free education for all.	None
In the debate regarding Article 15 of the Constitution, Syed Abdur Rouf summed up the essence of the provision The intention of this article is to prohibit discrimination against citizens.	None
(See p. 650 of CAD, Vol.7, 29 Nov 1948).	None
This intention was only qualified for women and children.	None
In fact, the original Framers rejected an amendment that would have watered down Article 15s prohibition against discrimination.	None
Prof. K. T. Shah sought special protection for SC ST.	None
He wanted to ensure that Article 15 would allow SC ST to benefit from affirmative action.	None
To this end, he introduced an amendment that would have altered 15(3) to read as follows Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any special provision for women and children or for the Scheduled Castes or backward tribes, for their advantage, safeguard or betterment.	None
(Shah amendment in italics).	None
Prof. Shah proposed the amendment so that any special discrimination in favour of them may not be regarded as violating the basic principles of equality for all classes of citizens in the country.	None
They need and must be given for some time to come at any rate, special treatment in regard to education, in regard to opportunity for employment, and in many other cases where their present inequality, the present backwardness is only a hindrance to the rapid development of the country.	None
equality is not to be equality of name only or on paper only, but equality of fact.	None
pages 655656 CAD, Vol. 7, 29 November 1948.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Relevant to the instant case, he explains that his amendment would allow the State to provide SC ST special treatment in regard to education.	None
In other words, Prof. Shah effectively wanted the equivalent to 15(4) and 15(5) but did not get it.	None
His amendment was negated.	None
(p. 664 of Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 7, 29 November, 1948).	None
Dr. Ambedkar disagreed with Prof. Shah on the limited ground that it would have given States the green light to segregate SC ST from general category students	None
The object which all of us have in mind is that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled tribes should not be segregated from the general public.	None
For instance, none of us, I think, would like that a separate school should be established for the Scheduled Castes  If these words are added, it will probably give a handle for a State to say, Well, we are making special provision for the Scheduled Castes.	None
To my mind they can safely say so by taking shelter under the article if it is amended in the manner the Professor wants it.	None
page 661, CAD, Vol. 7, 29 November 1948.	None
Dr Ambedkar did not reject the Shah amendment because it would have allowed the States to implement affirmative action for SC ST in education.	None
He was concerned that special provisions would lead to negative discriminatory action in the guise of affirmative action.	None
Whether or not this would have happened is unclear, but his concern seems well placed.	None
A similar problem arises today, when the general category looks down upon or questions the qualifications of SC ST OBC professionals.	None
Though the individual may have earned admission on marks alone, others may presume that reservation was a factor.	None
Such a belief, regardless of veracity, cannot bode well for the career prospects of SC ST SEBCs.	None
Irrespective of the reason for which the Shah amendment was rejected, the original Framers contemplated special provisions for SC ST that would have included education.	None
At the end of the day, they decided that only women and children should benefit from discriminatory provisions.	None
Article 15(4) and the Shah amendment only differ in that Article 15(4) provides special provisions to SC ST and SEBC, while Shah only gave the same to SC ST.	None
Of course, if the original Framers rejected special provisions for SC ST, they would have done the same with respect to SEBC SC ST.	None
In sum, by limiting Article 15(3) to women and children and rejecting an amendment equivalent to Article 15(4), the original Framers intent was clear no special provisions for backward classes (SEBC SC ST) in education were to dilute Article 15(1)s prohibition against discrimination based on caste.	None
In the instant case, the Union of India argued that Article 15(4), the First Amendment to the Constitution, reflects the intent of the original Framers because it was passed by the same members that drafted the original Constitution.	None
In the Parliamentary debates in 1951, Prime Minister Nehru argued in favour amending the Constitution.	None
He and other Framers, as distinguished from the original Framers who had drafted the original Constitution, did not hide their disapproval of Champakam Dorairajan (supra).	None
Article 15(4) was to overturn that judgment.	None
To justify Article 15(4), which represented a dramatic departure from equality as envisaged in Articles 15(2), (3) and 29(2), Pandit Nehru said that Article 15(4) would give effect to what  was really intended or should be intended.	None
Yet, the original Framers, as explained above, had no intention of providing special provisions for SC ST in education (and a fortiori if not for them, nor for SEBC).	None
What should be intended is a far cry from what they specifically enacted and specifically rejected.	None
It follows that Article 15(4) deviated from the original Framers original intent.	None
Limitations on Reservation must be seen in the light of providing a casteless society Seeking to remove the blight created by caste, the original Framers were social reformers.	None
The social revolution meant to get (India) out of the medievalism based on birth, religion, custom, and community and reconstruct her social structure on modern foundations of law, individual merit, and secular education.	None
(See Granville Austin, Indian Constitution Cornerstone of a Nation at page 26, 1st Ed, 1972, Oxford University press (quoting from K. Santhanam (an Assembly member) in Magazine Section, The Hindustan Times New Delhi, 8 September 1946).	None
Indias first President Rajendra Prasad assured the Nation that the assembly and the Governments aim was to end poverty and squalor  to abolish distinction and exploitation and to ensure decent conditions of living.	None
Cornerstone at page 27, fn. 5 (quoting from Prasad in CAD V, I, 2).	None
The original Framers took steps to abolish castebased distinction.	None
For example, they outlawed untouchability in Article 17, promised all equal treatment before the law in Article 14, prohibited discrimination based on caste in 15(1) and 29(2) and selected joint over separate electorates.	None
The legislative reservations for SC ST were an exception to overarching goal of creating a casteless society that is why they were set to expire in 1960.	None
With respect to electorates, Granville Austin explains Desiring above all to promote national unity, members of the Constitutional Assembly rejected these devices by substituting direct elections for indirect in lower houses, by rejecting separate electorates in favour of joint electorates and by abolishing  except for Scheduled Castes and Tribes  reserved seats.	None
The Assembly believed, in Jennings words, that to recognize communal claims . .	None
.	Reasoning
is to strengthen communalism.	None
see Austin, p. 323 of Cornerstone.	None
(emphasis added)	None
The same can be said today.	None
Reservation based on caste strengthens communalism.	None
NonSEBCs naturally seek SEBC status so that they may capture SEBC benefits.	None
Upper castes, denied a seat, harbor ill will against lower castes who gain admission (whether it was by merit or not).	None
These feelings are the basis for discriminatory action.	None
On 16 September 2006, The Hindu reported While medical students at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have complained of caste discrimination, now doctors from the reserved category at the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital (GTBH) too have written about biased attitude towards reserved category junior residents.	None
Discrimination is not the only problem exacerbated by reservation.	None
Given that reserved category students gain admission with lower marks, it also stands to reason that they would exhibit less confidence in their studies when pitted against the general category.	None
In her work on the unintended consequences of preferential treatment for minorities in college admissions in the United States, Marie Gryphon, a policy analyst for the Cato Institute (Washington, D.C.), writes recent research shows that affirmative action impedes academic achievement by undermining minority students confidence.	None
Preferences harm students selfimages, and this harm has practical costs in terms of grades and graduation rates.	None
Both studies build on earlier work by Stanford University sociologist Claude Steele, who coined the term stereotype threat to refer to the decline in performance suffered by members of groups who become afraid of confirming negative group stereotypes.	None
Steele tested his theory by giving standardized exams to groups of white and AfricanAmerican undergraduates at Stanford University.	None
Testers told some groups that the exam evaluated psychological factors related to testing, and that it was not a measure of ability.	None
They told other groups that the exam measured their intellectual abilities, and in some instances had them indicate their race on the exam.	None
The AfricanAmerican students who had been implicitly threatened with the stereotype of minority academic inferiority did markedly worse on the exam than black students in the other groups.	None
Even minority students who do not need preferences respond to an environment characterized by the relative academic weakness of minorities by worrying about confirming a negative stereotype.	None
Researchers also determined that vulnerability to Claude Steels stereotype threat is related to lower grades earned by minority students.	None
(See p. 910 (internal citations omitted), Executive Summary, No. 540, April 6, 2005, The Affirmative Action Myth.)	None
The point is that affirmative action produces consequences that may outweigh its supposed benefits.	None
To rid ourselves of reservation and its unintended consequences like casteism, we must focus our efforts on strengthening education at the primary and secondary level.	None
Only then will we achieve the casteless classless society the original Framers envisaged.	None
And only then will there be reason to scrap reservation altogether.	None
In his speeches to the Parliament regarding 15(4), Prime Minister Nehru could not have been clearer After all the whole purpose of the Constitution, as proclaimed in the Directive Principles is to move towards what I may say a casteless and classless society and in an attempt to achieve an egalitarian society, we want to put an end to all those infinite divisions that have arisen in our social life I am referring to the caste system and other religious divisions, call them by whatever name you like.	None
(emphasis added).	None
Parliamentary Debates on 13 June, 1951 and 29 May, 1951 respectively.	None
If reservation is allowed, then how can a casteless society still be realized?	None
This raises the issue of how beneficiaries of special provisions are to be classified.	None
As mentioned above, Mr. Salve and other learned counsel for petitioners pleaded that the Government cannot go forward with the Reservation Act when it has yet to identify its beneficiaries.	None
No one can say with certainty what percentage of the population is OBC, yet the Government is content with giving OBCs 27 of the seats in universities.	None
We do not know what proportion of the population is OBC because the census does not count OBCs.	None
It has been Central Government policy practically since Independence to avoid the question.	None
Eminent American Professor Mark Galanter writes that the absence of caste data was the deliberate policy of Sardar Patel, the Home Minister until 1950.	None
Mr. Patel rejected caste tabulation as a device to confirm the British theory that India was a casteridden country and as an expedient to meet the needs of administrative measures dependent on caste division (See Professor Marc Galanter, (1978)Who are the OBCs?	None
An Introduction to a Constitutional Puzzle.	None
13 Economic and Political Weekly 1812 at page 1824 at footnote 78 (quoting from Mr. Patels 1950 address to the census conference).	None
Taking an OBC census is horrifying because it encourages Government to enact policy on the basis of caste.	None
Doing so only furthers the castedivide, contrary to our constitutional aim.	None
This has been recognized since 1950.	None
If the Central Governments have consistently rejected an OBC census because it would promote casteism, how can this Central Government make reservation on the same ground?	None
It is one thing to ask a citizen his caste, it is even worse to grant or reject his college application on that ground.	None
The Government is between a rock and a hard place.	None
The only way out is to use exclusively economic criteria.	None
This would negate the need for a castebased census while ensuring that reservation go to the poor, the group for which the Reservation Act was purportedly passed.	None
The Parliament eventually settled on enabling States to provide provisions for socially and educationally backward classes.	None
Article 15(4).	None
This Court has interpreted backward classes to include caste as one of the criteria of classification under Article 16(4).	None
Sahwney I, para 859(3)(b).	None
In other words, caste falls under class according to Sawheny I, para 859(3)(a).	None
Economic criteria allows for reservation on grounds other than caste Despite the goal of a casteless society, the Parliament allowed for castebased reservation and, consequently, castebased discrimination.	None
Ultimately, they subjected Articles 29(2) and Article 15 to Article 15(4).	None
Dr. Ambedkar saw no choice but to discriminate based on caste, stating that if you make a reservation in favour of what are called backward classes which are nothing else but collection of certain castes, those who are excluded are persons who belong to certain castes.	None
Therefore, in the circumstances of this country, it is impossible to avoid reservation without excluding some people who have got a caste.	None
In draft article 10, Dr. Ambedkar tried to reconcile the view of those who were in favour of equality of opportunity with the demand of certain communities who remained neglected and who wanted to have a share in the administration.	None
In doing so, he was clear that the concept of equality, which is the very basis of democracy, should not be violated.	None
Part of his compromise meant that reservation had to remain reasonable.	None
Explaining his views on the matter, he said Supposing, for instance, we were to concede in full the demand of those communities who have not been so far employed in the public services to the fullest extent, what would really happen is, we shall be completely destroying the first proposition upon which we are all agreed, namely, that there shall be an equality of opportunity.	None
Let me give an illustration.	None
Supposing, for instance, reservations were made for a community or a collection of communities, the total of which came to something like 70 per cent of the total posts under the State and only 30 per cent are retained as the unreserved.	None
Could anybody say that the reservation of 30 per cent as open to general competition would be satisfactory from the point of view of giving effect to the first principle, namely, that there shall be equality of opportunity?	None
It cannot be in my judgment.	None
Therefore the seats to be reserved, if reservation is to be consistent with subclause (1) of Article 10, must be confined to a minority of seats.	None
(see CAD, Vol.7, 30th November, 1948 pp 70102).	None
On 17th November, 1949, the Constituent Assembly began the third reading of the Constitution Bill.	None
While replying to the debate, Dr. Ambedkar stated This anxiety is deepened by the realization of the fact that in addition to our old enemies in the form of castes and creeds we are going to have many political parties with diverse and opposing political creeds.	None
Will Indians place the country above their creed or will they place creed above country?	None
I do not know.	None
But this much is certain that if the parties place creed above country, our independence will be put in jeopardy a second time and probably be lost forever.	None
This eventuality we must all resolutely guard against.	None
We must be determined to defend our independence with the last drop of our blood.	None
(See CAD on 25th November, 1949 pp 977978) (emphasis supplied).	None
Exhibiting tunnel vision, our First Parliament failed to look beyond caste.	None
Another option was available, an option that adhered to the original Framers ideals.	None
Contrary to Dr Ambedkars view, it was possible to provide reservation to backward classes without discriminating based on caste.	None
Economic criteria target the poorest of the poor, irrespective of caste.	None
As noted, these criteria also simultaneously remove the creamy layer.	None
One of the other prominent advocates of reservation later realised that the policy did more harm than good.	None
Prime Minister Nehru wrote the following letter to the Chief Ministers on June 27th, 1961 I have referred above to efficiency and to our getting out of our traditional ruts.	None
This necessitates our getting out of the old habit of reservations and particular privileges being given to this caste or that group.	None
The recent meeting we held here, at which the chief ministers were present, to consider national integration, laid down that help should be given on economic considerations and not on caste.	None
It is true that we are tied up with certain rules and conventions about helping Scheduled Castes and Tribes.	None
They deserve help but, even so, I dislike any kind of reservation, more particularly in service.	None
I react strongly against anything which leads to inefficiency and secondrate standards.	None
I want my country to be a first class country in everything.	None
The moment we encourage the secondrate, we are lost.	None
The only real way to help a backward group is to give opportunities for good education.	None
This includes technical education, which is becoming more and more important.	None
Everything else is provision of some kind of crutches which do not add to the strength or health of the body.	None
We have made recently two decisions which are very important one is, universal free elementary education, that is the base and the second is scholarships on a very wide scale at every grade of education to bright boys and girls, and this applies not merely to literary education, but, much more so, to technical, scientific and medical training.	None
I lay stress on bright and able boys and girls.	None
I have no doubt that there is a vast reservoir of potential talent in this country if only we can give it opportunity.	None
But if we go in for reservations on communal and caste basis, we swamp the bright and able people and remain secondrate or thirdrate.	None
I am grieved to learn of how far this business of reservation has gone based on communal consideration.	None
It has amazed me to learn that even promotions are based sometimes on communal and caste considerations.	None
This way lies not only folly, but disaster.	None
Lets help the backward groups by all means, but never at the cost of efficiency.	None
How are we going to build our public sector or indeed any sector with secondrate people?	None
Upon expiry of the time limit, the criteria for identifying OBCs should only be economic in nature because our ultimate aim is to establish a casteless and classless society I am not the first to propose economic criteria as the exclusive means of identifying SEBCs.	None
In Vasanth Kumars case, counsel sought an opinion from the Court regarding reservations in employment and education for SC STs and OBCs.	None
The opinion would guide the Karnataka Government in implementing reservation.	None
para 1.	None
It serves our purposes to review their thorough analysis of the identification issue.	None
The Court in Vasanth Kumar observed as under 24.	None
No one is left in any doubt that the future Indian Society was to be casteless and classless.	None
Pandit Jawaharlal	None
Nehru the first Prime Minister of India said that Mahatma Gandhi has shaken the foundations of caste and the masses have been powerfully affected.	None
But an even greater power than Gandhi is at work, the conditions of modern life  and it seems at last this hoary and tenacious ralic of past times must die.	None
(Discovery of India by Pandit Nehru, Ch VI, p 234) Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation said, The caste system as we know is an anachronism.	None
It must go if both Hinduism and India are to live and grow from day to day.	None
In its onward march towards realising the constitutional goal, every attempt has to be made to destroy caste stratification.	None
Article 38(2) enjoins the State to strive to minimise the inequality in income and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities, not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations.	None
Article 46 enjoins duty to promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation.	None
Continued retention of the division of the society into various castes simultaneously introduces inequality of status.	None
And this inequality in status is largely responsible for retaining inequality in facilities and opportunities, ultimately resulting in bringing into existence an economically depressed class far transcending caste structure and caste barrier.	None
The society therefore, was to be classless casteless society.	None
In order to set up such a society, steps have to be taken to weaken and progressively eliminate caste structure.	None
Unfortunately, the movement is in the reverse gear.	None
Caste stratification has become more rigid to some extent, and where concessions and preferred treatment schemes are introduced for economically disadvantaged classes, identifiable by caste label, the caste structure unfortunately received a fresh lease of life.	None
In fact there is a mad rush for being recognised as belonging to a caste which by its nomenclature would be included in the list of socially and educationally backward classes.	None
Rane Commission took note of the fact that there was an organised effort for being considered socially and educationally backward castes.	None
Rane Commission recalled the observations in Balaji case (1963) Supp (1)	None
SCR 439 that Social backwardness is on the ultimate analysis the result of poverty to a very large extent.	None
The Commission came to an irrefutable conclusion that amongst certain castes and communities or class of people, only lower income groups amongst them are socially and educationally backward.	None
In this judgment, this Court further observed that if State patronage for preferred treatment accepts caste as the only insignia for determining social and educational backwardness, the danger looms large that this approach alone would legitimize and perpetuate the caste system.	None
Castebased reservation does not go well with our secular character as enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution.	None
That said, the majority in Sawhney I later sided with Justice Chinnappa Reddys view caste can be a factor in identifying SEBCs.	None
This view should not hold the day forever.	None
Eventually, the words of Justice Desai should be revived.	None
Justice Desai wanted to achieve two goals with one fell swoop of the pen.	None
Had his opinion prevailed (1) the creamy layer would have been removed ensuring that the truly deserving get the benefit and (2) the casteless society would have been furthered.	None
To these ends, he would have applied economic criteria to remove the creamy layer and simultaneously rid reservation of caste.	None
He explained that poverty is the bane of Indian society.	None
Given rampant poverty, it comes as no surprise that the bank balance, the property holding and the money power determine the social status of the individual and guarantee the opportunities to rise to the top echelon.	None
Vasanth Kumar at para 27.	None
As a result, the way wealth is acquired has lost significance.	None
And upper caste does not enjoy the status or respect any more even in rural areas what to speak of highly westernised urban society.	None
Finally, his Lordship recognized that creamy layer exclusion is inherently linked with identification based on economic criteria, i.e., occupation, income and land holdings If economic criterion for compensatory discrimination or affirmative action is accepted, it would strike at the root cause of social and educational backwardness, and simultaneously take a vital step in the direction of destruction of caste structure which in turn would advance the secular character of the Nation.	None
This approach seeks to translate into reality the twin constitutional goals one, to strike at the perpetuation of the caste stratification of the Indian Society so as to arrest progressive movement and to take a firm step towards establishing a casteless society and two, to progressively eliminate poverty by giving an opportunity to the disadvantaged sections of the society to raise their position and be part of the mainstream of life which means eradication of poverty.	None
Economic criteria must include occupation and land holdings because income alone is insufficient.	None
To decrease the likelihood that the undeserving evade identification, it is wise to employ more than one criterion.	None
In Vasanth Kumar, Justice Chinnappa Reddy departs from Justice Desais use of economic criteria as the sole means of identification.	None
Nevertheless, he recognizes that attainment of economic equality is the final and only solution to the besetting problems.	None
In Justice Chinnappa Reddys opinion, it is easier to classify based on caste than economic criteria 80 Class poverty, not individual poverty, is therefore the primary test.	None
Other ancillary tests are the way of life, the standard of living, the place in the social hierarchy, the habits and customs, etc. etc.	None
Despite individual exceptions, it may be possible and easy to identify socially backwardness with reference to caste, with reference to residence, with reference to occupation or some other dominant feature.	None
Notwithstanding our antipathy to caste and subregionalism, these are facts of life which cannot be wished away.	None
If they reflect poverty which is the primary source of social and educational backwardness, they must be recognised for what they are along with other less primary sources.	None
It all depends on how one defines class.	None
Once economic criteria remove the relatively wealthy families (from all castes and communities), a class will remain.	None
This class is known as the poor.	None
The class would share the same characteristic, irrespective of caste.	None
They would all lack money.	None
In a number of judgments, this Court has spelt out our constitutional philosophy regarding caste.	None
On numerous occasions, this Court has proclaimed that the cherished goal of the Nation is to realise a casteless society.	None
In Shri V. V. Giri v. Dippala Suri Dora Others (1960) 1	None
SCR 426 at 442, the Court observed as under The history of social reform for the last century and more has shown how difficult it is to break or even to relax the rigour of the inflexible and exclusive character of the caste system.	None
It is to be hoped that this position will change, and in course of time the cherished ideal of casteless society truly based on social equality will be attained under the powerful impact of the doctrine of social justice and equality proclaimed by the Constitution and sought to be implemented by the relevant statutes and as a result of the spread of secular education and the growth of a rational outlook and of proper sense of social values but at present it would be unrealistic and utopian to ignore the difficulties which a member of the depressed tribe or caste has to face in claiming a higher status amongst his coreligionists.	None
It is in the light of this background that the alternative plea of the appellant must be considered.	None
In N M. Thomas (supra), a seven Judge Bench observed as under This consummation is accomplished only when the utterly depressed groups can claim a fair share in public life and economic activity, including employment under the State, or when a classless and casteless society blossoms as a result of positive State action.	None
In his dissenting opinion, in Sawhney I Justice Kuldip Singh observed as under Secularism is the basic feature of the Indian Constitution.	None
It envisages a cohesive, unified and casteless society.	None
The prohibition on the ground of caste is total, the mandate is that never again in this country caste shall raise its head.	None
Even access to shops on the ground of caste is prohibited.	None
The progress of India has been from casteism and egalitarianism from feudalism to freedom.	None
The caste system which has been put in the grave by the framers of the Constitution is trying to raise its ugly head in various forms.	None
Caste poses a serious threat to the secularism and as a consequence to the integrity of the country.	None
Those who do not learn from the events of history are doomed to suffer again.	None
In Akhil Bhartiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh (Railway) (supra), it was observed as under These forces nurtured the roots of our constitutional values among which must be found the fighting faith in a casteless society, not by obliterating the label but by advancement of the backward.	None
Returning to Vasanth Kumar, one of Justice Reddys arguments deals with the level of effort required to identify the poor compared to the effort expended on identifying caste.	None
In the current context, a number of factors, including economic, are measured to determine SEBC status.	None
(See the National Commission of Backward Classes Guidelines for considerations of Requests for inclusion and complaints of underinclusion in the Central List of Other Backward Classes).	Arguments of Respondent
The National Commission for Backward Classes aside, I have set out to eventually install a system that only takes cognizance of economic criteria.	None
Using purely economic criteria would lighten the identification load, as ascertaining caste would no longer be required.	None
Respondents and others level a common criticism against the exclusive use of economic criteria.	None
Most of the country is poor.	None
Thus, too many people would be eligible for the benefit.	None
This is only a problem if you hand out reservations based on the groups proportion of the total population.	None
Such a reservation would be excessively unreasonable and would likely violate the Balaji cap of 50 see M.R. Balaji Ors.	None
v. State of Mysore (1963) Supp (	None
1) SCR 439.	None
If economic reservation were limited to a reasonable number, it could be upheld.	None
In addition to the problem of extending the benefit to too many, Reddy, J. cannot contemplate the idea of bestowing reservation on an economically poor Brahmin.	None
The idea that poor Brahmins may also be eligible for the benefits of Articles 15(4) and 16(4) is too grotesque even to be considered.	None
He says that they are not socially backward, thus they should not receive the benefit.	None
But can one call a Brahmin sweeper, poor by occupation, socially forward?	None
To do so would be a stretch.	None
The majority in Sawhney I reiterates Justice Chinnappa Reddys message in Vasanth Kumar.	None
They rejected the sole use of economic criteria to exclude the creamy layer, deeming it to be just one measure of advancement.	None
Justice Jeevan Reddy qualified that sentiment to an extent.	None
If income were extremely high, it could be the sole factor.	None
In such a case, income alone would ensure that one were socially forward.	None
Justice Jeevan Reddy was convinced that caste mattered more than money  especially in rural areas.	None
He makes his point by way of example at para 792	None
A member of backward class, say a member of carpenter caste, goes to Middle East and works there as a carpenter.	None
If you take his annual income in rupees, it would be fairly high from the Indian standard.	None
Is he to be excluded from the Backward Class?	None
Are his children in India to be deprived of the benefit of Article 16(4)?	None
Unless the carpenter became a factory owner, where his income would be a reflection of his status, Justice Reddy would answer his own question in the negative.	None
This is where we part ways.	None
Today, the NRI carpenters children will have likely attended the best schools, tuitions and coaching classes that money can buy.	None
These children do not need special provisions.	None
That is why I am removing the creamy layer, calling for a timelimit on castebased reservation and urging the Government to use exclusively economic criteria to identify OBCs who may avail of special provisions.	None
The United States Supreme Court has taken a similar position with regard to setting a timelimit on racebased affirmative action.	None
As mentioned above, Justice Sandra Day OConnor opined that there may be a timelimit to promoting diversity via preferential treatment for certain races We expect that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary to further the interest approved today.	None
(See Grutter at 343).	None
In our context, one need not look past the Parliaments affinity with extending timelimits on reservation to see that only the judiciary can put a stop to castebased reservation.	None
Article 334 originally said that reservation for SC ST AngloIndians in the Lok Sabha and State Legislative Assemblies would expire on the Constitutions tenth birthday.	None
The Parliament later substituted ten for thirty years vide the 45th Amendment.	None
When that was to expire, the Parliament extended it for another ten years vide the 62nd Amendment.	None
When that was to expire, it extended it for another ten years vide the 79th Amendment.	None
History has shown that it is not politically feasible for the Parliament to say no to reservation  especially when caste is involved.	None
Nevertheless, I have noted that Sawhney I rejects purely economic criteria (occupation income property holdings or similar measures of economic power) with respect to classification under 16(4).	None
para 859, 4(a).	None
Sawhney Is nineJudge holding precludes us from striking the impugned legislation to the extent that it has not yet ruled out the use of castebased criteria for identifying SEBC status.	None
It also precludes us from forcing the Government to wean itself off castebased reservation by a certain date.	None
In order to achieve a casteless and classless society, after a lapse of ten years, special preference or reservation should be granted only on the basis of economic criteria as long as grave disparity and inequality persist.	None
Secularism is Part of the Basic Structure To be clear, there is no claim arising out of the goal to promote a casteless society.	None
No right of action exists.	None
The right of action is found in secularism.	None
Though not explicitly found in the unamended Constitution, the original Framers made it clear that India was to be a secular democracy.	None
Discrimination based on religion is prohibited by Articles 14, 15(1) and 15(2), 16(1) and 16(2), 29(2) and 325.	None
The original Framers went out of their way to ensure that minorities would be able to maintain their identity.	None
(See Articles 28, 29 and 30).	None
Article 27 precludes the state from adopting a state religion, whereas Article 25 grants citizens the right to profess, practice and propagate religion.	None
With rights come responsibilities.	None
One of them is found at Article 51A(3), which instructs citizens to promote harmony and spirit of brotherhood amongst all people  transcending religious  diversities.	None
Relying on these provisions, Bommai (1994) 3 SCC 1 at para 304 declared secularism a constitutional goal and a basic feature of the Constitution as affirmed in Kesavananda Bharati and Indira N. Gandhi v. Raj Narain.	None
Any step inconsistent with this constitutional policy is, in plain words, unconstitutional.	None
The Court reasoned that the original Framers adopted Articles 25, 26 and 27 so as to further secularism.	None
(See Bommai at para 28 (Ahmadi, J.)).	None
Secularism was very much embedded in their constitutional philosophy.	None
para 29.	None
During the Constituent Assembly Debates, Pandit Laxmikantha Mitra stated (as quoted at para 28 of Bommai)	None
By secular State, as I understand it, it is meant that the State is not going to make any discrimination whatsoever on the ground of religion or community against any person professing any particular form of religious faith  no citizen  will have any preferential treatment  simply on the ground that he professed a particular form of religion.	None
This is relevant today because quotas are statesponsored discrimination against those who are not deemed SEBCs  caste being a byproduct of religion.	None
Though affirmative action is allowed, there is a point at which it violates secularism.	None
Finally, I note that the 42nd Amendment, which formally inserted secularism into the Preamble, merely made what was already implicit explicit.	None
(See Bommai at para 29).	None
Conclusion on the Casteless Society In conclusion, the First Parliament, by enacting Article 15(5), deviated from the original Framers intent.	None
They passed an amendment that strengthens, rather than weakens casteism.	None
If castebased quotas in education are to stay, they should adhere to a basic tenet of secularism they should not take caste into account.	None
Instead, exclusively economic criteria should be used.	None
For a period of ten years, other factors such as income, occupation and property holdings etc. including caste, may be taken into consideration and thereafter only economic criteria should prevail.	None
Sawhney I has tied our hands.	None
I nevertheless believe that caste matters and will continue to matter as long as we divide society along castelines.	None
Castebased discrimination remains.	None
Violence between castes occurs.	None
Caste politics rages on.	None
Where casteism is present, the goal of achieving a casteless society must never be forgotten.	None
Any legislation to the contrary should be discarded.	None
Are Articles 15(4) and 15(5) mutually contradictory, such that 15(5) is unconstitutional?	None
While contradictory, I am able to read them harmoniously.	None
Learned senior counsel for petitioners, Mr. K.K. Venugopal, argued that Articles 15(5) and 15(4) are inconsistent to the extent that 15(5) exempts minority institutions from reservation and 15(4) incorporates aided minority institutions in the reservation scheme.	None
Because both provisions contain nonobstante clauses, they render each other void.	None
He further submitted that the Court is in the position of having to choose between them in regard to this inconsistency.	None
He provided three tests of statutory interpretation that give us guidance in resolving such a conflict.	None
First, if the Court cannot harmonize the two provisions, it must invalidate the one that completely destroys the others purpose.	None
Sarwan Singh Another v. Kasturi Lal (1977) 1 SCC 750 , pages 760761, at para 20).	None
In the instant case, one of the express purposes of 15(5) was to exempt minority institutions and thus avoid conflict with Article 30(1).	None
This is found in the text of Article 15(5) itself.	None
With nothing in the text of 15(4) to guide us, we turn to its Statement of Objects and Reasons The Act also amplifies Article 15(3) so as to ensure that any special provisions that the State may make for the educational, economic or social advancement of any backward class citizens may not be challenged on the ground of being discriminatory.	None
Thus, Article 15(4) was not passed with an express intention to include minority institutions nor did it arise out of a case in which minority institutions were a party.	None
Then again, it was open to the First Parliament to exclude minority institutions from the beginning.	None
Articles 15(4) and 15(5)s purposes do not necessarily conflict.	None
I find the first test inconclusive and thus turn to the other ones.	None
The second test asks which provision came into effect at a later date (i.e., was later in time?)?	None
That which is later shall prevail.	None
Here, 15(5) was enacted later in time.	None
In J.K. Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh Others AIR 1961 SC 1170 at page 1174, para 9, I find the third test it provides that the specific clause must trump the general.	None
Article 15(5) is specific in that it refers to special provisions that relate to admission in educational institutions, whereas 15(4) makes no such reference to the type of entity at which special provisions are to be enjoyed.	None
Because 15(5) is later in time and specific to the question presented, it must neutralize 15(4) in regard to reservation in education.	None
Mr K. Parasaran, learned senior counsel for the respondents, correctly pointed out that constitutional articles are to be read harmoniously, not in isolation.	None
(See T.M.A. Pai (supra) at page 582, para 148).	None
Our interpretation is harmonious because Article 15(4) still applies to other areas in which reservation may be passed.	None
Does Article 15(5)s exemption of minority institutions from the purview of reservation violate Article 14 of the Constitution?	None
Given the inherent tension between Articles 29(2) and 30(1), I find that the overriding constitutional goal of realizing a casteless classless society should serve as a tiebreaker.	None
We will take a step in the wrong direction if we subject minority institutions (even those that are aided) to reservation.	None
Minority aided institutions were subject to a limited form of reservation.	None
In order to preserve the minority character of the institution, reservation could only be imposed to a reasonable extent.	None
Minority aided institutions could select their own students, contingent upon admitting a reasonable number of nonminority students per the percentage provided by the State Government.	None
This conclusion was derived from two conflicting constitutional articles.	None
Of course, I am only concerned with minority aided institutions because I have already determined that the State shall not impose reservation on unaided institutions (minority or nonminority).	None
Article 30(1) provides that all minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.	None
Article 29(2) states that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, 30(1) by itself would allow minority aided institutions to reject all nonminority candidates, and 29(2) by itself would preclude the same as discrimination based solely on religion.	None
Yet neither provision exists by itself.	None
Rather than disturb the Constitution, this Court struck a compromise and diluted each provision in order to uphold both.	None
Reading Articles 30(1) and 29(2) harmoniously, Kerala Education Bill provided that once minority institutions receive aid, a sprinkling of outsiders must be admitted.	None
Sprinkling ensured that the minority character of the institution would not be lost.	None
In regard to the sprinkled seats, minority institutions cannot discriminate based on religion in violation of Article 29(2).	None
At the same time, if the State compelled aided minority institutions to take too many nonminority students, the institution would be minority in name only.	None
But what does too many mean?	None
Can sprinkling be quantified?	None
Clearing up the ambiguity, St. Stephens held that minority institutions must make 50 of their seats available to outsiders and that admission for the other 50 (its own community) must be done on merit.	None
Pai later rejected the rigidity attached to this fixed percentage.	None
Along these lines, Pai returned to a more flexible standard, one akin to sprinkling in Kerala Education Bill the moment a minority institution takes aid, it has to admit nonminority students to a reasonable extent, whereby the character of the institution was maintained and yet citizens Article 29(2) rights were not subverted.	None
(Also see Pai at para 149).	None
Thus, two admission pools were created for aided minority institutions minority and nonminority.	None
In the minority pool, merit was to be observed.	None
From the nonminority pool, reservations for the weaker sections may be made while the remaining seats, if any, would be distributed based on merit to nonminority students.	None
It would be open to the state authorities to insist on allocating a certain percentage of seats to those belonging to weaker sections of society, from amongst the nonminority seats.	None
Pai at para 152.	None
With regard to the percentage of reservation, the State Governments were to determine the percentage of nonminority seats according to the needs of that State.	None
As a compliment to reservation, aided minority institutions were also subject to regulation of administration and management.	None
Pai declared at para 72 as noted above that Once aid is granted to a private professional educational institution, the Government or the state agency, as a condition of the grant of aid, can put fetters on the freedom in the matter of administration and management of the institution.	None
The state, which gives aid to an educational institution, can impose such conditions as are necessary for the proper maintenance of the high standards of education as the financial burden is shared by the state.	None
In addition to the general power to impose conditions that seek to maintain high standards or excellence in education, the State could implement the same under a related but different rationale.	None
That is, said regulations could be upheld in the name of national interest.	None
Pai at para 107.	None
Yet the Government could not destroy the minority character of an institution.	None
para 107.	None
Nor could it obliterate the establishment or administration of a minority institution.	None
para 107.	None
A balance was to be struck between (a) maintaining academic quality and (b) preserving the minority right to establish administer educational institutions.	None
Regulations that embraced these two objectives were considered reasonable.	None
Pai at para 122.	None
A question of great import is whether Article 30 was designed to put minorities on equal or higher footing than nonminorities.	None
This question played out in detail in a debate between Khare, C.J. and Justice Sinha in Islamic Academy.	None
Writing for the majority, Chief Justice Khare takes issue with Pai.	None
The Chief Justice says that Pai has wrongly categorized minority rights as equal to those of the nonminority.	None
He has a point.	None
Minorities can establish and administer institutions for their communities per Article 30 nonminorities cannot.	None
His Lordship observed (para 9 page 723)	None
We do not read these paragraphs to mean that nonminority educational institutions would have the same rights as those conferred on minority educational institutions by Article 30 of the Constitution of India.	None
Nonminority educational institutions do not have the protection of Article 30.	None
Thus, in certain matters they cannot and do not stand on a similar footing as minority educational institutions.	None
Even though the principle behind Article 30 is to ensure that the minorities are protected and are given an equal treatment yet the special right given under Article 30 does give them certain advantages.	None
Relying on St. Xaviers case (1975) 1	None
SCR 173 , Pai concluded that the object of Article 30 was to ensure minorities of equal treatment and nothing more.	None
It was observed in St. Xaviers College case, at page 192, that the whole object of conferring the right on minorities under Article 30 is to ensure that there will be equality between the majority and the minority.	None
If the minorities do not have such special protection, they will be denied equality.	None
The minority institutions must be allowed to do what the nonminority institutions are permitted to do.	None
Pai at para 138.	None
In contrast to the majority in Islamic, Justice Sinha concludes that Article 30(1) raises minorities to an equal platform and no higher.	None
Relevant portion is reproduced hereinbelow	None
The statement of law contained in paras 138 and 139 is absolutely clear and unambiguous and no exception can be taken thereto.	None
The doubt, if any, that the minorities have a higher right in terms of Article 30(1) of the Constitution of India may be dispelled in clearest terms inasmuch as the right of the minorities and nonminorities is equal.	None
Only certain additional protection has been conferred under Article 30(1) of the Constitution of India to bring the minorities on the same platform as that of nonminorities as regards the right to establish and administer an educational institution for the purpose of imparting education to members of their own community whether based on religion or language.	None
see Islamic Academy at para 105.	None
Justice Sinha considers it constitutionally immoral to discriminate against nonminorities in the guise of protecting the constitutional rights of minorities.	None
See Islamic Academy at para 118.	None
Even in the face of Articles that provide preferential treatment to minority or weaker sections, e.g., 30(1), 15(4) and 16(4), the right to equality must mean something.	None
Justice Khare, as he then was, concludes that original Framers conferred Article 30(1) on minorities in order to instill in them a sense of confidence and security.	None
Pai at page 615 at para 229.	None
Their right to establish and administer educational institutions could not be usurped by mere legislation.	None
Khare, J. stated at para 229 p.615	None
Thus, while maintaining the rule of nondiscrimination envisaged by Article 29(2), the minorities should have also right to give preference to the students of their own community in the matter of admission in their own institution.	None
Otherwise, there would be no meaningful purpose of Article 30(1) in the Constitution.	None
True, the receipt of State aid makes it obligatory on the minority educational institution to keep the institution open to nonminority students without discrimination on the specified grounds.	None
But, to hold that the receipt of State aid completely disentitles the management of minority educational institutions from admitting students of their community to any extent will be to denude the essence of Article 30 of the Constitution.	None
It is, therefore, necessary that the minority be given preferential rights to admit students of their own community in their own institutions in a reasonable measure otherwise there would be no meaningful purpose of Article 30 in the Constitution.	None
Minorities possess one right or privilege that nonminorities do not establishing and administering institutions for their community.	None
The right to admit your own students in aided minority institutions was subject to admitting a reasonable number of outsiders.	None
In the instant case, aided minority institutions stand to benefit from the Reservation Act instead of having to admit a reasonable number of outsiders they would be exempted from reservation.	None
However, their nonminority counterparts would not.	None
Does this elevate their status?	None
While it does to a certain extent, however, we must also keep our constitutional goal and philosophy in mind.	None
Given the ultimate goal of furthering a classless casteless society, there is no need to go out on a limb and rewrite them into the Amendment.	None
Such a ruling would subject even more institutions to castebased reservation.	None
This would be a step back for the Nation, furthering the caste divide.	None
I refuse to go in that direction.	None
Are the standards of review laid down by the U.S. Supreme Court applicable to our review of affirmative action under Article 15(5) and similar provisions?	None
As noted above, U.S. law is, of course, not binding but does have great persuasive value.	None
This is because their problem of race is akin to our problem of caste.	None
Where others have reviewed similar issues in great detail, it behooves us to learn from their mistakes as well as accomplishments.	None
Mr. R. Venkataraman, former President of India in a foreword to a book of eminent constitutional expert Dr. L.M. Singhvi Democracy And Rule of Law Foundation And Frontiers, has aptly observed which reads as under Society progresses only by exchange of thoughts and ideas.	None
Imagine what a sorry state the world would have been in had not thoughts and ideas spread to all corners of the globe.	None
Throughout history, philosophers, reformers, thinkers, and scholars have recorded their thoughts, regardless of whether they were accepted or not in their times, and thus contributed towards progress of humankind.	None
India was the first to encapsulate this seminal global thought.	None
The Rig Veda says	None
Ano bhadrah Krtavo yantu	None
Viswatah Let noble thought come to us from every side.	None
With respect to OBC identification, was the Reservation Acts delegation of power to the Union Government excessive?	None
It is not an excessive delegation.	None
I agree with the Chief Justices reasoning at para 185 of his judgment.	None
Is the impugned legislation invalid as it fails to set a timelimit for castebased reservation?	None
It is not invalid because it fails to set a timelimit.	None
Given the Parliaments history of extending timelimits on other reservation schemes, there is much force to the argument that the Parliament will forever continue to extend reservations.	None
As noted above, it is consistent with our constitutional goal of achieving a classless casteless society that a timelimit be set.	None
But I am bound by Sawhney I and believe that only a larger bench could make such a ruling.	None
A larger bench could certainly hold that only economic criteria could be used to identify SEBCs and that it should be done by a certain date.	None
At what point is a student no longer Educationally Backward and thus no longer eligible for special provisions under 15(5)?	None
Once a candidate graduates from a university, he must be considered educationally forward.	None
Senior counsel for petitioners, Mr. P.P. Rao, contended that those who have completed Plus 2 should be considered educationally forward.	None
In other words, they would no longer be eligible for reservation in university or postgraduate studies.	None
There is some force in this argument where only 18 in the relevant agegroup have completed Plus 2.	None
From this vantage point, this means that they are educationally elite.	None
But the answer to most questions in law is not so simple.	None
The answer often depends on the circumstances surrounding the issue.	None
In the marketplace, a candidate who has completed higher secondary education cannot be considered forward.	None
The real value of the higher secondary degree is that it is a prerequisite for college admissions.	None
The general quality of education imparted upto Plus 2 is of extremely indifferent quality and apart from that, today some entrylevel Government positions only accept college graduates.	None
One is educationally backward until the candidate has graduated from a university.	None
Once he has, he shall no longer enjoy the benefits of reservation.	None
He is then deemed educationally forward.	None
For admission into Masters programmes, such as, Master of Engineering, Master of Laws, Master of Arts etc., none will be a fortiori eligible for special benefits for admission into post graduation or any further studies thereafter.	None
Would it be reasonable to balance OBC reservation with societal interests by instituting OBC cutoff marks that are slightly lower than that of the general category?	None
Balaji (supra) concluded that reservation must be reasonable.	None
The Oversight Committee has made a recommendation that will ensure the same.	None
At page 34 of Volume I of its Report, the Oversight Committee recommended that institutions of excellence set their own cut off marks such that quality is not completely compromised.	None
Cut offs or admission thresholds as suggested by the Oversight Committee are reproduced 4.4.2	None
The Committee recognizes that those institutions of higher learning which have established a global reputation (e.g. IITs, IIMs, IISc, AIIMS and other such exceptional quality institutions), can only maintain that if the highest quality in both faculty and students is ensured.	None
Therefore, the committee recommends that the threshold for admission should be determined by the respective institutions alone, as is done today, so that the level of its excellence is not compromised at all.	None
4.4.3	None
As regards cutoffs in institutions other than those mentioned in para 7, these may be placed somewhere midway between those for SC ST and the unreserved category, carefully, calibrated so that the principles of both equity and excellence can be maintained.	None
4.4.4 The Committee strongly feels that the students who currently tend to get excluded must be given every single opportunity to raise their own levels of attainment, so that they can reach their true potential.	None
The Government should invest heavily in creating powerful, well designed and executed remedial preparatory measures to achieve this objective fully.	None
Standards of excellence however should not be limited to the best aided institutions.	None
The Nation requires that its citizens have access to quality education.	None
Society as a whole stands to benefit from a rational reservation scheme.	None
Finding 68 reservation in educational institutions excessive, Balaji at pages 470471 (supra) admonished States that reservation must be reasonable and balanced against other societal interests.	None
States have to take reasonable and even generous steps to help the advancement of weaker elements the extent of the problem must be weighted, the requirements of the community at large must be borne in mind and a formula must be evolved which would strike a reasonable balance between the several relevant considerations.	None
To strike such a balance, Balaji slashed the impugned reservation from 68 to less than 50.	None
Balaji thus serves as an example in which this Court sought to ensure that reservation would remain reasonable.	None
We heed this example.	None
There should be no case in which the gap of cut off marks between OBC and general category students is too large.	None
To preclude such a situation, cut off marks for OBCs should be set no lower than 10 marks below the general category.	None
To this end, the Government shall set up a committee to look into the question of setting the OBC cut off at nor more than 10 marks below that of the general category.	None
Under such a scheme, whenever the noncreamy layer OBCs fail to fill the 27 reservation, the remaining seats would revert to general category students.	None
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS 1A. Whether the creamy layer be excluded from the 93rd Amendment (Reservation Act)?	None
Yes, it must.	None
The 93rd amendment would be ultra vires and invalid if the creamy layer is not excluded.	None
See paras 22, 25, 27, 30, 34, 35, 43, 44.	None
1B. What are the parameters for creamy layer exclusion?	None
For a valid method of creamy layer exclusion, the Government may use its postSawhney I criteria as a template.	None
(See Office Memorandum dated 891993, para 2(c) Column 3).	None
I urge the Government to periodically revise the O.M. so that changing circumstances can be taken into consideration while keeping our constitutional goal in view.	None
I further urge the Government to exclude the children of former and present Members of the Parliament and Members of Legislative Assemblies and the said O.M. be amended accordingly.	None
See paras 5557.	None
1C. Is creamy layer exclusion applicable to SC ST?	None
In Indra SawhneyI, creamy layer exclusion was only in regard to OBC.	None
Justice Reddy speaking for the majority at para 792 stated that this discussion is confined to Other Backward Classes only and has no relevance in the case of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes.	None
Similarly, in the instant case, the entire discussion was confined only to Other Backward Classes.	None
Therefore, I express no opinion with regard to the applicability of exclusion of creamy layer to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
See para 34.	None
Can the Fundamental Right under Article 21A be accomplished without great emphasis on primary education?	None
No, it cannot.	None
An inversion in priorities between higher and primary secondary education would make compliance with Article 21A extremely difficult.	None
It is not suggested that higher education needs no encouragement or that higher education should not receive more funds, but there has to be much greater emphasis on primary education.	None
Our priorities have to be changed.	None
Nothing is really more important than to ensure total compliance of Article 21A. Total compliance means good quality education is imparted and all children aged six to fourteen regularly attend schools.	None
I urge the Government to implement the following The current patchwork of laws on compulsory education is insufficient.	None
Monetary fines do not go far enough to ensure that Article 21A is implemented.	None
The Central Government should enact legislation that (a) provides lowincome parents guardians with financial incentives such that they may afford to send their children to schools (b) criminally penalizes those who receive financial incentives and despite such payment send their children to work (c) penalizes employers who preclude children from attending schools (d) the penalty should include imprisonment the aforementioned Bill would serve as an example.	None
The State is obligated under Article 21A to implement free and compulsory education in toto.	None
(e) until we have accomplished for children from six to fourteen years the object of free and compulsory education, the Government should continue to increase the education budget and make earnest efforts to ensure that children go to schools and receive quality education The Parliament should fix a deadline by which time free and compulsory education will have reached every child.	None
This must be done within six months, as the right to free and compulsory education is perhaps the most important of all the fundamental rights.	None
For without education, it becomes extremely difficult to exercise other fundamental rights.	None
See paras 126131.	None
Does the 93rd Amendment violate the Basic Structure of the Constitution by imposing reservation on unaided institutions?	None
Yes, it does.	None
Imposing reservation on unaided institutions violates the Basic Structure by stripping citizens of their fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) to carry on an occupation.	None
T.M.A. Pai and Inamdar affirmed that the establishment and running of an educational institution falls under the right to an occupation.	None
The right to select students on the basis of merit is an essential feature of the right to establish and run an unaided institution.	None
Reservation is an unreasonable restriction that infringes this right by destroying the autonomy and essence of an unaided institution.	None
The effect of the 93rd Amendment is such that Article 19 is abrogated, leaving the Basic Structure altered.	None
To restore the Basic Structure, I sever the 93rd Amendments reference to unaided institutions.	None
See paras 132182.	None
Whether the use of caste to identify SEBCs runs afoul of the casteless classless society, in violation of Secularism.	None
Sawhney I compels me to conclude that use of caste is valid.	None
It is said that if reservation in education is to stay, it should adhere to a basic tenet of Secularism it should not take caste into account.	None
As long as caste is a criterion, we will never achieve a casteless society.	None
Exclusively economic criteria should be used.	None
I urge the Government that for a period of ten years caste and other factors such as occupation income property holdings or similar measures of economic power may be taken into consideration and thereafter only economic criteria should prevail otherwise we would not be able to achieve our constitutional goal of casteless and classless India.	None
See paras 194, 195, 231, 248, 251.	None
Are Articles 15(4) and 15(5) mutually contradictory, such that 15(5) is unconstitutional?	None
I am able to read them harmoniously.	None
See paras 252256.	None
Does Article 15(5)s exemption of minority institutions from the purview of reservation violate Article 14 of the Constitution?	None
Given the inherent tension between Articles 29(2) and 30(1), I find that the overriding constitutional goal of realizing a casteless classless society should serve as a tiebreaker.	None
We will take a step in the wrong direction if minority institutions (even those that are aided) are subject to reservation.	None
See paras 268269.	None
Are the standards of review laid down by the U.S. Supreme Court applicable to our review of affirmative action under Art 15(5) and similar provisions?	None
The principles enunciated by the American Supreme Court, such as, Suspect Legislation Narrow Tailoring Strict Scrutiny and Compelling State necessity are not strictly applicable for challenging the impugned legislation.	None
Cases decided by other countries are not binding but do have great persuasive value.	None
Let the path to our constitutional goals be enlightened by experience, learning, knowledge and wisdom from any quarter.	None
In the words of Rigveda, let noble thoughts come to us from every side.	None
See para 183.	None
With respect to OBC identification, was the Reservation Acts delegation of power to the Union Government excessive?	None
It is not an excessive delegation.	None
With respect to this issue, I agree with the reasoning of the Chief Justice in his judgment.	None
Is the impugned legislation invalid as it fails to set a timelimit for castebased reservation?	None
It is not invalid because it fails to set a timelimit.	None
See para 272.	None
At what point is a student no longer Educationally Backward and thus no longer eligible for special provisions under 15(5)?	None
Once a candidate graduates from a university, the said candidate is educationally forward and is ineligible for special benefits under Article 15(5) of the Constitution for post graduate and any further studies thereafter.	None
See para 273.	None
Would it be reasonable to balance OBC reservation with societal interests by instituting OBC cutoff marks that are slightly lower than that of the general category?	None
It is reasonable to balance reservation with other societal interests.	None
To maintain standards of excellence, cut off marks for OBCs should be set not more than 10 marks out of 100 below that of the general category.	None
See paras 274278.	None
These Writ Petitions and Contempt Petition are accordingly disposed of.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances, the parties are to bear their own costs.	Decision
