 Das Gupta, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave is against an award of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta in a dispute referred to that Tribunal by the Central Government under S. 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act between the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust, who are the appellants before us and the Trustees of the Port of Bombay, the respondents in the appeal.	None
The workmen concerned in the dispute as referred are shore workers belonging to A category, B category and casual category.	Facts
These three categories came into existence under the scheme adopted by the Bombay port Trust in April 1948 for direct employment of shore workers in place of the system previously in force under which such labourers used to be supplied by contractors known as Toliwallas.	Facts
The matters in dispute were specified thus in the letter of reference to the TribunalArrears due to the shore workers belonging to the A category, B category and casual category in respect of (i) weekly off with pay for the period l5th March, 1951 to 2nd March, 1956 (ii) work on weekly off days during the period l5th March, 1951 to 2nd March, 1956, without a compensatory day off in lieu and (iii) average daily wages for the weekly off days after the introduction of the piecerate scheme with effect from 3rd March, 1956, when the average fluctuated from week to week.	Facts
2.	None
It became clear at the hearing before the Tribunal that of the period mentioned in Item (i) and Item (ii), viz., the l5th March, 1951 to 2nd March, 1956, no weekly off was given at all from the l5th March 1951 to October 1953 but workmen were made to work generally for all the 7 days of the week, and further that from October 1953 to 2nd March, 1956, Sunday was give as the weekly off and no work was taken on that day.	Facts
The real dispute therefore as regards Item (i) and Item (ii) was in respect of (a) arrears of wages for Sunday the weekly off on which no work was done from October,1953 to March 2 1956, and (b) arrears of wages for work done during the period 15th March, 1951 to October, 1953 on Sundays which should have been given as a weekly off day but was not, though no compensatory day was given in lieu thereof.	Facts
3.	None
As regards arrears of wages for Sundays on which no work was done the workmens case is that they were entitled to receive payment for each such Sunday amounts equal to their average daily wages during the preceding week.	Facts
But admittedly no payment was made for these Sundays.	Facts
The respondents case however is that on a proper interpretation of Rule 23 of the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1960, the workmen were not entitled to payment for Sundays on which no work was done by them and further that in any case they have been constructively paid for the Sundays also inasmuch as the daily wages were fixed at 1/26th of the monthly wage.	Facts
4.	None
The Tribunal accepted these contentions raised on behalf of the employer and held that there were no arrears of wages in respect of Sundays for which no work was done.	Facts
With regard to the period March 15, 1951 to October,1953 it appears the workmen except morphias were paid at twice the ordinary rate inclusive of all allowances, for all work done on Sundays Morphias were paid one and a half times the normal rates of wages.	Facts
The workers case is that for the work done on Sunday during this period they were entitled to three times the ordinary rate.	Facts
This claim was also rejected by the Tribunal which was even held that the Morphias were entitled to double their wages inclusive of all allowances and so directed that they shall be paid for work done by them on weekly rest days from 15th March, 1951 to October1953 the difference between double their wages inclusive of all allowances and what they have been paid.	Facts
5.	None
We may state at once that the dispute as regards arrears due to workers belonging to casual category has not been pressed before its and does not therefore require consideration in this appeal.	Reasoning
The claim as regards arrears of wages for the period March 15, 1951, to October 1953 (except what has already been awarded for this period to Morphias) does not also merit serious consideration, as the learned counsel for the appellant was unable to show any legal basis for such a claim.	Reasoning
He tried to persuade us that as Rule 23 of the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules requires the employer to give a weekly holiday on Sunday (unless this is given on some other day instead)	Arguments of Petitioner
it is not right that when the employer does not comply with that requirement he should get off with paying nothing more than what he would have paid for such work done on any day of the week because of the Rules in respect of extra payment for overtime work.	None
The Minimum ages Act 1948 itself contains provisions for contravention of the provisions of the Act or Rules or Orders made thereunder.	Reasoning
Section 22 provides for punishment inter alia for contravention of rules or orders under section 13.	Reasoning
Section 22A provides for punishment with fine (which may extend to five hundred rupees) for contravention of any provision of the Act or of any rule or order made thereunder if no other penalty is provided for such contravention.	Reasoning
The Minimum wages Rules were made by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (Act XI of 1948)and so contravention of Rule 23 of these rules is punishable under section 22A of the Act.	Reasoning
Whether or not any action is taken against the employer for such contravention, the Industrial Tribunal has no authority to impose some other penalty in the shape of making the employer pay in respect of work done on Sundays something more than what he would have otherwise have to pay Neither the Minimum Wages Act nor the Rules contain any provision for such additional payment over and above what would be payable for overtime work as such.	Reasoning
The workmens claim for further payment in respect of work done on Sundays during the period March 15, 1951 to October 1953 has therefore been rightly rejected.	Reasoning
6.	None
In respect of the claim for pay on Sunday during the period October 1953 to March 2, 1956, on which no work was done we have first to decide on the correct interpretation of the words for which in Rule is, as it stood before it was amended by a Notification GSR 918 dated the 29th July, 1960 The Rule as it stood before the amendment ran thus 23.	None
Weekly Holidays(1) Unless otherwise permitted by the Central Government, no worker shall be required or allowed to work in a scheduled employment, on the first day of the week (hereinafter referred to as the said day) except when he has or will have a holiday for the whole day on one of the five days immediately before or after the said day for which he shall receive payment equal to his average daily wages during the preceding week Provided that the weekly holidays may be substituted by another day Provided further that no substitution shall be made which will result in any worker working for more than ten days consecutively without a holiday for a whole day.	None
We are not concerned with clause 2 of Rule 23.	None
The Explanation to the Rule is in the following words ExplanationFor the purpose of this rule Week shall mean a period of seven days beginning at midnight on Saturday night.	None
7.	None
The main policy underlying the rule obviously is that workmen shall have full rest at frequent intervalsordinarily once in every 7 days but in no case at intervals of more than 10 days.	Reasoning
This was clearly in accordance with the principle laid down in section 13 of the Minimum Wages Act that the Government may provide for a day of rest for every period of 7 days even though in framing the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules 1960 which covers many other matters other than the matters mentioned in section 13)	Reasoning
no reference has been made to section 13 at all.	None
In giving effect to this policy of providing for a day of restordinarily once in 7 days but in no case at intervals of more than 10 daysthe rulemaking authority has thought fit also to make provision for making some payment in connection with this.	None
Difficulty has however been caused by the unfortunate complexity of the sentence, in which the main provision as regards the day of rest and also the subsidiary provision for payment have been combined.	None
8.	None
The dispute is about the meaning of the words for which.	None
If one remembers the rule of grammar that what the grammarians call the antecedent (that is the noun or pronoun to which a relative pronoun relates) should be used as near as possible to the relative pronoun, one is tempted to think that which relates to the word day of the said day immediately preceding the preposition for.	None
Breaking up this last portion of the rule, the rule thus analysed would be equivalent to and for the said day he shall receive payment equal to his average daily wages during the preceding week.	None
That will be however only a grammarians construction.	None
In the Courts however while we have to remember the rules of grammar because such rules are ordinarily observed by people in expressing their intentions, we have to look a little more closely to understand the real intention expressed.	None
It seems to us unreasonable to impute the rulemaking authority an intention that while if the weekly rest is given on the said day that is, Sunday the workmen shall receive payment, he shall receive no payment if and when the employer takes advantage of the provisions that no workman may be required or allowed to work on Sunday when he has or will have a holiday for the whole day on one of the five days immediately before or after the said day.	None
For, if that be permitted, the employer would always give the weekly holiday on one of the 5 days immediately before or after the Sunday and thus avoid payment for the rest day.	Reasoning
It seems clear to us therefore that in using the words for which after the words the said day the rulemaking authority did not intend to confine the word which to this said day but intended to relate this which to any of the days on which rest is given.	Reasoning
In other words, for which was used as short for and on such holiday whether on the said day or not.	Reasoning
We do not think the rules of grammar stand in the way of this interpretation.	None
9.	None
Mr. Desais argument on behalf of the respondent is that which relates to the ,word holiday and that accordingly it is only when the workman has or will have a holiday on one of the five days immediately before or after the said day, that he shall receive payment.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the two phrases for the whole day and one of the five days immediately before or after the said day are adverbial phrases modifying the verb has and will have and no part of these phrases can have any connection with the words for which.	Arguments of Respondent
Leaving these out, the rule properly analysed is, he says, in really two portions the first being no worker shall be required or allowed to work in a scheduled employment on the first day of the week the second being except when he has or will have a holiday for which he shall receive payment equal to his average daily wages during the proceeding week.	Arguments of Respondent
That will however be to rewrite the sentence in a manner for which we can find no justification.	None
It is proper to remember also that this interpretation will have the peculiar consequence that if the rest day is given on first day of the week no payment will have to be made, but if it is given on some other day payment will have to be made.	Reasoning
It will be unreasonable to ascribe such an intention to the legislature.	Reasoning
10.	None
The Tribunal was so impressed by the unreasonableness of such a consequence that it came to the conclusion that no payment will be receivable by the workmen whether the weekly rest day is given on the first day of the week or on one of the five days immediately before or after the said day.	None
11.	None
Reading the operative portion of this rule with the proviso that the weekly holiday may be substituted by another day it appears to us clear that the rule making authority did not draw any distinction between the holiday on the first day of the week or the holiday on one of the five days immediately before or after the said day.	Reasoning
It was this weekly holidaywhether given on the 1st day of the week or whether on one of the five days immediately before or after the said daythat under the proviso could be substituted by another day.	Reasoning
The scheme clearly is for one holiday, generally, once in a week and it is for this one holiday that payment is provided.	Reasoning
12.	None
Our attention was drawn to the View taken by the Bombay High Court in Trustees of the Port of Bombay v. Authority Under the Payment, of Wages Act, 19571 Lab LJ 626, which was followed by the Madras High Court in Associated Cement Co. Ltd. v. Labour Inspector, 19601 Lab LJ 192 (AIR 1961 Mad 77 ), that the proper construction of the words for which is to relate to the word holiday preceding the words for the, whole day.	None
In Jaswant Sugar Mills v. Subdivisional Magistrate, 19602 Lab LJ 373 (AIR 1960 All 724 ), the Allahabad High Court took the view that for which refers to the weekly holiday whether it is on a Sunday or on any other days of the week as permitted under the Rules.	None
In our opinion, the view taken by the Allahabad High Court is correct.	Reasoning
13.	None
On a proper construction of the rule it must, in our opinion, be held that the workmen of categories A and B were entitled to receive payment equal to the average wages during the preceding week in respect of the period October 1953 to March 2, 1956.	Reasoning
14.	None
This brings us to the employers claim that there has been constructive payment for the Sundays during this period, viz., October 1953 to March 2, 1956.The argument is that the daily wage for these workmen was fixed by dividing all the components of the monthly scale of pay and allowances by 26 so that what a workman receives as daily wage is really 1/26th of the wage for 30 days.	None
Thus, it is said, the total receipts for the 26 days, if no separate payment is made for the rest days will be 26 x 1/26th of 30 days wage, that is, 30 days wage.	Arguments of Respondent
The fallacy in this argument is that it ignores the essential fact that once the daily wage is fixed at a certain figure it no longer retains its character of being 1/26th of the monthly wage.	None
However arrived at, the daily wage is a daily wage and it is wrong to regard it as a certain fraction of the monthly wage.	Reasoning
When the Central Government in making these Minimum Wages Rules made this provision for payment on a holiday it clearly intended that something in addition to what was being actually received for the six days of the week should be paid.	Reasoning
This cannot be defeated by a statement that though in form six days wages were being paid, in fact and in substance, seven days wages were being paid.	Reasoning
By no stretch of imagination can payment for six days be equated to payment for seven days.	Reasoning
15.	None
We have therefore come to the conclusion that the workmen of the A and B categories are entitled to arrears of wages in respect of Sundays during the period October 1953 to March 2, 1956.	Reasoning
16.	None
With effect from March 3, 1956 the Piecerate Scheme was introduced for the shore workers belonging to the A category and B category.	None
The essentials of this scheme are that a datum line was fixed for the different kinds of work and the piece rate wage would vary with the proportion which the outturn of the gang bears to the datum line in the following mannerFor a shift fully occupied in doing piece rate work the piece rate wage of the basic gang worker (inclusive of basic pay and the allowances above mentioned) shall rise uniformly from Rs. 310 at 76 per cent to Rs. 450 at 100 per cent to Rs. 8 at 150 per cent of the datum line.	None
The piece rate wage earned after 150 per cent of the datum line shall be processed at double the daily wage that is to say the piece rate wage will rise uniformly from Rs. 8 at 150 per cent to Rs. 12 at 200 per cent of the datum line.	None
The scheme further provided that Rs. 310 (comprised of Rs.	None
1/8/ basic wage including allowances and Rs. 1/9/dearness allowance) shall be the minimum guaranteed wage per day on which a gang worker is given employment if on any day the piece work earning plus idle time payment and or other earning under this appendix fall short of the said minimum, the Port Trust shall make up the difference that day.	None
Rs. 370 (comprised of Rs. 1/14/basic wage including allowances and Rs. 190 dearness allowance) shall be the minimum guaranteed wage per day on which a morpia is given employment.	None
17.	None
On behalf of the respondent a question was raised before us that Rule 23 of the Minimum Wages Rules does not apply to these workmen after the piece rate scheme was introduced.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged that for such worker there is no daily wage, as what the piece worker receives varies from day to day according to his total output.	Arguments of Respondent
It may even happen, it is suggested, that on a certain day on which output is nil, the piece rate worker will receive nothing.	None
Against this, Mr. Gokhales argument is that average daily wages during the preceding week means average of the total earnings per day during the Preceding week and so there can be no difficulty in ascertaining for every worker his average daily wages during any week.	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	None
We are not prepared to accept this construction of average daily wages as average earnings per day.	Reasoning
The daily wage has in the industrial world a definite significance in contradistinction to weekly wages or monthly wages.	Reasoning
The weekly wages or monthly wages of a person would not as ordinarily understood include the extra earnings of the workmen by working overtime.	Reasoning
So also, in our opinion the term daily wages as ordinarily understood does not include overtime earnings.	Reasoning
If it does not include overtime earnings, can it reasonably be said that it includes the high additional earnings that a worker may receive by increasing his output above the minimum fixed?	Issue
We do not think that to be a reasonable interpretation of the words daily wages.	None
At the same time, we see no reason why the guaranteed minimum fixed for each workman per day should not be considered his daily wages.	Reasoning
The piece rate system introduced for these workmen has fixed such a minimum.	Reasoning
Indeed, the fixation of such a minimum wage for a piece rate system makes, it may be said, the piece rate a time ratecumpiece rate in which the guaranteed minimum is the time rate daily wage and the extra earnings are piece rates.	Reasoning
The argument that Rule 23 does not apply to this workmen after the introduction of the piece rate scheme must therefore be rejected.	None
19.	None
its regards this period also (that is, the period from March 3, 1956 onwards)	None
Mr. Desai contended that there has been constructive payment of the workers as the guaranteed minimum was arrived at by dividing the monthly wage by 26.	Arguments of Respondent
For the reasons for which this argument was rejected in respect of the period October, 1953 to March 2, 1956, we reject this plea of constructive payment.	None
20.	None
We are therefore of opinion that the workers of categories A and B are entitled to arrears of wages for the Sundays from March 3, 1956 on the basis that the guaranteed minimum wage was the daily wage.	Reasoning
21.	None
As has already been mentioned, Rule 23 was amended in July 1960, i.e., long after the Tribunal gave the award under appeal.	Reasoning
We express no opinion as to what the position in law is, after this amendment of Rule 23.	Reasoning
22.	None
The appeal is accordingly allowed in part.	Decision
In the circumstances, the parties will bear their own costs in this Court.	Decision
23.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
