 Sikri, CJ.	None
1.	None
This appeal by special leave by the State of Madhya Pradesh is against the judgment of the High Court allowing the appeal of the respondents.	Facts
Mir Basit Ali Khan, Mir Shahniwaz Ali Man and Mir Sarfaraz Ali Khan, and setting aside the conviction and sentences passed on them by the learned First Additional Sessions Judge.	Facts
Bhopal, who had convicted them under Section 120B and Section 420.	Facts
I. P. C.	Facts
The respondents were, however, acquitted of the charge under Section 406, I. P. C. We may mention that there were two committal orders made by the learned Magistrate, First Class.	Facts
Bhopal, on April 5, 1965 and on October 12. 1965, respectively, which gave rise to two Sessions Trials.	Facts
Nos. 90 of 1965 and No. 98 of 1965.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge disposed of both the trials by a single judgment as he was of the view that both the trials were in effect a single trial of a single conspiracy and of several incidents of cheating.	Facts
The respondents also filed one appeal before the High Court and the High court disposed of that appeal by one Judgment.	Facts
2.	None
The facts are not very much in dispute.	Facts
The prosecution case, in brief, was that Mir Basit Ali Khan the father, and his two sons.	Facts
Mir Shahniwaz Ali Khan and Mir Sarfaraz Ali Khan, entered into a partnership which was registered on September 21, 1959, under the Indian Partnership Act of 1932 in the State of Andhro Pradesh at Hyderabad.	Facts
The registration number of the firm was 1468.	Facts
Mir Basit Ali Khan started a money circulation scheme known as MultiPurpose Constructive Circulation Scheme with its head office at Hyderabad, in the year 1960.	Facts
He, along with others, was prosecuted in the City Magistrates Court at Hyderabad, but they were acquitted and the acquittal was maintained in the High Court.	Facts
The Magistrate had come to the conclusion that though the scheme appeared to be speculative yet it could not be said that the accused were running the said scheme with a dishonest intention to cheat the public.	Facts
3.	None
It is alleged that Mir Basit Ali Khan again organised the Multipurpose Constructive Circulation Scheme on September 20.	Facts
1961, at Bhopal with its principal office at Bungalow No. 59, Roshanara Naka, T. T. Nagar, Bhopal.	Facts
The firm issued policies and printed pamphlets and handbills representing that it was a Government of India Registered firm No. 1468.	Facts
4.	None
We may reproduce the pamphlet.	Facts
Ex. P.9/1, which was one of the pamphlets issued by the firm1.	Facts
Perform the marriage of marriageable girls by spending only 5.50 np. 2.	Facts
Only after spending once Rs. 5.50 np.	Facts
send your promising children to America or England for Education 3.	Facts
By spending Rs. 5.50 np.	Facts
only once, you can meet your daily necessities.	Facts
4.	None
By spending Rs. 5.50 np.	Facts
only once make provision for education, and books, stationery, etc., etc 5.	Facts
By spending Rs. 5.50 np.	Facts
get a big sum of Rs. 2309/ for the progress of your business.	Facts
For obtaining all the above mentioned things you can get a big sum of Rs. 2309/ by spending only Rs. 5.50 np.	Facts
Please do come and meet on the address noted below so that you may know how to do it and how to utilise this golden opportunity	Facts
Otherwise please do not say that you did not get intimation.	None
5.	None
It is necessary to reproduce another pamphlet, Ex. P12, because according to the State there were clear misrepresentations of fact which amounted to cheatingphone 1266.	Facts
M. C. C. Bhopal, M. p.	Facts
Grams Jansewak Govt. of Indias Registered Firm, 1468.	None
The Government of India after establishing the social service Department are doing a great service for the public and to the nation as a whole by spending lacks of rupees.	None
The public have also been exerting manual labour in addition to giving their valuable time.	Facts
But this Public Service Scheme of ours is so unique that without any difficulty every individual of the country receives direct benefit to the extent of Rs. 23,09/50 by sitting at home.	Facts
That is, remit your admission fee once through the dep.	Facts
T. T. (sic) and the Government postman will knock down at your doors several times to pay you up the amount.	Facts
The Founder of this unique formula has placed before you in such a way that a person with ordinary intelligence will be pleased to understand it.	Facts
HOW THIS IS POSSIBLE Collect Rs, 5/50 from each of your three friends, and out of this keep Rs. 5.50 for yourself and this remaining Rs. 11/00 may be remitted according to the schedule.	Facts
It is thus clear that you have received your original amount of Rs. 5/50 in full immediately after the sale of three Policies.	None
From the Procedure explained above, it is very clear that this is neither a Gambling lottery, Riddle nor Satta.	None
There is not the least possibility of your losing the amount.	Facts
Of course, such persons will be losers who will not be in a position to sell their three policies.	None
Therefore, those persons who do not have the capacity of selling their 3 Policies need not join this scheme.	None
But in our opinion we are confident that there is no such an unfournate person who is not having even three well wishing friends, or relatives in this vast world.	Facts
But the question of selling 3 policies by an individual is most important.	None
How You should purchase one Policy by paying Rs. 5/50 np.	None
from any person who has already enrolled in this scheme or write to the Firm for the policy, by sending M. O. of Rs. 5/Now select three energetic and enthusiastic friends, collect Rs. 5/50 from each of them and remit the M. Os.	Facts
to the members and the Firm as shown in the schedule.	Facts
Write down the names of your selected 3 friends with their address in full in BLOCK LETTERS ONLY.	Facts
Send the Policy along with the M.O. receipts to the firm by EXPRESS DELIVERY ONLY.	Facts
Never send M. Os.	None
to persons in column No. 2 they will not get any amount to the extent of THIS POLICY ONLY BUT as and when this Policy goes in circulation they will automatically change their places and enjoy with their expected amount.	Facts
FIRMS RESPONSIBILITY	None
The firm will sent you 3 policies in which you will stand in Column No. 2 and that of the new member in Column No. 1	None
Hand over these policies immediately to your friends carefully.	None
As soon as you finish this job, YOUR RESPONSIBILITY IS OVER.	None
The chain of M. Os. will be continued in such a way that your neighbours will be fed up with postmans voice.	None
Became the beauty of our scheme is that we allow 15 days period for the sale of the policy to each of our member after the expiry of the period we cancel such slack members and the same cancelled policy in which you stand in No. 2 is sold to other new members through our authorised agents and field officers who are spread all over India thereby we try our utmost to continue your chain.	None
The cause of failure of other previous Schemes is only due to not having this wonderful arrangement of continuation of Chain to which we give much importance.	None
For this reason only we are having a very good response and our todays membership number is more than a lack all over India.	None
Under unavoidable circumstances, extension of one week can be given on payment of extension fee of 0.37 np.	None
SCHEDULE S. No. Column No.No. of PoliciesAmount payable 115.50 23Nil 399.00 42727.00 58181.00 6243864.50 77291822.50 Total No. of Policies10932309.50 MOST IMPORTANT	None
If your chain of M. Os. are discontinued for two weeks please inform us immediately so that they may be continued.	None
MEER BASITH ALI KHAN Author of Bukhi Kisan approved by the Ministry of Agr.	None
Govt.	Facts
of India, Founder of full House Talkie Formula Regd.	Facts
by Govt.	Facts
of India No. 104 Proprietor M .C. C. Govt.	Facts
of Indias Regd.	Facts
Firm No. 1468, Bhopal.	None
TIME IS MONEY If you are inclined to become agent, contact us and enjoy with the commission of 3.50 np.	None
per member.	Facts
The Chief Agent will get 75 P. M. salary as well as commission of Rs. 3.50 per member.	Facts
The advertisement expenses will also be borne by the firm.	Facts
6.	None
The learned Sessions Judge had come to the conclusion that the respondents by using the expression Government of India Registered Firm No. 1468 in their policies and pamphlets misled the public into believing that the scheme was sponsored by the Government of India or it had its approval.	Facts
He also came to the conclusion that there was a misrepresentation in the pamphlet that the scheme was neither a gambling, lottery, riddle or a satta, but was an ordinary financial scheme.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge had further found that as the remitter of the moneyorders was always Mir Basit Ali Khan, respondent No. 1 and the Proprietor of M. C. C., the member of the policy was left only with a small piece of paper.	Facts
Ex. P69, the scheme contained a misrepresentation and suppression of material facts which made the respondents liable for conspiracy to cheat and cheating.	Facts
7.	None
The High Court, however, held that it being not in dispute that the firm was registered and its number was 1468 there was no fraudulent or deceitful representation.	Facts
The High Court further held that most of the witnesses had clearly stated that they had known the fact that it was a private firm and the Government had nothing to do with it.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that the statement may be an exaggeration or a puffing.	Facts
The High Court, after going through the evidence and the various pamphlets came to the following conclusionThere appears to be no misrepresentation or suppression of any material facts with a view to defraud or cheat.	Facts
Howsoever speculative and unworkable the scheme may be, unless it is shown that there is a false representation or suppression of the material facts which might render it to be fraudulent, it cannot be said that the offence of cheating has been committed.	Facts
Of course, to judge its effect, the policy and the pamphlet has to be read as a whole.	Facts
The High Court further observed, after referring to a number of cases which we will presently deal withIn this scheme as aforesaid, the purchaser also got his amount alright	Facts
and one can expect to get even more provided the Chain continued.	Facts
As the policy with its rules and pamphlet make it quite clear, the appellants cannot be held guilty unless it is positively shown that some deception had been practiced on the public with the result that they were deceived and they had paid the money.	Facts
The prosecution has not produced any witness to say that some money was due from the company and they have been in anyway deceived and the amount has not been paid.	Facts
It is only the Jhabua lot of witnesses who could not be paid because of the police raid and the M. Os.	Facts
being withheld by the Magistrate.	Facts
The High Court further found that the name of Mir Basit Ali Khan, proprietor, M. C. C., was mentioned situply because it was a chain scheme and that it may go on working continuously, otherwise there is every possibility that some policy holder might not send the full amount or may not be traceable for one reason or the other.	Facts
The High Court observed that nothing was kept secret from the policy holders and it was known to them alright that they had joined the scheme with the conditions laid down in the policy and the pamphlet.	Facts
The High Court did not think that the size of the token had anything to do with cheating.	Facts
The High Court accordingly came to the conclusion that the respondents had committed no offence.	Facts
8.	None
Regarding the money which had been seized by the police the High Court said that the money belonged to the policy holders and the respondents and it was a case where the money in question had to go back to them and it could not be ordered to be confiscated.	Facts
The High Court accordingly directed that the respondents would be entitled to get back their amount which had been withheld as property in the Sessions Trials referred to above.	Facts
9.	None
It is common ground that the Scheme is highly speculative, and the question which arises is whether it amounts to cheating under S. 420 I. P. C.	Issue
The learned counsel for the State stresses the following facts(1)	Arguments of Petitioner
None of the 2000 odd persons who purchased the policy had received Rs. 2309.50, the assured amount in the policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) The large amounts of Rs. 90,750/ and Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
5,52.587.95 were obtained by the respondents showed the extent of wrongful gain by them.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) The policy holders had no control over other policy holders which would assure continuance of the scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) Merely because some persons received some amount it could not be inferred that the scheme was not fraudulent.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) The evidence showed that the names entered in columns 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 were bogus and that 2696 money orders were sent back to the remitter, as the persons were not traceable because of wrong addresses on the form.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	None
The learned counsel for the respondents contends that since the year 1939 similar schemes have been held not to fall within Section 420, I. P. C., and the legislature must be deemed to have accepted the law as laid down in the cases.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel has drawn our attention to two decisions of the Calcutta High Court on similar schemes.	Arguments of Respondent
The earliest case pointed out by the learned counsel is Radha Ballav Pal v. Emperor, AIR 1939 Cal 327 .	Arguments of Respondent
In that case the society was described as Government Registered No. 5934, registered under Act 11 of 1932.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court held that it was not a misrepresentation as this Society was actually registered under that Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Regarding the scheme the High Court held on the facts of that case that the scheme was one of those snowball schemes which were speculative to the highest degree and unworkable but it was not dishonest or fraudulent in the sense that it either represented to the public something which was not true or concealed from them something which should have been disclosed.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court thought that it was an appeal to the gambling instinct of humanity but this cannot per se amount to cheating.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
This case was following by another Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Hari Das Barat v. Emperor, ILR (1939) 2 Cal 81.	Reasoning
The headnote brings out the decision thusPromoters of a financial snowball scheme, which could run only so long as there would be a continuous uninterrupted and enormously progressive increase in subscribers, but which could not go on indefinitely, would not be guilty of cheating, in the absence of false representation and dishonest concealment of facts either in the prospectus issued or in the conduct of the promoters, calculated to deceive the public and thereby induce it to contribute money to the scheme.	Reasoning
12.	None
These cases were distinguished in Nadir Barga Zaidi v. The State of U. P. AIR 1960 All 103 .	Reasoning
as the High Court felt that on the facts of that case there were misrepresentations made to the depositors and certain facts had been dishonestly concealed from them.	Reasoning
13.	None
In re M. K. Srinivasan, AIR 1944 Mad 410 (2) the facts were slightly different and the case does not assist us.	Reasoning
14.	None
It seems to us that the Calcutta cases, referred to above, were correctly decided and the High Court came to the correct conclusion.	Reasoning
This appeal must accordingly fall.	None
It is for the legislature to intervene if it wants to protect people who participate in these schemes knowing that sooner or later the schemes are bound to fail.	Reasoning
15.	None
In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
16.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
