 Khanna, J.1.	None
Appeal No. 1353 of 1970 on certificate is directed against the judgment of Andhra Pradesh High Court where by the High Court answered the following question on reference made to it under section 66(1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) against the assessee and in favour of the revenueWhether the interest payment of Rs. 2, 38, 614/represents an element on the actual cost of the machinery, plant etc. to the asseessee and as such depreciation and development rebate are admissible with reference to this amount also ?	None
2.	None
The matter relates to the assessment year 195960, the corresponding accounting year for which ended on June 30, 1958.	Facts
The assessee is a public limited company engaged in the manufacture and sale of sugar.	Facts
The company went into production on January 22, 1958.	Facts
The assessee company had borrowed considerable sum of money from the Industrial Finance Corporation of India for the installation of machinery and plant.	Facts
During the relevant year and for the period prior to the commencement of its business the assessee paid Rs. 2, 38, 614 as interest.	Facts
The case of the assessee is that the payment of interest added to the cost of machinery and plant to the assessee and as such while calculating depreciation admissible to the assessee, the interest paid should be treated as part of the cost of the machinery and plant to the assessee.3.	Facts
The income)tax officer rejected the above claim of the assessee and held that the interest paid from year to year was an admissible item of revenue expenditure and no depreciation could be allowed on the capitalised amount of the expenditure incurred on account of interest.	Facts
No part of the above amount, according to the income tax , officer, should be taken as expenditure attributable to the erection of the machinery or other assests.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner on appeal reversed the decision of the income tax officer on this aspect.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that during the period of construction when money was borrowed for the purpose of purchasing and installing the machinery, the payment of interest was the cost of maintaining the borrowal, and as such could be included as part of the capital cost.	Facts
On further appeal the Incometax Appellate Tribunal held that the cost to the assessee must include all expenditure which it had to incur for acquiring and installing the asset.	Facts
The interest paid or payable during the period of acquisition and installation could, therefore, be considered as part of the cost to the assessee.4.	None
The question reproduced above was then referred to the High Court.	None
The High Court held that where a plant is constructed out of borrowed money, the interest on the loan up to the date of the commencement of the business could not be capitalised or treated as part of the actual cost of the plant.5.	None
Similar question arises in civil appeals Nos. 1784 and 1785 of 19 70 which have been filed by the Commissioner of Incometax on certificate against the judgment of the Calcutta High Court whereby the High Court answered the following question in reference under section 66(1) of the Act for assessment years 195556 and 195960 against the revenue and in favour of the assessee companyWhether on the facts and in the circumstances of the assessee was entitled under the provisions of sections 10(2)(vi), 10(2)(via) and 10(2)(vib) and read With section 10(5) of the Indian Income tax Act to treat the sum of Rs. 23, 53, 284 being the amount of interest paid on monies borrowed at part of the actual cost for the purpose of depreciation allowances and development rebate ?	Issue
6.	None
In civil appeal No. 1784 of 1970, which relates to the assessment year 195960, the following additional question was also answered by the High Court against the revenue and in favour of the assesseeWhether the wealthtax payable by the assessee under the provisions of the Wealth tax Act of 1957 is allowable as a deduction under section 10(1) or under section 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Incometax Act?7.	None
The assessee company in these two appeals, M s Standard Vacuum Refining Co. of India Ltd. (now known as Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.), was incorporated on July 5, 1952 and commenced its business in September 1954.	None
In June 1953 it borrowed rupees four crores on debenture atthe. rate of Rs. 5 1/4 per cent interest from the public.	Facts
The interest was to run from June 1953.	Facts
The above amount together with rupees twelve crores financed by the company was used in setting up a refinery for which plant and machinery were imported from abroad.	Facts
The refinery started work on September 1, 1954, from which date depreciation began to be calculated.	Facts
The assessee company capitalised all the expenses during the period of construction, including the interest amounting to Rs. 23, 53, 284 which had accrued from the date of borrowing to the date, of the commencement of the business on the aforesaid loan and claimed depreciation on full amount.	Facts
The incometax officer did not include interest on debentures in arriving at the figure of actual cost and as such rejected the claim of the assessee in this respect.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax officer.	Facts
The Tribunal on further appeal held that the assessee was also entitled to depreciation on the capitalised interest of Rs. 23, 53, 284 paid to the debenture holders.8.	Facts
The relevant facts so far as the second question in civil appeal No. 1784 of 1970 is concerned were as follows.	None
Ile assessee, company filed a return showing an income of rs. 1, 52, 88, 497 for the assessment year 195960, the relevant accounting year f or which was the calendar year 1958.	Facts
In arriving at the above figure of the income, the assessee claimed a sum of Rs. 5, 04, 000 representing the provision for wealthtax payable by it for the previous year relevant to the date of valuation, viz., December 31, 1958.	Facts
The incometax officer held that the provision for the payment of wealth tax did not amount to expenditure laid out wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the in cometax officer.	Facts
On second appeal the Appellate Tribunal held that the above amount could be allowed at the time when actual payment was made.	Facts
The High Court, as already mentioned, answered both the questions in favour of the assessee and against the revenue.	Facts
This judgment would dispose of all the three civil appeals.9.	Facts
In appeal before us Mr. Palkhivala on behalf of the assessees in the three appeals has argued that interest for the period before the commencement of production on money borrowed for the purpose of acquiring and installing the machinery and plant should be included, in the actual cost of the plant and as such capitalised for the, purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against that, Mr. Desai on behalf of the revenue has supported the view taken by the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
After hearing the learned counsel for the parties, we are of the opinion that the submission made by Mr. Palkhivala is wellfounded.10.	None
Before dealing with the contentions advanced, we may set out the relevant provisions.	None
Section 10 inter alia provides for the payment of tax in respect of profits or gains of any business by an assessee.	None
Subsection (2) of that section provides that such profits or gains shall be computed after making the allowances specified therein.	None
Clause (vi) of that subsection deals with deductions on account of depreciation and provides inter alia that deductions would be permissible in respect of depreciation of machinery or plant used for the purpose of business and being the property of the assessee, of a sum equivalent to such percentage on the written down value thereof as may in any case or class of cases be prescribed.	None
Written down value has been defined in subsection (5) of section 10 in the case of assets acquired in the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee, and in the case of assets acquired in the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee, less all depreciation actually allowed to him under this Act or any Act repealed thereby, or under executive orders issued when the Indian Incometax Act, 1886 was in force.	None
The definition is subject to provisos, but we are not concerned with them.	None
The explanation which has been added to sub section (5) reads as underExplation For the purpose of this subsection the expression actual cost means the actual cost of the assets to the assessee reduced by that portion of the cost thereof, if any, as has been met directly or indirectly by Governments or by any public or local authority, and any allowance in respect of any depreciation carried forward under clause (b) of the proviso to clause (vi) of subsection (2) shall be deemed to be depreciation actually allowed.11.	None
It has not been disputed that so far as the question before us is concerned the legal posit ion for determining the actual cost for the purpose of development rebate is the same as for the purpose of depreciation.12.	None
It would appear from the above that while considering the question of deduction on account of depreciation and development rebate, we have to take into account the written down value.	None
Written down value in its turn depends upon the actual cost of the assets to the assessee.	None
The expression actual cost has not been defined in the Act, and the question which en gages our attention is whether the interest paid before the commencement of production on the amount borrowed for the acquisition and installation of the plant and machinery can be considered to be part of the actual cost of the assets to the assessee.	None
So far as the interest after the commencement of production in respect of capital borrowed for the purposes of business is concerned, the same can be deducted under clause (iii) of subsection (2) of section 10 of the Act.13.	None
In finding the answer to the question mentioned above, we have to bear in mind that it arises in the context of profits or gains of business and the permissible deductions on account of depreciation and development rebate relating to the machinery and plant of the assessee.	Reasoning
As the expression actual cost has not been defined, it should, in our opinion, be construed in the sense which no commercial man would misunderstand.	Reasoning
For this purpose it would be necessary to ascertain the connotation of the above, expression in accordance with the normal rules of accountancy prevailing in commerce and industry.	Reasoning
The word cost, as observed on page 424 of Simons Taxes B Third Edition, is not synonymous with price.	Reasoning
Other items of expenditure, such for instance as freight or warehouse charges or insurance, must in certain cases be added to the price.	None
The matter has been dealt with in Accountancy by Pickles 1955 Ed.	None
on page 944 under the head Payment of interest on Construction Capital as underIn the ordinary course of affairs no dividends may be paid unless such dividends are paid out of profits interest on debentures (being a charge is, however, payable whether profits are earned or not).	None
Where company raises share, capital and out of the proceeds defrays the expenses of the construction of any works or buildings or provision of plant which cannot be made profitable for a lengthened period the company may pay interest on so much of that share capital as is paid up for the period and may charge to capital the sum paid by way of interest, provided that the restrictions imposed under section 65 of the Companies, s Act, 1948 are complied with, It is further observedThe interest so paid is capitalised, that is to say it is treated as part of the cost of construction being added thereto (similarly to legal expenses of acquiring Property or brokers charges on purchasing investments).14.	None
In Spicer Peglers Practical Auditing 11th Edition it is observed on pages 190191 under the head Interest Payable Out of Capital During ConstructionInterest on debentures issued for a similar purpose can be charged to capital during the period of construction (Hinds v. Buenos Ayres Grand National Tramways Co. Ltd. (1906) 2 Ch. 654).15.	None
In Higher BookKee ping, Accounts by Cropper Morris Fison Seventh Edition, it isobserved as underCapital expenditure over a long period must perforce involve the question of interest as an additional cost.	None
If the work were undertaken by an independent contractor he would, of course take, interest into account when preparing the estimates on which to base his tender.	None
The final cost of construction work is made up of the cost of machinery, materials, labour, supervision, and establishment charges, plus interest on the capital employed which, but for its employment in that way, would be invested in good securities, paying a reasonable rate of interest.	None
Section 208 of the Companies Act, 1956 (Act 1 of 1956) deals with payment of interest on share capital in certain contingencies.	None
Subsection (1) of that section reads as under(1) Where any shares in a company are issued for the purpose of raising money to defray the expenses of the construction of any work or building.	None
or the provision of any plant, which cannot be made profitable for a lengthy period, the company may(a) pay.	None
interest so much of that share capital as is for the time being paid up, for the period and subject to the conditions and restrictions mentioned in subsections (2) to (7) and(b) charge the sum so paid by way of interest, to capital as part of the cost of construction of the work or building or t he Provision of the plant.16.	None
Exercise of power under subsection (1) is, however subject to certain restrictions which have been enumerated in the remaining subsections of the section, one of which requires that no such payment shall be made without the previous sanction of the Central Government.	None
, In Statement on Auditing Practices issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (1974) it is observed in paragraph 2. 5 as under2.5 Fixed Assets should be valued at cost and depreciation should be written off on a proper and consistent basis Cost includes all expenditure necessary to bring the assets into existence and to put them in working condition.	None
By way of illustration the following may be mentioned(i) Legal charges and stamp duties in the case of land,(ii) Architects fees in the case of buildings,(iii) Wages, salaries and installation expenses in the case of machinery, and(iv)	None
Interest on borrowings to the extent specified in paragraph 2.22Relevant part of paragraph 2.22 reads as under2.22 The question often arises as to whether interest on borrowings can be capitalised and added to the fixed assets which have been created as a result of such expenditure.	None
The accepted view seems to be that in the case of a newly started company which is in the process of constructing and erecting its plant, the interest incurred before production commences may be capitalised.	None
Interest incurred means actual interest paid or payable in respect of borrowings which are used to finance capital expenditure.	None
In no circumstances, should imputed interest be capitalised, such as interest on equity or preference capital at a notional rate.	None
Interest on capital during construction paid in accordance with the provisions of section 208 of the Companies Act, 1956, may, however, be capitalised as permitted by that section.	None
Interest on monies which are specifically borrowed for the purchase of a fixed asset may be capitalised prior.	None
to the asset coming into production, i.e. during the erection stage.	None
However, once production starts, no interest on borrowing s for the purchase of machinery (whether for replacement or renovation of existing plant) should be capitalised 17.	None
It would appear from the above that the accepted accountancy rule for determining the cost of fixed assets is to include all expenditure necessary to bring such assets into existence and to put them in working condition.	Reasoning
In case money is borrowed by a newly started company which is in the process of constructing and erecting its plant, the interest incurred before the commencement of production on such borrowed money can be capitalised and added to the cost of the fixed assets which have been created as a result of such expenditure.	Reasoning
The above rule of accountancy should, in our view, be adopted for determining the actual cost of the assets in the absence of any statutory definition or other indication to the contrary.18.	Reasoning
We have already referred to section 208 of the Companies Act which makes provision for payment of interest on Share capital in , certain contingencies.	None
Clause (b) of sub section (1) of that section provides that in case interest is paid on share capital issued for the purpose of raising money to defray the expenses of constructing any work or building or the provision of any plant in contingencies mentioned in that section, the sum so paid by way of interest may be charged to capital as part of the cost of construction of the work or building or the provision of the plant.	Reasoning
The above provision thus , gives statutory recognition to the principle of capitalising the interest in case the interest is paid on money raised to defray expenses of the construction of any work or building or the provision of any plant.	Reasoning
in contingencies mentioned in that section even though such money constitutes share capital.	Reasoning
The same principle, in our opinion, should hold good if interest is paid on money not raised by way of share capital but taken on loan for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the construction of any work or building or the provision of any plant.	Reasoning
The reason indeed would be stronger in case, such interest is paid on money taken on loan for meeting the above expenses.19.	Reasoning
Mr. Desai has argued that if the interest paid on loan incurred for the purpose of acquisition and installing the machinery of a plant is to be taken into account in considering the actual cost of the plant, the result would be that the actual cost would be higher if the machinery for the plant is acquired and installed with borrowed money compared to the cost of such plant in case the money spent for the acquisition and installation of the above machinery is that which belongs to the assessee.	Reasoning
This undoubtedly is so	Reasoning
but it is inevitable and should not detract from the conclusion at which we have arrived.	Reasoning
Let us take the case of an architect constructing his house.	Reasoning
In case the architect engages another architect to prepare the plan for his house and to supervise its construction and pays remuneration to that other architect for this purpose, the amount so paid to the other architect shall have to be taken into account in arriving at the figure of actual cost of the house.	Reasoning
In case, however, the architect constructing the house himself prepares the plan of the house and supervises its construction, he would naturally be not paying any remuneration to himself for the aforesaid work The result would be that in the latter event the actual cost of the house would be less compared to the cost of the house in the former event even though the house in all other respects is identical.	Reasoning
It would therefore, follow that for similar fixed assets there can be different actual costs.	Reasoning
The fact that there would be a difference in the actual cost of the plant in case its machinery is acquired and installed with the assessees own money or in case it is acquired and installed with borrowed money does not consequently militate against the answer which we propose to give to the question referred in the three appeals.20.	None
In the case of Hinds v. Buenos Ayres Grand National Tramways Company, Limited(1906 2 Ch. D. 654.)	None
a trarnway company, for the purpose of converting its undertaking to a system of electric traction, issued conversion debenture stock.	None
The directors passed resolutions that the interest on this stock should be treated as part of the cost of construction, and chargeable to capital account during the construction of the works.	None
The memorandum and articles of association of the company contained no provisions relating to this subject.	None
It was held that there was no general rule of law which compelled companies to charge to revenue account interest on money borrowed for the purpose of constructing works, or prohibited them from charging it, during construction, to capital account.	None
It was further heId that in the absence of any provision to the contrary the company was at liberty to charge the interest in question to capital account.	None
Dealing with the question of costs for the, purpose of construction and the question whether the interest paid on money borrowed for such construction could be capitalised, Warrington J. observedNow, what is it that the company are really proposing to do ?	None
They are creating a capital asset by means of which they will hereafter earn, or they hope to earn, profits for the company.	None
They are not simply employing contractors to find the money and do the work.	None
They are finding the money themselves, and they find the money by borrowing it.	None
What does each mile of line cost them under these circumstances what is it that they expend in constructing each mile of line, taking the amount of the borrowed money expended on that line to be pond s 1 0, 000, that being the companys estimate?	None
The money is borrowed for that particular purposethe pond 10, 000.	None
They have to pay interest on that pond 10, 000 during the period that construction is taking place.	None
In my opinion that asset which they are so constructing costs them not only the Es 10, 000, but the Es 10, 000 plus t he amount of interest during the period of construction and that is what they are out of pocket during the construction of that mile of line.	None
Now, it seems to me that the company are entitled I do not say that they are bound to do itif	None
they think fit to charge in their accounts as the cost of that mile of line not only ponds 10, 000, but the Es 10, 000 and the interest on it during the period of construction.	None
Mr. Desai has referred to the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Corporation of Birmingham v. Barnes (H. M. Inspector of Taxes).(19 Tax Cases 195.)	None
The appellant corporation in this case entered into an agreement with a company to lay a tramway track and establish a tramway service to the companys works.	None
By virtue of the work having been completed andthe service established by a certain date, the corporation received from the company in accordance with the terms of the agreement, a specified sum.	None
The corporation also spent considerable sums of money on the renewal of their tramway tracks and received in that connection grants from the Unemployment Grants Committee.	None
These grants were made under certain conditions to local authorities to assist them in carrying out at once approved schemes of public utility on which a substantial number of unemployed persons could be engaged.	None
It was held that the payment by the company and the grant from the Unemployment Grants Committee should not be, taken into account in ascertaining the actual Costs to the corporation of the tramway track in question for the purpose of computing the allowance due to the corporation for wear and tear of such tracks.	None
Lord Atkin observed in the above caseWhat a man pays for construction or for the purchase of a work seems to me to be the cost to him and that whether someone has given him the money to construct or purchase for himself, or before the event has promised to give him the money after he has paid for the work, or after the event has promsed or given the money which recoups him what he has spent.	None
In the present case, the Corporation paid the whole of the cost of the tramways out of their funds unless the first half of the Dunlop contribution was so applied as to which there is no evidence, nor is it material.21.	None
The above observations were made in the context whether money contributed by another party can be taken into account in considering the cost of construction.	None
No such question arises in the present case.	None
On the contrary, what we are concerned with here is whether interest paid on money borrowed for the acquisition and installation of the machinery of a plant accruing before the commencement of production can be, taken into account in considering the actual cost of the plant.	None
Such a question did not arise in the above mentioned case before the House of Lords.22.	None
Another case to which reference has been made on behalf of the revenue is India Cements Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax Madras.	None
(1966 60 I.T.R. 52.).	None
The appellant company in that case obtained a loan of Rs. 40 lakhs from the Industrial Finance Corporation by creating a charge on its fixed assets.	None
In connection therewith the company spent a sum of Rs. 84, 633 towards stamp duty, registration fees, lawyers fee and claimed this amount as business expenditure.	None
It was held that the amount spent was not in the nature, of capital expenditure and was laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the assessees business and was therefore allowable as a deduction under section 2(xv) of the Act.	None
The act of borrowing money, it was observed, was incidental to the carrying on of business and the loan obtained was not an asset or an advantage of enduring nature.	None
This Court accordingly held that the amount of Rs. 84, 633 was an allowable expenditure.	None
This case too is of no assistance to the revenue.	None
The appellant company in that case at the time it raised the loan was a running concern.	None
Unlike the assessees in the present appeals, the loan raised by the appellant company in the cited case was not before the commencement of production but at a late r stage.	None
The question of including the interest paid on loan before the commencement of business in the actual cost of the plant did not arise in that case.23.	None
It may be mentioned that as against the view taken by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the judgment which is the subject matter of the appeal, three other High Courts have taken the contrary view and havefield that interest paid in such circumstances can be capitalised and included in the actual cost of the machinery and plant.	None
The decision of the Calcutta High Court in which the contrary view has been taken is the subject matter of appeal before us.	None
The view of Calcutta High Court has been followed by the Madras High Court and the Allahabad High Court.	None
The decision of the Madras High Court is in the case of Commissioner of Income.tax Madras v. L. G. Balakrishnan and Bros. (P) Ltd., (1974 95 I.T.R. 284.)	None
while that of the Allahabad High Court is in the case of Commissioner of Incometax v. J. K. Colton Spinning WVg.	None
Mills (Incometax reference No. 234 of 1972 decided on May 13, 1974.).	None
After giving the matter our consideration, we are unable to subscribe to the view taken by the Andhra Pradesh High.	None
Court.	None
The correct view in the matter, in our opinion, has been taken by the Calcutta High Court and we affirm the same.24.	None
We may now advert to the second question in civil appeal No. 1784 on the point whether the wealthtax payable by the assessee is allowable as a deduction.	None
The High Court, as already mentioned, answered the second question in favour of the assessee.	Facts
Subsequent to the judgment of the High Court this Court in the case of Travancore Titanium Product Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax Kerala(1966 60 I.T.R. 277.) held that the amount of wealth tax paid by an assessee on h is net wealth under the Wealthtax Act is not a permissible deduction under section 10(2)(xv) of the Act in his incometax assessment.	None
This Court in that context observed that wealthtax is imposed on the owner of assets and not on any commercial activity.	None
The fact that in certain special cases the quantum of the liability of a company to wealthtax is related to the profits earned would not alter the character of the tax.	None
It remains a tax charged upon the net wealth an d it is not made a tax related to or incidental to the carrying on of business.25.	None
After the above decision, the matter was considered by a larger Bench consisting of five Judges in the case of Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of incometax West Bengal(1972	None
84 I.T .R. 735.).	None
This Court held that the wealthtax paid by the assessee which was a trading company on assets held by it for the purpose of business was deductible as a business expenditure in computing the assessees income from business.	None
Sikri, C.J. speaking for four of the Judges observed that when a person has a dual capacity of a tradercum owner, and he pays tax in respect of property which is used for the purpose of trade, the payment must be taken to be, in the capacity of a trader according to ordinary commercial principles.26.	None
Subsequent to the above decision in the case of Indian Aluminium Co. (supra) the Incometax Act, 1961 was amended first by means of an ordinance and later by means of the Incometax ( Amendment) Act, 1972 (Act No. 41 of 1972).	None
By section 2 of the amending Act such clause (iia) was inserted and wits deemed always to have been inserted in clause (a) of section 40 of the Incometax Act 1961 as under(iia) any sum paid on account of wealthtax.27.	None
An explanation was added to the above subclause, but it is not necessary to reproduce the, , same.	None
Section 40 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1961 specifies the amounts which shall not be deducted in computing the income chargeable under the heads Profits or gains of business or profession.	None
According to section 4 of the amending Act, nothing contained in the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 shall be deemed to authorise, or shall be deemed ever to have authorised, any deduction in the computation of the income of any assessee chargeable under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation or Income from other sources for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1957 or any subsequent assessment year, of any sum paid on account of wealthtax.28.	None
In view of the above provisions, it is plain that any sum paid on account of wealthtax cannot be deducted in computing the income of an assessee chargeable under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation or Income from other sources.	None
There is, however, a saving clause contained in section 5 of the amending Act and it reads as underWhere, before the 15th day of July, 1972 being the date on which the Income tax (Amendment) Ordinance, 1972 came into force, the Supreme Court has, on an appeal in respect of the assessment of an assessee for any particular assessment year, held that wealth tax paid by the assessee is deductible in computing the total income of that year, then, nothing contained in sub clause (iia) of clause (a) of section 40, or subsection (IA) of section 58, of the principal Act, as amended by this Act, or, as the case may be, section 4 of this Act, shall apply to the assessment of such assessee for that particular year.29.	None
Mr. Palkhivala submits that the case of the assessee in respect of the second question in civil appeal No. 1784 is covered by section 5 of the amending Act reproduced above.30.	None
To appreciate the above submission, we may observe that civil appeals Nos. 1784 and 1785 of 1970 along with civil appeals Nos. 1694 and 1730 of Indian Aluminium Co. and civil appeal No. 1831 of 1970 of Standard Vacuum Oil Co. were argued before the Constitution Bench on February 1, 1972.	None
The Court reserved judgments in civil appeals No. 1694 and 1730 of Indian Aluminium CO. and civil appeal No. 1831 of	None
standard Vacuum Oil Co.	None
As an additional question relating to the inclusion of interest in the calculation of the actual cost arose in civil appeals Nos. 1784 and 1785 of 1970, the Court after hearing some arguments on that point in these appeals directed that they be heard by a Division Bench after the pronouncement of judgment in civil appeals No. 1694, 1730 and 1831.	None
Judgments in those three appeals, i.e. two appeals of Indian Aluminium Co. and one of Standard Vacuum Oil Co. were pronounced on March 29, 1972.	None
The decision in the appeals in the case of Indian Aluminium Co. is reported, as already mentioned, in (1972)84 ITR 735 , while that in the case of Standard Vacuum Oil Co. is reported in (1972) 86 ITR 1 .31.	None
The submission made by Mr. Palkhivala is that even though no final order was pronounced in civil appeal No. 1784 before July 15, 1972, the effect of the judgment in the other three civil appeals Nos. 1694, 1730 and 1831, which were heard along with civil appeal No. 1784 on the point as to whether the wealthtax paid by the assessee was a permissible deduction, was that this Court held that the same was to be the decision on that point in civil appeal No. 1784.	Reasoning
As against that, Mr. Desai contend s that there was no finding by this Court before July 15, 1972 in civil appeal No. 1784 that the wealth tax paid by the assessee was deductible in computing the total income of the assessee.32.	Reasoning
There is, in our opinion, force in the submission of Mr. Palkhivala.	None
As stated above, arguments were heard together on February 1, 1972 in civil appeals Nos. 1784, 1694, 1730 and 1831 on the question as to whether the wealthtax paid by the assessee was a permissible deduction under section 10(2) (xv)	Reasoning
o	Reasoning
f the Indian Incometax Act.	Reasoning
On the conclusion of the arguments on that point, this Court found that an additional question arose in civil appeal No. 1784 on the point as to whether the interest payable on loan was part of the actual cost of the assets.	Reasoning
The Constitution Bench after hearing arguments on this additional point for some, time directed that civil appeal No. 1784 along with the connected civil appeal 1785 should be posted for hearing before a Division Bench after pronouncement of judgment in civil appeals Nos. 1694, 1730 and 1831.	Reasoning
The effect of the above order which was made on February 1, 1972 was that the decision in civil appeals Nos. 1694, 1730 and 1831 on the point as to whether the wealthtax paid by the assessee was a permissible deduction, was also to be the decision in civil appeal No. 1784.	Reasoning
After the judgments of the Constitution Bench in civil appeals Nos. 1694, 1730 and 1831 on March 29, 1972 the question as to whether the wealthtax paid by the assessee was a permissible deduction under section 10(2)(xv) of the Act no longer remained subject of controversy in civil appeal No. 1784 as the decision on that point in the three appeals was also to govern the decision in appeal No. 1784.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that civil appeal No. 1784 was not disposed of before July 15, 1972 but that fact would not prevent the case of the assessee in that appeal being covered by section 5 of.	Reasoning
the amending Act.	Reasoning
What is necessary to at tract that section is that this Court should have held before July 15, 1972 on an appeal in respect of an assessment of the assessee for any particular assessment year that the wealthtax paid by the assessee is deductible in computing the total income of that at year.	Reasoning
Once that is the effect of a decision given by this Court fore July 15, 1972 the fact that the judgment in which the above finding is recorded is given in other appeals, which are heard together along with the appeal of the assessee and the further fact that assessees appeal is not disposed of before July 15, 1972 would not take the case of the assessee out of the purview of section 5.	Reasoning
We would, therefore, hold that the case of the assessee in civil appeal No. 1784 is covered by section 5 of the amending Act.33.	None
We, however, make it clear that the benefit of section 5 of the amending Act so far as the second question in civil appeal No. 1784 is concerned would be available only in respect of wealthtax paid and not merely payable.34.	Reasoning
In the light of the above, we dismiss civil appeals No. 1784 and 1785 of 1970.	Decision
We accept civil appeal No. 1353 of 1970 and discharge the answer given by the High Court.	Decision
We answer the aforesaid question in the affirmative in favour of the assessee and against the revenue.	Decision
The assessees shall be entitled to the costs of these appeals.	Decision
One hearing fee in civil appeals No. 1784 and 1785 of 1970.	Decision
