 T. Nanavati, J.	None
In this batch of cases, the question that arises for consideration is whether a Central Excise notification comes into force with effect from the date on which it is printed in the Government Gazette or from the date it is made available to public.	Issue
To illustrate the circumstances in which this question arises, we will state the facts of Civil Appeal No. 4569 of 1989.	Facts
The company involved in this appeal is	Facts
the New Tobacco Co. Ltd.	Facts
It was earlier known as	Facts
Duncan Tobacco Co.	Facts
It is engaged in manufacturing cigarettes.	Facts
Since 1979, it used to pay duty on cigarettes manufactured by it at the rate fixed by Central Excise Notification No. 30/79 dt.	Facts
1st March, 1979, as amended from time to time.	Facts
It was rescinded w.e.f.	Facts
30th November, 1982 by Notification No.	Facts
284/82C dt	Facts
30th	Facts
November, 1982, which prescribed new rates of excise duty.	Facts
Between 30th November, 1982 and 8th December, 1982, the Company cleared 79,456 million cigarettes and paid duty thereon at the rate fixed by the Notification dt.	Facts
1st March, 1979, as it did not know that a new notification was issued on 30th November, 1982.	Facts
As the company had paid duty at a lesser rate, a show cause notice dt.	Facts
22nd	Facts
December, 1982, was issued calling upon the company to show cause why it should not pay the differential amount between the duty shortpaid and the duty which had become payable in terms of the new notification dt.	Facts
30th November, 1982.	Facts
The Asstt.	Facts
Collector by his order dt.	Facts
11th April, 1983, confirmed the said demand.	Facts
The order of the Asstt.	Facts
Collector was upheld by the Collector of Central Excise (A) on 4th October, 1985.	Facts
It then appealed to the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
Only contention pressed by the company therein was that the Notification dt.	Facts
30th November, 1982 was made available to the public on 8th December, 1982 and, therefore, duty at the enhanced rate could be lawfully demanded from it only from 8th December, 1982.	Facts
In support of its contention the company had produced a letter dt.	Facts
2nd August, 1983 obtained by its sisterconcern M s National Tobacco Co. from the Controller of Publications, Department of Publication, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, which stated that Notification No. 284/82 dt.	Facts
30th November, 1982 was placed for sale to the public on 8th December, 1982.	Facts
The Tribunal relying upon the said letter and the decision of the Bombay High Court in GTC Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India 1988(33)ELT83(Bom) held that publication as contemplated by s. 38 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 and r. 8 of the Central Excise Rules, cannot be equated with mere printing and it is the availability of the printed material to the general public that constitutes the required publication.	Facts
Taking this view, it further held that the excess recoveries of duty made during the period from 30th November, 1982 to 3rd December, 1982 cannot be retained by the authorities as the Company was not liable to pay duty at the rate fixed by the Notification dt.	Facts
30th November, 1982 for the said period.	Facts
The Collector of Central Excise has, therefore, filed this appeal under s. 35L(b) of the Act.	Facts
It was contended by the learned counsel for the appellants that the only requirement of s. 38 of the act is that all the rules made and notifications issued under the act shall be published in the official Gazette.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus publication in the official Gazette is the only statutory requirement.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Notification is dt.	Arguments of Petitioner
30th November, 1982 and the Gazette in which it was printed also bears the same date, i.e., 30th November, 1982 and, therefore, that date should be regarded as the date of its publication.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was contended by the learned counsel for the respondents that publication cannot be equated with mere printing and it is the availability of the printed material to the general public that constitutes publication as required by the statute and the rules of natural justice.	Arguments of Respondent
Sec.	Reasoning
38 of the act provides that all the rules made and notifications issued under the act shall be published in the official Gazette.	Reasoning
So, the requirement of s. 38 is publication of the rules and the notifications in the official Gazette.	Reasoning
The dictionary meaning of the word publish as given in Websters Comprehensive Dictionary, International Edition, is (1) To make known or announce publicly promulgate proclaim.	Reasoning
(2) To print and issue to the public.	Reasoning
(3) To communicate to a third person.	Reasoning
According to the Legal Glossary, published by the Legislative Department, Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs, Government of India in 1992, it means to make generally accessible or available to place before or offer to public to bring before the public for sale or distribution.	Reasoning
Thus the word publish connotes not only an act of printing but also further action of issuing or making it available to the public.	None
Notification, according to Websters Third New International Dictionary, inter alia means 1 the act or an instance of notifying intimation, notice, etc. the act of giving official notice or information 2 a written or printed matter that gives notice.	None
The Legal Glossary, referred to above, defines it as a written or printed matter that gives notice.	None
Even if we go by the dictionary meaning, the requirement of publishing the notifications would connote that what is intended to give notice or information to the public can be treated as published only when it is made available to the public so that they can know about it.	Reasoning
The requirement of publishing the notifications in the official Gazette, which is an official journal or a newspaper containing public notices and other prescribed matters, also indicates that the word publish in s. 38 should be so interpreted.	Reasoning
We will now refer to the decisions to which our attention was drawn by the learned counsel.	None
In Haria vs. State of Rajasthan (1952)	None
SCR 110 , the facts were that a Council of Ministers, appointed to look after the Government and Administration of Jaipur State during the Maharajas minority, passed a resolution which purported to enact the Jaipur Opium act and the question which had arisen for consideration of this Court was whether the mere passing of the resolution without promulgation or publication in the Gazette or other means as known to the public was sufficient to make it law.	None
This Court referred to the rule prevailing in this behalf in England that acts of Parliament become law from the first moment of the day on which they received the Royal assent, but the Royal proclamations only when actually published in the official Gazette and cited with approval the decision in Johnson vs. Sargent 1918 (1) KB 101, wherein it was held that the order of the Food Controller did not become operative until it was made known to the public.	None
This Court also noticed that nor is the principle peculiar to England.	None
It was applied to France by the Code Napolean, the first Article of which states that the laws are executory by virtue of the promulgation thereof and that they shall come into effect from the moment at which their promulgation can have been known.	None
It also pointed out that such a rule has been applied in India in for, instance, matters arising under r. 119 of the Defence of India Rules.	None
It then made an important observation that this rule was only an application of a deeper rule which is founded on natural justice.	None
It has further observed that it would be against the principles of natural justice to permit the subjects of a State to be punished or penalised by laws of which they had no knowledge and of which they could not even with the exercise of reasonable diligence have acquired any knowledge.	None
Natural justice requires that before a law can become operative it must be promulgated or published.	None
It must be broadcast in some recognisable way so that all men may know what it is or, at the very least, there must be some special rule or regulation or customary channel by or through which such knowledge can be acquired with the exercise of due and reasonable diligence.	None
The thought that a decision reached in the secret recesses of a chamber to which the public have no access and to which even their accredited representatives have no access and of which they can normally know nothing, can nevertheless affect their lives, liberty and property by the mere passing of a resolution without anything more is abhorrent to civilised man.	None
It shocks his conscience.	None
In the absence, therefore, of any law, rule, regulation or custom, we hold that a law cannot come into being in this way.	None
Promulgation or publication of some reasonable sort is essential.	None
Taking this view, this Court held that a resolution of the Council of Ministers in the Jaipur State without publication was not sufficient to make the law operative.	None
In State of Maharashtra vs. Maver Hans George 19651SCR123 , what had happened was that a German smuggler left Zurich for Manila by a Swiss plane on 27th November, 1962 with 34 kilos of gold.	None
He had not declared it in the manifest for transit.	None
The plane arrived at Bombay on 28th.	None
The passenger had remained in the plane.	None
The customs authorities, on search, recovered the gold carried by him on his person.	None
He was prosecuted for importing gold into India in breach of ss. 8(1) and 23(1A) of the Foreign Exchange Regulation act and the notification dt.	None
8th November, 1962, of the Reserve Bank of India, which was published in the Gazette of India on 24th November.	None
The respondent was convicted by the magistrate but acquitted by the High Court.	None
One of the contentions raised by him was that a notification being merely subordinate and delegated legislation could be deemed to be in force only when it was brought to the notice of the persons affected by it and that as the same was published in the Gazette only on 24th November, 1962 whereas he left Zurich on 27th, he could not have had knowledge about the restrictions imposed by that notification.	None
This Court rejecting that contention held that the notification was published and made known in India by publication in the Gazette and the ignorance of it by the accused who was a foreigner was wholly irrelevant and made no difference to his liability.	None
Relying upon the decision, it was contended by the learned counsel for the respondent that it is the cardinal principle of the criminal jurisprudence that a person should not be convicted for an offence unless the person or persons affected by the prohibition are in a position to observe the law or to promote the observance of the law.	None
The said observation was made by this Court in the context of mens rea being a necessary ingredient of the offence.	None
In that very case this Court has observed that individual service of a general notification on every member of the public is not necessary and all that the subordinate law making authority can or need do, would be to publish it in such a manner that persons can, if they are interested, acquaint themselves with its contents.	None
In State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Ram Ragubir Prasad Agarwal AIR 1979 SC 888 , while interpreting the word publish in s. 3(2) of MP Prathamik, Middle School Tatha Madhyamik Shiksha (Pathya Pustakon Sambandhi Vyavastha)	None
Adhiniyam, this Court observed that in our view, the purpose of s. 3 animates the meaning of the expression publish.	None
Publication is the act of publishing anything offering it to public notice, or rendering it accessible to public scrutiny an advising of the public a making known of something to them for a purpose.	None
Logomachic exercises need not detain us because the obvious legislative object is to ensure that when the Board lays down the syllabi it must publish the same so that when the stage of prescribing textbooks according to such syllabi arrives, both the publishers and the State Government and even the educationists among the public may have some precise conception about the relevant syllabi to enable Government to decide upon suitable textbooks from the private market or compiled under s. 5 by the State Government itself.	None
In our view, therefore, publication to the educational world is the connotation of the expression.	None
Even the student and the teaching community may have to know what the relevant syllabus for a subject is, which means wider publicity than minimal communication to the departmental officialdom.	None
Following this judgment Madras High Court in Asia Tobacco Co. Ltd. vs. Union of India 1985155ITR568(Mad) , held that in such cases the effective date is the date of knowledge and not the date of the official Gazette.	None
The relevant observation made in paragraph 4 of the said judgment are as under The mere printing of the official Gazette containing the relevant notification and without making the same available for circulation and putting it on sale to the public will not amount to the notification within the meaning of r. 8(1) of the Rules.	None
The intendment of the notification in the official Gazette is that in the case of either grant or withdrawal of exemption the public must come to know of the same.	None
Notify even according to ordinary dictionary meaning would be to take note of, observe to make known, publish, proclaim to announce to give notice to to inform.	None
It would be a mockery of the rule to state that it would suffice the purpose of the notification if the notification is merely printed in the Official Gazette, without making the same available for circulation to the public or putting it on sale to the public Neither the date of the notification nor the date of printing, nor the date of Gazette counts for notification within the meaning of the rule, but only the date when the public gets notified in the sense, the concerned Gazette is made available to the public.	None
The date of release of the publication is the decisive date to make the notification effective.	None
Printing of the official Gazette and stacking them without releasing to the public would not amount to notification at all The respondents are taking up a stand that the petitioner is expected to be aware of the Withdrawal Notification and that the words publish in official Gazette and the words put up for sale to public are not synonymous and offering for sale to publish is a subsequent step which cannot be imported into the Act, and the respondents are expressing similar stands.	None
They could not be of any avail at all to the respondents to get out of the legal implications flowing from want of due notification, as exemplified above.	None
Printing the notification in the official Gazette, without making it available for circulation to the concerned public, or placing it for sale to the said public, would certainly not satisfy the idea of notification in the legal sense.	None
The same view was taken by the Bombay High Court in GTC Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India 1987 (13) ECR 1161 and by Delhi High Court in Universal Cans and Containers vs. Union of India 1993	None
(10) ELT 23 (Del).	None
The following observations made in the case of B. K. Srinivasan Ors. vs. State of Karnataka 19871SCR1054 , also support the view that we are taking Whether law is viewed from the standpoint of the conscientious good man seeking to abide by the law or from the standpoint of Justice Holmess unconscientious bad man seeking to avoid the law, law must be known, that is to say, it must be so made it can be known.	Reasoning
Our attention was also drawn to the decisions of this Court in Pankaj Jain Agencies vs. Union of India Ors. 1994ECR28(SC) and ITC Ltd. vs. Collector of Central Excise, Bombay 1996(86)ELT477(SC) but they are not helpful in deciding the question that arises in these cases.	Reasoning
We hold that a Central Excise Notification can be said to have been published, except when it is provided otherwise, when it is so issued as to make it known to the public.	Reasoning
It would be a proper publication if it is published in such a manner that persons can, if they are so interested, acquaint themselves with its contents.	Reasoning
If publication is through a Gazette then mere printing of it in the Gazette would not be enough.	Reasoning
Unless the Gazette containing the notification is made available to the public, the notification cannot be said to have been duly published.	Reasoning
As the view taken by the Tribunal is correct, Civil Appeal No. 4569 of 1989, filed by the Collector of Central Excise, is dismissed with a direction that entitlement of the respondentcompany to the refund shall be determined by the Asstt.	Decision
Collector of Central Excise in accordance with s. 11B of the Central Excise Act.	Decision
Civil Appeal Nos. 45134514 of 1992 are dismissed.	Decision
Civil Appeals Nos. 165861 of 1994 and Civil Appeals Nos. 771921 of 1996 are partly allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgments and orders passed by the High Court are set aside and the Asstt.	Decision
Collector of Central Excise to whom these cases have been remitted for considering the question of refund in the light of s. 11B of the Central Excise act shall decide when the concerned notifications became effective in accordance with the view that we have taken and after giving an opportunity to the respondents to lead evidence in that behalf.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 1729 of 1993 is partly allowed.	Decision
We set aside the order passed by the High Court directing the appellants to refund Rs. 35,57,094.74 and remit the matter on this point to the Asstt.	Decision
Collector of Central Excise to decide the entitlement of the respondent for refund in the light of s. 11B of the Central Excise Act.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 3111 of 1993 is dismissed.	Decision
Civil Appeals Nos. 7684 and 7685 of 1996 and Civil Appeals Nos. 491315 of 1993 are allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgments and orders passed by the High Court are set aside and these matters are remitted to the Asstt.	Decision
Collector of Central Excise for deciding when the concerned notification became effective in accordance with what we have held above and after giving an opportunity to the appellant company to produce evidence in that behalf and also to decide thereafter the question of refund in accordance with s. 11B of the Central Excise Act.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 10001 of 1995 is dismissed.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 5423 of 1993 is partly allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgment of the Tribunal is set aside and the case is now remitted to the Tribunal to decide when the concerned notification had become effective after enabling the parties to lead evidence in that behalf and also to decide the other contentions raised by the respondentcompany and which were left open, if that becomes necessary.	Decision
Civil Appeals Nos. 753435 of 1995 is dismissed as the demand for differential duty was in respect of the goods cleared on 25th March, 1985 only and admittedly the notification in question was not made available on that date till the goods were cleared by the Company.	Decision
In SLP No. C. 19566 of 1994, we grant leave and partly allow this appeal.	Decision
The impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court are set aside and these matters are remitted to the Asstt.	Decision
Collector of Central Excise for deciding when the concerned notification became effective in accordance with what we have held above and after giving an opportunity to the appellant company to produce evidence in that behalf.	Decision
We pass no order as to costs in all these appeals.	Decision
