 B. Sinha, J. These appeals are directed against the Order of a learned Single Judge of the Jharkhand High Court dated 9.7.1999, an Order dated 9.8.1999, Order dated September, 1999, an Order dated 23.9.1999 as also Order of a Division Bench 14.10.1999 passed in LPA No. 415 of 1999 (R) refusing to interfere with the order impugned in the writ petition passed by the learned Single Judge of the said Court allowing the writ petition filed by the respondent.	Issue
The basic fact of the matter is not in dispute.	Facts
Respondent herein has set up a unit for production of smokeless fuel.	Facts
The said Industry was set up by the respondent allegedly on a representation made by the appellant herein by way of an advertisement inviting new entrepreneurs to set up new smokeless fuel units wherefor supply of coal to them was assured, which is to the following effect Say no to Smoke Do you know?	Facts
The smoke emitting from your chullahs is causing serious air Pollution endangering the air that your child breaths.	None
SPECIAL SMOKELESS FUELS (SSF)  an economic substitute for the smokey soft coke and firewood, generates consistent heat thus enconomizing fuel consumption.	None
Its uniform size also ensures convenient storage.	None
Use of SSF will reduce widespread chopping of tree for firewood and present deforestation.	None
Coal India now on a mission to minimize environmental pollution and encourage afore station, invites entrepreneurs to set up new SSF units and expand existing ones.	None
8 SSF units are already on stream.	None
CIL has already cleared linkages for 80 units CIL will soon be finalizing linkages for 25 more units.	None
CIL will provide additional coal requirements for expansion of SSF units and coal linkages for the new entrepreneurs.	None
Write to us through State Sponsored Authorities.	None
For further details contact CMPDIL, Ranchi Technical Cell, Coal India Ltd. 10 Netaji Subhash Road, Calcutta700001, Tel 206312, 207817 Western Coalfields Ltd. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.   Central Coalfields Ltd. Eastern Coalfields Ltd.   South Eastern Coalfields Ltd.	None
North Eastern Coalfields   Respondent applied for grant of linkage facility for obtaining supply of coal in its industrial unit situated in the District of Aurangabad in the State of Bihar.	Facts
It was given coal linkage with the collieries belonging to Bharat Coking Coal Ltd, (BCCL) a subsidiary of Coal India Ltd.	Facts
On or about 17.11.1993 in a meeting wherein the authorities of the Coal India Ltd., a subsidiary of BICICO and the Secretary of the Assessing Manufactures Association participated, it was decided.	None
SOURCE OF COAL LINKAGE It was decided that the linkage of the SSF plants will be reviewed by CIL keeping in view the present availability of coal suitable for SSF production and rationalization of linkage would be considered to the extent possible so that the units get their supplies from the nearest suitable sources containing SSF grade coal.	None
In this connection, BICICO would submit a statement to CIL giving their suggestions for linkage of coal to the new SSF units in Bihar.	None
Respondent applied for transfer of his linkage from BCCL to Central Coalfields Ltd.(CCL) in terms of the said decision taken in the aforementioned meeting dated 17.11.1993, pointing out that construction of the factory was taken up only on the basis of the assurances made by the Coal India Ltd. in that behalf.	Facts
Although, some industries allegedly similarly situated, were given the benefit of transfer of their linkage from BCCL to Central Coalfields Ltd., by the appellant, the request of the respondent was not acceded to despite a No objection to the change given by the CCL.	Facts
Coal India Ltd. referred to the purported policy decision in regard to linkage to the effect that, once it is accorded, the same would be permanent in nature.	Facts
However, temporary transfer of linkage to the extent of 50 of the quantity were given both to the respondent as also one M s. Pushpanjali Coal and Coke.	Facts
Coal India Ltd., however, issued a direction on or about 9.10.1999 that the respondent would be given 50 of its supply for three months from BCCL and 50 from CCL.	Facts
The legality of the said decision was questioned by the respondent in a Writ Petition filed before the High Court of Jharkhand praying therein that the appellant be directed to release full quota of coal by grant of change of linkage from BCCL to CCL.	Facts
Pending Writ Petition, however, CIL granted permanent change of linkage in favour of M s. Pushpanjali Coal and Coke but not to the respondent, despite the fact that CCL had given No Objection to both the units by a common letter dated 17.7.1998.	Facts
The said Writ Petition was allowed by a learned Single Judge of the High Court interalia directing Now the respondent  CIL came out with a case in the counter affidavit that the officers of the CIL in its meeting held on 3.9.98 took a policy decision that linkage once granted, cannot be transferred from one subsidiary to another subsidiary of CIL.	Facts
After going through the entire facts of the case and the documents referred to hereinabove, it is manifest that nonacceptance of the request of the petitioner by CIL is arbitrary and not reasonable particularly when no valid reason has been assigned for not accepting the request of the petitioner, more so, when the case of M s Pushpanjali Coal Coke Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. was considered and his linkage was transferred from BCCL to CCL.	Facts
Nowhere in the counter affidavit the respondentCIL has denied the difficulty that the petitionerunit is facing and will have to face and the loss which the petitionerunit will sustain in procuring coal from BCCL which is far away from the place where the Plant has been established.	Facts
Moreover, after considering the recommendation from the State Government and the BICICO and after obtaining no objection from the C.C.L., there is no reason for the respondents to ignore the request of the petitioner.	Facts
It is well settled that when the industries are established the Central Government or the State Government and its instrumentalities while framing industrial policies and taking policy decisions in the matter in the matter supply of raw materials or granting different incentives, the objective must be to encourage the unit.	Facts
It was directed Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the discussions made hereinabove, this writ application is disposed of with a direction to the authority of the respondentC.I.L. to take a liberal and positive decision in the case of the petitioner also in the light of the direction and observation made above.	Facts
Such decision must be taken within a period of two weeks from the date of receipt production of a copy of this order.	Facts
An application for clarification was filed by the respondent inter alia praying for issuance of a writ of or in the nature of mandamus upon giving a positive direction to the appellant to supply coal to its unit only from the collieries belonging to Central Coalifields Ltd.	Facts
The said application was disposed of by an Order dated 9.8.1999 observing In my opinion, the application filed by the petitioner is misconceived inasmuch as there is sufficient indication in the order that the respondent shall take a positive decision in the light of the fact that in similar circumstances the prayer for transfer of linkage made by M s. Pushpanjali Coal and Coke Pvt. Ltd. has been allowed.	Facts
It is also clear from para.	Facts
5 of the judgment that this Court has held that nonacceptance of the request of the petitioner by C.I.L. is arbitrary and not reasonable.	Facts
In view of the sufficient indication in the order directing the respondents to take positive decision in favour of the petitioner, I am of the view that no further clarification is needed in this order.	Facts
The submission of Mr. Sinha that if the order is not clarified, the respondents  C.I.L. may not take decision in favour of the petitioner, cannot be accepted for the reason that this Court virtually, in the order dated 9.7.99, directed respondents to transfer the linkage as prayed for by the petitioner.	Facts
This application is accordingly, disposed of with the aforesaid observation.	Facts
Application of the respondent, was thus, rejected.	Facts
On the aforementioned premise, a review application was filed by the appellant which was also rejected opining From reading of the entire facts it appears that there are many other considerations for granting linkage of coal to various suppliers which can be brought into light if the entire documents are called for from the C.I.L.	Facts
But, at this stage, I do not want to make a roving enquiry into the matter.	Facts
Suffice it to say that Mr. S.M. Sharma should act fairly so that if anything is brought to the notice of this court in any other case, then he may not be put in trouble.	Facts
Curiously enough the Director of Industries.	Facts
Govt.	Facts
of Bihar, by its letter dated 20.8.99 addressed to the Sales Manager, CIL, informed that temporary registration granted to certain firms have been cancelled but inspite of that respondents have granted linkage to those firms from CCL vide their order dated 25.8.99, a copy of which has been annexed as Annexure 1/A to the rejoinder.	Facts
It is also surprising that the respondents have taken a negative decision and thereby refused to comply the direction of this court merely on the ground that many other consumers will come for such relief.	Facts
In my opinion, that cannot be a ground for disobeying the order and direction passed by this court.	None
However, in view of very fair stand taken by Mr. Banerjee appearing for the respondents that the respondents shall reconsider the case of the petitioner in the light of the judgment dated 9.7.99 and the subsequent order dated 9.8.99 and will take a positive decision, I am disposing of the instant application and its rejoinder by observing that the respondents must comply the order and direction of this court within ten days from the date of receipt of a copy of this order.	Facts
A Letters Patent Appeal was filed there against by the appellant which by reason of the impugned judgment dated 14.10.1999 has been summarily dismissed.	Facts
As no Letters Patent Appeal was filed as against the original order of the learned Single Judge dated 9.7.1999, an application under Article 136 of the Constitution has directly been filed in this Court there against which has been marked as SLP(C)	Facts
No. 17145/2000.	Facts
A Division Bench of this Court while staying the operation of the impugned judgment directed the appellant to consider the case of the respondent in terms of the letter dated 14.2.2000.	Facts
Grievances were raised by the respondent from time to time before the Court that the appellant had not been supplying the requisite quantity of coal to its unit whereupon various orders have been passed whereto we need not refer at this stage.	Facts
Suffice, however, it to notice that some contempt petitions were also filed.	Facts
Another Division Bench of this Court by an Order dated 29.1.2004 observed We have heard the learned counsel for the parties for sometime.	Facts
After some discussion, the learned counsel for the appellants submitted that he may be allowed a reasonable time for having instructions and making a proposal on two points Clearing the arrears of supply of coal to and Rationalising policy as to linkage for future.	Facts
Let a statement in that regard be made on an affidavit under copy to the counsel opposite on or before 24th February, 2004.	None
Response, if any and if needs to be filed in writing may be done on or before 16th March, 2004.	Facts
The above said statement and response shall be treated without prejudice to the rights of either parties.	Facts
List for hearing on 23rd March, 2004.	Facts
When the matter came up for hearing before another Bench of this Court on 17.8.2006, it was directed The respondent (s) herein shall furnish within four weeks from date, bank guarantee and security in regard to the difference in the prices, if any, of coal which had already been supplied to them by the Coal India Ltd. in terms of the directions of this Court in M s. Ashoka Smokeless Coal Industries Pvt.	Facts
Ltd Ors.	Facts
vs. Union of India Ors.	Facts
(SLP(C) No. 20471/2005).	Facts
The appellant shall issue necessary directions to the Central Coalfields Ltd. for supply of coal to the respondents factory from any of the collieries situated within its jurisdiction subject, of course, to the availability as also the guidelines and the circulars issued by the Central Government, if any.	Facts
Only in the event, it is not possible for the CCL to supply coal, offer to supply coal may be made from the collieries belonging to the BCCL.	Facts
Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of this case, we are of the opinion that Union of India should be impleaded as party.	Facts
On an oral prayer made by the learned counsel Mr. Sachthey, Union of India is made a party through the Ministry of Coal.	Facts
Mr. Sachthey assures us that a copy of the paper book of this case shall be handed over to the Central Agency.	Facts
Counter affidavit by the Central Government may be filed within four weeks from date.	Facts
Liberty to mention, if any occasion arises therefor.	None
We would also direct that an officer of the Coal India Ltd. shall visit the factory of the respondent so as to assess the actual present need of coal by it whereupon the difficulties, if any, in making supply thereof from any of the collieries belonging to the Central Coalfields Ltd. may be deliberated upon in a meeting which may be convened by Coal India Ltd. with officer(s) of the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., Cental Coalfields Ltd. and a representative of the respondent (s).	Facts
Put up on 10th October, 2006.	None
On the next date of hearing, an officer of the Coal India Ltd. having full instructions in the matter, and a representative of the respondent shall remain present in Court.	Facts
Pursuant to the said Order, the unit of the respondent had been inspected and a report has been filed with an affidavit affirmed by the General Managers of Coal India Ltd. on 18.10.2006.	Facts
Respondent filed an objection to the said report.	Facts
A rejoinder thereto has also been filed by the appellant herein.	Facts
In the meantime, the question of linkage visvis, the changed policy decision of Coal India Ltd. to sell coal on eauction was considered by a Bench of this Court in M s. Ashoka Smokeless Coal Ind. P. Ltd.	Facts
Ors. v Union of India Ors 2006 (13) SCALE 102 , wherein interalia it was observed Coal being a scarce commodity, its utility for the purpose for which it is needed is essential.	None
Although, technically, in view of the fact that no price is fixed for coal, there may not be any black marketing in the technical sense of the terms but this Court cannot also encourage black marketing in general sense.	Facts
Nobody should be allowed to take undue advantage while dealing with a scarce commodity.	Facts
The very fact that despite best efforts of the Central Government, the coal companies failed to curb the menace of a section of people and to deal in coal excluding other general people therefrom or the linked consumers misusing their position of obtaining allotment of coal either wholly or in part, it is absolutely necessary that some mechanism should be found out for plugging the loopholes.	Facts
The Union of India or the coal companies appear to have lost confidence in the State Governments.	Facts
They had carried out joint inspection and in that process they must have arrived at a satisfaction about the genuineness of the claims of industrial units for which the linkage system was meant for.	Facts
Before us most of the consumers, with a view to obtain supply of coal had filed documents to prove their genuineness.	Facts
The said documents must be scrutinized by the authorities of the coal companies.	Facts
In the event, they have an suspicion, inspection should be carried out by officers appointed by the ChairmancumManaging Director of the concerned company within whose jurisdiction the unit is situated.	Facts
With a view to evolve a viable policy, a committee should be constituted by the Union of India with the Secretary of Coal being the Chairman.	Facts
In such a committee, a technical expert in coal should also be associated as most of the projects involve consumers of coal, particularly manufacturers of hard coke and smokeless fuel.	Facts
In our opinion, it may not be difficult to find out, having regard to the technologies used therein as regards the ratio of the input visvis the output, with a balance and 10 margin.	Facts
On the basis of such finding alone, apart from the requirements of five years, supply should form the basis of MPQ.	Facts
We may, however, hasten to add that the Central Government in collaboration with the coal companies would be at liberty to evolve a policy which would meet the requirements of public interest visvis the interest of consumers of coal.	Facts
They would be entitled to lay down such norms as may be found fit and proper.	Facts
They would be entitled to fix appropriate norms therefor.	Facts
In the event, any industrial unit is found to violate the norms, it should be stringently dealt with.	Facts
It is stated by the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India that pursuant to the said direction, a Committee has been constituted and it is expected that a report would be submitted within a few weeks.	Facts
It is, however, not necessary for us to consider that aspect of the matter.	Facts
Mr. Anip Sachthey, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant interalia would submit that the High Court committed a manifest error in issuing a Writ of Mandamus directing the appellant to transfer the linkage of coal from BCCL to the CCL Drawing our attention to the report of the Committee, it was submitted that keeping in view the shortage of coal faced by Central Coalfields Ltd., such a direction would cause enormous difficulties in working out of the linkage system itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that even on fact, the respondent cannot be said to have a good case as from Bahri, the distance of the collieries belonging to Central Coalfields Ltd. and Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. are almost same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. P.P. Rao, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, submitted In view of the No Objection granted by CCL, it is not now permissible for the appellant to suggest that supply of coal from Central Coalfields Ltd. would cause enormous difficulty to it.	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to the clear representation made by the Coal India Ltd., in its advertisement of 1987 as also the minutes of meeting held on 17.11.1993 pursuant whereto and in furtherance whereof, the appellant altered its position by investing a huge amount by setting up its industry of smokeless fuel, the doctrine of promissory estoppel shall apply in the instant case.	Arguments of Respondent
In the light of the provisional decision taken by CIL in the matter of grant of supply of coal i.e. 50 from BCCL and 50 from CLL, the High Court cannot be said to have exceeded its jurisdiction in directing the appellant to take a final decision in the matter having regard to the immense difficulties which are being faced by the respondent as also the financial implication attaching thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
Appellant being a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India was enjoined with a duty to exercise its jurisdiction in a reasonable manner When an opportunity had been granted to a State to correct an error in the matter of exercise of its discretionary jurisdiction, the High Court in a given case may issue a Writ of Mandamus also.	Arguments of Respondent
In M s. Ashoka Smokeless (supra), this Court has in details discussed the validity or otherwise of the linkage scheme visvis the changed policy decision of the Coal India Ltd. for selling coal on eAuction.	Facts
While arriving at the said decision, this Court has also taken into consideration various aspects of the matter including applicability of the doctrine of promissory estoppel in a case of this nature.	Reasoning
The question, however, is whether in a case of this nature and particularly having regard to the subsequent materials which have been brought on records, the respondent was entitled to the reliefs prayed for by it or not.	Facts
We have noticed hereinbefore the orders passed by the learned Single Judge from time to time.	Facts
Whereas The entitlement of the entrepreneur must be traced to the policy decision of the Coal India Ltd. and the directions issued by the Central Government from time to time in exercise of its power under Clause 6 of the Coal Control Order, 2000, the respondent also was required to make necessary averments therefore in its writ petition as to how it had derived a legal right in regard to transfer of linkage.	Facts
The pleadings of the parties are not before us.	Facts
We have noticed hereinbefore that certain subsequent events have also taken place.	Facts
Even if the respondent becomes entitled to the reliefs prayed for herein, an opportunity in that behalf is required to be given to the appellant also.	Facts
Respondent has raised before us questions of discrimination which is also required to be gone into.	Facts
One of the questions which would thus, arise for consideration would be as to whether the CILs policy decision would be covered by the earlier policy decision having regard to the doctrine promissory estoppel.	Facts
Several other factors as noticed hereinbefore have been brought on record in the light of the inspection report submitted before this Court.	None
It is not possible for us to go into the said question particularly in view of the fact that the pleadings of the parties are not before us.	Facts
We, therefore, are of the opinion that interest of justice shall be sub served if the High Court is directed to consider the matter afresh.	Reasoning
The parties shall be entitled to file additional affidavits in the writ proceeding.	Reasoning
Respondent may in view of the subsequent events amend its writ petition.	Reasoning
In such an event, the High Court would not only consider the matter from the perspective of the original prayer made in the writ petition, but also the reliefs which may be found to be available to the respondent in view of the subsequent events including the Report of the Inspection Committee.	Decision
Till an appropriate order is passed by the High Court, status quo as obtaining today in regard to supply of coal shall continue.	Decision
As the matters are being remitted to the High Court, we do not intend to pass any separate order in the contempt petition.	Reasoning
The appeals, are therefore, allowed and the matter is remitted to the High Court upon setting aside the impugned judgment for consideration of the matter afresh.	None
However, in the facts and circumstances of this case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
