 R. Shah, J. Leave granted.	None
Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment and order dated 08.08.2013 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Chhatisgarh at Bilaspur in Criminal Appeal No. 550 of 2013 and Criminal Reference No. 05 of 2013, by which the Division Bench of the High Court has dismissed the said appeal preferred by the appellantoriginal accused and has confirmed the judgment and order of conviction and death sentence awarded by the learned Trial Court for the offences punishable under Section 302 of the IPC for having killed the three minor children of the complainant Shivlal P.W.18 and also for the offences punishable under Section 364 of the IPC, the original accused has preferred the present appeal.	Issue
As per the case of the prosecution, at 7.00 AM on 11.02.2011, two sons of one Shivlaloriginal complainant Vijay aged about 8 years, Ajay aged about 6 years and Kumari Sakshi aged about 4 years left their home in Darripara to attend the school at Karaihapara and reached the school.	Facts
On the school getting over at 11.30 AM, the three minors left the school for home on foot.	Facts
When they did not reach home, ShivlalP.W.18 looked for the children in the vicinity and went to school and enquired about the children.	Facts
On enquiry at the school, the teachers of the minor children told Shivlal that the three minors had come to the school and on the school getting over they had left the school for home on foot.	Facts
That, thereafter Shivlal and others looked for the three minors.	Facts
On not finding the three minor children, ShivlalP.W.18 went to the police station, Raipur and lodged the Missing Person Report.	Facts
The missing person report was registered in the Daily Journal (Ex. P18) by the Head Constable Krishna Kumar KoshleP.W.17.	Facts
During the search of three minor children, one Ashok PatelP.W.8 stated that he had seen the minor children along with the appellantaccused near the school.	Facts
As per the case of the prosecution, on 11.02.2011, RameshwarP.W.11 contacted the accused on cellphone and talked with him and the accused asked ShivlalP.W.18 how he was feeling when his children are missing.	Facts
According to the prosecution, the accused was working as labourer in the house of Shivlal.	Facts
It was alleged that the wife of the accused, namely Sumrit Bai, eloped with the younger brother of the complainant, namely Shivnath Dhiwar and with the view to take revenge, the appellant abducted the minors and thereafter killed them.	Facts
The FIREx.24 was lodged against the accused initially for the offences under Sections 363 and 364 IPC.	Facts
According to the prosecution, after the FIR was lodged, the accused was contacted on his mobile no. 9179484724.	Facts
The accused received the call and told that he was 60 kms away.	Facts
The Investigating OfficerP.W.24 asked the Head Constable Hemant Aditya, Crime Branch to trace the said mobile number and to tell its location.	Facts
Then the Head Constable Hemant Aditya traced the location of the said mobile and the location was found near Village Lakhram.	Facts
That, thereafter the Investigating team went to the house of one Ashok Kumar MadhukarP.W.13, a relative of the accused.	Facts
Initially, the accused was not in home.	Facts
However, thereafter continuing the search, they again went to the house of the said Ashok Kumar Madhukar.	Facts
According to the case of the prosecution, thereafter the accused was found and brought to the police station.	Facts
He was interrogated in the presence of the witnesses.	Facts
A memorandum of statement Ex.P.2 was recorded under Section 20 of the Evidence Act.	Facts
On the basis of the memorandum Ex.P.2 and at the instance of the accused, in the barren land in Karaihapara in the field of one Damodar Beldar, the dead bodies of the three minors were recovered from the spot of site.	Facts
The Investigating Officer collected the incriminating materials during the course of the investigation.	Facts
The mobile of the accused was also seized.	Facts
The Investigating Officer conducted the Panchnama of the dead bodies of the three minors.	Facts
The dead bodies were sent for postmortem.	Facts
One Dr. A.M. Srivastava P.W.23 conducted the postmortem.	Facts
The cause of death of the three minors was strangulation and the deaths were found to be homicidal.	Facts
During the investigation, the Investigating Officer received the call details Ex.P.30 of the mobile phone of the accused.	Facts
During the investigation, the Investigating Officer recorded the statement of the witnesses, including the statement of the original complainant Shivlal and others.	Facts
That the accused was arrested as per the memorandum dated 13.02.2011.	Facts
After conclusion of the investigation, it was found that the accused had first abducted and thereafter killed the three minors to take the revenge as his wife eloped with the brother of the complainant Shivlal and thereby committing the offences punishable under Section 302 and Section 364 IPC.	Facts
The Investigating Officer filed the chargesheet against the accused for the aforesaid offences.	Facts
The case was committed to the Court of Sessions.	Facts
The accused pleaded not guilty and therefore he came to be tried for the aforesaid offences.	Facts
To prove the charges against the accused, the prosecution examined as many as 24 witnesses as under table 4.1 During the trial, the prosecution brought on record as many as 41 documentary evidences.	Facts
The relevant evidences are as under table 4.2 After closure of the evidence by the prosecution, further statement of the accused under Section 313 CrPC was recorded.	Facts
The case of the accused was of a total denial.	Facts
He did not examine any witness in support of his defence.	Facts
That, thereafter, on appreciation of evidence and giving the fullest opportunity to the accused, the learned Trial Court held the accused guilty for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 364 IPC.	Facts
After considering the aggravating and mitigating circumstances and after having heard the accused on the quantum of sentence, the learned Trial Court awarded the death sentence, which was numbered as Reference No. 05 of 2013 before the High Court.	Facts
Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the judgment and order of conviction passed by the learned Trial Court, the original accused also preferred an appeal before the High Court, being Criminal Appeal No. 550 of 2013.	Facts
Both, the appeal preferred by the accused as well as the reference case were heard together by the High Court.	Facts
By the impugned judgment and order, the High Court has dismissed the appeal preferred by the accused and has confirmed the conviction and the death sentence awarded by the learned Trial Court.	Facts
Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court in dismissing the appeal preferred by the accused and also confirming the death sentence awarded by the learned Trial Court, the original accused has preferred the present appeal.	Facts
Shri Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantoriginal accused has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case both, the learned Trial Court and the High Court have committed grave error in holding the appellantoriginal accused guilty for the offences punishable for the offences under Section 302 and Section 364 IPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.1	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted on behalf of the appellantoriginal accused that both the Courts below ought to have appreciated that there was no eyewitness to the incident and the whole conviction was based on the circumstantial evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that, in a case of circumstantial evidence, unless the entire chain of events is complete, which leads to the only conclusion that it is the accused only who has committed the offence, a person cannot be convicted.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in the present case the prosecution has failed to form a complete chain of circumstances and the instance which leads exclusively to the conclusion that the appellant only was guilty of committing the offence.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.2	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted on behalf of the appellantoriginal accused that both the Courts below have materially erred in holding the appellantoriginal accused guilty for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and Section 364 IPC for having killed the three minor children relying upon the prosecution witnesses, more particularly, P.W.1, P.W.8, P.W.13, P.W.18 and P.W.24 and other eyewitnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.3	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantoriginal accused that the case against the appellant is based on three sets of circumstances (i) last seen evidence (ii) recovery of bodies pursuant to a disclosure memo and (iii) alleged calls made to the appellant during the search for the missing children.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the prosecution has sought to use the calls made to the appellant and the testimony of P.W.13 as an extrajudicial confession made by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that such an extrajudicial concession is not admissible in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.4	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantoriginal accused that to establish and prove the last seen evidence, the prosecution has relied upon the depositions of P.W.1 and P.W.8, whose evidences are full of material contradictions.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that as such both the Courts below have materially erred in heavily relying upon the depositions of P.W.1 and P.W.8, insofar as last seen evidence is concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.5	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantoriginal accused that so far as P.W.1 is concerned, he has specifically stated that he was stating the material evidence for the first time in the court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that though another witness Surya Pratap Dhimar was present with P.W.1 on 11.02.2011, the prosecution had chosen not to examine the said witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that P.W.1 is neither credible nor reliable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that dropping of a cited witness Surya Pratap Dhimar has been unexplained by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that this circumstance will operate as a presumption against the prosecution in terms of Section 114(g) of the Indian Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.6	Arguments of Petitioner
Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the deposition of P.W.8, who is the second last seen witness is concerned, it is submitted that P.W.8 states that he communicated that he has seen the accused with the deceased to P.W.9Imrat Singh Mungi Lal.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that, however, P.W.9 has categorically denied knowing any person named as Ashok, where he resides.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that he has affirmed that he had no conversation with Ashok.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that as per the prosecution P.W.8 communicated his sighting of the missing children to P.W.18 and his friends  P.W.2 and P.W.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that P.W.2 states that they met Ashok Patel at about 6/6.30 pm near Dholpara, but in his cross, has denied knowing Ashok Patel or having any conversation with him.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that P.W.18 claimed that he met P.W.8 near Darriparra prior to meeting P.W.2 and P.W.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that though P.W.3 maintains that he met P.W.8 and Dholpara, the testimony of P.W.18 belies the testimony of P.W.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the testimony of P.W.2, P.W.3 and P.W.18 that they met P.W.8 is belied by P.W.8 himself who has unequivocally affirmed that P.W.18 and his friends did not come to him searching for the children.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore it is not safe to rely the testimony of P.W.8 also.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.7	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantoriginal accused that the prosecution has not proved geographical proximity between the alleged sighting of the appellant and the place of residence of the children their school or the location where the bodies were recovered.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that there is no evidence on record to suggest that the fields where the bodies were found were in the same direction as the children were walking when they had been allegedly sighted.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.8	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that furthermore the medical evidence concludes that the time of death of the children was between 12 noon on 11.02.2011 and midnight of the intervening night of 11/12.02.2011.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore an alleged sighting in the beginning of this period is not proximate to the time of death.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that even the missing person complaint dated 11.02.2011 does not refer to last seen evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that it was entered on the Roznamcha at 9.40 am on 12.02.2011.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the Roznamcha is silent on the suspicion of kidnapping by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that neither the complaint nor the Roznamcha contain any last seen evidence or evidence with respect to the alleged calls between the appellant and P.W.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the FIR that is lodged on 12.02.2011 at 11.40 pm has a mention of P.W.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore the last seen evidence of P.W.8 is recorded for the first time only on the intervening of 1213.02.2011, which is also the time of the appellants arrest.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that it is the settled law that the circumstance of last seen together cannot by itself form the basis of conviction and can only be an incriminating circumstance.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support thereof, the learned counsel for the appellant has relied upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Digamber Vaishnav v. State of Chhattisgarh (2019) 4 SCC 522 , Anjan Kumar Sarma v. State of Assam (2017) 14 SCC 359 and Ganpat Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2017) 16 SCC 353 .	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in light of the principles stated in the aforesaid decisions, the testimony of P.W.8 does not inspire confidence and cannot be relied upon as last seen evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.9	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that another circumstances considered by the Courts below against the appellant is the calls and extra judicial confession.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.10	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the evidence against the appellant refers to two calls involving the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first call is between the appellant and P.W.11 and the second call is between the appellant and P.W.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that with respect to P.W.11s call, P.W.11 categorically states that the call was on 12.02.2011 at night which is when the appellant was in the custody of the police.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that he further improved his version when he was re examined by the Trial Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that neither P.W.2 nor P.W.18 has testified to this call.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that neither the fact nor the contents of this call were put to the appellant during his examination under Section 313 Cr.	Arguments of Petitioner
P.C. 5.11	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the prosecution has relied upon the extracts of the appellants CDREx.	Arguments of Petitioner
P30 (Call Details Report), which does not contain any call made or received on 12.02.2011.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that even otherwise the production of CDR is through the Investigating Officer who in turn receives it from the Head Constable Hemant Aditya.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that there is no material on record to show the manner in which the CDR was obtained.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that even the CDR is not accompanied by a certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore the calls call details contained in the CDREx.	Arguments of Petitioner
P30 are neither believable nor has been proved by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.12 It is further submitted that so far as P.W.18 is concerned, he has alleged a call made by him to the appellant on 11.2.2011.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the said call has not been corroborated by any other witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that even it does not find mention in the complaint, Roznamcha or the FIR, which are dated 11.2.2011.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that there remains a discrepancy in P.W.18s version of when he lodged the missing person complaint.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.13	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the prosecution has not seized the phone, SIM card or any material with respect to P.W.18s phone records which would have proved the veracity of P.W.18s statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that even there is no material on record to prove the phone number of P.W.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.14	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that so far as the confession made by P.W.13Ashok Kumar Madhukar is concerned, no other document or witness mentions his presence during the alleged recovery proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the statement made by the appellant do not amount to a confession of the offence as a whole, or of any inculpatory fact.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that since the appellant was in police custody at that time, any confession made by him would be inadmissible in terms of Section 26 of the Evidence Act, irrespective of whom the alleged confession was made to.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore both, the Trial Court and the High Court have materially erred in convicting the appellant on the basis of such call details and or the alleged confessions made to the respective witnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now, so far as the conviction based upon the recovery of dead bodies of the deceased minors is concerned, it is submitted that the said recovery was made from an open area that had been searched previously.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that as per the settled preposition of law the recovery made from an open place, accessible to all and which is not in the exclusive knowledge of the accused cannot be the basis of conviction.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore the recovery of the bodies at the instance of the appellant is full of suspicion.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.1	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that neither PW.7 nor P.W.22 who are the independent witnesses to the disclosure memorandum and all other documents relating to recovery proceedings on the intervening night of 11.01.2011 and 12.1.2011, lend support to the recovery.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that P.W.7 has specifically stated that he signed on blank papers on the asking of the police and that he did not know about the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that he has further stated that the documents were not read over to him by the police and that no notice summons were given by the police to remain present for seizures.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.2	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that P.W.22 also does not remember the date on which the alleged events took place.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.3	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that all recovery related proceedings are antedated and the same is proved from the evidence of P.W.22 himself.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that P.W.22 states that the interrogation of accused continued till 9.00 pm on 12.02.2011 and that they went to the field at 10.3011.00 pm.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that even P.W.18 and P.W.22 testify that all documentation with respect to the recovery was done the next day at 9.00 pm.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that even there is a discrepancy with respect to the time and place of arrest of the appellant which renders the recovery doubtful.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore on the basis of the alleged recovery, the appellant could not have been convicted.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.4	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that even the recovery cannot be said to be voluntary as the appellant was detained in custody without any formal arrest.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.5	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that even the medical and forensic examination does not support the recovery.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the postmortem reports of the victims indicate the presence of incised wounds on the bodies caused by a hard and sharp blunt object.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that, however, no such weapon was recovered at the instance of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the prosecution has not put forth any evidence to show how such wounds were caused by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that there are so many lacunas at the time of the alleged recovery at the instance of the appellant, which creates a serious doubt on the credibility of the recovery.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that therefore it is not safe to convict the appellant on the basis of such recovery.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that the Courts below have committed grave error in convicting the appellant solely based on (i) last seen evidence (ii) recovery of bodies pursuant to a disclosure memo and (iii) alleged calls made to the appellant during the search for the missing children and the socalled extrajudicial confession made by the appellant, more particularly, when it is a case of circumstantial evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in a case of circumstantial evidence, even if one link is missing and the chain is not complete which leads to the only conclusion that it is the appellantaccused alone who has committed the offence, the appellant could not have been convicted.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.1	Arguments of Petitioner
Now, so far as the judgment and order passed by the learned Trial Court awarding the death sentence and confirmed by the High Court is concerned, it is submitted that both the Courts below have not appreciated and or considered the mitigating and aggravating factors while awarding the death sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that even the learned Trial Court imposed the death penalty award of sentence on the same day on which the appellant was convicted.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that after the decision relating to his conviction was given, the learned Trial Court held the hearing of the sentence on the same day when the conviction was recorded i.e. 04.05.2013, thereby violating the right of the accused to be given ample opportunity to adduce the evidence of mitigation and to be heard on the question of quantum of sentence as provided under Section 235(2) Cr.	Arguments of Petitioner
P.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that it has been consistently held by this Court that sufficient time must be given to the accused on the question of sentence, to show the grounds on which he may show that sentence of life imprisonment may be awarded and not the death penalty.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support thereof, the learned counsel for the appellant has relied upon a recent judgment of this Court in the case of Chhannu Lal Verma v. State of Chhattisgarh (2019) 12 SCC 438 .	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the absence of providing a separate hearing for sentence vitiates the sentencing process.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that under these circumstances this Court has previously commuted the sentence of death to one of imprisonment for life.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support, reliance has been placed upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Santa Singh v. State of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 190 , Rajesh Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2011) 13 SCC 706 and Ajay Pandit Jagdish v. State of Maharashtra (2012) 8 SCC 43 .	Arguments of Petitioner
7.2	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that even otherwise the death sentence awarded by the learned Trial Court and affirmed by the High Court is not sustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the learned Trial Court has solely looked to the brutality of the crime to impose the death penalty.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that this Court has rejected the contention that the death penalty can be imposed on the basis of the crime alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that consideration of the brutality or the circumstances surrounding the crime alone renders meaningless the objective of the sentencing exercise envisaged in death penalty cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has been placed upon the case of Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 .	Arguments of Petitioner
7.3	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that so far as the High Court is concerned, the High Court has also committed a grave error in confirming the death sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the High Court has not properly appreciated the mitigating circumstances, such as the fact that the accused can be rehabilitated in the society and is capable of being reformed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that as held by this Court in the case of Ajay Pandit (supra), there is a duty on the High Court to elicit the relevant facts while considering mitigating circumstances and awarding sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.4	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that both the Courts below have not appreciated and considered the fact that there was no criminal antecedents.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the High Court has also not considered the fact that there is a possibility of the appellant being reformed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that at the time when the alleged offence was committed, the appellant was of a young age of 28 years.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the young age of the appellant at the time of commission of the offence has not been considered as the relevant mitigating circumstance by the learned Trial Court as well as the High Court, which ought to have been considered, as held by this Court in the cases of Gurvail Singh v. State of Punjab (2013) 2 SCC 713 and Amit v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2012) 4 SCC 107 .	Arguments of Petitioner
7.5	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that even otherwise in a case of circumstantial evidence, as held by this Court in the case of Kalu Ram v. State of Rajasthan 2015) 16 SCC 492, the doctrine of prudence requires that a sentence of life be imposed, and ordinarily death penalty should not be awarded.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that this Court in several judgments has commuted the death sentence based on the doctrine of residual doubt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed on the decisions of this Court in the cases of Sudam v. State of Maharashtra (2019) 9 SCC 388 and Baba Vishwakarma v. State of M.P. (2019) 9 SCC 689 .	Arguments of Petitioner
7.6	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that even the conduct of the appellant in the prison is very good, which is also a relevant consideration to commute the death sentence to that of the life imprisonment.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.7	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the emotional disturbance of the appellant at the time of the offence is a relevant consideration not to award the death sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that at the relevant time the appellant was emotionally disturbed due to the elopement of his wife with the uncle of the deceased minors.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the appellants acts were not the product of a long period of cold blooded planning, but were instead actions committed during a period of extreme emotional turmoil and disturbance after he had come back from Chandigarh to Darripara after trying to find out his wife.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the aforesaid aspect has not been considered by the Courts below.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.8	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that, unfortunately, subsequently the wife of the appellant has died and the liability to maintain the children was is upon his old aged mother.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the appellants mother is no longer capable of working and the entire family survives on Rs.300/ of oldage pension that she receives.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the daughter of the appellant was forced to drop the school after class IX due to poverty.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that his one daughter is married and the appellant has another daughter Sanjana aged about 16 years.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that if the death sentence of the appellant is converted to life, in that case, the appellant would be in a position to work in the jail and earn something which would be helpful to his mother and daughter.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that while the death sentence is continued, the appellant would not be in a position to do any work in Jail.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.9 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has further submitted that in many cases this Court has commuted the death sentence imposed for heinous crimes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Shaikh Ayub v. State of Maharashtra (1998) 9 SCC 521 , Allaudin Mian v. State of Bihar (1989) 3 SCC 5 , Dharmedrasinh v. State of Gujarat (2002) 4 SCC 679 , Nemu Ram Bora v. State of Assam Nagaland (1975) 1 SC 318, Rajesh Kumar (supra) and Brajendra Singh v. State of M.P. (2012) 4 SCC 289 .	Arguments of Petitioner
7.10 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and acquit the appellantaccused for the offences for which he was tired.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, it is prayed to convert the death sentence into the life imprisonment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Pranav Sachdeva, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent State.	Arguments of Respondent
8.1	None
It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that in the facts and circumstances of the case both, the learned Trial Court and the High Court have rightly convicted the accused for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC for having killed the three minor children of the complainant and both the Courts below have rightly awarded the death sentence.	Arguments of Respondent
8.2	None
It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that the impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court is a wellreasoned and has been passed after hearing the parties and considering the entire facts and circumstances and therefore the same is not required to be interfered with by this Court in exercise of powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	None
8.3	None
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that though the present case is based on circumstantial evidence, however, the prosecution has been successful in completing the chain of events which lead to the only conclusion that it is the accused alone who had killed the three innocent children.	Arguments of Respondent
8.4	None
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that in the present case the prosecution has been successful in proving the motive for the accused to take revenge and killing three minor children of the complainant ShivlalP.W.18.	None
8.5	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that thereafter the prosecution has been successful in establishing and proving that the accused was last seen together with the three minor children whose dead bodies were found subsequently at the instance of the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
8.6	None
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that there are three relevant and material circumstances against the accused, namely, (i) last seen evidence (ii) recovery of dead bodies pursuant to a disclosure memorandum at the instance of the accused and (iii) call details made to the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that therefore the aforesaid three sets of circumstances are proved by the prosecution against the accused by examining P.W.1, P.W.8, P.W.13, P.W.16, P.W.18 and P.W.24.	Arguments of Respondent
8.7 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that by examining P.W.2, P.W.5 and P.W.10 the prosecution has been successful in proving that all the three deceasedthree minor children had gone to the school on that day and thereafter after the school was over, they left the school together for home.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the same is supported by the relevant documentary evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
8.8	None
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that the minor children were last seen together with the accused, has been established and proved by the prosecution by examining P.W.1 and P.W.8.	Arguments of Respondent
8.9	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the dead bodies of minors Ajay, Vijay and Kumari Sakshi were recovered on the basis of the disclosure memorandum Ex.P2.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that Ex.P2 and the recovery of the dead bodies at the instance of the accused has been established and proved by the prosecution beyond doubt, more particularly, by examining P.W.7, P.W.22 and P.W.24.	Arguments of Respondent
8.10	None
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that during the course of the investigation there were phone calls with the accused and the conversation has been established and proved by ExP30 Phone Call Details.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the same have not been explained by the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
8.11 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentState that in the present case even the conduct on the part of the accused, more particularly, his absence from the date of missing of the minor children till he was arrested from the house of witness Ashok Kumar MadhukarP.W.13 is a relevant factor.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the accused has failed to explain his absence from the village and from his house.	None
8.12 It is submitted that in fact the accused was found in the house of his relative Ashok Kumar MadhukarP.W.13.	Reasoning
It is submitted that therefore it is established and proved that after committing the offence the accused had taken the shelter in the house of his relative Ashok Kumar MadhukarP.W.13.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that even there was an extrajudicial confession by the accused before Ashok Kumar MadhukarP.W.13 which has been established and proved from the deposition of Ashok Kumar MadhukarP.W.13.	Arguments of Respondent
8.13	None
It is further submitted that the death of the three minors was homicidal deaths, which has been established and proved by examining the doctors who conducted the postmortem.	Arguments of Respondent
8.14	None
It is submitted that therefore the prosecution has been successful in completing the chain of events.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that therefore both the Courts below have rightly convicted the accused for having killed the three minor children.	Arguments of Respondent
Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the accused that there are material contradictions in the depositions of P.W.1, P.W.8, P.W.18 and other witnesses is concerned, it is submitted by the learned counsel for the respondentState that the alleged contradictions do not affect the case of the prosecution.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the aforesaid contradictions cannot be said to be the material contradictions for which the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that most of the witnesses are consistent with their statements under Section 161 Cr.	Arguments of Respondent
P.C. recorded by the Investigating Officer during the investigation.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that there are no much improvements.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the respondent State that the socalled alleged contradictions in any way do not affect the case of the prosecution and the material evidence with respect to the last seen evidence recovery of the dead bodies as per the disclosure memorandum at the instance of the accused and the phone call details with the accused and even the motive for the accused to commit the offence.	Arguments of Respondent
Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the accused that the incriminating circumstances against the accused from the deposition of P.W.1 has not been put to the accused while recording his statement under Section 313 Cr.	Arguments of Respondent
P.C. is concerned, it is submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the respondent State that, as such, the said irregularity shall not affect the ultimate case against the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that in any case the case of the accused in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. is that of total denial.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that on the aforesaid ground the accused cannot be acquitted.	Arguments of Respondent
Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the accused that sufficient opportunity was not given to the accused on the sentence inasmuch as the accused was heard on the sentence on the very same day he was convicted is concerned, it is submitted that on the aforesaid ground the judgment and order passed by the learned Trial Court on sentence and confirmed by the High Court is not required to be interfered with.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that after the accused was held guilty, fullest opportunity was given to the accused on sentence.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that elaborate submissions were made by the learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the accused on sentence and even on the death sentence also.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that therefore as such no prejudice has been caused to the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the accused not to confirm the death sentence and to convert the death sentence into the life imprisonment is concerned, it is submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the respondentState that on striking the balance between the aggravating circumstances and the mitigating circumstances and considering the fact that the accused killed the three minor children after abducting them, no sympathy should be shown to such an accused.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that, therefore, as such this is a fit case to award the death sentence and the case would fall into the rarest of rare cases.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal and confirm the death sentence.	Arguments of Respondent
Heard the learned counsel appearing for the respective parties at length.	None
We have also gone through and considered in detail the Judgment and order passed by the learned Trial Court as well as the impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court convicting and accused for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 364 IPC.	None
We have also gone through and considered in detail the evidence on record  both oral and documentary.	None
13.1	None
The appellantaccused has been held guilty for having committed the murder killing of three minor children aged about 8 years, 6 years and 4 years respectively and has been convicted by both the Courts below for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 364 IPC.	Reasoning
The learned Trial Court, after having held the appellantaccused guilty for the aforesaid offences, has imposed the death sentence, which has been confirmed by the High Court by the impugned judgment and order.	Reasoning
We are conscious of the fact that it is a case of circumstantial evidence and therefore before convicting the accused on the basis of circumstantial evidence, the prosecution has to prove beyond doubt and complete the chain of events which lead to the conclusion that it is the accused alone who has committed the offence.	Reasoning
Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, it is required to be considered whether the prosecution has been successful in establishing the complete chain of events which lead to the conclusion that it is the appellantaccused alone who has committed the offence?	Issue
Having gone through the impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court as well as the judgment and order of conviction passed by the learned Trial Court and the case of the prosecution, the appellantaccused has been convicted mainly based on three sets of circumstances (i) last seen evidence (ii) recovery of bodies pursuant to a disclosure memo and (iii) alleged calls made to the appellant during the search for the missing children.	Reasoning
Before considering the submissions made on behalf of the accused, few findings recorded by the learned Trial Court and confirmed by the High Court, are required to be first referred to.	None
The prosecution has been successful in establishing and proving that the accused was having enmity with Shivlalfather of the three deceased minor children.	None
The same has been established and proved by the prosecution by examining ShivlalP.W.18, Manisha P.W.20 and RameshwarP.W.11.	Reasoning
The prosecution has been successful in proving that on 11.02.2011 all the minors deceased Ajay, Vijay and Kumari Sakshi went to the school from their house.	Reasoning
The prosecution has also been successful in establishing and proving that on 11.02.2011 at about 11.30 hours the deceased minors left for home on foot that the minors did not return to their home.	Reasoning
On 11.02.2011 at about 12.00 noon 1.00 pm, the deceased were seen going with the accused in school uniform with their school bags.	Reasoning
Therefore, the accused was last seen together with the deceased minors.	Reasoning
That, after the incident, the accused was not found at his house and was missing even from the village.	Reasoning
During the search by ShivlalP.W.18 and others and after the accused was not found in the village, there were phone calls on the mobile of the accused.	Reasoning
That, thereafter, the accused was found from the house of his relative Ashok Kumar MadhukarP.W.13.	Reasoning
Immediately after his arrest, the dead bodies were recovered found along with the school bags etc. from the place shown by the accused himself.	Reasoning
The aforesaid are the chain of events which led to the conclusion that the accused first kidnapped the three minor children and thereafter killed all of them.	Reasoning
The phonecalls made to the accused has been established and proved by the prosecution by examining the Investigating Officer and by producing the call details from the mobile company as Ex.P.30.	Reasoning
Now, so far as the evidence of the accused having last seen together with the deceased is concerned, the prosecution has heavily relied upon the depositions of P.W.1 and P.W.8.	Reasoning
So far as the reliance placed upon the deposition of P.W.1 is concerned, it is the case on behalf of the accused that while recording his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C., the incriminating material on the basis of the deposition of P.W.1 that he saw the accused with the deceased minors at around 1.00 pm on the afternoon of 11.02.2011, was not put to him and therefore, to that extent, the deposition of P.W.1 cannot be relied upon.	Reasoning
However, it is required to be noted that while recording the statement of the accused under Section 313 Cr.PC., the deposition of P.W.1 was specifically referred to.	Reasoning
Therefore, not asking a specific question arising out of the deposition of P.W.1, in the facts and circumstances of the case, cannot be said to be fatal to the case of the prosecution.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the accused was last seen together with the deceased minors has been established and proved by the prosecution by examining P.W.8Ashok Patel.	Reasoning
P.W.8Ashok Patel in his deposition has specifically stated that he saw the accused with all the three minors deceased at around 12.00 hours on 11.02.2011.	Reasoning
He has identified recognized the accused present in the court.	Reasoning
He has also stated that he knew the complainant Shivlal and he recognized all the three minor children of Shivlal.	Reasoning
The said witness has been thoroughly crossexamined by the defence.	Reasoning
However, from the crossexamination, the defence has failed to make out any case which may doubt either the credibility and or what the said witness has stated in his examinationinchief.	Reasoning
He is an independent witness on the evidence of last seen together.	Reasoning
We see no reason to doubt the same.	Reasoning
There may be some contradictions, but according to us, those contradictions are not material contradictions, which may doubt the credibility of the said witness and or may be fatal to the case of the prosecution.	Reasoning
Thus, the prosecution has been successful in establishing and proving that the accused was last seen together with all the three minor children at about 12.00 noon on 11.02.2011 after they left the school.	Reasoning
17.1	None
At this stage, it is required to be noted that the prosecution has proved beyond doubt that all the three minors went to the school in the morning of 11.02.2011 and thereafter they left for the home at about 11.30 hours.	None
That, thereafter, at about 12.00 hours, the accused was seen with all the three minor children.	Reasoning
At this stage, it is required to be noted that after Ashok Patel disclosed to ShivlalP.W.18 and others that he had seen the accused with the three minor children on 11.02.2011 at about 11.30 hours, the name of the accused was specifically mentioned in the missing report given by Shivlal on 11.02.2011 and the same was also mentioned in the FIR.	Reasoning
In the FIR, it was specifically mentioned that during the investigation of missing person No. 3/11, he had enquired the complainant and Ashok Patel and Ashok Patel told that he saw the minor children with the accused.	Reasoning
Thus, considering the entire evidence on record, we see no reason to doubt the credibility of P.W.8Ashok Patel.	Reasoning
He is an independent witness and no malafides are alleged against him on behalf of the accused.	None
Now, the next important evidence against the accused is the recovery of dead bodies which were found from the places shown by the accused after his arrest.	None
During the course of the investigation, the dead bodies were found from the places shown by the accused, the places which the accused alone could have known.	None
Therefore, there is a recovery of the dead bodies along with the school dress and bags at the instance of the accused.	None
It has been established and proved from the disclosure memo.	Reasoning
The disclosure memo has been exhibited.	Reasoning
Therefore, the aforesaid circumstance definitely goes against the accused.	None
One another circumstance which goes against the accused is that after the incident of missing of three minor children, the accused was not found in his house and even in the village.	None
He was contacted on his mobile phone.	None
Initially when he was tried to be contacted, his mobile phone was found switchedoff.	None
However, thereafter, he could be contacted on mobile when Rameshwar P.W.11 phoned the accused Manoj on 12.2.2011 at about 11.00 p.m.	None
As per the said witness, at about 11.00 p.m. he phoned the accused Manoj and asked him Where are you and the accused told that he is present in his house.	None
According to the said witness, the accused also told when he was asked whether any information about the whereabout of Shivlals children was received, initially the accused replied that he do not know.	None
But, thereafter, he told that When my children are crying Guddu Shivlal was enjoying, now when his children are missing how is he feeling.	None
19.1	None
However, it is required to be noted that the accused was not present in his house at all.	None
From the evidence on record, it appears that the concerned witnesses Shivlal and others found that the accused Manoj was not in his house.	Reasoning
Phone calls made at 11.00 pm on the mobile of the accused in the night of 11.02.2011 has been established and proved by the prosecution by producing the call details from the mobile company (produced as Ex.P.30).	Reasoning
The accused has failed to give any explanation on the same in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C.	Reasoning
Nonexamination of the officer of the mobile company cannot be said to be fatal to the case of the prosecution, more particularly, when the CDR has been got exhibited, through the deposition of the Investigating Officer and when the same was exhibited, no objection was raised on behalf of the defence.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, it is required to be noted that the mobile SIM No. 9179484724 was seized from the accused at the time of his arrest and which is proved as per the seizure memo.	Reasoning
Therefore, the prosecution has proved that the mobile SIM No. 9179484724 belonged to the accused.	None
One other important evidence against the accused is the deposition of P.W.13Ashok Kumar Madhukar.	None
The accused was found hiding in the house of said Ashok Kumar Madhukar situated at village Lakharam which is 56 kilometers away.	None
It is true that the said witness has turned hostile.	None
However, in the cross examination by the prosecution, P.W. 13 has specifically stated that the accused Manoj told him that the children of Shivlal had gone missing and Shivlal has lodged a report against him and the police is looking for him.	None
He has specifically stated in the cross examination that he engaged the accused Manoj in conversation and thereafter the police came and took Manoj after arresting him.	None
Therefore, the fact that the accused was found from the house of said Ashok Kumar Madhukar from village Lakharam has been established and proved, despite the said Ashok Kumar Madhukar has turned hostile.	None
As per the settled proposition of law, even the deposition of the hostile witness to the extent it supports the case of the prosecution can be relied upon.	None
The accused has failed to explain his conduct in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. about his missing from the house and even the village after the incident of kidnapping.	None
He has also failed to explain the reason why he was found from the house of Ashok Kumar Madhukar.	None
It may be that there is some doubt created by the defence about the place where the accused was arrested.	None
However, the fact remains that the accused was arrested from village Lakharam on 13.02.2011.	None
According to the defence, the accsued was arrested on 12.02.2011 evening.	None
But the same is not established and proved from the evidence.	None
On the contrary, as per the deposition of Ashok Kumar Madhukar, he was arrested on 13.02.2011.	None
Even as per the arrest memo, the accused was arrested on 13.02.2011.	None
Immediately thereafter, during the course of the investigation and as per the disclosure memo, the dead bodies of the deceased minor children were recovered at the instance of the accused.	None
Therefore, as such, the chain of events established and proved by the prosecution as under That all the three minor children went to the school in the morning of 11.02.2011 That all three minor children left the school at about 11.30 a.m. on 11.02.2011 That the accused was last seen together with the deceased minors at about 12.00 hours 1.00 p.m. on 11.02.2011 That there was a prior enmity between the accused and the complainant Shivlalfather of the deceased minor children as the wife of the accused ran away with the brother of Shivlal and that the children of the accused were without their mother and therefore he took the revenge how Shivlal would feel if his children are missing That the accused was missing from his house and even the village from the time of the incident of kidnapping There were phone calls with the accused on his mobile no. 9179484724 on the night of 11.02.2011 That he was hiding in the house of Ashok Kumar Madhukar and he was arrested from village Lakharam from the house of Ashok Kumar Madhukar on 13.02.2011 and or at least from Village Lakharam Recovery of dead bodies of the minor children from the place shown by the accused, which are recovered from the place places for which the accused alone could have the knowledge and That the death of the minors were homicidal death.	None
As per the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused, there are contradictions in the depositions of various witnesses, more particularly, P.W.1 and P.W.8 having told that they had seen the accused with the minor children on 11.02.2011 and even with respect to the telephonic calls and having talked with the accused after 11.02.2011.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, having considered the socalled contradictions pointed out by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused and other evidences, we are of the opinion that those contradictions are not material contradictions which may ultimately affect the case of the prosecution as a whole.	None
The minor discrepancies and inconsistencies in the statements of the prosecution witnesses and the minor lacuna in the investigation led by the police cannot be a reason for discarding the entire prosecution case, if the evidence is otherwise sufficient and inspiring to bring home the guilt of the accused.	Reasoning
As observed by this Court in the case of Leema Ram v. State of Haryana AIR 1999 SC 3717 , there are bound to be some discrepancies between the narrations of different witnesses, when they speak on details, and unless the contradictions are of a material dimension, the same should not be used to jettison the evidence in its entirety.	Reasoning
It is further observed that corroboration of evidence with mathematical niceties cannot be expected in criminal cases.	Reasoning
Minor embellishment, there may be, but variations by reason therefore should not render the evidence unbelievable.	Reasoning
Trivial discrepancies ought not to obliterate an otherwise acceptable evidence.	Reasoning
The Court shall have to bear in mind that different witnesses react differently under different situations whereas some become speechless some start wailing while some others run away from the scene and yet there are some who may come forward with courage, conviction and belief that the wrong should be remedied.	Reasoning
So it depends upon individuals and individuals.	Reasoning
There cannot be any set pattern or uniform rule of human reaction and to discard a piece of evidence on the ground of his reaction not falling within a set pattern is unproductive.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are of the opinion that the socalled minor discrepancies contradictions do not ultimately affect the case of the prosecution.	Reasoning
The benefit of such minor discrepancies contradictions should not go to the accused, more particularly, when from the other evidences on record the guilt of the accused has been established and proved.	Reasoning
Thus, for the reasons sated above, we are of the opinion that the High Court has not committed any error in upholding the conviction of the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 364 IPC.	Reasoning
We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the learned Trial Court as well as the High Court in so far as convicting the accused for the offences punishable under Section 302 and 364 IPC for having killed three minor children aged about 8 years, 6 years and 4 years respectively.	Reasoning
Now, so far as the capital punishment imposed by the learned Trial Court and confirmed by the High Court is concerned, it is the case on behalf of the appellantaccused that as the learned Trial Court heard the accused on sentence the very same day on which the conviction was recorded and as such an error has been committed by the learned Trial Court and therefore it vitiates the award of sentence, reliance has been placed upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Santa Singh (supra), Allaudin Mian (supra), Rajesh Kumar (supra), Ajay Pandit Jagdish (supra) and a recent decision of this Court in Chhannu Lal Verma (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
While considering the aforesaid submissions, the object of Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. is required to be considered.	None
The object and purpose of Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. is that the accused must be given an opportunity to make a representation against the sentence to be imposed on him.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 235 satisfies a dual purpose it satisfies the rule of natural justice by affording to the accused an opportunity of being heard on the question of sentence and at the same time helps the court to choose the sentence to be awarded.	None
So, what is required to be considered is whether at the time of awarding of sentence, sufficient and proper opportunity has been given to the accused or not and when the capital punishment is awarded, whether the accused has been given the opportunity to point out the aggravating and mitigating circumstances or not?	None
An identical question came to be considered by this Court in a recent decision of this Court in the case of Accused X v. State of Maharashtra in Review Petition (Criminal) No. 301 of 2008 in Criminal Appeal No. 680 of 2007 dated 12.04.2019.	None
Before this Court the very decisions on which the reliance has been placed now by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused, which are referred to hereinabove, were pressed into service.	None
This Court had the occasion to consider the very submissions made on behalf of the accused, more particularly, the conviction and the sentence on the very day on which the conviction was recorded.	None
In paragraphs 29 to 34, this Court has observed and held as under Two recent three Judge Bench decisions of this Court on this aspect merit our consideration.	None
Firstly, in the decision dated 28.11.2018 in Chhannu Lal Verma v. State of Chhattisgarh (Criminal Appeal Nos. 14821483 of 2018), this Court observed that not having a separate hearing at the stage of trial was a procedural impropriety.	None
Noting that a bifurcated hearing for conviction and sentencing was a necessary condition laid down in Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar, (2009) 6 SCC 498 , the Court held that by conducting the hearing for sentencing on the same day, the Trial Court failed to provide necessary time to the appellant therein to furnish evidence relevant to sentencing and mitigation.	None
We find that this cannot be taken to mean that this Court intended to lay down, as a proposition of law, that hearing the accused for sentencing on the same day as for conviction would vitiate the trial.	None
On the contrary, in the said case, it was found on facts that the same was a procedural impropriety because the accused was not given sufficient time to furnish evidence relevant to sentencing and mitigation.	None
Secondly, in the decision dated 12.12.2018 in Rajendra Prahladrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra, (Review Petition (Crl.)	None
Nos. 306307 of 2013), this Court made a general observation that in cases where the death penalty may be awarded, the Trial Court should give an opportunity to the accused after conviction which is adequate for the production of relevant material on the question of the propriety of the death sentence.	None
This is evidently at best directory in nature and cannot be taken to mean that a presentence hearing on a separate date is mandatory.	None
It may also be noted that in the older three Judge Bench decision of this Court in Malkiat Singh Case (1991) 4 SCC 341 , the Court observed that keeping in mind the twoJudge Bench decisions in Allauddin Mian Case (supra) and Auguswamy v. State of Tamil Nadu, (1989) 3 SCC 33 , wherein it had been laid down that a sentence awarded on the same day as the finding of guilt is not in accordance with law, the normal course of action in case of violation of such procedure would be remand for further evidence.	None
However, on a perusal of these two decisions we find that their import has not been correctly appreciated in Malkiat Singh Case (supra), since the observations in Allauddin Mian Case (supra), as relied upon in Anguswamy Case (supra), regarding conduct of hearings on separate dates, were only directory.	None
Be that as it may, it must be noted that the effect of Malkiat Singh Case (supra) has already been considered by this Court in Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra (2017) 6 SCC 631 , wherein it was already noted that the mere nonconduct of the pre sentence hearing on a separate date would not per se vitiate the trial if the accused has been afforded sufficient time to place relevant material on record.	None
It may not be out of context to note that in case the minimum sentence is proposed to be imposed upon the accused, the question of providing an opportunity under Section 235(2) would not arise.	None
(See Tarlok Singh v. State of Punjab, (1977) 3 SCC 218 Ramdeo Chauhan v. State of Assam, (2001) 5 SCC 714 ).	None
There cannot be any doubt that at the stage of hearing on sentence, generally, the accused argues based on the mitigating circumstances in his favour for imposition of lesser sentence.	None
On the other hand, the State the complainant would argue based on the aggravating circumstances against the accused to support the contention relating to imposition of higher sentence.	None
The object of Section 235 (2) of the Cr.P.C is to provide an opportunity for accused to adduce mitigating circumstances.	None
This does not mean, however, that the Trial Court can fulfill the requirements of Section 235(2) of the Cr.P.C.	None
only by adjourning the matter for one or two days to hear the parties on sentence.	None
If the accused is ready to submit his arguments on this aspect on the very day of pronouncement of the judgment of conviction, it is open for the Trial Court to hear the parties on sentence on the same day after passing the judgment of conviction.	None
In a given case, based on facts and circumstances, the Trial Court may choose to hear the parties on the next day or after two days as well.	None
In light of the above discussion, we are of the opinion that as long as the spirit and purpose of Section 235(2) is met, inasmuch as the accused is afforded a real and effective opportunity to plead his case with respect to sentencing, whether simply by way of oral submissions or by also bringing pertinent material on record, there is no bar on the presentencing hearing taking place on the same day as the preconviction hearing.	None
Depending on the facts and circumstances, a separate date may be required for hearing on sentence, but it is equally permissible to argue on the question of sentence on the same day if the parties wish to do so.	None
Thus, there is no absolute proposition of law that in no case there can be conviction and sentence on the same day.	None
There is no absolute proposition of law laid down by this Court in any of the decisions that if the sentence is awarded on the very same day on which the conviction was recorded, the sentencing would be vitiated.	None
23.1	None
So far as the reliance placed upon by the learned counsel appearing on behalf the appellant upon the decision of this Court in the case of Santa Singh (supra) is concerned, on considering the entire judgment and the facts in that case, we are of the opinion that the said decision shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand and or the same shall not be of any assistance to the accused.	None
In that case before this Court, it was found that the learned Trial Court did not give the accused an opportunity to be heard in regard to the sentence to be imposed on him and by one single judgment convicted the accused and also sentenced him to death.	None
23.2	None
Similarly, the decision of this Court in the case of Allaudin Mian (supra) also shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand.	None
In the case before this Court, it was found that the death sentence was imposed by the Trial Court without affording proper opportunity of hearing as contemplated under Section 235(2) Cr.P.C.	Reasoning
No reasons were recorded for awarding the death sentence which as such were mandatory and thereafter on merits this Court found that the death sentence was no warranted.	None
23.3	None
Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions, more particularly, in the case of Accused X (supra) to the facts of the case on hand and on considering the reasoning given by the learned Trial Court as well as the High Court, we are of the opinion that there is sufficient compliance of the provisions of Section 235(2) Cr.	None
P.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Trial Court heard the accused on the aspect of proposition of sentence separately which is clear from paragraphs 76 to 82 of the judgment of the learned Trial Court.	Reasoning
Hence, based on the material on record, we are satisfied that the learned Trial Court fully complied with the requirements of Section 235(2) Cr.	Reasoning
P.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Trial Court had considered the mitigating circumstances pointed out on behalf of the accused and also considered the aggravating circumstances which warranted the death sentence.	Reasoning
Thus, it cannot be said that the accused was not given any sufficient opportunity to put forward his case on sentence.	Reasoning
It also cannot be said that the learned Trial Court has not given any special reasons while awarding the death sentence.	None
After considering the aggravating circumstances and the crime i.e. the magnitude and the manner of the commission of the crime in the form of kidnapping and thereafter murdering three minor children, while awarding the death sentence the learned Trial Court has considered the following aggravating circumstances against the accused This point is not disputed that the accused was annoyed with Shivlal (PW18) because 10 days prior to the incident his wife Sumrit Bai eloped or got eloped by the brother of Shivlal (PW18) as there was a love affair between Sumrit Bai and uncle of the minors deceased Ajay, Vijay and Sakshi.	None
In this regard evidence is also available on record.	None
As well as this point is also considerable that being acquaintance with the accused and having faith on accused all the three minors innocent Ajay, Vijay and Sakshi left the school with the accused and were missing.	None
Hence, breaching the faith of all the three innocent minors the accused has committed the offence of kidnapping.	None
It is also considerable that the accused has committed culpable homicide of all the three minors Ajay, Vijay and Sakshi whose age was in between 4 to 8 years.	None
There was 10 days sufficient time gap between the incident of eloping accuseds wife with Shivnath, the uncle of the minors and the date of committing culpable homicide of the minors.	None
Hence, the act of the accused is not the act committed under grave and sudden provocation.	None
On the basis of evidence available on record the act of the accused is afterthought with planned manner.	None
It is also considerable that accused has brutally committed homicidal death of all three minors Ajay, Vijay and Sakshi by processing their neck forcefully who have no concern with the matter of eloping his wife Sumrit Bai.	None
It is also considerable that accused has brutally, mercilessly and cowardly committed murder of all three minors Ajay, Vijay and Sakshi who were tender age of 48 years and were completely unable to resist and defend themselves at the time of incident.	None
At the time of committing the said act accused had two children thinking over it the accused did not have to do the said act.	None
In the light of the said act committed by the accused the question of maintaining their minor children is secondary.	None
It is also considerable that the said act of the accused is the act which gives challenge to the social security of the society.	None
Thus, the submission on behalf of the accused that as the sentence was recorded on the same day on which the conviction was recorded and therefore it has vitiated the award of sentence, cannot be accepted.	None
As observed hereinabove, there is a total compliance of the provisions of Section 235 (2) as well as Section 354 Cr.P.C.	Reasoning
Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the accused that while awarding the capital punishment the learned Trial Court has solely looked to the brutality of the crime is concerned, it is factually incorrect.	Reasoning
On considering the rival discussions as well as the reasons given by the learned Trial Court while awarding the capital punishment, it appears that the brutality of the crime was considered to be one of the reasons and not the sole reason.	Reasoning
However, at the same time, the prayer on behalf of the accused not to impose the death penalty and to convert the same into life imprisonment, in the facts and circumstances of the case, requires consideration.	Issue
Therefore, now the question which is posed for consideration of this Court is whether, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the death sentence is warranted?	Issue
25.1	None
While answering the aforesaid questions, few decisions of this Court on when the death sentence is warranted are required to be referred to and considered.	None
25.2	None
After analyzing many decisions of this Court on imposition of death sentence, namely, Bachan Singh (supra) Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 Mohd.	None
Chaman v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2001) 2 SCC 28 Aloke Nath Dutta v. State of W.B. (2007) 12 SCC 230 State of Punjab v. Manjit Singh (2009) 14 SCC 31 Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 498 Sebastian v. State of Kerala (2010) 1 SCC 58 Rajesh Kumar (supra) Ramesh v. State of Rajasthan (2011) 3 SCC 685 Amit (supra) and Mohinder Singh v. State of Punjab (2013) 3 SCC 294 , the decisions which were relied upon on behalf of the accused and after considering few decisions of this Court involving death sentence which were relied upon on behalf of the State, ultimately, this Court in the case of Sushil Sharma v. State (NCT) of Delhi (2014) 4 SCC 317 in paragraphs 100104 has observed and held as under In light of the above judgments, we would now ascertain what factors which we need to take into consideration while deciding the question of sentence.	None
Undoubtedly, we must locate the aggravating and mitigating circumstances in this case and strike the right balance.	None
We must also consider whether there is anything uncommon in this case which renders the sentence to life imprisonment inadequate and calls for death sentence.	None
It is also necessary to see whether the circumstances of the crime are such that there is no alternative but to impose death sentence even after according maximum weightage to the mitigating circumstances which speak in favour of the offender.	None
We notice from the above judgments that mere brutality of the murder or the number of persons killed or the manner in which the body is disposed of has not always persuaded this Court to impose death penalty.	None
Similarly, at times, in the peculiar factual matrix, this Court has not thought it fit to award death penalty in cases, which rested on circumstantial evidence or solely on approvers evidence.	None
Where murder, though brutal, is committed driven by extreme emotional disturbance and it does not have enormous proportion, the option of life imprisonment has been exercised in certain cases.	None
Extreme poverty and social status has also been taken into account amongst other circumstances for not awarding death sentence.	None
In few cases, time spent by the accused in death cell has been taken into consideration along with other circumstances, to commute death sentence into life imprisonment.	None
Where the accused had no criminal antecedents where the State had not led any evidence to show that the accused is beyond reformation and rehabilitation or that he would revert to similar crimes in future, this Court has leaned in favour of life imprisonment.	None
In such cases, doctrine of proportionality and the theory of deterrence have taken a back seat.	None
The theory of reformation and rehabilitation has prevailed over the idea of retribution.	None
On the other hand, rape followed by a cold blooded murder of a minor girl and further followed by disrespect to the body of the victim has been often held to be an offence attracting death penalty.	None
At times, cases exhibiting premeditation and meticulous execution of the plan to murder by levelling a calculated attack on the victim to annihilate him, have been held to be fit cases for imposing death penalty.	None
Where innocent minor children, unarmed persons, hapless women and old and infirm persons have been killed in a brutal manner by persons in dominating position, and where after ghastly murder displaying depraved mentality, the accused have shown no remorse, death penalty has been imposed.	None
Where it is established that the accused is a confirmed criminal and has committed murder in a diabolical manner and where it is felt that reformation and rehabilitation of such a person is impossible and if let free, he would be a menace to the society, this Court has not hesitated to confirm death sentence.	None
Many a time, in cases of brutal murder, exhibiting depravity and sick mind, this Court has acknowledged the need to send a deterrent message to those who may embark on such crimes in future.	None
In some cases involving brutal murders, societys cry for justice has been taken note of by this Court, amongst other relevant factors.	None
But, one thing is certain that while deciding whether death penalty should be awarded or not, this Court has in each case realising the irreversible nature of the sentence, pondered over the issue many times over.	None
This Court has always kept in mind the caution sounded by the Constitution Bench in Bachan Singh Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab, (1980) 2 SCC 684 1980 SCC (Cri) 580 that Judges should never be bloodthirsty but has wherever necessary in the interest of society located the rarest of the rare case and exercised the tougher option of death penalty.	None
In the nature of things, there can be no hard andfast rules which the court can follow while considering whether an accused should be awarded death sentence or not.	None
The core of a criminal case is its facts and, the facts differ from case to case.	None
Therefore, the various factors like the age of the criminal, his social status, his background, whether he is a confirmed criminal or not, whether he had any antecedents, whether there is any possibility of his reformation and rehabilitation or whether it is a case where the reformation is impossible and the accused is likely to revert to such crimes in future and become a threat to the society are factors which the criminal court will have to examine independently in each case.	None
Decision whether to impose death penalty or not must be taken in the light of guiding principles laid down in several authoritative pronouncements of this Court in the facts and attendant circumstances of each case.	None
We must also bear in mind that though, the judicial proceedings do take a long time in attaining finality, that would not be a ground for commuting the death sentence to life imprisonment.	None
Law in this behalf has been well settled in Triveniben Triveniben v. State of Gujarat, (1989) 1 SCC 678 1989 SCC (Cri) 248 .	None
The time taken by the courts till the final verdict is pronounced cannot come to the aid of the accused in canvassing commutation of death sentence to life imprisonment.	None
In Triveniben Triveniben v. State of Gujarat, (1989) 1 SCC 678 1989 SCC (Cri) 248 , the Constitution Bench made it clear that though ordinarily, it is expected that even in this Court, the matters where the capital punishment is involved, will be given top priority and shall be heard and disposed of as expeditiously as possible but it could not be doubted that so long as the matter is pending in any court, before final adjudication, even the person who has been condemned or who has been sentenced to death has a ray of hope.	None
It, therefore, could not be contended that he suffers that mental torture which a person suffers when he knows that he is to be hanged but waits for the doomsday.	None
Therefore, the appellant cannot draw any support from the fact that from the day of the crime till the final verdict, a long time has elapsed.	None
It must be remembered that fair trial is the right of an accused.	None
Fair trial involves following the correct procedure and giving opportunity to the accused to probabilise his defence.	None
In a matter such as this, hurried decision may not be in the interest of the appellant.	None
25.3	None
In the case of Absar Alam v. State of Bihar (2012) 2 SCC 728 , it is observed and held by this Court that the mental condition of the accused, which led to assault, cannot be lost sight of.	None
It is further observed that the mental condition or state of mind of accused is one of the factors that can be taken into account in considering the question of sentence.	None
25.4	None
Thus, from the catena of decisions of this Court, more particularly, the decisions referred to hereinabove, for deciding on the issue of sentence, the aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances must be located and the right balance must be adopted.	None
What can be said to be the mitigating circumstances has been dealt with and considered by this Court in the case of Bachan Singh (supra).	Reasoning
As observed by this Court in the case of Bachan Singh (supra), the following can be said to be the mitigating circumstances which are required to be considered while deciding on the issue of death sentence.	Reasoning
That the offence was committed under the influence of extreme mental or emotional disturbance.	None
The age of the accused.	Reasoning
If the accused is young or old, he shall not be sentenced to death.	Reasoning
The probability that the accused would not commit criminal acts of violence as would constitute a continuing threat to society.	Reasoning
The probability that the accused can be reformed and rehabilitated.	None
The State shall by evidence prove that the accused does not satisfy Conditions (3) and (4) above.	None
That in the facts and circumstances of the case the accused believed that he was morally justified in committing the offence.	None
That the accused acted under the duress or domination of another person.	None
That the condition of the accused showed that he was mentally defective and that the said defect impaired his capacity to appreciate the criminality of his conduct.	None
25.5	None
In light of the above judgments, we would now ascertain the factors which we need to take into consideration while deciding on the question of sentence.	None
We must locate the aggravating and mitigating circumstances in this case and strike a right balance.	None
In the present case, the following are the mitigating factors circumstances That the offence was committed under the influence of extreme mental or emotional disturbance.	Reasoning
The accused was emotionally disturbed due to the elopement of his wife with the uncle of the deceased and that his children were suffering in absence of their mother with them.	Reasoning
The accused was so much disturbed and troubled is also born out from the deposition of one of the witnesses that on mobile the accused told how Shivlal is feeling without his children.	Reasoning
There are no criminal antecedents.	None
At the time of commission of the offence the accused was 28 years of age and his conduct in prison is reported to be good.	None
That he belongs to a poor family and is the only son of his parents, and That he has got an old aged mother who is taking care of two daughters of the accused, out of which one is married now.	None
25.6	None
On the other hand, the only aggravating circumstance pointed out by the State is that the manner in which the incident took place and three minors were brutally killed.	None
Except the above, no other aggravating circumstances are pointed out on behalf of the State.	Reasoning
Therefore, striking the balance between aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances, we are of the opinion that in the facts and circumstances of the case, more particularly, the mental condition of the accused at the time of the commission of the offence and that the accused was under extreme mental disturbance due to his wife eloped with the uncle of the deceased and his children were deprived of the company of their mother, the mitigating circumstances are in favour of the accused to convert the death sentence to life imprisonment.	Reasoning
It is true that the court must respond to the cry of the society and to settle what would be the deterrent punishment for an abominable crime.	Reasoning
It is also equally true that a larger number of criminals go unpunished thereby increasing criminals in the society and law losing its deterrent effect.	Reasoning
.It is also true that the peculiar circumstances of a given case often results in miscarriage of justice and makes the justice delivery system a suspect in the ultimate analysis, the society suffers and a criminal get encouraged.	Reasoning
Sometimes it is stated that only rights of criminals are kept in mind, the victims are forgotten.	Reasoning
However, at the same time, while imposing the rarest of rare punishment, i.e. death penalty, the Court must balance the mitigating and aggravating circumstances of the crime and it would depend upon particular and peculiar facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
The mitigating circumstances as observed by this Court in the case of Bachan Singh (supra) and the mitigating circumstances in the present case, if are considered cumulatively and more particularly, that the accused was under the extreme mental disturbance because of the reasons stated hereinabove, we are of the opinion that, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the death penalty is not warranted and the same be converted to life imprisonment.	Reasoning
In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal succeeds in part.	Decision
The Judgment and Order passed by the learned Trial Court and confirmed by the High Court convicting the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 364 IPC is hereby confirmed.	Decision
However, the death sentence imposed by the learned Trial Court, confirmed by the High Court, is converted into the life imprisonment.	Decision
It is further observed and directed that the life means till the end of the life with the further observation and direction that there shall not be any remission till the accused completes 25 years of imprisonment.	Decision
The present appeal is partly allowed to the aforesaid extent.	None
