 	None
Santosh Hegde, J. These appeals are preferred against the judgment and order dated 15.10.1993 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ Petition No. 12355/93 filed by the first respondent herein.	Issue
The brief facts necessary for disposal of the appeals are as follow The respondent  M s. Dinesh Engineering Corporation  (hereinafter referred to as the writ petitioner) claims to manufacture certain spare parts of GE governors used by the Indian Railways to control the speed in diesel locomotives.	Facts
It is stated that originally the diesel governor wa manufactured only by M s. General Electric Company of the United States of America (GE for short) and till the year 1974, the same was being imported as also its spare parts.	Facts
Thereafter, while stopping the import of governors in regard to the spare parts required for replacement in the governors manufactured by General Electric Co., the Railways were approaching the local manufacturers.	Facts
3.	Facts
On 9.12.1991, it is stated that a tender was floated by the Controller of Stores, Diesel Locomotive Works, Varanasi, for supply of certain items of spare parts for use in GE governors.	Facts
It is stated that only the writ petitioner responded to the tender but its tender was not considered nor was it rejected till 23.10.1992 on which date the writ petitioner received a letter from the Director, Mechanical Engineering (Tr.), Diesel Locomotives Works, Varanasi, wherein it was informed that the Railway Board had reviewed the policy of purchase of GEEDC governor spares in the context of sophistication, complexity and high degree of precision associated with governs.	Facts
Consequently, its tender was not acceptable to the Railways.	Facts
4.	Facts
Challenging this decision of the Railways both in regard to the policy purposed to have been adopted by the Board as also the rejection of its tender, the writ petitioner moved the High Court seeking a writ in the nature of mandamus commanding the respondents in the writ petition to finalse the offer of the writ petitioner regarding the tender and also for issuance of a writ of ceritorari quashing the letter dated 23.10.1992 written by the Director, Mechanical Engineering (Tr.)	Facts
in regard to purchase of spare parts.	Issue
5.	Facts
The High Court in the impugned order came to the conclusion that on the basis of the material placed before it that the writ petitioner was manufacturing spare parts for GE governors and was supplying the same to various Divisions of the Indian Railways who had found it to be satisfactory and, in regard to which, as a matter of fact, some of these Divisions had also issued certificates of efficiency and appreciation.	Facts
It also accepted the plea of the writ petitioner that the space parts supplied by it were certified to have given satisfactory service by various Divisions of the Railways like the Central Railways etc., and held that the writ petitioner was the sole competitor to M s. Engineering Devices Controls (EDC) for the supply of spare parts in regard to GEgovernors.	Facts
It also held that the policy put forth by railways in its letter dated 23.10.1992 amounted to creating a monopoly in favour of EDC and the same was wholly arbitrary and discriminatory.	None
It also rejected the contention of the Railways that the tender notice dated 9.12.1991 was rejected because the same was not in conformity with the terms of the tender.	Facts
The High Court also rejected the contention of the Railways based on Clause 16 of the Guidelines which gave a unilateral right to the Railways to reject the tender without assigning any reason.	Facts
On the above basis, the High Court while allowing the writ petition held the orders of the Railways dated 14.7.1993 i.e. rejecting the tender of the writ petitioner and the letter dated 23.10.1992 reflecting the policy of the Railways in regard to purchase of spare parts for the governors were quashed.	Facts
6.	Facts
As stated above, it is against this judgment that these appeals have been preferred before this Court.	Issue
It is to be noted that this Court having stayed the operation of the impugned judgment of the High Court, in the normal course, these appeals could have been disposed of as having become infructuous, but the appellant contended that the issue involved in these appeals is of substantial importance to the Railways and in view of the observations of this Court while granting leave in these appeals, irrespective of the final outcome of the impugned tender in the original writ petition, the question involved requires consideration by this Court.	Facts
7.	Facts
It is to be noted that this Court while granting leave on 12.8.1994 observed Since this is a matter which can be decided on the present set of paper books, no pricing is necessary.	Facts
The matter is otherwise urgent and requires settling so that the Railways should know how to deal with the matter of the kind.	Facts
This may be listed in the month of November, 1994 subject to the pleasure of my Lord the Chief Justice.	Facts
Liberty to mention, if necessary.	Facts
8.	Facts
As things would have it, though the matter was listed for hearing starting from 24.1.1995, for various reasons mentioned in the concerned orders the matter was not taken up for hearing until the same reached the stage of hearing this day before us.	Facts
Therefore, we have considered it appropriate to decide these appeals on their merits.	Facts
Mr. P.P. Malhotra and Mr. T.L.V. Iyer, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants in these appeals, strenuously contended that the respondent was a smalltime supplier of spare parts and did not have the necessary expertise and infrastructure for the manufacture of required sophisticated spare parts, therefore, keeping in mind the necessity to have genuine spare parts required for this sophisticated equipment, the Railways after taking into consideration all the aspects of the matter, had taken a policy decision as reflected in its letter dated 23.10.1992 and this being a policy decision, the High Court ought not have interfered with the said decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended on behalf of the appellants that the Railways had the right of the goods it wanted to purchase.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that such right of the Railway becomes all the more important in the purchase of sophisticated items like spare parts to the governors which plays a very important role in maintaining safety in the movement of locomotives.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that the policy was as afterthought or that it would create a monopoly in favour of EDC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that in the letter reflecting the policy, it is clearly pointed out that the Board had decided to make purchase of these spare parts and meet future sees of governors from EDC only till such time as other persons capable of developing such equipment as well as spare parts to the satisfaction of the Railways were available.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, this temporary creation of monopoly, if any, would not be either unreasonable or arbitrary.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellants, the writ petitioner does not have the requisite expertise nor the capacity of manufacture a governor or its genuine spare parts, hence, the High Court ought not to have passed the impugned order.	Arguments of Petitioner
In regard to the rejection of the offer made by the writ petitioner pursuant to the tender notification, it is stated that the Railways had called for tenders for supply of 98 items which were required as spare parts for the governors while the writ petitioner had quoted only for 36 items, hence, the offer was not in conformity with the requirement of the tender.	None
It is also contended that the writ petitioner had not submitted any drawings or specifications and had also not offered any warranty for the working of the equipment.	None
In such a situation, it was not obligatory on the part of the railways to have accepted the tender.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the appellants placing reliance upon certain correspondence between the Railways and the writ petitioner also pointed out the writ petitioner was not in a position to manufacture the governors as per the requirement of the Railways for want of necessary infrastructure.	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on these grounds the appellant contends that it is so fer to place orders for the spare parts of the governors with an original manufacturer of governors, and since EDC alone has been manufacturing governor, an since EDC alone has been manufacturing governors which are compatible to the GE governors already in use with the Railways, there was nothing unreasonable or arbitrary in placing orders with the EDC for purchase of spare parts also till such time as some other parties are ready to make similar supplies.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. M.D. Adkar, learned counsel appearing for the writ petition, seriously challenged the contentions advanced on behalf of the appellants and supported the judgment of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the policy put forth by the appellants was only an excuse not to accept the offer made by the writ petitioner for supply of spare parts to the GE governors which it has been supplying to the Railways for the last over 17 years to their satisfaction.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also contended that the policy in question was put forward only for creating a monopoly in favour of the EDC and since EDC is not the original manufacturer of GE governors as they have been manufacturing only their own governors they cannot be treated as spare parts suppliers of original equipment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Negativing the contention of the appellants that the writ petitioner lacked the expertise or the infracture to either manufacture the governors or spare parts for the governors, he pointed out that the writ petitioner has been registered as a supplier of governor drives including mounting and linkage under Item 1029 of the Registration of Firms for items procured by Railways and relied upon the document reflecting this position which was produced along with his counter affidavit before the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also contended that he has been supplying spare parts to the governors used by the Railways for the last over 17 years and pointed out that various Division of the Indian Railways	Arguments of Petitioner
e.g. Wester Railway, Southern Railway, SouthCentral Railway and also Northern Railway have issued the registration certificates to the said effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that between the period 1979 and 1993, the writ petitioner had supplied spare parts for governors to the Railways worth more than 2 crores of rupees, therefore, the contention of the appellants that the writ petitioner does not have the necessary expertise or the infrastructure to produce the spare parts for the GEgovernors, cannot be contended.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the backdrop of the arguments addressed before us and bearing in mind the findings of the High Court, we will now discuss the two issues which arise for our consideration.	None
We will first take up the question of policy put forth by the appellant as per its letter dated 23.10.1992.	None
For this purpose, it is necessary for us to reproduce the relevant part of that letter which reads as follows Board have reviewed the policy on procurement of CE EDC Governor spares in the contest of the sophistication, complexity and high degree of precision associated with the governor.	None
Keeping in view the need to assure their reliable and quality performance, it has been decided that  GE EDC Governor spares should in procured on proprietary basis from M s Engineering Devices and Controls Pvt. Ltd. (EDC) who are the original equipment manufactures the supplies from whom will be supported be guarantees warranties DLW should intensify its efforts to development alternative sources for manufacturing of complete governors which is fully interchangeable and matches inn performance with the GE type Governor so as to generate competition The procurement of GE EDC Governor spare on proprietary basis from M s. EDC would be reviewed once alternative factory sources of supply of these Governors became available.	None
This issue with the concurrence of the Finance Directorate.	None
A perusal of the said letter shows that the Board adopted this policy leeping in mind the need to assure reliability and quality performance of the governor and its spare parts in the context of sophistication, complexity and high degree of precision associated with governors.	Reasoning
It is in this background that in para (i) the letter states that the spare should be procured on proprietary basis from EDC.	Reasoning
This policy proceedings on the hypothesis that there is no other supplier in the country who is competent enough to supply the spares required for the governors used by the Indian Railways without taking into consideration the fact that the writ petitioner has been supplying these spare parts for the last over 17 years to various Divisions of the Indian Railways which fact has been established by the writ petitioner from the material produced both before the High Court and this Court and which fact has been accepted by the High Court.	Reasoning
This clearly establishes the fact has been accepted by the High Court.	Reasoning
This clearly establishes the fact that the decision of the Board as found in the letter dated 23.10.1992 suffers from the vice of nonapplication of mind.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellants, it has been very seriously contended before us that the decision vide letter dated 23.10.1992 being in the nature of a policy decision, it is not open to courts to interfere since policy decision, it is not open to courts to interfere since policies are normally formulated by experts on the subjects and the courts not being in a position to step into the shoes of the experts, cannot interfere with such policy matters.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that this Court has held in more than one case that where the decision of the authority is in regard to a policy matter, this Court will not ordinarily interfere since these policy matters are taken based on expert knowledge of the persons concerned and courts are normally not equipped to question the correctness of a policy decision.	Reasoning
But then this does to mean that the courts have to abdicate their right to scrutinise whether the policy in question is formulated keeping in mind all the relevant facts and the said policy can be held to be beyond the pale of discrimination or unreasonableness, bearing in mind the material on record.	Reasoning
It is with this limited object if we scrutinise the policy reflected in the letter dated 23.10.1992, it is seen that the Railways took the decision to create a monopoly on proprietary basis as EDC on the ground that the sphere required by it for replacement in the governors used by the Railways required a high degree of sophistication, complexity and preorsion, and in the background of the fact that there was no party other than EDC which could supply such spares.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that an equipment of the nature of a spare part of a governor which is used to control the speed in a diesel locomotive should be a qualify product which can adhere to the strict scrutiny standards of the Railways, but the pertinent question is has the Board taken into consideration the availability or nonavailability of such characteristics in the spare parts supplied by the writ petitioner or, for the matter, was the Board above to the fact that like EDC the writ petitioner was also supplying the spare parts as the replacement parts for the GE governors for the last over 17 years to the various Divisions of the Railways.	Reasoning
A persual of the letter dated 23.10.1992 does not show that the Board was either aware of the existence of the writ petition or its capacity or otherwise to supply the spare parts required by the Railways for replacement in the governors used by it, an ignorance which is fatal to its policy decision.	Reasoning
Any decision be it a simple administrative decision or a policy decision, if taken without considering the relevant facts, can only be termed as an arbitrary decision.	Reasoning
If it is so then be it a policy decision or otherwise, it will be violative of the mandate of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
It is next contended that EDC is admittedly manufacturing complete governors by itself and the same being compatible to the GEgovernors in use with the Railways, EDC should be considered as the supplier of spares for the original equipment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is always safer to by spareparts from an original equipment manufacturer than from a manufacturer of only a sparepart.	None
This argument would have been an acceptable arguemnt if EDC was manufacturing GEgevernors itself.	None
It is an admitted case that ESC manufactures its own governors and not GEgovernors nor are they licensed to manufacture GEgovernors.	None
All and any sundry governors manufacturer cannot be treated as a manufacturer of original equipment for the supply of spares for GEgovernors.	None
THe statutes of EDC visavis the writ petitioner will be the same in regard to the supply of spares to GEgovernors.	None
This observation of ours does not of course amount to giving a certificate of approval to the writ petitioner as to the spare parts manufactured by it or that it is compatible with the GEgovernors.	None
That is a matter to be decided by the experts but suffice it to say that the writ petitioner cannot be excluded from consideration for the supply of spare parts to the GEgovernors on the sole ground that it does not manufacture governors by itself.	None
Here it is to be noted that substantial number of governors used in the locomotives of the Indian Railways are those manufactured by GE, therefore, the requirement of spare parts ae also substantial for replacement in these governors.	None
Hence, the Board ought not to have created a monopoly in favour of the EDC.	None
It is, however, open to the Railways if it comes to the genuine conclusion that the spare parts manufactured by the writ petitioner are not acceptable on the ground of sophistication, complexity and high degree of precision then certainly it is for the Railways or for that matter if the terms of offer are not acceptable for justifiable reasons, it will be open to the Railways to reject the offer of the writ petition.	None
But then, none of the above form the basis for creating a monopoly in favour of the EDC.	None
As held by the High Court, that creation of this monopoly in favour of the EDC is unreasonable and arbitrary with which we agree.	None
Coming to the second question involved in these appeals, namely, the reaction of the tender of the writ petitioner, it was argued on behalf of the appellants that the Railways under clause 16 of the Guidelines was entitled to reject any tender offer without assigning any reasons and it also has the power to accept or not to accept the lowest offer.	None
We do not dispute this power provided the same is exercised within the realm of the object for which this clause is incorporated.	None
This does not give an arbitrary power to the Railways to reject the bid offered by a party merely because it has that power.	None
This is a power which can be exercised on the existence of certain conditions which in the opinion of the Railways are not in the interest of the Railways to accept the offer.	None
No such ground has been taken when the writ petitioners tender was rejected.	None
Therefore, we agree with the High Court that it is not open to the Railways to rely upon this clause in the Guidelines to reject any or every offer that may be made by the writ petitioner while responding to a tender that may be called for supply of spare parts by the Railways.	None
Mr. Iyer, learned senior counsel appearing for the EDC, drew out attention to a judgment of this Court in Sterling Computers Ltd. etc.	None
v. M s. M N Publications Ltd.	None
Ors., 1993(1) SCC 445, which has held Under some special circumstance a discretion has to be conceded to the authorities who have to enter into contract giving them liberty to assess the overall situation for purpose of taking a decision as to whom the contract be awarded and at what terms.	None
If the decisions have been taken in bona fide manner although not strictly following the norms laid down by the courts, such decisions are upheld on the principle laid down by Justice Holmcs, that courts while judging the constitutional validity of executive decisions must grant certain measure of freedom of play in the joints to the executive.	Arguments of Respondent
But then as has been held by this Court in the very same judgment that a public authority even in contractual matters should not have unfettered discretion and in contracts having commercial element even though some extra discretion is to be conceded in such authorities, they are bound to follow the norms recognised by courts while dealing with public property.	None
This requirement is necessary to avoid unreasonable and arbitrary decisions being taken by public authorities whose actions are amenable to judicial review.	None
Therefore, merely because the authority has certain elbow room available for use of discretion in accepting offer in contracts, the same will have to be done within the four corners of the requirements of law especially Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
In the instant case, we have noticed that apart from rejecting the offer of the writ petitioner arbitrarily, the writ petitioner has now been virtually debarred from competing with the EDC in the supply of spare parts to be used in the governors by the Railways, even since the year 1992, and during all this while we are told the Railways are making purchases without any tender on a proprietary basis only from the EDC which, in our opinion, is in flagrant violation of the constitutional mandate of Article 14.	Reasoning
We are also of the opinion that the socalled policy of the Board creating monopoly of EDC suffers from the vice of nonappplication of mind, hence, it has to be quashed as has been done by the High Court.	Reasoning
As stated above, so far as the tender dated 9.12.1991 is concerned, the same has become infructuous by passage of time, hence, the relief granted in this regard by the High Court has also become infructuous.	Reasoning
however, we are in agreement with the High Court that the Board cannot purchase the spare parts under a proprietary basis from the EDC without calling for tenders and considering the offers received on merits.	Reasoning
19.	Decision
for the reasons stated above, we hereby direct that to meet the future requirements of the Railways in regard to the spares for the governors to be used in the diesel locomotives are concerned, same shall be purchased by a public tender and offers so received shall be considered on their merits without reference to the policy referred to in the letter dated 23.10.1992.	Decision
Accordingly, these appeals fail and the same are hereby dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
