SRINIVASAN, J. The common question which arises for decision in these two appeals and special leave petition is whether printing on glass bottles amounts to manufacture within the meaning of Section 2(f) of the Central Excise Act, 1944 It is convenient to set out the facts in each case separately before considering the aforesaid question The appellants in Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1991 have a factory for manufacturing glass and glasswares falling under T1 23A of the Central Excise Tariff.	Issue
Till 1983 they were manufacturing and supplying plain glass bottles to customers.	Facts
In 1983 they filed an application before the Assistant Collector, Central Excise, Saharanpur enclosing a revised layout of the factory in substitution of the existing plan.	Facts
Under the revised plan, the premises in which the manufacturing operation of glass and glassware was undertaken was segregated from the premises in which the machinery for printing of glass bottles with ceramic colour was to be installed for carrying on the printing operation.	Facts
The Superintendent, (Central Excise) approved of the revised plan.	Facts
The appellants commenced the process of printing of bottles in the separate demarcated unit for which no excise licence was taken.	Facts
The said demarcated unit is situated within a shed enclosed by walls separate from the main factory which is licensed for manufacturing glass and glassware.	Facts
The Range Superintendent of Central Excise issued a directive vide letter dated 2961983 that the appellants shall not remove any printed bottles without payment of Central excise duty on the enhanced value after including the expenditure incurred on printing decorating.	Facts
That was challenged by the appellants on appeal before the Collector (Appeals) who set aside the directive and directed the Assistant Collector to pass a speaking order after complying with the principles of natural justice.	Facts
After a showcause notice and a reply thereto, the Assistant Collector passed an order on 2391983 that assessable value of glass bottles should include the cost of decorating the same with ceramic colours.	Facts
On appeal the Collector confirmed the same by his order dated 331984.	Facts
The Tribunal dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants by its order dated 26101990.	Facts
It is that order which is under challenge in this appeal4.	Facts
Though the Tribunal observed that the Superintendent of Central Excise was not competent to approve the revised ground plan, proceeded to discuss the question formulated above on the footing that the unit wherein the decoration of glass bottles is being carried out is separate from the factory manufacturing the said bottles.	Facts
The following passage in the order of the Tribunal is relevant in this regard Admittedly, the ACL unit is located in the enclosed space with an opening on the main road apart from the gate of the factory licensed for the manufacture of glassware.	Facts
The shed in which the ACL unit is located, was also excluded from the layout of the factory.	Facts
From the above, it follows that the ACL unit, which was carved out of the old premises is a space covered by walls and is adjunct to the principal premises, i.e., the licensed premises.	Facts
Again the Tribunal has observed in para 20 of its order that admittedly the plain bottles are manufactured in the main premises and the printing and decoration is done in the premises adjunct to it	Facts
It is on the above factual premise the question stated above which was formulated by the Tribunal itself has to be considered.	None
The Tribunal has proceeded to hold that printing and decoration would amount to manufacture within the meaning of Section 2(f) of the Act6.	Facts
In Civil Appeal No. 2882 of 1993 the appellant is the Union of India.	Facts
The respondent in that appeal is none other than the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1991.	Facts
That appeal arises out of a claim for refund made by the respondents therein on the ground that they had paid excise duty on the charges incurred for printing of glass bottles which did not form part of manufacturing process and therefore they were entitled to get refund of the said duty.	Facts
They had paid the duty on the price of the bottles as supplied to the customers as per the approved Price List No. 37 which included the printing charges.	Facts
The claim for refund was accepted by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise but rejected by the Collector.	Facts
The assessee filed a writ petition in the High Court of Bombay to quash the order of the Collector.	Facts
A Division Bench of the High Court upheld the contention of the assessee and held that printing on the glass bottles cannot be included in the assessable value for the purpose of levy of excise duty.	Facts
Aggrieved by the order of the Division Bench, the Union of India has preferred this appeal7.	Facts
Insofar as the factual position in this appeal is concerned, there is no dispute that the entire process including the printing on the bottles is carried out in one factory and the excisable goods supplied to the customers by the respondents are the printed bottles at the price set out in the approved price list inclusive of the printing charges8.	Facts
In Special Leave Petition No. 8316 of 1994 the first respondent is a company which undertakes the process of decorating glass bottles at its factory at Chinchwad, Poona.	Facts
The Company purchases plain bottles from the manufacturers thereof including appellants in Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1991 and carries out the decoration and printing on such bottles as per the contracts entered into with its customers.	Facts
The Company had not taken any licence for carrying out that process within its premises on the ground that it was not a manufacturing process.	Facts
The Superintendent of Central Excise detained the bottles and issued a showcause notice as to why excise duty should not be demanded, penalty should not be imposed and goods should not be seized.	Facts
The respondents filed a writ petition in the High Court of Bombay challenging the said proceedings.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court followed the judgment rendered in the earlier case of J. G. Glass Industries Ltd. and allowed the writ petition.	Facts
Aggrieved thereby the Union of India has preferred the petition for special leave.	Facts
Insofar as this case is concerned, there is no dispute regarding the fact that the respondents are only carrying on the process of decoration and printing and have nothing to do with the manufacture of bottles as such The contention of the assessee is that printing and decorating bottles will not by any stretch of imagination amount to manufacture.	Facts
It is argued that unless the process brings into existence a different commercial product, it cannot be said to be a manufacturing process.	Arguments of Respondent
In short, the contention is that the plain bottles do not cease to be bottles by some logos or names being printed therein.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance is placed on a judgment of this Court in Union of India v. Delhi Cloth General Mills Co. Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention is drawn to the following passageOn a consideration of all these materials we have no doubt about the correctness of the respondents case that the raw oil purchased by the respondents for the purpose of manufacture of Vanaspati does not become at any stage refined oil as is known to the consumers and the commercial community.	Arguments of Respondent
The first branch of Mr. Pathaks argument must therefore be rejected The other branch of Mr. Pathaks argument is that even if it be held that the respondents do not manufacture refined oil as is known to the market they must be held to manufacture some kind of nonessential vegetable oil by applying to the raw material purchased by them, the processes of neutralisation by alkali and bleaching by activated earth and or carbon.	None
According to the learned counsel manufacture is complete as soon as by the application of one or more processes, the raw material undergoes some change.	Arguments of Respondent
To say this is to equate processing to manufacture and for this we can find no warrant in law.	None
The word manufacture used as a verb is generally understood to mean as bringing into existence a new substance and does not mean merely to produce some change in a substance, however minor in consequence the change may be.	None
This distinction is well brought about in a passage thus quoted in Permanent Edition of Words and Phrases, Vol. 26, from an American Judgment.	None
The passage runs thus Manufacture implies a change, but every change is not manufacture and yet every change of an article is the result of treatment, labour and manipulation.	None
But something more is necessary and there must be transformation a new and different article must emerge having a distinctive name, character or use.	None
In CST v. Pio Food Packers this Court observed (SCC p. 176, para 5) There are several criteria for determining whether a commodity is consumed in the manufacture of another.	None
The generally prevalent test is whether the article produced is regarded in the trade, by those who deal in it, as distinct in identity from the commodity involved in its manufacture.	None
Commonly manufacture is the end result of one or more processes through which the original commodity is made to pass.	None
The nature and extent of process may vary from one case to another, and indeed there may be several stages of processing and perhaps a different kind of processing at each stage.	None
With each process suffered, the original commodity experiences a change.	None
But it is only when the change, or a series of changes, take the commodity to the point where commercially it can no longer be regarded as the original commodity but instead is recognized as a new and distinct article that a manufacture can be said to take place.	None
Where there is no essential difference in identity between the original commodity and the processed article it is not possible to say that one commodity has been consumed in the manufacture of another.	None
Although it has undergone a degree of processing, it must be regarded as 6 still retaining its original identity.	None
In Rollatainers Ltd. v. Union of India the question arose with reference to the applicability of exemption pertaining to products of the printing industry.	None
The notification specified the goods as all products of printing industry including newspapers and printed periodicals.	None
The contention of the appellant was that printed cartons are a product of printing industry and as such exempt from duty under the notification.	None
Rejecting that contention the Court said (SCC pp.	None
29596 and 297, paras 6, 9 and 11)6.	None
According to the appellantCompany printed cartons are known and understood in the trade as products of the printing industry.	None
The dominant activity in the manufacture of a printed carton is the printing activity and the cutting, creasing and gluing, if any, are only supplementary.	None
It was further contended that the printed cartons have become a medium of advertising the product.	None
It enhances the sale value of the goods.	None
The artwork is chosen so that the brand name and trade mark of the manufacturer are highlighted.	None
The appearance and the visual impact of the printing on the carton are of utmost importance and occupy the major time and expense in the manufacture of the carton.	None
It was, therefore, finally contended that the printed cartons are known and understood in the trade as the product of the printing industry.	None
Since that is how the printed cartons are understood in the common parlance, the appellantCompany is entitled to the benefit of the exemption notification The literature referred to by the appellant only shows that the printing industry has advanced to such an extent that one can print on almost anything such as glass, metal or synthetic base.	None
Earlier the printing activity was primarily confined to printing of books, literature, newspaper and periodicals etc.	Reasoning
The advanced printing industry covers a much wider field of activity than it did in the past.	Reasoning
Can we, therefore, say that every material on which printing work is done becomes a product of the printing industry ?	Reasoning
The answer has to be in the negative.	Reasoning
An ordinary carton without any printing on it is a completed product and undisputably the product of packaging industry.	Reasoning
The question for our consideration is, does it cease to be the product of packaging industry as and when some printing is done on the said carton ?	Reasoning
We are of the view that to a common man in the trade and in common parlance a carton remains a carton whether it is a plain carton or a printed carton.	Reasoning
The extreme contention that all products, on which some printing is done, are the products of the printing industry cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
The Division Bench of the High Court has rightly rejected the contention on the following reasoning in our view, it would be an extreme proposition to hold that all products on which some printing is done is a product of the printing industry.	Reasoning
In that event, printed cloth would be a product of the printing industry and not of the textile industry.	Reasoning
A metal can with printed material on it will similarly be a product of the printing industry and not the packaging industry.	Reasoning
The same can be said of cardboard packet and even wooden boxes over which some printing is done to identify the goods or its manufacturer.	Reasoning
In our view, the mere fact that something is printed on a product by itself does not make it a product of the printing industry.	Reasoning
A carton is a carton and has only one use, namely of packing a product to be sold in the market.	Reasoning
The mere fact that something is printed on it does not change its essential nature or use.	Reasoning
The learned Judge has observed that the end use of a product is immaterial.	Reasoning
In the case of a carton the question does not arise, because it has only one use and therefore any distinction between its intermediate use and end use is unwarranted.	Reasoning
In our view, the printed cartons are designed at times to make the product attractive for the purchaser, and at times to identify the goods and highlight its qualities, and at times to identify the manufacturer of the goods.	Reasoning
All the same, the carton remains a carton and is used for the purpose of packaging.	Reasoning
13.	None
What is exempt under the notification is the product of the printing industry.	None
The product in this case is the carton.	None
The printing industry by itself cannot bring the carton into existence.	None
Any amount of fancy printing on a cardboard would not make it a carton.	None
In the process of manufacturing the printed cartons, the cardboard has to be cut, printed, creased and given the shape of a carton by using paste or gum.	None
Simply because there are expensive prints on the carton such a printed carton would not become the product of the printing industry.	None
It shall remain the product of the packaging industry.	None
The above ruling was followed in CCE v. Paper Print Products Co. in which it was held that unwaxed printed paper cut into sheets and reels according to the needs of the customer for the purpose of being used as wrappers in packaging cannot be said to be a product of printing industry so as to attract the exemption notification In Metagraphs (P) Ltd. v. CCE the appellant manufactured printed aluminium labels.	None
The labels were printed on flatbed offset printing press and the printing was done on a deep offset printing plate.	None
The labels were meant to be fixed to refrigerators, radios, airconditioners, telephones, etc.	None
The Tribunal held that the printed aluminium labels were not products of printing industry and rejected the claim for exemption.	None
The Division Bench of this Court reversed the decision of the Tribunal and followed the reasoning in Rollatainers Ltd.	None
After referring to the above case, the Bench said (SCC pp. 26667, paras 11, 12)	None
There this Court approved the test based on understanding of trade parlance common parlance of a particular product.	None
In the case on hand, but for the printing, the aluminium label would serve no purpose and as seen above, it is the printing on the aluminium sheet, which communicates the message to the buyer that makes the sheet as a label, unlike a carton printed or plain which always remains a cartonThe label announces to the customer that the product is or is not of his choice and his purchase of the commodity would be decided by the printed matter on the label.	None
The printing of the label is not incidental to its use but primarily in the sense that it communicates to the customer about the product and this serves a definite purpose.	None
This Court in Rollatainers held that what is exempt under the notification is the product of the printing industry.	None
The product in this case is the carton.	None
The printing industry by itself cannot bring the carton into existence.	None
Let us apply this above formula to the facts of this case.	None
The product in this case is the aluminium printed label.	None
The printing industry has brought the label into existence.	None
That being the position and further the test of trade having understood this label as the product of printing industry, there is no difficulty in holding that the labels in question are the products of printing industry.	None
It is true that all products on which some printing is done, are not the products of printing industry.	None
It depends upon the nature of products and other circumstances.	None
Therefore the issue has to be decided with reference to facts of each case.	None
A general test is neither advisable nor practicable.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the Tribunal was not right in concluding that the printed aluminium labels in question are not products of printing industry.	None
With respect, we agree with the test formulated by the Division Bench.	None
The question is, whether the product would serve any purpose but for the printing.	None
If the product could serve a purpose even without printing and there is no change in the commercial product after the printing is carried out, the process cannot be said to be one of manufacture In Collector of Customs v. Indian Coated Cartons (P) Ltd.	None
a Division Bench of this Court to which one of us (S. C. Sen) was a party reiterated the principle laid down in	None
Rollatainers Ltd.	None
That case also related to printed cartons manufactured by the respondents therein.	None
The Bench distinguished the ruling in	None
Metagraphs (P) Ltd.	None
On an analysis of the aforesaid rulings, a twofold test emerges for deciding whether the process is that of manufacture.	Reasoning
First, whether by the said process a different commercial commodity comes into existence or whether the identity of the original commodity ceases to exist secondly, whether the commodity which was already in existence will serve no purpose but for the said process.	Reasoning
In other words, whether the commodity already in existence will be of no commercial use but for the said process.	Reasoning
In the present case, the plain bottles are themselves commercial commodities and can be sold and used as such.	Reasoning
By the process of printing names or logos on the bottles, the basic character of the commodity does not change.	Reasoning
They continue to be bottles.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that but for the process of printing, the bottles will serve no purpose or are of no commercial use19.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the Revenue has strenuously contended that the printing on the bottles will make them a different commodity known as printed bottles.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him such printed bottles cannot be of any general commercial use but they will be useful only for the persons on whose behalf and for whose benefit such printing has been done.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, according to him the process of printing on bottles is a manufacturing process.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed by him on the judgment of this Court in Empire Industries Ltd. v. Union of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question which arose for consideration in that case was whether introduction of subclauses (v), (vi) and (vii) in Section 2(1) of the Central Excise Act by Act 6 of 1980 was valid.	None
While upholding the validity of the amendment of the section by which the definition of manufacture was widened so as to include the process of bleaching, dyeing, printing, finishing, etc. with reference to cotton fabrics and manmade fabrics, the Court considered what constituted manufacture.	None
In that connection the Court observed (SCC p. 332, para 33)	None
The taxable event under the excise law is manufacture.	None
The moment there is transformation into a new commodity commercially known as a distinct and separate commodity having its own character, use and name, whether be it the result of one process or several processes manufacture takes place and liability to duty is attracted.	None
The Court referred to various earlier decisions dealing with the expression manufacture.	None
We are unable to appreciate as to how the ruling helps the Revenue in the present case.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that the printing on the bottles does not bring into existence a new commercial commodity which is distinct and separate in its character, use and name from the original commodity.	Reasoning
Hence, we are unable to accept the contention of the Revenue in this case that printing on bottles involves a process of manufacture Learned counsel for the assessee has also placed before us a copy of Trade Notice No. 28/1980 issued by Pune Central Excise and Customs Collectorate with reference to Tariff Item 23A(4).	Reasoning
It reads thus Attention of the Trade is invited to Item 23A of the Central Excise Tariff2.	Arguments of Respondent
It is clarified for the information of the trade that glassware decorated in a different factory after the receipt of dutypaid plain glassware would not be again liable to duty differential duty under Tariff Item 23A(4) of the Central Excise Tariff.	Arguments of Respondent
All members constituents may please be informed accordingly.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel submits that it is not open to the Revenue to raise any contention contrary to the notice.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention is drawn to the judgment of this Court in CCE v. Usha Martin Industries to which one of us (S. C. Sen, J.) was a party.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been held in that case that Revenue cannot be permitted to take a stand contrary to the instructions issued by the Board and Departmental Circulars issued before enactment of Section 37B of the Central Excise Act or thereafter, are equally binding on Revenue as the object in either case was the same, namely, to achieve uniformity in the classification.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel contends that even if the trade notice is held to be not binding on the Revenue as such, it can be used by the assessee to show that the Department has also understood the relevant expression manufacture in the same manner.	Arguments of Respondent
In the present case it may not be necessary for us to rely upon the trade notice.	None
We have already pointed out that printing on bottles will not amount to manufacture within the meaning of Section 2(f) of the Act It is useful to refer to the tariff description in Item 23A of the Central Excise Tariff.	None
The general description of the item is glass and glassware.	Reasoning
There are four categories namely, (1) flat glass (2) laboratory glassware (3) glass shells, glass globes and chimneys for lamps and lanterns and (4) other glass and glasswares including tableware.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the bottles whether printed or not fall under category (4) mentioned above.	Reasoning
If the contention of the Revenue is accepted it would lead to double taxation under the same tariff item.	Reasoning
While at the gate of the main factory duty is leviable on a the plain bottles under Item 23A(4), once again duty will be leviable on the printed bottles after the process of printing is over in the premises where such printing is carried out.	Reasoning
Such duty will undoubtedly be on the value of the printed bottles which will include not only the cost of manufacture of the bottles but also the cost of printing charges.	Reasoning
The Revenue cannot be permitted to levy duty twice on the same item when there is no warrant therefor in the relevant provisions of the Act23.	Reasoning
In the circumstances there is no difficulty in holding that the view taken by the Appellate Tribunal in Appeal No.	Reasoning
ED SB 682/84A is erroneous inasmuch as the process of printing is being carried out in a separate premises as found by the Tribunal and such process is not manufacture within the meaning of the Act.	Reasoning
Consequently, Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1991 has to be and is hereby allowed.	Reasoning
The orders of the Tribunal as well as those of the Collector and Assistant Collector are set aside.	Decision
The showcause notice issued by the Revenue to the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1991 is quashed24.	Decision
It follows that Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 8316 of 1994 filed by the Union of India has to be and is hereby dismissed25.	Decision
Insofar as Civil Appeal No. 2882 of 1993 is concerned, the contention of the appellant has to be accepted on the facts of the case.	Decision
It is not in dispute that the printing on the bottles is also carried out in the same factory where the bottles are manufactured and the ultimate product which happens to be the excisable item at the gate of the factory is the printed bottle as such.	Decision
Hence, the value of printed bottles including printing charges is the assessable value of the excisable goods and duty is chargeable thereon.	Decision
The decision of the High Court is erroneous inasmuch as it has failed to take note of the fact that the printing on the bottles is also completed within the same factory premises.	Decision
Hence, the appeal is allowed.	Decision
The judgment of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The order of the Collector dated 771983 in F. No. RO943/83 is restored26.	Decision
In both the appeals and the special leave petition the parties will bear their own costs.	Decision
