 The appellantcompany approached the State of Haryana for acquisition of land for establishing a sheet glass factory.	Facts
The State Government, on being satisfied, took a decision to initiate proceedings in respect of the land in question.	Facts
Preliminary notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act was issued on 2.7.1973.	Facts
Thereafter declaration was made under Section 6 on 4.9.1973.	Facts
The Collector passed the award on 20.6.1974 in respect of the said land, awarding compensation to the land owners i.e. respondent Nos. 15 herein, a sum of Rs. 3,93,688.	Facts
12.	Facts
The amount of compensation was also paid to the res respondents on 16.10.1974 and the possession of the land was also taken on the same date.	Facts
The respondents made an application for reference under Section 18 of the Act.	Facts
The Additional District Judge.	Facts
Rohtak enhanced the compensation amount by a sum of Rs. 59,349.	Facts
The respondents 15 not being satisfied with the enhanced amount of compensation, approached the High Court by filing an appeal.	Facts
The High Court by judgment dated 2.6.1988 enhanced the compensation by an amount of Rs. 8.10.lakhs.	Facts
The respondents filed Civil Writ Petition No. 14735/1991 in the High Court on 25.9.1991 praying for quashing the notifications issued under Sections 4 and 6 of the Land Acquisition Act and for other reliefs.	Facts
The said writ petition was allowed by the High Court on 5.3.1992.	Facts
Hence, this appeal by the company for whose benefit the land was acquired.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that the High Court was not right in entertaining the writ petition condoning the delay and laches on the part of respondents in approaching the High Court almost after a period of 17 years, that too when the acquisition proceedings had attained finality and possession also had been taken as early as on 16.10.1994 on which date the land vested with the State free from all encumbrances.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court committed an error in quashing the acquisition proceedings and directing restoration of the land to the respondents, even though the land was not utilized for the purpose for which it was acquired.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel cited a few decisions in support of his submissions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondents 15 made submissions in support of justification of the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
He contended that having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, particularly, when the appellant railed to utilize the land acquired for the purpose for which it was acquired and when it was making unjust enrichment out of the land acquired, the High Court was just and right in passing the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be stated that the State has also filed appeals challenging the impugned judgment in Civil Appeal Nos. 7024 70257030 of 1993.	None
The learned counsel for the State submitted that the State has already initiated proceedings for resumption of the land acquired.	None
He stated that this submission was made before the High Court also but, unfortunately, the same was not considered.	None
It is not in dispute that the writ petition was filed almost after 17 years from the date of passing the award and after taking possession of land.	None
There is no explanation for inordinate delay and laches except the statement made in para 8 of the writ petition to the effect, that although the possession of the land was taken 17 years back in 1973, the compensation was not paid fully and the acquisition was mala fides and illegal and that the acquisition was made only to pog down the prices.	None
It is also not in dispute that respondent 15 accepted received the amount of compensation as early as on 16.10.1974 on the basis of the award passed they sought reference under Section 18 of the Act for enhancement of the compensation and further they pursued the matter in the High Court seeking further enhancement of the compensation till 1988.	None
Three years thereafter they filed writ petition challenging the acquisition proceedings.	None
In our view, in the absence of any explanation for inordinate delay and laches on the part of the respondents 15 in approaching the High Court, the writ petition ought to have been dismissed on this short ground.	None
It appears that the High Court was impressed by two circumstances  (1) that even after 17 long years the respondents were not paid enhanced compensation and (2) if the acquisition proceedings are not quashed and if no direction is given to revest the land in respondents 15, there would be unjust enrichment by the appellantcompany.	None
According to the High Court, this was extraordinary situation, which warranted exercise of its writ jurisdiction to quash the acquisition proceedings.	None
This Court in Larsen Toubro Ltd. vs. State of Gujarat Ors.	None
(1998) 4 SCC 387 in para 21 has stated thus This Court has repeatedly held that writ petition challenging the notifications issued under Sections 4 and 6 of the Act is liable to be dismissed on the ground of delay and laches if challenge is not made within a reasonable time.	None
This Court has said that the petitioner cannot sit on the fence and allow the State to complete the acquisition proceedings on the basis that notification under Section 4 and the declaration under Section 6 were valid and then to attack the notifications on the grounds which were available to him at the time when these were published as otherwise it would be putting a premium on dilatory tactics.	None
In Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay vs.	None
Industrial Development Investment Co. Pvt.	None
Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
(1996) 11 SCC 501 , after reviewing the entire case law, this Court held that a person who approaches the court belatedly to question the legality of the notification under Section 4(1), declaration under Section 6 and the award of the Collector under Section 11, shall not be granted relief.	None
Touching the question of delay and laches, in para 29, it is stated that it is thus wellsettled law that when there is inordinate delay in filing the writ petition and when all steps taken in acquisition proceedings have become final, the Court should be loath to quash the notifications.	None
The High Court has, no doubt, discretionary powers under Article 226 of the Constitution to quash the notification under Section 4(1) and declaration under Section 6.	None
But it should be exercised taking all relevant factors into pragmatic consideration.	None
When the award was passed and possession was taken, the Court should not have exercised its power to quash the award which is a material factor to be taken into consideration before exercising the power under Article 226.	None
Looking to the facts of the present case and conduct of the respondents 15, the High Court was not at all justified in ignoring the delay and laches and granting relief to them.	Reasoning
As already noticed, the respondents 15 approached the High Court by filing writ petition almost after a period of 17 years after finalization of the acquisition proceedings.	Reasoning
They accepted the compensation amount as per the award and sought for enhancement of the compensation amount without challenging the notification issued under Sections 4 and 6.	Reasoning
Having sought for enhancement of compensation only, they filed writ petition even three years after the appeals were disposed of by the High Court in the matter of enhancement of compensation.	Reasoning
There is no explanation whatsoever for the inordinate delay in filing the writ petitions.	Reasoning
Merely because full enhanced compensation amount was not paid to the respondents, that itself was not a ground to condone the delay and laches in filing the writ petition.	Reasoning
In our view, the High Court was also not right in ordering restoration of land to the respondents on the ground that the land acquired was not used for which it had been acquired.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled position in law that passing the award and taking possession under Section 16 of the Act, the acquired land vests with the Government free from all encumbrances.	Reasoning
Even if the land is not used for the purpose for which it is acquired, the land owner does not get any right to ask for revesting the land in him and to ask for restitution of the possession.	Reasoning
This Court as early as in 1976 in Gulam Mustafa Ors.	None
vs. The State of Maharashtra Ors.	None
(1976) 1 SCC 800) in para 5 has stated thus At this stage Shri Deshpande complained that actually the municipal committee had sold away the excess land marking them out into separate plots for a housing colony.	None
Apart from the fact that a housing colony is a public necessity, once the original acquisition is valid and title has vested in the municipality, how it uses the excess land is no concern or the original owner and cannot be the basis for invalidating the acquisition.	None
There is no principle of law by which a valid compulsory acquisition stands voided because long after the requiring authority diverts it to a public purpose other than the one stated in the Section 6(3) declaration.	None
In Chandragauda Ramgonda Patil Anr.	None
vs. State of Maharashtra Ors.	None
(1996) 6 SCC 405 , it is stated that the acquired land remaining unutilized was not intended, to be restituted to the erstwhile owner to whom adequate compensation was paid according to the marker value as on the date of notification.	None
Yet again in C. Padma Ors. vs. Dy.	None
Secretary to the Government of T.N. Ors.	None
(1997) 2 SCC 627 , it is held that acquired land having vested in the State and the compensation having paid to the claimant, he was not entitled to restitution of possession on the ground that either original public purpose had ceased to be in operation or the land could not be used for other purpose.	None
If the land was not used for the purpose for which it was acquired, it was open to the State Government to take action but that did not confer any right on the respondents to ask for restitution of the land.	Reasoning
As already noticed, the State Government in this regard has already initiated proceedings for resumption of the land.	Reasoning
In our view, there arises no question of any unjust enrichment to the appellant company.	Reasoning
We have to deal with one more contention of the learned counsel for the respondents 15 that a different procedure has to be followed for acquisition of land by the State for the purpose of a private company.	None
There is no dispute on that point.	None
We fail to understand how this contention advances the case of the respondents when they did not challenge the acquisition, proceedings, even on that ground if it was available within reasonable time.	Reasoning
It was too late for them to challenge the acquisition proceedings on that ground as well.	Reasoning
For all that is stated above, the impugned judgment of the High Court cannot be sustained.	Decision
It is set aside.	Decision
The writ petition filed by the respondents 15 is dismissed.	Decision
For the same reason the judgments dated 4.9.1992 in C.W.P. Nos. 81818186 of 1992 are also liable to be and are hereby set aside, having regard to the fact that the judgments in these cases have been rendered merely by following the decision dated 5.3.1992 in C.W.P. No. 14735 of 1991.	Decision
The appeals are allowed accordingly.	None
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
