 Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J. This judgment has been divided into the following sections to facilitate analysis A A long and winding road B Steps for implementing the decision in Babita Puniya C Criteria for the grant of PCs C.1 Medical Criteria C.2 Substantive Assessment for PC D Evaluation of the credentials of 615 Women SSCOs E Submissions E.1 Submissions of petitioners E.2 Submissions of the respondents E.3	None
The petitioners in rejoinder F Systemic Discrimination F.1 Theoretical Foundations of Indirect Discrimination F.2 Position in the United States F.3 Position in the United Kingdom F.4 Position in South Africa F.5 Position in Canada F.6 Evolving an analytical framework for indirect discrimination in India F.7 Systemic Discrimination as antithetical to Substantive Equality G Analysis G.1 Selection Process Criteria set by the Army G.2 Benchmarking with the Lowest Male Officer G.3 Reliance on Annual Confidential Reports G.4 Medical Criteria G.5 WSSCOs belonging to WSES(O) 2731 and SSC(TNT) 13 who had not completed 14 years of service as on the date of Babita Puniya H Conclusion and directions I ask no favour for my sex.	None
All I ask of our brethren is that they take their feet off our necks Late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Associate Justice, Supreme Court of the United States of America	None
A A long and winding road By the judgment of this Court in Secretary, Ministry of Defence v. Babita Puniya Babita Puniya, (2020) 7 SCC 469, the claim of women engaged on Short Service Commissions(SSCs) in the Indian Army for seeking Permanent Commission(PC) was evaluated and held to be justified.	Issue
Addressing the background of the dispute, the judgment described this as a quest for equality of opportunity for women seeking PCs.	Issue
As the Court observed, a decade and more spent in litigation, women engaged on Short Service Commissions in the Army seek parity with their male counterparts.	Issue
The battle for equality has been long drawn, engaging as much with reforming mindsets as with implementing constitutional principles.	Issue
The path traversed by the Women SSC Officers(WSSCO) commenced with a writ petition in public interest before the Delhi High Court in 2003.	Issue
The judgment of the Delhi High Court which substantially upheld the entitlement of the WSSCOs was rendered on 12 March 2010( WP(C) No. 1597 of 2003 (High Court of Delhi)).	Issue
The judgment of the Delhi High Court and its directions formed the subject matter of the earlier proceedings before this Court which resulted in the decision in Babita Puniya (supra) being rendered on 17 February 2020.	Issue
Between 12 March 2010, when the Delhi High Court pronounced its judgment, and 17 February 2020, when this Court rendered its decision in Babita Puniya (supra), there was no stay of the implementation of the judgment of the Delhi High Court.	Issue
This, as a matter of fact, was clarified on 2 September 2011 in an order of this Court.	Facts
Despite the above clarification, the judgment of the High Court was not implemented by the Union Government.	Facts
Several interim orders were issued for directing a stay on the release of the WSSCOs, for reinstatement in service coupled with an entitlement to salary.	Facts
During the pendency of the appeal before this Court, the Union Government and the Ministry of Defence (MoD) issued a communication on 25 February 2019 envisaging the grant of PCs to WSSCOs in eight arms or services of the Army (in addition to the existing two streams of Judge Advocate General(JAG) and Army Education Corps(AEC) which had already been opened up for PC to WSSCOs).	Facts
Eventually, in the judgment of this Court dated 17 February 2020, the following directions were issued to the Union Government, while taking on record its policy statement dated 25 February 2019 Directions 69.	Facts
We accordingly take on record the statement of policy placed on the record in these proceedings by the Union Government in the form of the Letter dated 2522019 and issue the following directions The policy decision which has been taken by the Union Government allowing for the grant of PCs to SSC women officers in all the ten streams where women have been granted SSC in the Indian Army is accepted subject to the following All serving women officers on SSC shall be considered for the grant of PCs irrespective of any of them having crossed fourteen years or, as the case may be, twenty years of service.	Facts
The option shall be granted to all women presently in service as SSC officers.	Facts
Women officers on SSC with more than fourteen years of service who do not opt for being considered for the grant of the PCs will be entitled to continue in service until they attain twenty years of pensionable service.	Facts
As a onetime measure, the benefit of continuing in service until the attainment of pensionable service shall also apply to all the existing SSC officers with more than fourteen years of service who are not appointed on PC.	None
The expression in various staff appointments only in Para 5 and on staff appointments only in Para 6 shall not be enforced.	Facts
SSC women officers with over twenty years of service who are not granted PC shall retire on pension in terms of the policy decision.	Facts
At the stage of opting for the grant of PC, all the choices for specialisation shall be available to women officers on the same terms as for the male SSC officers.	Facts
Women SSC officers shall be entitled to exercise their options for being considered for the grant of PCs on the same terms as their male counterparts.	Facts
We affirm the clarification which has been issued in subpara (i) of Para 61 of the impugned judgment Babita Puniya v. Ministry of Defence, 2010 SCC OnLine Del 1116 (2010) 168 DLT 115 and order of the Delhi High Court.	None
SSC women officers who are granted PC in pursuance of the above directions will be entitled to all consequential benefits including promotion and financial benefits.	Facts
However, these benefits would be made available to those officers in service or those who had moved the Delhi High Court by filing the writ petitions and those who had retired during the course of the pendency of the proceedings.	Facts
This batch of petitions under Article 32 has questioned the manner in which the decision of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra) has been implemented.	Facts
Since the grievance in these proceedings emanates directly out of the steps taken by the Union Government to implement the earlier decision of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra), this Court has entertained the petitions under Article 32.	Facts
Initially, in the counter affidavit filed by the Colonel Military Secretary (Legal) at the Integrated Headquarters of the Ministry of Defence (Army), an objection was raised to the maintainability of the petitions on the ground that the petitioners should be relegated to the pursuit of remedies before the Armed Forces Tribunal.	Facts
However, this plea has not been pressed in the submissions by Mr Sanjay Jain, learned Additional Solicitor General( ASG) appearing on behalf of the Union of India, the MoD and the Indian Army.	Facts
The respondents, through their written submissions, have also agreed to formulate a policy for granting time scale promotions to the WSSCOs who have been granted PC.	Facts
Hence, only the core contested issues which arose in the course of the proceedings are being addressed on merits in this judgment.	Facts
B Steps for implementing the decision in Babita Puniya The steps which were taken by the Union Government to implement the decision in Babita Puniya (supra) have been elaborated upon in the Counter Affidavit of the respondents and Written submissions formulated by the ASG.	Facts
Following the decision in Babita Puniya (supra), a governmental sanction was issued on 16 July 2020 for taking administrative steps to fulfill the directions.	Facts
Accordingly, a set of General Instructions dated 1 August 2020 were issued for the conduct of a special selection proceeding by a Special No. 5 Selection Board 2020 to screen WSSCOs for the grant of PC based on existing policy regarding grant of permanent commissionapplied uniformly to all SCC officers.	Facts
These General Instructions were issued by the Integrated Headquarters of MoD (Army) for implementing the guidelines in Babita Puniya (supra).	Facts
The relevant extracts are reproduced below General 1.	None
A Spl No 5 Selection Board (SB) 2020 will be held to screen the Short Service Commissioned WOs of the following courses, who are in service TABLE Aim To lay down guidelines for submission of application by the WSES(O)s SSCW(O)s for consideration for grant of PC by Spl No 5 SB 2020.	Facts
Scope	None
Following issues have been covered in the instructions Guidelines for preparation of application Medical Board Submission of application Detailed checklist for submission of documents Checklist Misc Instrs for Unit SubUnit Cdrs Medical Board All officers opting for PC have to undergo a medical board at the nearest Military hospital where facilities of medical specialists are available.	None
The detailed instructions are contained in AO 110/81 SAI 3/S/70, the extract of the same is as under Medical Board Proceedings.	None
Only those officers who are opting for PC and are SHAPE1 or Permanent Low Medical Category (PLMC) will undergo a medical board as per AFMSF2(ver 2002).	Facts
Only one copy (ie original) of medical board proceedings medical examination report on AFMSF2 (ver 2002) format without investigation reports and Xray, duly approved by the competent authority, is required to be forwarded to MS Branch (MS7B), through staff (medical) channel.	Facts
Remaining copies of AFMSF2 will be forwarded to AG MP56, DGMS5 and respective controlling groups at the MS Branch.	Facts
The medical board proceedings should reach MS Branch (MS 7B) latest by 11 Sep 20.	None
In case the medical documents are not submitted by the due date, the concerned officer will be considered as not opted for PC and will be dealt with as per the type of consideration mentioned at Para 1 above.	Facts
Officers with Temporary Low Medical Category (TLMC) Officers with TLMC will submit the proceedings of medical categorization (AFMSF15) recategorization AFMSF15A (ver 2002) giving their present medical category.	Facts
These documents should reach MS Branch (MS 7B) latest by 11 Sep 20.	None
In case the medical documents are not submitted by the due date, the concerned officer will be considered as not opted for PC and will be dealt with as per the type of consideration mentioned at Para 1 above.	Facts
ii.	None
Officers with TLMC, who are otherwise found fit for PC by the Spl	Facts
No 5 SB, will be given a maximum time period of one year for stabilization of their medical category.	Facts
Such offrs will forward their medical docu on AFMSF2 as per Para 9(a) above, on becoming SHAPE1 of PLVS This time period of one year will be counted from the last date of submission of medical documents as per Para 9 (b) (i) above i.e. 11 Sep 20.	Facts
Beyond the period, result of the board in respect of such offers will be declassified treating them to be medically unfit for PC.	Facts
iii.	None
Women officers who are on maternity leave and cannot undertake medical examination, will forward the medical board proceedings vide which they were medically downgraded for maternity leave and follow instructions contained in Para 9(b) (i) (ii) above.	Facts
Eligibility of PC for Officers with PLMC.	Facts
The low medical category should not be due to medical reasons (whether attributable to military service or not) but should have been caused as a result of casualties suffered in action during operations or due to injury or other disability sustained during duty (for example while traveling on duty, playing organized games under regimental arrangements, during trainings exercises and so on).	Facts
In addition, medical categories lower than S1 or H2 or A3 or P2 or E2 or H2E2 or H2A3 or H2P2 or E2A3 or E2P2 are NOT ELIGIBLE for grant of PC.	Facts
Officers are required to forward copies of Court of inquiry, Injury report (IAFZ 2006) and notification of battle casualty, if applicable in support of their medical category (emphasis supplied)	Facts
Special No. 5 Selection Board was convened between 14 and 25 September 2020 to consider WSSCOs for the grant of PCs.	Facts
According to the counter affidavit, this was on same terms and criterion as their male counterparts.	Facts
615 WSSCOs were considered for the grant of PCs.	Facts
The result of the Special No. 5 Selection Board was declared on 19 November 2020.	Facts
According to the Union of India, Special No. 5 Selection Board was conducted in the following manner The Military Secretarys Branch constituted a Selection Board as per the provisions of Army Order 18 of 1988, which is being uniformly followed for consideration for grant of permanent commission to all SSC male officers and women officers of AEC JAG.	Facts
All Board members were from outside the Military Secretarys Branch.	Facts
A women officer of Brigadier rank from AMC was also a member of the Board.	Facts
Identity of the officers being considered, was hidden from the Board.	Facts
Women officers who were being considered by the Board were permitted to attend the Board proceedings as observers.	Facts
A list of such officers and days of their attendance is given at Annexure R3.	Facts
As per the laid down criteria, confidential reports, discipline and vigilance report, if any, honours and awards etc, as on the 5th or 10th years of service, as the case may be, of the women officers, depending upon the terms and conditions opted by the respective officer, was taken into consideration by the Selection Board.	Facts
This procedure was exactly similar to what was followed for the similarly placed corresponding course entry (Technical or Non Technical) made officers.	Facts
The Board examined the MDS (Master Data Sheet) of each officer, for grant of Permanent Commission and gave independent value Judgement marks without any mutual consultation.	Facts
The Board then compared the total marks of each officer out of 100, with the marks of the male officer with lowest merit granted permanent commission in her corresponding course entry (Technical or Non Technical ).	Facts
Post this, the Board recommended 422 out of 615 officers for grant of Permanent Commission, on merit basis, subject to them meeting the criteria of medical fitness and DV (Discipline and Vigilance).	Facts
On scrutiny of these 422 officers, it emerged that 57 out of these 422 had not opted for grant of Permanent Commission.	Facts
Options (choice) of officers being considered, is not disclosed to the board members during the consideration stage to avoid any biasness.	Facts
(emphasis supplied)	None
The result of the Special No. 5 Selection Board has been tabulated by the respondents in the following terms TABLE Note	Facts
In the above list, 42 candidates who have been placed in the Temporary Low Medical Category have been granted one year stabilization period during which they have an opportunity to restore to the required criterion of medical fitness.	Facts
The above tabulation, supplied on affidavit by the respondents, does not account for 19 women officers in the breakup.	Facts
The data provided by the petitioners, on an analysis of the consolidated result of the Special No. 5 Selection Board proceedings, indicates the following figures which aids a comprehensive analysis TABLE C Criteria for the grant of PCs C.1 Medical Criteria One of the issues which has been debated in the present case is in regard to the SHAPE1 qualification for grant of PC.	None
The Army authorities have, in terms of the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020, stipulated that only those officers who are in SHAPE1 would be granted PC.	Facts
Officers in a Temporary Low Medical Category(TLMC), who are otherwise found fit for PC by the Special No. 5 Selection Board are granted a time period of one year (at the maximum) for stablization of their medical category.	Facts
Within a period of one year, the officers have to forward their medical documentation of having achieved SHAPE1 status.	Facts
As regards officers in the Permanent Low Medical Category(PLMC), it has been stipulated that the low medical category should not be due to medical reasons (whether or not attributable to military service) but should be a result of casualties suffered in action during operations or due to injury or other disability sustained during the course of duty.	Facts
The medical criteria for the grant of PC are governed by Special Army Instructions dated 30 April 1970(SAI 3/S/70) (as amended from time to time in 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1993) and Army Order 110 of 1981(AO 110/1981).	Facts
According to the Union of India, the criteria of medical fitness applied for grant of permanent commission, are exactly the same as applicable to other SSC officers.	Facts
Whenever the Special No. 5 Selection Board of an SSC officer is deferred and is held subsequently after the passage of one or two years, an officer has to undertake a fresh medical examination for the Board.	Facts
Before adverting to SAI 3/S/70 and AO 110/1981, it is necessary to understand the meaning and content of the SHAPE1 norm, which finds place in Army Order 9 of 2011(AO 9/2011, Ref AO 01/2004/DGMS).	Facts
Army Order 9 of 2011 The expression SHAPE has been explained in AO 9/2011 in the following terms Medical Classification.	None
Medical classification reclassification of serving officers will be made by a duly constituted Medical Board after assessing his her fitness under five factors indicated by the code letter SHAPE which will represent following functions (details thereof given in Appendix E) S Psychological abnormalities including cognitive function H Hearing A Appendages P Physical Capacity E Eye Sight In each of the above factors, the functional capacity for performing military duties is denoted by a descending order of fitness, denoted by numerals 1 to 5.	Facts
Accordingly, while dealing with functional capacity, AO 9/2011 contains the following specifications Functional Capacity.	Facts
Functional capacity for military duties under each factor will be denoted by numerals 1 to 5 against each code letter indicating declining functional efficiency.	Facts
These numerals will be used against the word SHAPE to denote the overall medical classification and also against each factor of SHAPE while describing the disability profile.	Facts
General evaluation of these numerals will denote guidelines for employment of the officers as under 1A Fit for all duties anywhere.	None
1B Fit for all duties anywhere under medical observation and has no employability restrictions.	None
2 Fit for all duties but some may have limitations regarding duties which involve severe physical and mental stress and require perfect acuity of vision and hearing.	None
3 Except S factor, fit for routine or sedentary duties but have limitations of employability, both, job wise and terrain wise as spelt out in Employment Management Index at Annexure II to Appendix E to this Army Order.	None
4 Temporarily unfit for military duties on account of hospitalization sick leave.	None
5 Permanently unfit for military duties.	None
Special Army Instruction SAI 3/S/70 SAI/3/S/70 was issued on 30 April 1970 to regulate the grant of PCs to SSC officers.	Facts
According to Para 2(b), the medical category mandating SHAPE1 was stipulated in the following terms Must be in Medical Category AYE ONE (A1).	Facts
Those who have been placed in Medical Category A2, B1 and B2 as a result of casualties suffered in action during operations may also be considered on merits of each case by the Government.	Facts
Para 2(b) was amended in 1972 (Army Instructions 102/72) in the following terms For medical fitness, the officer should satisfy the following conditions Their medical category should not be lower than grade 2 under any one of the SHAPE factors excluding S factor in which the grade should not be lower than 1.	Facts
In exceptional cases grading of 2 in both H and E together may be acceptable.	Reasoning
The low medical categorisation should not be due to medical reasons whether attributable or not (sic) but should have been caused as a result of causalities suffered in action during operations or due to injury or other disability sustained during duty (for example while travelling on duty, playing, organised games under regimental arrangements, during training exercises and so on).	Facts
They should be found fit for permanent commission in all other respects, through Services Selection Board selection where applicable at which selection they will be given modified tests, taking into account the specific disability in each case.	Facts
On 1 August 1999, by corrigendum No 14/99, para 2(b)(i) was substituted as stated below Existing Para 2(b)(i) is substituted as under Their medical category should not be lower than S1 or H2 of A3 or P2 or E2 or H2E2 or H2A3 or H2P2 or E2A3 or E2P2.	Facts
However, grant of Permanent Commission to low medical category Short Service Commissioned Officers will be subject to rendition of the requisite certificate in terms of AO 20/75.	Facts
The above policy provides a concession to such candidates who have suffered an injury on the line of duty as a result of which their medical category has been lowered.	Facts
However, the concessions have been qualified.	Facts
For ease of reference, S1 indicates grade1 in the S factors H2 means grade2 in the H factors and A3 means grade3 in the A factor.	Facts
The requirement of being in SHAPE1 is a prerequisite, even in respect of such arms and services, where both men and women join at the threshold age of up to 45 years, such as in the Army Medical Corps.	Facts
While insisting upon the observance of the SHAPE1 norm for the grant of PC, the Army also envisages a Temporary Low Medical Category  TLMC  under which an officer is given a period of one year, called the category stabilization period, to return to SHAPE1.	Facts
In the batch of writ petitions, eighty six petitioners are involved 47 petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1172 of 2020 9 petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1457 of 2020 5 petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 34 of 2021 1 petitioner in Writ Petition (C) 1469 of 2020 14 petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1223 of 2020 9 petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1109 of 2020 1 petitioner in Writ Petition (C) 1158 of 2020 The Army authorities submitted that out of 86 petitioners, 55 are still in SHAPE1.	Facts
Out of the 55, 30 are above the age of 45 going up to 52 years in age.	Facts
23 other petitioners have been placed in PLMC, while the remaining 9 have been placed in TLMC.	None
C.2 Substantive Assessment for PC Special Army Instruction SAI 3/S/70 SAI 3/S/70 stipulated that serving short service commissioned officers granted commission under AIII S/64 will be eligible for the grant of PCs under the terms and conditions of service as laid down in the instruction.	Facts
Para 2(b) prescribed medical requirements of SHAPE1 with certain exceptions for duty related casualties (extracted in the earlier section of this judgment).	Facts
Para 5 envisaged that officers whose applications were in order would be called for an interview by the Services Selection Board.	Facts
Under para 6(b), the Services Selection Boards were to consider the applicants for the grant of PC.	Facts
The applicants performance as short service commissioned officers would be evaluated and reckoned by the government in assessing their suitability for the grant of PC.	Facts
Those found suitable for the grant of PC were to be placed on a panel.	Facts
PCs would be granted to those found suitable in all respects in the arms or services as the case may be, the final decision resting with the government.	Facts
Para 89(b) stipulated that Permanent commission will be granted depending on the vacancies existing in the Arms or Services and the officers suitable.	Facts
The officers choice of Arm Service will be given due consideration but there is no commitment to give any particular Army Service.	Facts
Para 10 contained provisions for the manner in which the period as SSC officer would be counted para 11 for pay and allowances para 12 for pensionary awards para 13 for termination of commission and para 14 for other conditions of service.	Facts
Army Order 110/1981 Officers granted SSC, both technical and nontechnical were considered for PCs on the basis of their service performance in the fifth year of their service.	Facts
AO 110/1981 inter alia contained instructions in regard to the submission of applications and evaluation of medical status by the medical boards.	Facts
Officers who were not desirous of being considered for the grant of PC or for extension of SSC service, and sought release on the expiry of their contractual terms of five years were required to indicate their option.	Facts
Similarly, officers who were nonoptees for permanent commissions but were willing to continue on extended SSC services were required to furnish certain forms.	Facts
MoD Policy Letter dated 30 September 1983 This specified the criteria for grant of PC to SSC officers.	None
The policy letter envisaged that The Selection Board will assess each officers performance based on computerized Member Data Sheet.	Facts
To facilitate the members to arrive at their decision, a computerized Member Data Sheet (MDS) indicating the year wise performance of each officer including performance on courses, strong points, weak points, disciplinary awards etc., will be made available.	Facts
The computer evaluation as spelt out in para 4 below will have 80 weightage while 20 weightage will be given to the assessment of the members of the Selection Board.	Facts
The above policy letter contemplated the preparation of a computerized Member Data Sheet indicating the yearwise performance of the officer.	Facts
Eighty per cent weightage would be given to the evaluation in the Member Data Sheet(MDS) while twenty per cent would be assigned for the assessment by the members of the selection board.	Facts
The members of the selection board were required to take into account the MDS and bear in mind, among other things, performance on courses, strong weak points, technical assessment and the disciplinary background, for which they would award marks out of 20.	Facts
The members of the selection board were also required to award the following gradings.	Facts
besides awarding marks Recommended for Permanent Commission B Recommended for Extension only BE Rejected for Permanent Commission and extension R Withdrawn (for want of sufficient material administrative reasons)	Facts
W Deferred D Para 4 of the policy letter envisaged that for preparing the evaluation sheets, the following information regarding officers would be computed namely QAP	Facts
Overall performance of the officer is evaluated by taking the average of figurative assessment of all reporting officers other than PTO and HTO.	Reasoning
Average will be worked out for each year as well as for the entire period of officers service.	Reasoning
The latter QAP will be converted into a proportion of 60 marks Honours and Awards Honours and Awards received by the officer will be allotted marks as under TABLE	None
The marks earned for honours and awards were to be added up, subject to the condition that the maximum will not exceed 6 marks.	None
Performance grading obtained by the officers on each courses maximum 10 marks Strong points reflected in each ACR earned by the officer maximum 4 marks Recommendation for PC a positive recommendation would carry 0 mark while a No would carry minus 2 marks Weak points Minus 3 marks could be awarded on the reflection of the weaknesses of the officer with reference to qualities of dependability, discipline, integrity and loyalty, financial management, addiction to wine, lack of morals and personal affairs.	None
Any other weak point would be awarded a minus 0.5 mark and Disciplinary awards the marks would be considered for denial of PC.	None
The marks average worked out on the above basis were to be duly computed out of a total of 80 marks.	None
Army Order 18/1988 AO 18/1988 formulated the system of selection for the grant of PCs.	None
Para 1 of AO 18/1988 stipulated grant of PC in the 5th year of service to officers Officers granted Short (sic) Service Commission under AI 11/S/64 are considered for grant of Permanent Commission by No. 5 Selection Board on this basis of their record profile, in the fifth year of their service.	None
Option and Medical Board Proceedings are asked for 3 to 4 months in advance in terms of AO 110/81.	None
The proceedings are approved by the Government.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Under para 2, the first 50 per cent of officers screened by the Selection Board in order of merit were to be granted permanent commission the next 35 per cent would be granted extension for five years and the remaining 15 per cent would be released on completing the contractual period of five years service.	None
Para 3 stipulates that the selection board would be convened twice a year in May and September October to ensure that officers of a particular course are screened before completing the initial contractual period of five years service.	None
The composition of Selection Board No. 5 was provided The occupation of No.5 Selection Board to screen SSCOs for PG is as under Chairman  Div Cdr (1) Members  	None
Bde Cdr (2) Brig on Staff (1) outside Army HQ	None
DDG Org DDG PS DDG Rtg(l)	None
Secretary  Col. MS7 Under para 6, the gradings to each officer were to be in the following terms Recommended for Permanent Commission B Recommended for Extension only BE Rejected for Permanent Commission and extension R Withdrawn (for want of sufficient material administrative reasons)	None
W Deferred D Para 7 provided for the assessment of the record profile or each candidate The undermentioned aspects are taken into account for computer evaluation and assessment by members of the Selection Board Annual Confidential Report.	None
Honours and awards.	None
Performance on courses Recommendations for Permanent Commission.	None
Disciplinary awards.	None
Strong and Weak Points.	None
Para 8 provided that a minimum of three ACRs would be essential to consider the case of an officer for PC.	None
If an officer did not have the requisite number of ACRs, the case would be withdrawn by the Selection Board and the officer would be granted an extension of one years service during which, his case would be considered for grant of PC.	None
Para 9 contained a provision for obtaining a comprehensive service data output in respect of each officer called the Member Data Sheet.	None
The guidelines for assessment contained in para 13 are extracted below Assessment is made in accordance with the criteria approved by the Government.	None
The salient points are given below Officers are assessed on the merits of their service performance as reflected in the ACRs and course reports filed in the CR Dossier.	None
Personnel knowledge of an officer neither jeopardizes his selection nor is the basis for favourable consideration of his case .	None
While evaluating ACRs the possibility of subjective inflated reporting and fluctuation in performance of officers occasioned by following circumstances, are taken note of Last ACR before assessment for PC.	None
Set of initiating reporting officers endorsing more than two reports.	None
Period covered by the report, if less than six months.	None
Rating and assessment in mandatory qualities of loyalty, integrity and dependability are given due weightage.	None
More weightage are given to reports earned from regimental appointment as opposed to staff ERE if any.	None
Low Medical Category of the officer does not influence the assessment as it is an administrative restriction and not a criteria for assessment.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The requirements of medical fitness were provided in the following terms Officers should satisfy the following conditions Their medical category should not be lower than grade 2 under any one of the SHAPE factors excluding S factor in which the grade should not be lower than 1.	None
In exceptional cases grading of 2 in both H and E together may be acceptable .	Reasoning
The low medical categorisation should not be due to medical reasons whether attributable or not but should have been caused as a result of casualties suffered in action during operations or due to injuries or other disability sustained during duty, (for example while travelling on duty, playing organized games under regimental arrangements, during training exercise and so on).	Facts
Under para 23, SSC officers who are not selected for PC but are fit, suitable and willing would be granted an extension of five years of the SSC period beyond the initial tenure of five years, on the expiry of which they would be released from the Army.	None
Under para 24, officers other than those in an unacceptable low medical category or those charged with disciplinary action would continue to serve for a total period of ten years or until they were granted PC whichever is earlier.	None
Para 34 provided that though SSCOs would be screened only once in the fifth year of service by the Selection Board for PC.	None
In exceptional cases, the cases of officers for PC could be reviewed under a Special Review.	None
MoD Policy Letter dated 15 January 1991	Facts
A policy letter was issued by the MoD on 15 January 1991 to regulate the grant of PCs to SSCOs.	None
The policy letter envisaged A maximum of 250 SSCOs will be granted Permanent Commission per year.	None
The number of vacancies for the batches within the year will be allotted in proportion to their inter se strength.	None
Minimum acceptable cutoff grade for grant of Permanent Commission to SSCOs will be 60.	None
This may, however, be reviewed by Army HQrs.	None
every two years, keeping in view the rating tendencies as at that time.	None
In case more than the specified number of officers make the grade from the batches considered in a year, the requisite number only, i.e. 250 will be granted Permanent Commission on competitive merit.	None
All SSCOs, other than nonoptees and those considered unfit for retention by the Selection Board, will be granted five year extension.	None
(emphasis supplied) From the above stipulations it becomes evident that An annual cap of 250 SSCOs for the grant of PCs was introduced The cutoff grade was fixed at 60 per cent, which was liable to be reviewed after every two years In the event that more than 250 officers were to make the grade from the batches considered for the year, only 250 officers would be granted PC on the basis of competitive merit and Other than SSCOs who did not opt for PC and those found unfit, all other SSCOs would be granted a five year extension.	None
These stipulations make it abundantly clear that a cutoff grade of 60 per cent was provided as the eligibility for the grant of PC.	None
An annual cap of 250 was introduced.	None
In the event that the number of SSCOs who fulfill the eligibility in terms of the 60 per cent grade exceed the cap of 250, inter se competitive merit would be the basis for determining those who would form a part of 250 SSCOs who would be granted PC.	None
Consequently, where the number of SSCOs who had qualified fell short of the cap of 250 there was no occasion to apply inter se competitive merit.	None
Moreover, the other SSCOs falling beyond the cap of 250 would be granted a five year extension unless they were nonoptees or unfit for retention.	None
MoD Policy Letters dated 20 July 2006 On 20 July 2006, the Integrated Headquarters of MoD (Army) provided revised terms and conditions of service for men and women SSCOs both in the technical and nontechnical branch Grant of SSC (nontechnical) to male officers For SSC men officers in the nontechnical branch of the Army, a tenure of 14 years service was provided an initial period of ten years extendable by four years.	None
They would be entitled to substantive promotions to the rank of Major and Lieutenant Colonel(Lt.	None
Col.) on the completion of 2, 6 and 13 years respectively of reckonable commissioned service.	None
Serving SSCOs were given an option to be governed by the provisions of the revised scheme.	None
Those who opted for the revised scheme who were on extension of service and had already been considered for PC on the completion of the seventh year or those who did not opt for PC on the completion of the seventh year, would not be eligible for further consideration for the grant of PC in the tenth year of service.	None
On the other hand, optees between the fifth and seventh year of service who had not exercised their second option for PC, could be considered again for the grant of PC in the tenth year of service.	None
Officers between the fifth and seventh year of service who had not exercised their second option were allowed to opt to continue under the old scheme Grant of SSC (technical) to men officers Extension of tenure and substantive promotions, including PC on similar terms as those for SSC(nontechnical) for SSCO men technical officers in the Army Grant of SSC (technical) to women officers By a policy letter dated 20 July 2006, the Women Special Entry Scheme (WSES) was closed by providing for the grant of SSC (technical) to women subject to the following conditions The total SSC tenure would be 14 years an initial period of 10 years extendable by four years An option for release was available for newly inducted women officers on the completion of five years of service Substantive promotions to the rank of Captain, Major and Lt. Col. would be provided at the end of 2, 6 and 13 years respectively of reckonable service and Serving WSES women officers had an option to opt for the SSC scheme within six months Grant of SSC (nontechnical) to women officers By another policy letter dated 20 July 2006, a similar provision was made for the grant of SSC (nontechnical) to women officers.	Reasoning
Under the terms of the scheme, The total engagement would be for 14 years (10 years extendable by a further 4 years) and Serving WSES women officers were given an option to opt for the scheme Army Order 9 of 2011 including Appendix C and D	None
The aim of AO 9/2011 was to lay down instructions procedures for carrying out the Annual Medical Examination (AME), Periodical Medical Examination (PME) and medical classification of all Army officers.	None
The AO was to supersede all existing instructions and inter alia sought to delineate the criteria for medical classification visvis functional capacity Functional Capacity.	None
Functional capacity for military duties under each factor will be denoted by numerals 1 to 5 against each code letter indicating declining functional efficiency.	Facts
These numerals will be used against the word SHAPE to denote the overall medical classification and also against each factor of SHAPE while describing the disability profile.	Facts
General evaluation of these numerals will denote guidelines for employment of the officers as under 1A Fit for all duties anywhere.	None
1B Fit for all duties anywhere under medical observation and has no employability restrictions.	None
2 Fit for all duties but may have some limitations regarding duties which involve severe physical and mental stress and require perfect acuity of vision and hearing.	None
3 Except S factor, fit for routine or sedentary duties but have limitations of employability, both, job wise and terrain wise as spelt out in Employment Management Index at Annexure II to Appendix E to this Army Order.	None
4 Temporarily unfit for military duties on account of hospitalization sick leave.	None
5 Permanently unfit for military duties.	None
Appendix (C) provides for the male average weight in kilograms based on age group and height with a 10 per cent variation on either side of the average being acceptable.	None
Appendix (D) contemplates a similar table for female average weight in kilograms for different age groups and heights with an acceptable 10 per cent variation from the average.	None
MoD Policy Letter dated 24 February 2012 As a result of the policy letter dated 24 February 2012, there was a revision of the weightage to be ascribed by the No. 5 Selection Board (for grant of PC extension to SSCOs) as between The computerized MDS and Value judgment of the members of the Selection Board.	None
In the earlier policy letter dated 30 September 1983, the weightage had been fixed at 8020.	None
This was revised to 955, thereby reducing the subjective element comprised in the value judgment attributed to members of the Selection Board from 20 per cent to 5 per cent.	None
In preparing the evaluation sheets, averages were to be taken against the following items QAP 75 marks Honours and awards 5 marks Games, sports and special achievements 5 marks Performance of courses 10 marks Weak points minus 5 marks Nonrecommendation for PC minus 2 marks Para 5 of the policy letter envisages that the marks allotted under the computerized evaluation would be added to the value judgment to assess the overall merits of officers.	None
A minimum acceptable cutoff of 60 per cent was fixed, which had to be reviewed every two years On conduct of the board, the quantified marks for overall performance of the officer would be obtained by adding the value Judgement marks to the Computerised Evaluation.	None
The marks thus obtained would be used to draw out the overall merit of the officers.	None
Minimum acceptable cutoff grade for grant of PC to SSCOs including women officers (sic) will be 60 (this may however be reviewed by MS branch every two years keeping in view the rating tendencies as at that time).	None
D Evaluation of the credentials of 615 Women SSCOs The basic issue which falls for determination is in regard to the modalities which have been followed in assessing the 615 WSSCOs for the grant of PC, after the decision of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra).	None
In order to obviate any factual dispute, the basis of evaluation is taken from the counter affidavit filed in these proceedings on behalf of the respondents by the Colonel Military Secretary (Legal) at the Integrated Head Quarters of the MoD.	None
The relevant disclosures are contained in the section which titled In Re The Methodology for Conduct of Special No 5 Selection Board.	None
The counter discloses that 615 women officers whose corresponding male counterparts have already been considered were considered by a Special No. 5 Selection Board between 14 September and 25 September 2020.	None
The process (as disclosed in the counter) is delineated below The Military Secretarys Branch constituted a Selection Board in accordance with AO 18/1988.	None
All members of the Board were from outside the Military Secretarys Branch.	Facts
A woman officer of the rank of Brigadier was a member of the Board, drawn from the Army Medical Corps.	None
The identity of the officers being considered was concealed from the members of the Board.	Facts
The women officers who were being considered were permitted to attend the proceedings as observers As per the laid down criteria, confidential reports, discipline and vigilance report (if any), honours and awards etc, as on the 5th or 10th years of service, of the women officers were taken into consideration.	None
This procedure was exactly similar to similarly placed male officers at the entry level The board examined the MDS for each officer for the grant of PC and gave independent value judgment marks without mutual consultation The marks for each officer, out of a total of 100 were compared with the marks of the male officer with lowest merit granted PC in their corresponding courses and entry (Technical and NonTechnical)	None
On the above basis, the board recommended 422 out of 615 officers for the grant of PC on the basis of merit subject to their meeting the criteria of medical fitness, discipline and vigilance Since out of 422 recommended officers, 57 were nonoptees after the approval of the Selection Board, medical board proceedings of the remaining 365 approved officers were scrutinized and the result of the Board was declassified on 19 November 2020 and Out of 365 women officers 277 have been found fit and granted PC.	Decision
Results have been withheld for 88 officers comprising of the following a. 42 officers are in the TLMC and have been granted a one year period for stabilization Medical documents have not been received for 6 officers and c. 40 officers are either in the PLMC or their results have been withheld on administrative grounds including discipline and vigilance clearance.	None
During the course of hearing and in the written submissions, the ASG informed the Court that out of 615 officers who were considered, 422 were recommended by the Special No. 5 Selection Board for PC on the basis of merit.	None
The remaining 193 officers (615 minus 422 found fit) were not recommended, though 164 out of these officers fulfill the SHAPE1 criterion and are SHAPE1 officers even as of date.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, out of 422, 57 WSSCOs were nonoptees.	Arguments of Respondent
Out of the 365 optee officers who were considered fit for PC by the Special No. 5 Selection Board, 277 WSSCOs were granted PCs after medical scrutiny.	None
Out of the remaining 88 WSSCOs, 42 officers fall in TLMC.	None
The division of the remaining 46 (that is nonTLMC) is that only 35 did not meet the medical criteria, which constitutes less than 10 of the women who were considered fit for PC on merit (10 of 365).	None
6 officers had not submitted forms compliant with AO 110/1981, 3 officers are under scrutiny and 2 officers are not cleared from the discipline and vigilance angle.	None
E Submissions E.1 Submissions of petitioners Mr P S Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1109 of 2020 and Writ Petition (C) 34 of 2021 and Ms Meenakshi Arora, learned Senior Counsel representing the petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1172 of 2020, urged the following submissions Medical Evaluation (i)	Arguments of Petitioner
The procedure laid down in the General Instructions dated 01 August 2020 is a mechanical reproduction of the existing procedure for male officers, who are evaluated for PC in their 5th or 10th year of service, without making any modifications (ii) The medical criterion laid down in para 9 of the General Instructions is arbitrary and unjust as the women officers who are in the age group of 40 50 years of age are being required to conform to the medical standards that a male officer would have to conform to at the group of 25 to 30 years (iii) The women officers who are being offered PC at a belated stage, due to the fault of the respondents, have already undergone medical scrutiny on the completion of their 5th, 10th and 14th years of service when an extension of service was granted to them.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, they must be exempted from any medical scrutiny at this stage of the grant of PC (iv) There is no material change in the job profile and the nature of the work that is being carried out by the petitioners as SSC officers as compared to the profile attached to their work when they will be granted PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accordingly, any existing medical conditions that the women officers face is not an impediment in the discharge of their functions (v) The criterion for grant of PC laid down in General Instructions is for officers who are in the service bracket of 510 years and does not take into account that the petitioners have served in the Army for 1025 years (vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
The medical criterion does not account for the physiological changes that have occurred due to the passage of time in women officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
These include common changes such as hypertension, obesity, diabetes and changes associated with pregnancy and lactation (vii) In comparison to the women officers, the male officers who were granted PC in their 5th or 10th year of service continue to serve in the Army on different ranks, regardless of whether they have undergone any physiological changes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, medical conditions at a later age are not an impediment in the career progression of male officers as once the PC is granted, there is no repeated medical scrutiny (viii) Male officers who have been granted PC in their 5th or 10th year of service and have later fallen in the PLMC category are still permitted to continue till the attainment of the age of superannuation for all career courses, promotions to higher ranks, and opportunities of reemployment among others (ix) The petitioners at the time of grant of extension of service at their 5th, 10th or 14th year have undergone the necessary medical boards and were found fit to continue in the Army and (x) Owing to the physiological changes occurring due to natural processes of aging and hormonal changes occurring due to pregnancy, women officers are naturally downgraded to a category lower than SHAPE1.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, they are unable to meet the stringent criteria laid down by the General Instructions for the grant of PC Reliance placed on Annual Confidential Reports(ACR) (xi) The reliance placed on ACRs as a basis to grant PC to women officers is flawed as in the absence of any provision of PC to women officers, the reporting officers used to endorse an N A in the column relating to PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the women officers could only seek an extension of service as SSC officers and not a PC in the Army, the ACRs were filled out by the reporting officers casually, as compared to the ACRs of male officers (xii) With respect to the women officers, the columns regarding medical fitness in the ACRs were never filled.	Arguments of Petitioner
In case the women officers were medically unfit, they were not given an opportunity to improve (xiii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The ACRs prepared during the term of criterion appointments have a disproportionate and adverse impact on the petitioners, as they quantify participation in junior command courses and other courses such as staff college and specialised courses such as M.Tech.	Arguments of Petitioner
Women officers were either denied the opportunity of attending these courses or if the opportunity was granted, they were not given the benefit of their performance during such courses in the ACRs of that year (xiv)	Arguments of Petitioner
The process of filling out ACRs for women officers was not conducted seriously and good grades were not awarded as the officers were not being considered for PC at the time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the manner of judging and grading of ACRs for women officers was different from that of male officers and the two cannot be placed on an equal footing (xv)	Arguments of Petitioner
The current performance of the women officers and their latest ACRs has been completely ignored for the grant of PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the hard work and qualifications attained after the 10th year of service have not been taken into account (xvi) Reliance was placed on MoD Policy Letter dated 24 February 2012 on the Criteria for Grant of Permanent Commission Extension to Short Service commissioned Officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to para 3 of this letter, for considering an officer for extension of service grant of PC, the overall performance of the officer is to be evaluated by taking the average assessment of all reporting officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The average has to be worked out for the entire period of the officers service.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the exclusion of the recent ACRs of the petitioners for grant of PC is unfair and arbitrary and Lack of announcement of vacancies (xvii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent has failed to announce the number of vacancies against which PC would be granted to women officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The number of vacancies available in each batch service is necessary for an officer to make an informed choice of opting for PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent failed to earmark the vacancies available to each batch within each service arm for grant of PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
37.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Sudhanshu S Pandey, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1457 of 2020, urged the following submissions The women officers have never had a level playing field in the Army since their induction (ii) The use of ACRs as a metric for the grant of PC is arbitrary as unlike their male counterparts, the women officers were never given the reasons for nonrecommendation for an extension of service promotion the assessment criteria for male and female officers in an ACR was entirely different as the women officers were not being considered for future career progression (iii) The consideration of ACRs of only the initial few years has led to a situation where women officers who have been granted commendation certificates and honours by the Chief of Army Staff(COAS) have not been granted PC and (iv) In 2001, a new evaluation system called UAC was introduced which was not easily accessible and was found to be flawed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Although, ACRs were subsequently reintroduced, the UAC has been made a basis for evaluation and grant of PC to women officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
In addition to the above petitioners, certain other women officers who are petitioners have faced specific circumstances which have been highlighted during the proceedings (i) The third petitioner in Writ Petition (C) 1109 of 2020, who has been denied PC by the results dated 19 November 2020, was selected to undertake an M. Tech degree course under the auspices of the Army.	Arguments of Petitioner
During the application process for selection, the petitioner was required to give a certificate of remittance dated 28 November 2019 stating that if her service is terminated or released by the Government due to the finalization of court proceedings in the matter concerning the grant of PC, the officer would be liable to pay the Government the cost of the training.	Arguments of Petitioner
On her selection, she was also required to given an undertaking dated 17 July 2020 to serve the Army for a minimum period of 5 years after completion of the course.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the undertaking, if she obtained release or premature retirement, she would be liable to pay for the cost of the training course.	Arguments of Petitioner
After the denial of PC by the Army on 19 November 2020, a letter dated 1 December 2020 was issued to her demanding recovery of the training cost of the course, to the tune of Rs. 8.5 lakh  10 lakhs (ii) The petitioner in Writ Petition (C) 1469 of 2021 has stated that she is being harassed by the respondent only on account of the fact that she had made a complaint against her Commanding Officer, who had allegedly made sexual advances towards her.	Arguments of Petitioner
Although the petitioners service was terminated and she was released from service on 14 February 2018, her case was considered for a special review later.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 21 February 2019, she was granted an extension of 4 years in service till 16 March 2021.	Arguments of Petitioner
She has advanced similar arguments against the process for the grant of PC as the other petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
During the course of the proceedings, the Court was informed that she is being considered by a Special Review Board and awaiting the results and (iii) The petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 34 of 2021 have supported the submissions advanced by other petitioners before the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
These petitioners are 5 women officers of WSES(O) 27th batch, who were commissioned in the Army as SSC officers on 18 March 2006 and completed their 14 years of service on 18 March 2020.	Arguments of Petitioner
During the grant of PC, the petitioners were considered to fall in the category under Para 1(c) of the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020, that is WSES(O) 27 to 31 and SSCW(TNT) 1 to 3 courses For PC To be released on completion of the period of extension already granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners contended that while as on the date of the judgment in Babita Puniya (supra), they had not completed 14 years of service, as on the date of the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020, they had completed 14 years and 6 months in service.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, they were to be considered in the category under Para 1(b) of the General Instructions WSES(O) 15  26 courses For PC To serve till 20 years of pensionable service and released with pension.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, they have submitted that under the judgment in Babita Puniya (supra), in case they are not granted PC and have served for more than 14 years, they should be entitled to continue in service till the attainment of pensionable service.	Arguments of Petitioner
39.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1223 of 2020, are in the category of women officers belonging to batch 27 to 31, having been in service for 1014 years.	Arguments of Petitioner
In terms of the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020, they have been placed in the category under Para 1(c), under which in case of nongrant of PC, they would be released on completion of their extension period, without any pension.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Huzefa A Ahmadi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf the petitioners in Writ Petition (C) 1223 of 2020, made the following submissions There was no valid basis for differentiating between the women officers of batches 27 to 31 from their seniors in batches 15 to 26 in the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents have wrongly interpreted the decision of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra) and have denied extension of service till 20 years to WSSCOs who have not been granted PC and who had not completed 14 years of service as on the date of the judgment in Babita Puniya (supra) and (b)	Arguments of Petitioner
In case such women officers from batches 27 to 31 who were in service between 10 years to 14 years, are released on completion of 14 years of service without pension, it would be a gross miscarriage of justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
E.2 Submissions of the respondents Mr Sanjay Jain, learned ASG, appeared on behalf of the respondents, assisted by Mr R Balasubramaniam, Senior Counsel.	None
Addressing three broad issues on the (i) medical yardsticks for grant of PC (ii) number of vacancies notified and the criteria for selection and (iii) process of evaluation through the ACRs, the learned ASG made the following submissions Medical Yardsticks for grant of PC A writ petition under Article 32 is not maintainable for reliefs sought in service matters.	None
The petitioners should have approached the Armed Forces Tribunal with their statutory grievance as has been held by this Court in Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Orissa and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1983) 2 SCC 433 ( this submission in the counter has not been pressed during the hearing)	Arguments of Respondent
After the decision of this court in Babita Puniya (supra), the respondents conducted a Special No. 5 Selection Board between 14 to 25 September 2020 to consider women for PC.	Arguments of Respondent
57 out of the 422 women eligible did not opt for PC.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, out of the remaining 365, 277 were found eligible for PC The petitioners, on one hand seek parity with their male counterparts.	None
On the other hand, they are seeking special and unjustified treatment in the eligibility criteria for obtaining PC The General Instructions dated 01 August 2020 are administrative instructions based on the provisions of the SAI 3/S/70 and AO 110/1981.	None
The latter provisions have not been challenged by the petitioners The assessment on the medical criteria of a candidate is an intrinsic and inseparable part of the process for grant of PC.	None
It is applicable to men and women alike The acronym SHAPE, translates as S for psychological including cognitive function abnormalities, H for hearing, A for appendages, P for physical capacity and E for eyesight The stringent requirements of SHAPE1 can be relaxed in the event candidates have suffered injury on the line of duty which renders a low medical categorization permissible The Army follows a concept of TLMC which allows an officer to come back in SHAPE1 in one year.	None
This concept is applicable to the grant of PC as well No SSC officer has ever been denied an extension of service due to medical reasons.	None
Therefore, the comparison with the petitioners medical fitness levels at their 5th or 10th year of service is baseless, since extensions were never denied on medical grounds The contention that medical fitness cannot be expected forever in service lacks merits.	Arguments of Respondent
The Army accounts for physiological changes occurring during childbirth and time waivers are provided in accordance with existing policies.	Arguments of Respondent
Other physiological changes such as obesity and age are independent of gender and the petitioners cannot seek an exemption on that ground.	Arguments of Respondent
The criteria of TLMC and PLMC are applicable to serving PC officers as well The medical standard of SHAPE1 weight is as per the age and height of the person.	Arguments of Respondent
These parameters account for the changes induced by advancement of age in men and women.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the petitioners belated consideration for PC does not adversely impact them as against their male counterparts WSSCOs who seek to join the Army Medical Corps(AMC) can join up to 45 years of age, yet they have to comply with the SHAPE1 medical category There are 86 petitioners who are contesting this batch of petitions.	Arguments of Respondent
Out of these 86 petitioners, 55 are still in SHAPE1 (out of these 55, 30 women are in the age group of 4552).	Arguments of Respondent
23 petitioners are assigned to the category of PLMC and 9 are placed in TLMC	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents have wholeheartedly complied with the directions of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra) and had identified 365 women for PC.	Arguments of Respondent
277 women have already been granted PC and if certain requirements are fulfilled by allottees, the number could rise up to 330 This Court, in consonance with the spirit of Article 33, should not interfere with the medical yardsticks for determination of PC as this could be detrimental to the selected officers and the Army cannot afford to comprise on the rigour of its fitness policies Number of Vacancies Notified The MoD, by its letter dated 15 January 1991 had provided that a maximum of 250 SSC officers would be granted PC every year, with a minimum cutoff grade of 60.	None
In case more than 250 officers would make the grade, then only 250 posts would be granted based on competitive merit.	Arguments of Respondent
No male officer has been granted PC merely by virtue of qualifying for the 60 cutoff.	Arguments of Respondent
This policy and cap of 250 vacancies was relaxed for the Special No. 5 Selection Board proceedings, in order to implement Babita Puniya (supra), in letter and spirit The benchmark of assessing the women officers under consideration of PC against the benchmark of the last selected officer with lowest merit in that particular year is a rational policy, since no upper ceiling was notified for vacancies.	Arguments of Respondent
The PC has to be granted on competitive merit.	Arguments of Respondent
The policy adopted by the respondent is rational, reasonable and nondiscriminatory and The least meritorious male officer granted PC with the corresponding batch of the WSSCOs is an objective and just benchmark.	Arguments of Respondent
This yardstick was also adopted by the respondent when PC was offered to women SSC officers in JAG and AEC in 2010 Process of Evaluation through ACRs The ACRs are merely one component of the evaluation for PC, which also includes other factors of (i) honors and awards (ii) performance on courses (iii) recommendations for PC (iv) disciplinary awards and (v) strong and weak points.	Arguments of Respondent
In terms of the erstwhile policy dated 15 January 1991 and the existing policy dated 24 February 2012, competitive merit has to be seen inter se officers under consideration for grant of PC.	Arguments of Respondent
The decision of this Court in Brig.	Arguments of Respondent
Nalin Kumar Bhatia v. Union of India(Civil	Arguments of Respondent
Appeal No 5629 of 2017 decided on 11 February 2020) on the inapplicability of value judgement by the Selection Board was premised on its peculiar set of facts where the officer there was the sole person in the batch to be considered for a promotion.	Arguments of Respondent
The case was not an indictment of policies of inter se merit The Special No. 5 Selection Board were alive to the reality that the column for recommendation of PC for the women officers would be blank.	None
Accordingly, the evaluation was conducted on the assumption that all of the women who had opted for PC were recommended for the grant of PC and accordingly were not granted a 2 mark deduction and The petitioners in Babita Puniya (supra) had contended that the consideration of ACRs for the first 5/10 years of service was a just and valid criterion for granting PC.	None
Belatedly requesting for the entire career record to be considered would be contrary to applicable policies and the directions in Babita Puniya (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
E.3	None
The petitioners in rejoinder 41.	None
Responding to the submissions of the ASG, Mr Patwalia and Ms Arora, learned Senior Counsel, Mr Sudhanshu S Pandey and Mr Mohan Kumar, learned counsel, have submitted thus (i)	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents have admitted that as a special case, the vacancy cap had been lifted for consideration of women officers for PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The placement of a vacancy cap could be the only reason for a comparative determination of merit for PC (ii) In comparison to women officers, 85 to 100 male officers have been granted PC and (iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The total marks for each woman officer were compared to the lowest marks achieved by the male officer who was granted PC, for determination of whether the woman officer would qualify for grant of PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
After this, the women officers were considered against each other on merit and the grant of PC was determined.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the women officers first, had to meet the benchmark of the lowest qualifying male officers and second, compete inter se women officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is in stark contrast to the male officers who had to meet no external benchmark and were only required to compete among themselves, in the event that they were in excess of 250 candidates.	Arguments of Petitioner
F Systemic Discrimination At its heart, this case presents this Court with the opportunity to choose one of two competing visions of the antidiscrimination guarantee embodied in Article 14 and 15(1) of the Constitution formal versus substantive equality.	None
The formal conception of antidiscrimination law is captured well by Anatole Frances observation The law, in its majestic equality, prohibits the rich and the poor alike from sleeping under bridges, begging in the streets and stealing bread.(Anatole	None
France, THE RED LILY (1898))	None
Under the formal and symmetric conception of antidiscrimination law, all that the law requires is that likes be treated alike.	None
Equality, under this conception, has no substantive underpinnings.	None
It is premised on the notion that fairness demands consistency in treatment.(Sandra Fredman, DISCRIMINATION LAW (Oxford University Press, 2nd edition)2011 at p.8	None
(Sandra Fredman, Discrimination Law))	Reasoning
Under this analysis, the fact that some protected groups are disproportionately and adversely impacted by the operation of the concerned law or its practice, makes no difference.	None
An apt illustration of this phenomenon would be the United States Supreme Courts judgment in Washington v. Davis(426 U.S. 229 (1976)), which held that a facially neutral qualifying test was not violative of the equal protection guarantee contained in the 14th Amendment of the American Constitution merely because AfricanAmericans disproportionately failed the test.	None
On the other hand, under a substantive approach, the antidiscrimination guarantee pursues more ambitious objectives.	None
The model of substantive equality developed by Professor Sandra Fredman views the aim of antidiscrimination law as being to pursue 4 overlapping objectives.	None
She states as follows First, it aims to break the cycle of disadvantage associated with status or outgroups.	None
This reflects the redistributive dimension of equality.	None
Secondly, it aims to promote respect for dignity and worth, thereby redressing stigma, stereotyping, humiliation, and violence because of membership of an identity group.	None
This reflects a recognition dimension.	None
Thirdly, it should not exact conformity as a price of equality.	None
Instead, it should accommodate difference and aim to achieve structural change.	None
This captures the transformative dimension.	None
Finally, substantive equality should facilitate full participation in society, both socially and politically.	None
This is the participative dimension.(Sandra	None
Fredman, Discrimination Law (supra n. 28), p. 24)	Reasoning
Recognizing that certain groups have been subjected to patterns of discrimination and marginalization, this conception provides that the attainment of factual equality is possible only if we account for these ground realities.	None
This conception eschews the uncritical adoption of laws and practices that appear neutral but in fact help to validate and perpetuate an unjust status quo.	None
Indirect discrimination is closely tied to the substantive conception of equality outlined above.	Reasoning
The doctrine of substantive equality and anti stereotyping has been a critical evolution of the Indian constitutional jurisprudence on Article 14 and 15(1).	Reasoning
The spirit of these tenets have been endorsed in a consistent line of authority by this Court.	Reasoning
To illustrate, in Anuj Garg v. Hotel Association of India (2008) 3 SCC 1 , this Court held that laws premised on sexbased stereotypes are constitutionally impermissible, in that they are outmoded in content and stifling in means.	Reasoning
The Court further held that no law that ends up perpetuating the oppression of women could pass scrutiny.	Reasoning
Barriers that prevent women from enjoying full and equal citizenship, it was held, must be dismantled, as opposed to being cited to validate an unjust status quo.	Reasoning
In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India (2014) 5 SCC 438 , this Court recognized how the patterns of discrimination and disadvantage faced by the transgender community and enumerated a series of remedial measures that can be taken for their empowerment.	Reasoning
In Jeeja Ghosh v. Union of India (2016) 7 SCC 761 and Vikash Kumar v. Union Public Service Commission 2021 SCC OnLine SC 84 this Court recognized reasonable accommodation as a substantive equality facilitator.	Reasoning
The jurisprudence relating to indirect discrimination in India is still at a nascent stage.	Reasoning
Having said that, indirect discrimination has found its place in the jurisprudence of this Court in Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India (2018) 10 SCC 1 , paras 442446, where one of us (Chandrachud J), in holding Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code as unconstitutional insofar as it decriminalizes homosexual intercourse amongst consenting adults, drew on the doctrine of indirect discrimination.	Reasoning
This was in arriving at the conclusion that this facially neutral provision disproportionately affected members of the LGBT community.	Reasoning
This reliance was in affirmation of the decision of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation v. Government of NCT of Delhi (2009) 111 DRJ 1 (DB) which had relied on the Declaration of Principles of Equality issued by the Equal Rights Trust Act in 2008 in recognizing that indirect discrimination occurs when a provision, criterion or practice would put persons having a status or a characteristic associated with one or more prohibited grounds at a particular disadvantage compared with other persons, unless that provision, criterion or practice is objectively justified by a legitimate aim, and the means of achieving that aim are appropriate and necessary.(Id.	Reasoning
at para 93)	Reasoning
Similarly, this Court has recognized the fashion in which discrimination operates by dint of structures of oppression and domination which prevent certain groups from enjoying the full panoply of entitlements.	Reasoning
( Indian Young Lawyers Assn. v. State of Kerala, 2018 SCC OnLine SC 1690, (Chandrachud J., concurring opinion, paragraph 117) Joseph Shine v. Union of India, 2018 SC OnLine SC 1676, (Chandrachud J, concurring opinion, para 38) (Joseph Shine))	Reasoning
The focus in antidiscrimination enquiry, has switched from looking at the intentions or motive of the discriminator to examining whether a rule, formally or substantively, contributes to the subordination of a disadvantaged group of individuals(Ibid, Joseph Shine).	Reasoning
Indirect discrimination has also been recognized by the High Courts in India(Patel Suleman Gaibi v. State of Maharashtra, 2014 SCC OnLine Bom 4639).	Reasoning
For instance, in the matters of public sector employment, the Delhi High Court in Inspector (Mahila) Ravina v. Union of India(Writ Petition (C) 4525 of 2014, Delhi High Court (6 August 2015)) and in Madhu v. Northern Railways, has upheld challenges to conditions of employment, which though appear to be neutral, have an adverse effect on one section of the society.	Reasoning
Bhat, J., while analyzing the principles of indirect discrimination in Madhu (supra), held This Court itself has recognised that actions taken on a seemingly innocent ground can in fact have discriminatory effects due to the structural inequalities that exist between classes.	None
When the CRPF denied promotion to an officer on the ground that she did not take the requisite course to secure promotion, because she was pregnant, the Delhi High Court struck down the action as discriminatory.	Reasoning
Such actions would inherently affect women more than men.	Reasoning
The Court in Inspector (Mahila) Ravina v. Union of India W.P.(C) 4525/2014 stated, A seemingly neutral reason such as inability of the employee, or unwillingness, if not probed closely, would act in a discriminatory manner, directly impacting her service rights.	Reasoning
That is exactly what has happened here though CRPF asserts that seniority benefit at par with the petitioners colleagues and batchmates (who were able to clear course No. 85) cannot be given to her because she did not attend that course, in truth, her unwillingness stemmed from her inability due to her pregnancy.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
We must clarify here that the use of the term indirect discrimination is not to refer to discrimination which is remote, but is, instead, as real as any other form of discrimination.	Reasoning
Indirect discrimination is caused by facially neutral criteria by not taking into consideration the underlying effects of a provision, practice or a criterion(Interchangeably referred as PCP).	Reasoning
The facts of this case present an opportune moment for evaluating the practices of the respondents in evaluation for the grant of PC.	None
In this segment of the judgment, we will first outline the theoretical foundations of the doctrine of indirect discrimination.	None
We will then survey comparative jurisprudence concerning the doctrine, with a view to understand its key constituents and the legal questions surrounding its application, namely the evidentiary burden to be discharged to invoke the doctrine and the standards of justification to be applied.	None
We will then offer a roadmap for understanding and operationalizing indirect discrimination in Indian antidiscrimination law.	None
In evaluating direct and indirect discrimination, it is important to underscore that these tests, when applied in strict disjunction from one another, may end up producing narrow conceptions of equality which may not account for systemic flaws that embody discrimination.	None
Therefore, we will conclude this section with an understanding of a systemic frame of analysis, in order to adequately redress the full extent of harm that certain groups suffer, merely on account of them possessing characteristics that are prohibited axles of discrimination.	None
F.1 Theoretical Foundations of Indirect Discrimination Hugh Collins and Tarunabh Khaitan explain the concept of indirect discrimination using Aesops fable of the fox and the stork.	None
They note Aesops fable of the fox and the stork invokes the idea of indirect discrimination.	None
The story tells how the fox invited the stork for a meal.	None
For a mean joke, the fox served soup in a shallow dish, which the fox could lap up easily, but the stork could only wet the end of her long bill on the plate and departed still hungry.	None
The stork invited the fox for a return visit and served soup in a longnecked jar with a narrow mouth, into which the fox could not insert his snout.	None
Whilst several moral lessons might be drawn from this tale, it is often regarded as supporting the principle that one should have regard to the needs of others, so that everyone may be given fair opportunities in life.	None
Though formally giving each animal an equal opportunity to enjoy the dinner, in practice the vessels for the serving of the soup inevitably excluded the guest on account of their particular characteristics.(FOUNDATIONS OF INDIRECT DISCRIMINATION LAW (Hugh Collins and Tarunabh Khaitan (eds), Hart Publishing) 2018 at p.1)	None
Another excellent formulation of the doctrine can be found in the opinion of Advocate General Maduro of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU).	None
He notes that the distinctive attribute of direct discrimination is that the discriminator explicitly relies on a suspect classification (prohibited ground of discrimination) to act in a certain way.	None
Such classification serves as an essential premise of the discriminators reasoning.	None
On the other hand, in indirect discrimination, the intention of the discriminator, and the reasons for his actions are irrelevant.	None
He pertinently observes In fact, this is the whole point of the prohibition of indirect discrimination even neutral, innocent or good faith measures and policies adopted with no discriminatory intent whatsoever will be caught if their impact on persons who have a particular characteristic is greater than their impact on other persons.(Coleman v. Attridge Law, 2008 IRLR 722)	None
Thus, as long as a courts focus is on the mental state underlying the impugned action that is allegedly discriminatory, we are in the territory of direct discrimination.	None
However, when the focus switches to the effects of the concerned action, we enter the territory of indirect discrimination.	None
An enquiry as to indirect discrimination looks, not at the form of the impugned conduct, but at its consequences.	None
In a case of direct discrimination, the judicial enquiry is confined to the act or conduct at issue, abstracted from the social setting or background factsituation in which the act or conduct takes place.	None
In indirect discrimination, on the other hand, the subject matter of the enquiry is the institutional or societal framework within which the impugned conduct occurs.	None
The doctrine seeks to broaden the scope of antidiscrimination law to equip the law to remedy patterns of discrimination that are not as easily discernible.	None
F.2 Position in the United States The genesis of the doctrine can be traced to the celebrated United States Supreme Court judgment in Griggs v. Duke Power Co Griggs, 401 US 424, 431 (1971).	None
The issue concerned manual work for which the prescribed qualifications included the possession of a high school education and satisfactory results in an aptitude test.	None
Two facts about the case bear emphasis.	None
First, due to the inferior quality of segregated school education, AfricanAmerican candidates were disqualified in higher numbers because of the aforementioned requirements than their white counterparts.	None
Second, neither of these two requirements was shown to be significantly related to successful job performance.	None
Construing the prohibition on discrimination embodied in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Chief Justice Burger held The Act proscribes not only overt discrimination but also practices that are fair in form, but discriminatory in operation.	None
He went on good intent or absence of discriminatory intent does not redeem employment procedures or testing mechanisms that operate as builtin headwinds for minority groups and are unrelated to measuring job capability.	None
(Griggs, 401 US 424, 431 (1971) at p. 431)	None
On the question of the standard of justification for rebutting a charge of indirect discrimination, the Court held as follows The touchstone is business necessity.	None
If an employment practice which operates to exclude Negroes cannot be shown to be related to job performance, the practice is prohibited.(Griggs, 401 US 424, 431 (1971) at p. 431) Griggs, therefore, laid the groundwork for the thinking that meaningful equality does not merely mean the absence of intentional inequality.	None
A statutory manifestation of disparate impact was codified in US law in the shape of the Civil Rights Act of 1991.	None
Section 105 of the Civil Rights Act of 1991 makes a practice causing disparate impact a prima facie violation.	None
The presumption can be rebutted by establishing that the practice is linked to the job and business.	None
This can be overcome by a showing of alternative, equally efficacious, practices not causing disparate impact.	None
In 2005, in Smith v. City of Jackson 544 US 228 (2005), the US Supreme Court construed statutory language in The Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 1967 which proscribed actions which otherwise adversely affect an employee.	None
This was read to include disparate impact liability.	None
The Court held that this phrase focuses on the effects of the action on the employee rather than the motivation for the action of the employer.	None
The third major case on disparate impact liability decided by the US Supreme Court was in 2015, concerning the Fair Housing Act which the Court interpreted as including disparate impact liability.(Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs v. Inclusive Communities Project Inc, 135 S Ct 2411 2015, per Kennedy J)	None
The Court also made instructive observations on the burden of proof that a plaintiff espousing a claim of disparate impact on the basis of statistical disparity must discharge.	None
It held that the plaintiff must be able to establish that the defendants policy is the cause of the disparity.	None
The Court noted A robust causality requirement protects defendants from being liable for racial disparities they did not create.(Id.	None
at para 20)	None
On the standard of justification for rebutting such a claim, the Court held that courts must assess claims of disparate impact liability with caution so that defendants are provided reasonable margin for devising requisite policies that are tailored for their work requirement.	None
F.3 Position in the United Kingdom In the United Kingdom (UK), the faultline that separates direct discrimination from indirect discrimination is not the intention of the discriminator.	None
Rather, it is the fact that direct discrimination cannot be justified in any circumstance, while indirect discrimination is susceptible to justification.	None
To quote Baroness Hale Direct and indirect discrimination are mutually exclusive.	None
You cannot have both at once The main difference between them is that direct discrimination cannot be justified.	None
Indirect discrimination can be justified if it is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.(R (on the application of E) v. JFS Governing Body, 2009 UKSC 15, para 57)	None
The statutory definition of indirect discrimination is engrafted in Section 19 of the Equality Act, 2010.	None
The definition has 4 salient features.	None
First, it covers provisions, criteria and practices that are applied in a uniform fashion, to those with and without the ground on which discrimination is alleged.	None
Second, the PCP puts, or would put, persons with whom the claimant shares the relevant ground at a particular disadvantage when compared with persons with whom the claimant does not share it.	None
Third, the claimant herself would be put, or is put, to such disadvantage by the operation of the PCP.	None
Finally, the defendant cannot show the PCP to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.	None
An instructive judgment of the UK Supreme Court for us is Essop v. Home Office (UK Border Agency) 2017 UKSC 27.	None
At issue was the allegedly disproportionate impact of an exam called the Core Skills Assessment, to secure public sector employment and promotion in civil services, on black and minority ethnic (BME) and older candidates.	None
The Court noted the statistical disparity in the following terms The BME pass rate was 40.3 of that of the white candidates.	None
The pass rate of candidates aged 35 or older was 37.4 of that of those below that age.	None
In each case, there was a 0.1 likelihood that this could happen by chance.	None
Of course, they did not all fail.	None
Noone knows why the proportion of BME or older candidates failing is significantly higher than the proportion of white or younger candidates failing.	None
The Court outlined the following salient features of indirect discrimination in UK law There is no need for the claimant to show why the PCP discriminates against individuals possessing the relevant ground.	None
The fact that the PCP has such a disproportionate impact is sufficient Direct discrimination requires a causal link between the less favourable treatment and the relevant ground.	None
On the other hand, indirect discrimination requires a causal link between the PCP and the particular disadvantage suffered by the group and the individual.	None
This difference is rooted in the fact that the aim of direct discrimination is to achieve equality of treatment.	None
On the other hand, indirect discrimination seeks to create a level playing field, by spotting and eliminating hidden barriers which disproportionately affect a particular group, absent a legally acceptable justification The inability of the relevant group to comply with the PCP can be ascribed to a variety of context factors.	None
These can include genetic factors, social understandings, archetypal presuppositions, etc.	None
In order for a claim of indirect discrimination to succeed, it is not necessary to show that every single member of the group possessing the relevant ground was unable to meet the PCP.	None
It is enough to show that the PCP disproportionately disadvantaged members of the concerned group It is commonplace for indirect discrimination to be established on the basis of statistical evidence.	None
Such evidence is often able to show the causal link that a particular variable played in arriving at a particular outcome and Finally, the defendant can always rebut a charge of indirect discrimination by showing that there exists a good justification for the PCP at issue.	None
F.4 Position in South Africa In keeping with the progressive vision of the South African Constitution, Section 9 of the South African Constitution prohibits indirect discrimination.	None
The judicial exegesis of indirect discrimination can first be found in the judgment of the South African Constitutional Court(SACC) in the case of City Council of Pretoria v. Walker (1998) 3 BCLR 257, paras 3132 in which the Court expounded on the doctrine in the following terms The concept of indirect discrimination, was developed precisely to deal with situations where discrimination lay disguised behind apparently neutral criteria or where persons already adversely hit by patterns of historic subordination had their disadvantage entrenched or intensified by the impact of measures not overtly intended to prejudice them.	None
In many cases, particularly those in which indirect discrimination is alleged, the protective purpose would be defeated if the persons complaining of discrimination had to prove not only that they were unfairly discriminated against but also that the unfair discrimination was intentional.	None
This problem would be particularly acute in cases of indirect discrimination where there is almost always some purpose other than a discriminatory purpose involved in the conduct or action to which objection is taken.	None
In elaborating on how the impugned provision does not necessarily have to make a suspect classification on the grounds of race, the SACC concluded that differentiation between the treatment of residents of areas which were historically, and overwhelmingly occupied by black persons.as opposed to areas which were still overwhelmingly white was sufficient to evince indirect discrimination on the grounds of race.	None
In a recent judgment in Mahlangu and Another v. Minister of Labour 2020 ZACC 24, the SACC had to rule on the constitutionality of Section 1(xix)(v) of the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act.	None
This provision explicitly excluded domestic workers from the definition of employees under the Act.	None
This had the consequence of depriving domestic workers access to the social security benefits contained in the legislation, in the event of injury, disablement and death.	None
The SACC, inter alia, returned a finding that the provision was hit by the constitutional prohibition on indirect discrimination.	None
This was for the reason that domestic workers are predominantly black women.	None
As a result, held the Court This means discrimination against them constitutes indirect discrimination on the basis of race, sex and gender.	None
F.5 Position in Canada In Ontario Human Rights Commission v. SimpsonsSears Ontario HRC, 1985 2	None
SCR 53, the Canadian Supreme Court expounded the doctrine of indirect discrimination (what it called adverse effects discrimination), while entertaining a challenge under Section 4(1)(g) of the Ontario Human Rights Code(Section 4(1)(g) of the Ontario Human Rights Code prohibited discrimination against an employee with regards to any term or condition of employment on the basis of race, creed, colour, sex, age etc.).	None
In analyzing whether a work policy mandating inflexible working hours on Friday evenings and Saturdays indirectly discriminated against the Appellant on the basis of her creed, in that her religion required her to strictly observe the Sabbath, the Court noted A distinction must be made between what I would describe as direct discrimination and the concept already referred to as adverse effect discrimination in connection with employment.	None
Direct discrimination occurs in this connection where an employer adopts a practice or rule which on its face discriminates on a prohibited ground.	None
For example, No Catholics or no women or no blacks employed here.	None
There is, of course, no disagreement in the case at bar that direct discrimination of that nature would contravene the Act.	None
On the other hand, there is the concept of adverse effect discrimination.	None
It arises where an employer for genuine business reasons adopts a rule or standard which is on its face neutral, and which will apply equally to all employees, but which has a discriminatory effect upon a prohibited ground on one employee or group of employees in that it imposes, because of some special characteristic of the employee or group, obligations, penalties, or restrictive conditions not imposed on other members of the work force.	None
For essentially the same reasons that led to the conclusion that an intent to discriminate was not required as an element of discrimination contravening the Code I am of the opinion that this Court may consider adverse effect discrimination as described in these reasons a contradiction of the terms of the Code.	None
An employment rule honestly made for sound economic or business reasons, equally applicable to all to whom it is intended to apply, may yet be discriminatory if it affects a person or group of persons differently from others to whom it may apply.	None
From the foregoing I therefore conclude that the appellant showed a prima facie case of discrimination based on creed before the Board of Inquiry.	None
It was further noted that the aim of the guarantee against discrimination is not to punish the discriminator, but rather to provide relief for the victims of discrimination.	None
It is the result or the effect of the action complained of which is significant.	None
Thus if the impugned action has the effect to impose on one person or group of persons obligations, penalties, or restrictive conditions not imposed on other members of the community, it is discriminatory.(Ontario HRC (supra n.60) at para 12)	None
The principles laid down in Ontario HRC (supra) were consistently applied by the courts in Canada to protect indirect discrimination.	None
In a recent judgment in Fraser v. Canada (Attorney General)((Fraser), 2020 SCC 28), the Canadian Supreme Court was called on to determine the constitutionality of a rule categorizing jobsharing positions as parttime work for which participants could not receive fulltime pension.	None
Under the jobsharing programme, optees for the programme could split the duties and responsibilities of one fulltime position.	None
A large majority of the optees for the jobsharing programme were women, who found it burdensome to carry out the responsibilities of work and domestic work and were particularly hit by the new rule as they would lose out on pension benefits.	None
The Court recognized indirect discrimination as a legal response to the fact that discrimination is frequently a product of continuing to do things the way they have always been done, as opposed to intentionally discriminatory actions.(Id.	None
at para 31)	None
Pertinently, the Court outlined a 2step test for conducting an indirect discrimination enquiry.	None
First, the Court has to enquire whether the impugned rule disproportionately affects a particular group.	None
As an evidentiary matter, this entails a consideration of material that demonstrates that membership in the claimant group is associated with certain characteristics that have disadvantaged members of the group.	None
However, as such evidence might be hard to come by, reliance can be placed on evidence generated by the claimant group itself.	None
Further, while statistical evidence can serve as concrete proof of disproportionate impact, there is no clear quantitative threshold as to the quantum of disproportionality to be established for a charge of indirect discrimination to be brought home.	None
Equally, recognizing the importance of applying a robust judicial common sense, the Court held In some cases, evidence about a group will show such a strong association with certain traits such as pregnancy with genderthat the disproportionate impact on members of that group will be apparent and immediate.(Id.	None
at paras 5072) Second, the Court has to look at whether the law has the effect of reinforcing, perpetuating, or exacerbating disadvantage.	None
Such disadvantage could be in the shape of economic exclusion or disadvantage, social exclusionpsychological harmsphysical harmsor political exclusion, and must be viewed in light of any systemic or historical disadvantages faced by the claimant group.(Id.	None
at para 76) F.6 Evolving an analytical framework for indirect discrimination in India A study of the above cases and scholarly works gives rise to the following key learnings.	None
First, the doctrine of indirect discrimination is founded on the compelling insight that discrimination can often be a function, not of conscious design or malicious intent, but unconscious implicit biases or an inability to recognize how existing structures institutions, and ways of doing things, have the consequence of freezing an unjust status quo.	Reasoning
In order to achieve substantive equality prescribed under the Constitution, indirect discrimination, even sans discriminatory intent, must be prohibited.	Reasoning
Second, and as a related point, the distinction between direct and indirect discrimination can broadly be drawn on the basis of the former being predicated on intent, while the latter is based on effect (US, South Africa, Canada).	Reasoning
Alternatively, it can be based on the fact that the former cannot be justified, while the latter can (UK).	Reasoning
We are of the considered view that the intention versus effects distinction is a sound jurisprudential basis on which to distinguish direct from indirect discrimination.	Reasoning
This is for the reason that the most compelling feature of indirect discrimination, in our view, is the fact that it prohibits conduct, which though not intended to be discriminatory, has that effect.	Reasoning
As the Canadian Supreme Court put it in Ontario HRC (supra), requiring proof of intention to establish discrimination puts an insuperable barrier in the way of a complainant seeking a remedy.	Reasoning
( Ontario HRC (supra n. 60), para 14)	Reasoning
It is this barrier that a robust conception of indirect discrimination can enable us to counteract.	Reasoning
Third, on the nature of evidence required to prove indirect discrimination, statistical evidence that can establish how the impugned provision, criteria or practice is the cause for the disproportionately disadvantageous outcome can be one of the ways to establish the play of indirect discrimination.	Reasoning
As Professor Sandra Fredman notes, Aptitude tests, interview and selection processes, and other apparently scientific and neutral measures might never invite scrutiny unless data is available to dislodge these assumptions.(Sandra Fredman, Discrimination Law (supra n. 28) at p. 187)	Reasoning
Consistent with the Canadian Supreme Courts approach in Fraser (supra), we do not think that it would be wise to lay down any quantitative thresholds for the nature of statistical disparity that must be established for a claimant to succeed.	Reasoning
Equally, we do not think that an absolutist position can be adopted as to the nature of evidence that must be brought forth to succeed in a case of indirect discrimination.	Reasoning
The absence of any statistical evidence or inability to statistically demonstrate exclusion cannot be the sole ground for debunking claims of indirect discrimination.	Reasoning
This was clarified by the European Court of Human Rights in a case concerning fifteen Croatians of Roma origin claiming racial discrimination and segregation in schools with Romaonly classes.	Reasoning
In assessing the claims of the fifteen Croatians, the court observed that indirect discrimination can be proved without statistical evidence(Orsus and others v. Croatia, 2010 ECHR 337, para 153).	Reasoning
Therefore, statistical evidence demonstrating patterns of exclusion, can be one of the ways to prove indirect discrimination.	Reasoning
Fourth, insofar as the fashion in which the indirect discrimination enquiry must be conducted, we think that the twostage test laid down by the Canadian Supreme Court in Fraser (supra) offers a wellstructured framework of analysis as it accounts for both the disproportionate impact of the impugned provision, criteria or practice on the relevant group, as well as the harm caused by such impact.	Reasoning
It foregrounds an examination of the ills that indirect discrimination seeks to remedy.	Reasoning
Fifth and finally, while assessing the justifiability of measures that are alleged to have the effect of indirect discrimination, the Court needs to return a finding on whether the narrow provision, criteria or practice is necessary for successful job performance.	Reasoning
In this regard, some amount of deference to the employer defendants view is warranted.	Reasoning
Equally, the Court must resist the temptation to accept generalizations by defendants under the garb of deference and must closely scrutinize the proffered justification.	Reasoning
Further, the Court must also examine if it is possible to substitute the measures with less discriminatory alternatives.	Reasoning
Only by exercising such close scrutiny and exhibiting attentiveness to the possibility of alternatives can a Court ensure that the full potential of the doctrine of indirect discrimination is realized and not lost in its application.	Reasoning
( Sandra Fredman, Discrimination Law (supra n. 28) at p. 194)	Reasoning
F.7 Systemic Discrimination as antithetical to Substantive Equality As noted in the analysis above, the emphasis on intent alone as the key to unlocking discrimination has resulted in several practices, under the veneer of objectivity and equal application to all persons, to fall through the cracks of our equality jurisprudence.	None
Indirect discrimination as a tool of jurisprudential analysis, can result in the redressal of several inequities by probing provisions, criteria or practice that have a disproportionate and adverse impact on members of groups who belong to groups that are constitutionally protected from discrimination under Article 15(1).	Reasoning
However, it needs to be emphasized that a strict emphasis on using only one of the two tools (between direct and indirect discrimination) to establish and redress discrimination may often result in patterns and structures of discrimination remaining unaddressed.	Reasoning
In order to conceptualize substantive equality, it would be apposite to conduct a systemic analysis of discrimination that combines tools of direct and indirect discrimination.	None
In the words of Professor Marie Mercat Bruns(Marie MercatBruns, Systemic discrimination Rethinking the Tools of Gender Equality, EUROPEAN EQUALITY LAW REVIEW, Vol. 2 (European Commission, 2018) at p.56) Systemic discrimination posits the need to conceptualize discrimination in terms of workplace dynamics rather than solely in existing terms of an identifiable actors isolated state of mind, a victims perception of his or her own work environment, or the jobrelatedness of a neutral employment practice with adverse consequences.	None
Systemic discrimination derives from how organizations, as structures discriminate.	None
A particular discriminatory practice or provision might often be insufficient to expose the entire gamut of discrimination that a particular structure may perpetuate.	None
Exclusive reliance on tools of direct or indirect discrimination may also not effectively account for patterns arising out of multiple axles of discrimination.	None
Therefore, a systemic view of discrimination, in perceiving discriminatory disadvantage as a continuum, would account for not just unjust action but also inaction(Id.	None
at p.1013).	None
Structures, in the form of organizations or otherwise, would be probed for the systems or cultures they produce that influence dayto day interaction and decisionmaking.(Tristin K. Green, The Future of Systemic Disparate Treatment Law, BERKELEY JOURNAL OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR LAW, Vol. 32(2), 2011, 400454)	None
The duty of constitutional courts, when confronted with such a scheme of things, would not just be to strike down the discriminatory practices and compensate for the harm hitherto arising out of them but also structure adequate reliefs and remedies that facilitate social re distribution by providing for positive entitlements that aim to negate the scope of future harm.	None
The Supreme Court of Canada, in Action Travail des Femmes v. Canadian National Railway Company(Canadian National Railway Company, (1987) 1 S.C.R. 1114) analyzed the claim of woman seeking equal employment opportunities in the National Railroad Company.	None
In echoing the mutually reinforcing consequences of direct and indirect discrimination within organizational structures as a systemic feature, the Court noted( Id. at 1139) systemic discrimination in an employment context is discrimination that results from the simple operation of established procedures of recruitment, hiring and promotion, none of which is necessarily designed to promote discrimination.	None
The discrimination is then reinforced by the very exclusion of the disadvantaged group because the exclusion fosters the belief, both within and outside the group, that the exclusion is a result of natural forces, for example, that women just cant do the jobTo combat systemic discrimination, it is essential to create a climate in which both negative practices and negative attitudes can be challenged and discouraged In prescribing remedies against systemic discrimination, the Court consciously noted that the remedies do not have to be merely compensatory, but also prospective in terms of the benefit that is designed to improve the situation in the future.	None
The Court structured the remedy as follows An employment equity program thus is designed to work in three ways.	None
First, by countering the cumulative effects of systemic discrimination, such a program renders further discrimination pointless Secondly, by placing members of the group that had previously been excluded into the heart of the work place and by allowing them to prove ability on the job, the employment equity scheme addresses the attitudinal problem of stereotyping Thirdly, an employment equity program helps to create what has been termed a critical mass of the previously excluded group in the work place.	None
This critical mass has important effects.	None
The presence of a significant number of individuals from a targeted group eliminates the problems of tokenism(Canadian National Railway Company (supra n. 74) at p.1143 to 1144).	None
This framework provided in Canadian National Railway Company (supra) was followed by the Human Rights Tribunal of Canada, in the case of National Capital Alliance on Race Relations v. Canada (Health and Welfare)(1997 28 C.H.R.R.D/179 (Canadian Human Rights Tribunal)), wherein the Court had to examine a case against the Health and Welfare Department of Canada for discriminating against visible minorities by establishing employment policies and practices that deprive visible minorities (race, colour and ethnic origin) of employment opportunities in senior management.	None
The Court conducted a holistic analysis of the organization by collating testimonies of workers in the organization and by engaging experts on statistical analysis and human resource management.	None
The evidence of the expert on human resources was analysed to situate systemic issues ranging from ghettoization of minorities in Canada translating into lesser encouragement for professional ambition.	None
Societal impact of discrimination was evidenced in the informal staffing decisions providing fertile ground for unconscious bias and a broader perception of visible minorities as unfit for management.	None
In upholding the claims of the plaintiffs, corrective measures were prescribed to counteract the effects of systemic discrimination in the workforce.	None
In the United States, the Supreme Court analysed a Title VII claim of workers (represented by the Government) in a trucking company alleging pattern and practice of employment discrimination against Negroes and Spanish surnamed Americans by failing to place them equally with whites in long distance, linedriver positions(International Brotherhood of Teamsters v. United States, 431 U.S. 324 (1977)).	None
The Court noted certain legal principles that could govern a claim of systemic disparate treatment and used a mixture of statistical patterns with worker testimonies to arrive at a conclusion of systemic discrimination Consideration of the question whether the company engaged in a pattern or practice of discriminatory hiring practices involves controlling legal principles that are relatively clear.	None
The Governments theory of discrimination was simply that the company, in violation of s 703(a) of Title VII,14 regularly and purposefully treated Negroes and Spanishsurnamed Americans less favorably than white persons.	None
The ultimate factual issues are thus simply whether there was a pattern or practice of such disparate treatment and, if so, whether the differences were racially premised.	None
As the plaintiff, the Government bore the initial burden of making out a prima facie case of discrimination.	None
Albemarle Paper Co. v. Moody, 422 U.S. 405, 425, 95 S.Ct. 2362, 2375, 45 L.Ed.2d 280 McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, supra, 411 U.S., at 802, 93 S.Ct., at 1824.	None
And, because it alleged a systemwide pattern or practice of resistance to the full enjoyment of Title VII rights, the Government ultimately had to prove more than the mere occurrence of isolated or accidental or sporadic discriminatory acts.	None
It had to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that racial discrimination was the companys standard operating procedure the regular rather than the unusual practice.	None
The Government bolstered its statistical evidence with the testimony of individuals who recounted over 40 specific instances of discrimination.	None
Upon the basis of this testimony the District Court found that (n)umerous qualified black and Spanishsurnamed American applicants who sought line driving jobs at the company over the years, either had their requests ignored, were given false or misleading information about requirements, opportunities, and application procedures, or were not considered and hired on the same basis that whites were considered and hired.	None
Minority employees who wanted to transfer to linedriver jobs met with similar difficulties.	None
The companys principal response to this evidence is that statistics can never in and of themselves prove the existence of a pattern or practice of discrimination, or even establish a prima facie case shifting to the employer the burden of rebutting the inference raised by the figures.	None
But, as even our brief summary of the evidence shows, this was not a case in which the Government relied on statistics alone.	None
The individuals who testified about their personal experiences with the company brought the cold numbers convincingly to life.	None
( Id.at p. 334340) (emphasis supplied)	None
Therefore, once a petitioner could establish a prima facie case of discrimination that did not occur as accidental or sporadic instances of conduct, it could prove its case using statistical evidence, witness testimonies and other qualitative methods to establish a preponderance of systemic discrimination.	None
In 1997, in the United Kingdom, Sir William Macpherson, a retired High Court judge, was commissioned to study institutional racism in the police force.	None
This study was situated in the backdrop of the lacunae in the investigation of a murder of Stephen Lawrence, a Black British teenager.	None
The findings, publicized as the Macpherson Report on 24 February 1999 concluded that the investigation by the police was marred by incompetence and institutional racism.	None
The report studied prejudices within officers which fed into an institutional culture as follows 6.34.The collective failure of an organisation to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture, or ethnic origin.	None
It can be seen or detected in processes, attitudes and behaviour which amount to discrimination through unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness and racist stereotyping which disadvantage minority ethnic people.	None
It persists because of the failure of the organisation openly and adequately to recognise and address its existence and causes by policy, example and leadership.	None
Without recognition and action to eliminate such racism it can prevail as part of the ethos or culture of the organisation.	None
It is a corrosive disease.	None
Therefore, an analysis of discrimination, with a view towards its systemic manifestations (direct and indirect), would be best suited for achieving our constitutional vision of equality and antidiscrimination.	Reasoning
Systemic discrimination on account of gender at the workplace would then encapsulate the patriarchal disadvantage that permeates all aspects of her being from the outset, including reproduction, sexuality and private choices which operate within an unjust structure.	Reasoning
In propounding this analysis, this Court is conscious of the practical limitations of every framework to understanding workforces, considering the bulk of litigation against systemic discrimination, would be from members of an organized and formal workforce who would have the wherewithal and evidence of patterns or practices to bolster their claims.	Reasoning
For the laboring class in India, which is predominantly constituted by members facing multiple axels of marginalization, litigating their right to work with equality and dignity may be a distant dream.	Reasoning
However, it is our earnest hope, that a vision of systemic discrimination, would aid members of even informal workforces who, in addition to battling precarity at their places of work, will be able to assert a right to equality and dignity.	Reasoning
A framework that would situate their discrimination, against systemic societal patterns of discrimination that are constituted and compounded by social and economic structures, would help in addressing several fractures that are contributing to inequality in our society.	Reasoning
In the dispute at hand, this Court is tasked with a duty to analyse the implementation of its earlier directions in Babita Puniya (supra) that struck down a directly discriminatory practice of excluding WSSCOs from PC.	Reasoning
The petitioners claim of further discrimination in implementation, will have to be analyzed from the framework of systemic discrimination (which encompasses indirect discrimination), to determine a constitutional violation.	Reasoning
In examining a retroactive grant of PC, a study of the systemic impact of the prolonged denial of PC to women and the evaluation structures and patterns therein, would be indispensable.	Reasoning
G Analysis	None
The fundamental issue is whether the procedure which was followed in evaluating the women SSCOs comports with the requirements of law.	Issue
In arriving at this determination, we will primarily be guided by the Army Orders, Army Instructions and policy letters of the Union Government which have been set out above and will be further explained below.	None
At this stage, it needs to be emphasized that the issue as regards the applicability of the SHAPE1 criteria will not be taken up in the first part of the analysis and will be dealt with independently in a subsequent part of this judgment.	None
With this clarification, we proceed to outline the interplay between the Army instructions and policy letters.	None
G.1 Selection Process Criteria set by the Army SAI/3S/70 set out the modalities for the grant of PC to serving SSCOs while making SSCOs eligible to apply for PC.	None
This was inter alia subject to the conditions of eligibility spelt out in paragraph 2.	None
These conditions of eligibility were An upper age limit of 27 years Fulfillment of medical criteria and Possession of technical qualifications as prescribed by officers seeking PCs in the Corps of Engineers, Signals and EME.	None
The Army instruction provided for interviews by a Service Selection Board.	None
All officers who have been found suitable for the grant of PC would be placed in a panel and the final decision would rest with the government.	None
Para 8b stipulated that the grant of PCs would depend upon the vacancies existing in the arms or services and the suitability of officers.	None
The form of application at AppendixA to the Army Instruction inter alia stipulated the requirement of the applicant being recommended by the Commanding Officer and the Brigade Commander On 30 September 1983, the criteria for the grant of PC to SSCOs were formulated.	None
The criteria envisaged that the Selection Board will assess each officers performance on the basis of a computerized MDS.	None
While the computerized evaluation would receive 80 per cent weightage, 20 per cent weightage would be given to the assessment of the members of the Selection Board.	Facts
The Selection Board was also required to award a grading, besides awarding marks, on whether an officer was recommended for PC or Extension or In the alternate was rejected, deferred or withdrawn.	None
Of the 80 marks earmarked for computerized evaluation, 60 marks were for the Quantitative Assessment of Performance (QAP), 6 for honours and awards, 10 for performance in courses and 4 for strong points.	None
A candidate who was recommended for PC by the reporting officer in the ACR would get a 0 mark for Yes and minus 2 marks for No.	None
Minus marks were also be given for weak points.	None
On 24 February 2012, a policy letter was issued by the MoD to amend the weightage attributed to the computerised evaluation.	None
This policy currently holds the field.	None
The computerized evaluation was enhanced from 80 per cent to 95 per cent and the subjective evaluation of the members of the Selection Board No 5 was brought down from 20 to 5 per cent.	None
The weightage of 95 per cent assigned to computer evaluation was distributed amongst QAP (75 marks), honours and awards (5 marks), sports and games (5 marks) and performance and courses (10 marks).	None
The recommendation of the reporting officer in the ACR for grant of PC would carry 0 mark, while a negative recommendation carries minus 2 marks.	None
It was envisaged that the marks quantified for overall performance would be obtained by cumulating the value judgment marks to the computerized evaluation.	None
The marks so obtained would be used to draw out the overall merit of the officer.	None
The minimum cutoff grade for SSCOs including women officers would be 60 per cent which could be reviewed every 2 years AO 18/1988 contained provisions in regard to system for selection for grant of permanent commission of SSCOs.	None
Under para 8 of the AO it was envisaged that the first 50 per cent of officers screened by the Selection Board in the order of merit would be granted PC, the next 35 per cent would be granted extensions for another five years while the remaining 15 per cent officers would be released on competing the contractual period of five years service.	Arguments of Respondent
Para 2 of the AO 18/1988, in other words, made it abundantly clear that while at one end of the spectrum 50 per cent of the officers in order of merit would be conferred with PC, at the other end of the spectrum only 15 per cent would be released on completing the contractual term.	None
Between these two ends were officers (35 per cent) who were granted an extension of five years.	None
AO 18/1988 specified in para 4, the constitution of the Selection Board which was to assess performance strictly in accordance with the laid down criteria.	None
Under para 6 gradings were required to be assigned to the officers on whether or not they were recommended for PC or for extension or, in the alternative, to be deferred.	None
Para 7 envisaged that the computer evaluation and assessment by members of the selection board would be based on ACRs, honours and awards, performance in courses, recommendations for PC, disciplinary awards and strong and weak points.	None
A minimum of three ACRs were required as essential to consider the case of an officer for PC.	None
Moreover, the AO stipulated in paragraph 13 that officers are assessed on the merits of their service performance as reflected in the ACRs and not by the reports filed in the CR dossier.	None
Further, while evaluating the ACRs, the possibility of subjective inflated reporting and fluctuation in performance of officers were taken note of by, inter alia, stipulating that the last ACR before assessment for PC would be taken into consideration.	None
The Army Order also clarified in para 13(e) that the low medical category of the officers would not influence the assessment as it is an administrative restriction and not a criteria for assessment.	None
Moreover, para 21 spelt out the medical requirements (to be considered subsequently in this judgment).	None
Para 23 stipulated that those who are not selected for PC but are otherwise fit and suitable would be granted an extension of five years beyond the initial term of five years on the expiry of which they would be released from the Army.	None
This is how the SSC engagement (at that time) came to be described as an engagement for 55 years.	None
Persons in the PMLC who could not be granted PC would be allowed to continue in service for a full extended tenure of 5 years beyond the initial tenure of 5 years (Para 26).	None
Moreover, under para 34, it was stipulated that SSCOs would be screened only once in the 5th year of service by a selection board for PC.	None
However, in certain circumstances, a special review for the grant of PC was envisaged On 15 January 1991, MoD issued a policy letter capping the number of vacancies per year for PC at 250.	None
The minimum acceptable cutoff grade for the grant of PC to SSCOs is 60 per cent which would be reviewed every two years.	None
In the event that more officers, in excess of the ceiling of 250 fulfill the cut  off grade of 60 per cent, the requisite number of 250 officers would be granted PC in competitive merit.	Reasoning
All officers, irrespective of the grant of PC, would be given an extension of 5 years, unless they opt out or are considered unfit for retention and MoDs Policy Letters dated 20 July 2006 provided that SSCOs both in the technical and nontechnical branch would have a tenure of 14 years the initial 10 years, extendable by 4 years.	None
Moreover, serving WSES officers were given an option to seek SSC within a period of six months.	None
Now, in the backdrop of the above analysis it becomes necessary to evaluate the methodology which has been followed while considering 615 women SSCOs across several batches for the belated grant of PC, by the constitution of a special board.	None
G.2 Benchmarking with the Lowest Male Officer The first aspect to be considered in relation to the assessment criteria provided in the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020 is the benchmarking of the marks awarded to WSSCOs with the lowest placed male officer of the corresponding batch.	Arguments of Respondent
In the course of his submissions, the ASG has argued that there is a considerable rationale in assessing the women officers on the basis of their first 5/10 years of service (as the case may be) and keeping the above benchmark that is, for benchmarking them with the lowest selected male officer of the corresponding batch.	Arguments of Respondent
The rationale which the ASG put forth can be summarized as follows The cutoff of 60 per cent marks is only a criterion of eligibility for considering officers for the grant of PC.	Arguments of Respondent
This is a minimum cutoff grade applicable both to men and women officers.	Arguments of Respondent
Securing 60 per cent in itself, which is a threshold criteria, does not automatically entitle an officer to the grant of PC Since 1991, an upper ceiling of 250 vacancies per year for PC was prescribed.	None
The number of candidates above the 60 per cent cutoff, amongst whom the selection for PC would be made, will fluctuate from year to year and hence the marks of the 250th candidate automatically becomes a benchmark In the present case, while implementing the judgment of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra) dated 17 February 2020, the upper limit of 250 vacancies was dispensed with for women officers in order to ensure that no WSSCO who is found eligible on merits and qualified in terms of the medical criterion is denied PC for want of vacancy The decision in Babita Puniya (supra) required the Army authorities to offer PC to the WSSCOs at par with their male counterparts.	Arguments of Respondent
AO 18/1988 had initially stipulated that 50 per cent of the officers falling in the order of merit would be granted PC, 35 per cent would be granted an extension of 5 years and 15 per cent would be released on completing the contractual period of 5 years of service.	Arguments of Respondent
This governed the earlier regime of SSCOs under which SSCOs were recruited for 5 years and were granted an extension of 5 years.	Arguments of Respondent
This regime was modified in 2004 when a second extension option up to four years was introduced making it 554.	Arguments of Respondent
In 2006, the above regime was revised by the Policy Letter dated 20 July 2006 by MoD, the effect of which was that the SSC regime of 554 was substituted by a regime of 104 The policy decision of MoD dated 15 January 1991 indicated a cap of 250 SSCOs for the annual grant of PC a minimum cutoff grade of 60 per cent, and in case more than the specified number of officers make the grade, only 250 would be granted PC on competitive merit Even for male officers, the statistics pertaining to 32 batches would indicate that 67.86 per cent were granted PC and hence there is no discrimination against women SSCOs and In the absence of an upper ceiling of vacancies, the field would be left open for any number of WSSCOs to get PC.	Arguments of Respondent
To avoid this, a benchmark had to be fixed.	Arguments of Respondent
The need for fixing a benchmark is indisputable though any benchmark has to satisfy the test of being rational and of not being arbitrary.	Arguments of Respondent
If two views are possible, the view which has been adopted by the Army authorities must be given preference.	Arguments of Respondent
Benchmarking the aspirant WSSCOs with the lowest of their male counterparts on merit is an objective criterion.	Arguments of Respondent
The fundamental postulate in the submissions of the ASG is that since there is a cutoff of 250 vacancies per year for the grant of PC to SSCOs and a minimum of 60 per cent is fixed as the cutoff grade by the Policy Letter dated 15 January 1991 of the MoD, the evaluation of competitive merit is necessary.	Arguments of Respondent
Though, the WSSCOs in the present case were not subjected to any ceiling of vacancies as a onetime measure, benchmarking (in the submission) became necessary to place them at par with their male counterparts.	Arguments of Respondent
There is a fundamental fallacy in the entire line of reasoning which has been advanced by the Army authorities both in the counter affidavit as well as in the written submissions of the ASG.	Reasoning
The Policy Letter dated 15 January 1991 indicates that A maximum of 250 SSCOs will be granted PC annually A minimum cutoff grade 60 per cent is fixed, which is reviewable every two years In case more than 250 officers fulfill the cutoff grade of 60 per cent, only 250 would be granted PC on competitive merit and Other than nonoptees and those unfit for retention, all others would be granted an extension of 5 years.	Arguments of Respondent
The clear intent of the policy letter is that the issue of applying competitive merit arises only if more than 250 officers fulfill the cutoff grade annually.	Reasoning
If the number of officers who achieved the 60 per cent cutoff is less than 250, then evidently there is no requirement of assessing inter se competitive merit among the officers who meet the minimum threshold.	Reasoning
In the present case, there are a total of 615 women officers for consideration, across several batches.	Reasoning
As many as 32 batches were under consideration.	Reasoning
Annexure WR6 to the written submissions of the Union of India carries the details of PC granted to male officers.	Reasoning
The table is extracted below TABLE The above table has been filed by the ASG as a part of his submissions, to counter the contention of the women officers that whereas most male officers have been granted PC, the number of women officers is abysmally low.	Reasoning
The above chart provides for The number of male officers passing out The number of male officers granted PC and The percentage of those granted PC under (ii) as a proportion of the officers passing out in (i).	None
The chart, however, suppresses an important feature which is the number of officers who had not opted for being considered for PC (described in the parlance as nonoptees).	Reasoning
In other words, the percentage of male officers granted PC has been computed in the chart without disclosing the factual details of the number of male officers who had not opted for PC.	Reasoning
Only when the number of optees is considered against the nonoptees, can the percentage of male officers who were successfully granted PC be accurately determined.	Reasoning
This is a significant omission on the part of the Army authorities from which an adverse interference must be drawn.	Reasoning
However there is another and more fundamental aspect which emerges from the disclosure which has been made in the above chart by the Army authorities.	Reasoning
The chart indicates the number of officers who were granted PC during the course of the selections which took place twice every year.	Reasoning
A close reading of the data would show that in a number of years, the male officers who were granted PC was far lower than the ceiling of 250 vacancies prescribed by the policy letter of the MoD dated 15 January 1991.	Reasoning
The table below, which is prepared on the basis of the above chart of the Union of India, computes the number of male officers granted PC between 1994 and 2010 TABLE The statistics which have been advanced by the Army authorities disclose two things.	None
Firstly, in a number of years between 1994 and 2010, the ceiling limit of 250 had not been crossed.	Reasoning
If the ceiling limit of 250 had not been crossed, the justification which has been offered for benchmarking women officers against the lowest male officers of the corresponding batch turns out to be specious and a redherring.	Reasoning
Evidently, in their anxiety to rebut the submission of the petitioners in regard to the disparity in the percentage of male and female officers granted PC, the statistics which have been placed on the record, completely demolish the case for benchmarking.	Reasoning
It is also necessary to understand is that in many years the ceiling of 250 officers was not met and the number of officers that were granted PC were below 250, the question of evaluating officers on the basis of inter se competitive merit did not arise.	Reasoning
This leads us to the second important aspect, which is, that in certain years such as 1999, 2000, 2001, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, the ceiling of 250 was crossed for the male officers.	Reasoning
This again belies the claim that benchmarking is crucial to maintain the integrity of competitive merit for grant of PC, as envisaged by the Policy Letter dated 15 January 1991.	Reasoning
The data, in fact, shows that in several years, the ceiling was crossed, which is an indicator of the fact that it has not been applied as a rigid norm.	Reasoning
Bearing this in mind, we note the submission of the ASG that for the present year, while implementing the judgment of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra) the ceiling of 250 vacancies was not applied as a onetime measure.	Reasoning
This further demolishes the socalled rationale for benchmarking which has been offered by the ASG.	Reasoning
For the above reason, there can be no manner of doubt whatsoever that the attempt to apply the benchmark of the lowest selected male officer is a ruse to deviate from the judgment of the Court and to bypass the legitimate claim of the WSSCOs.	Reasoning
This benchmarking becomes particularly problematic, when coupled with the manner in which the reliance on ACRs was made.	Reasoning
G.3 Reliance on Annual Confidential Reports The next aspect which needs to be analysed is the grievance of the women officers on the reliance placed on their ACRs for determining the grant of PC.	Issue
The WSSCOs claim that when their ACRs were being written, women who had been appointed on SSC were not entitled to PC and hence their ACRs were written in a casual manner.	Reasoning
Now, the narration of the Army Orders and instructions adverted to earlier, demonstrates that the recommendation of the Commanding Officer and the Brigade Commander was necessary for evaluating an officer for the grant of PC.	Reasoning
This was reiterated in MoDs Policy Letter dated 30 September 1983, AO 18 /1988 and MoDs Policy Letter dated 24 February 2012.	Reasoning
The MoD Policy Letter dated 24 February 2012, for instance, clearly specifies the requirement that in every ACR, where the officer has been recommended for PC by the reporting officer, he will be awarded 0 mark, and where he has not been recommended for PC, he will be awarded minus 2 marks.	Reasoning
Now, it is an indisputable position that since WSSCOs were not entitled to the grant of PC, this part of the ACRs was invariably left blank.	Reasoning
In this context, Army Order 45 of 2001(AO 45/2001/MS Confidential Reports on Officers) dated 31 December 2001 inter alia stipulated in para 124 that communicating the relevant portions of the assessment by first level of reporting officers, is one of the basic principles for achieving objectivity in the system of reporting.	None
Para 125(c) specifically stipulated that when ratee is Not Recommended for Promotion or Not Recommended for Permanent Regular Commission Extension for Short Service Commissioned Officers, even then the assessment by the second or higherlevel rank officer must be disclosed.	None
The reasons and justification were to be communicated along with the pen picture to the officer reported upon.	None
On the other hand, it has been accepted by the Army authorities that the ACRs of the WSSCOs on the aspect of the recommendation for PC were left blank for the simple reason that these officers were not being considered for the grant of PC.	None
As a matter of fact, even as late as 23 October 2020, a communication has been addressed by the Secretary Military Branch, Integrated Headquarters of MoD (Army) in the following terms A/17151/5/MS 4 CR Policy 23 Oct 2020 HQ Southern Comd (MS) Eastern Comd (MS) Western Comd (MS) Central Comd (MS) Northern Comd (MS) ARTRAC (MS) South Western Comd (MS) SFC (MS) IDS (MS SD) ANC (MS) ENDORSEMENT OF RECOMMENDATION FOR PERMT COMMISSION IN CRs FOR WOMEN OFFRS As per instrs issued vide ADG PS AGs Br Letter	None
No PC 32313/PC to Women offr Admn Instrs AG PS2(a)	None
dt 30 Jul 20, women offrs of the IA will hereinafter be considered for permt commission in all Arms services.	None
The same necessitates endorsement of specific recoms (Yes No) wrt grant of permt commission by Reporting Offrs in CRs of women offrs.	None
It has however been obs that Reporting offrs are still erroneously endorsing NA in the CR coln related to the same.	None
Above in view, in accordance with instrs above, it is clarified that Reporting Offrs will mandatorily endorse either YES or NO in the coln of Recommendation for Permt Commission in CRs of all women offrs.	None
The above may pl be disseminated to all concerned for compliance.	None
This indicates that as recently as in October 2020, the same problem of the ACRs of WSSCOs not being endorsed with the recommendation continued to persist.	Reasoning
The ASG submitted that this structural problem was corrected by treating all the WSSCOs in the present batch of 615 officers to be recommended for the grant of PC.	Reasoning
However, the issue is not confined merely to WSSCOs not being recommended for PC in their ACRs, but instead relates to the broader aspect which permeated the whole process of ACR writing for women.	Reasoning
WSSCOs, unlike their male counterparts, were not eligible for being considered PC in the 5th 10th year of their service.	Reasoning
The grievance is that the reporting officers treated these WSSCOs differently while writing their ACRs as compared to their male counterparts who were eligible for the grant of PC.	Reasoning
For instance, a document titled Ready Reckoner for Initiating Reviewing Endorsing the Confidential Reports, Unit Assessment Cards and Non Initiation Reports states that in the case of women special entry officers, a recommendation for extension is mandatory.	Reasoning
Evidently WSSCOs were being treated differently for the reason that they were not eligible for the grant of PC.	Reasoning
Following the decision of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra), a study group was constituted by the Integrated Headquarters of MoD (Army) on 2 March 2020 to carry out a Holistic Appraisal of Induction and Employment of Women Officers in Indian Army(Ref Letter No B/32313/Road Map AG PS2(a) dated 2 March 2020).	Reasoning
In this context, the communication dated 2 March 2020, has taken note of the fact that career progression for women officers in terms of their being assigned for Army courses and posting exposure was limited as a result of an option for PC not being available.	Reasoning
Noting this anomaly, the document records Career Progression.	None
The in service career progression of WOs in terms of detailment for Army courses and posting exposures etc is presently limited keeping in view that option for PC and further career prog was NA.	Reasoning
The same will now need to be aligned to male offrs so as to place them on equal footing to compete for Nos 5, No 3 and other SBs.	Reasoning
The Study Gp would be required to delve upon this issue in details and may also review the list of male courses applicable for WOs.	Reasoning
The above communication which has been issued by Lt. General SK Saini, Vice Chief of Army Staff states that it has the approval of the COAS.	Reasoning
The observation in the communication in regard to the limited posting opportunities which were available to women officers is borne out by an earlier communication(Ref Letter No 04520/MS Policy dated 30 December 2003) dated 30 December 2003 of the Military Secretary Branch, Army Headquarters which records that the posting of women officers in soft field and peace stations is affecting the posting profile of their male counterparts.	Reasoning
Consequently, specific directions were issued for the posting of women officers at appointments in peace regions as well as in formations in the field.	Reasoning
The above factors must be coupled with the following circumstances, which must be borne in mind while considering the remedial steps necessary to rectify the discrimination which has been suffered by the WSSCOs	Reasoning
The number of vacancies which were available for the grant of PCs in the batches for which the WSSCOs were being considered over the years has not been disclosed while processing the claims for the grant of PC.	Reasoning
As noted earlier, in many cases, the upper ceiling of 250 officers to be granted PC was not met and in some years, this limit was breached.	Reasoning
If, as suggested by the tabulated statement produced by the ASG in the written submissions, vacancies were available, the criteria of meeting the benchmarking of the lowest male selected officer is evidently irrational and arbitrary.	Reasoning
This rationale, while touted as a manner of including competitive merit, was ignorant of the structural discrimination that was faced by women officers whose ACRs were casually graded, even when compared to the least meritorious male officer in their corresponding batch In the case of male officers, the process of conducting the Special No. 5 Selection Board for considering the grant of PC is initiated by issuing an order declaring the date of the Board in advance so that the preceding three ACRs can be taken into consideration to assess the performance of the officer for the grant of PC.	Reasoning
An officer has the option to seek remedial measures before the redressal mechanism to espouse any adverse entry in the ACR.	Reasoning
This process has not been followed in the case of the WSSCOs before the Special No. 5 Selection Board was conducted.	Reasoning
As an illustration for this, the petitioners have relied on a communication dated 17 January 2020 of the Integrated Headquarters of MoD (Army) which specifically states as follows Initiation and Despatch of CRs 14	Reasoning
The cut off CR for consideration by No 5 SB is 31 Oct 2019 vide AO 4512001/MS as amended CO OC will ensure that CR for the year 201819 is forwarded in time in the correct format, vide AO 45/2001/MS as amended, and should reach MS Branch (respective CR library) within specified time Intermediate formation HQs should ensure that the CRs Spl CR is initiated endorsed for timely submission Also ensure Spl CR (if initiated) reaches concerned CR Library on or before 31 Mar 2020	None
In the counter affidavit which has been filed by the Col. Military Secretary (Legal) it has been specifically admitted that 15it is submitted that women officers were considered by No 5 SB in 5th and or 10th year for extension of service only.	Reasoning
The criteria of medical fitness for grant of permanent commission and grant of Extension of service are entirely different.	Reasoning
No SSC officer has ever been denied extension of service due to medical reasons.	Reasoning
Therefore, the contention that since the petitioners were found medically fit at 5th or 10th year of service, as the case may be, when they were considered for extension of service, they should be now considered as fit for grant of permanent commission, are baseless.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
Women officers were considered by Special No. 5 Selection Board in their 5th and or 10th year of service for extension of service only.	Reasoning
In other words, Selection Board 5 was for extension and PC, but the women officers were granted only extensions because the option of PC was not available The ratio between the marks assigned to computer evaluation and the value judgment marks assigned by the members of the Board was initially pegged at 8020 as on 30 September 1983.	Reasoning
This came to be altered on 24 February 2012 by MoDs Policy Letter to 955.	Reasoning
In the written submissions tendered by the ASG it has been argued that As per Annexure R5 (page 122132) MoD Policy Letter dated 30 September 1983, the quantified profile marks are to be given out of 80, while the marks for valuejudgment are to be given out of 20.	Reasoning
Juxtaposed, as per Annexure R6 (page 133144) MoD Policy Letter dated 24 February 2012, the same are to be given in the ratio of 9505 (Please see page 134).	Reasoning
Depending upon their batch, the petitioners and other similarly placed women SSC officers were assessed either under Annexure R5 or under Annexure R6, as was done in the case of their male counterparts as well.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
The above submission indicates that while with effect from 30 September 1983, the value judgment marks were graded out of 20, it was subsequently brought down to 5 marks on 24 December 2012.	Reasoning
The above extract indicates that the petitioners and other similarly situated WSSCOs were assessed either under the 30 September 1983 norm or as the case may be the 24 February 2012 norm, depending on their batch.	Reasoning
The inherent lack of fairness is evident from the fact that the value judgment marks which were assessed for their male counterparts were by a different Special Board 5 in distinction to the Special Board which considered the case of the WSSCOs.	Reasoning
There is a subjectivity inherent in value judgment marks which is the reason for bringing them down from 20 to 5.	Reasoning
The issue is exacerbated in the case of the WSSCOs involved in the present case because the marks for value judgment have been assigned by a completely distinct Board It has been admitted in the counteraffidavit that the confidential reports, discipline and vigilance reports if any, and honours and awards as on the 5th or 10th years of service were considered in the case of the women officers.	None
As a consequence of this, the qualifications, achievements and performance of women officers after the 5th or 10th year of service (as the case may be) have been ignored.	Reasoning
At this stage, it is necessary to note that para 13(b) of AO 18/1988 specifically contemplates the last ACR before assessment for PC being taken into reckoning for grant of PC.	Reasoning
Similarly MoDs Policy Letter dated 24 February 2012 specifically contemplates that in evaluating the overall performance of the officer, the average will be worked out for each year as well as for the entire period of officers services.	Reasoning
Para 4(a) stipulates thus QAP Overall performance of the officer is evaluated by taking the average of figurative assessment of all reporting officers other than FTO and HTO.	None
Average will be worked out for each year as well as for the entire period of officers service.	Reasoning
The latter QAP will be converted into a proportion of 75 marks.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
In spite of the above clear stipulations, it is now an admitted position that the distinguished record of the WSSCOs beyond the 5th/10thyear of service has been disregarded.	Reasoning
The laurels achieved by them in the service of the nation after the 5th/10th year of service have been ignored It has been submitted on affidavit that even women officers who have been awarded the prestigious commendation card from the COAS have been denied PC.	Reasoning
As an example it has been stated that Lt. Col. Shikha Yadav (as well as several other women officers) have been denied PC though they have been awarded the COAS commendation.	Reasoning
Lt. Col. Tashi Thapliyal was awarded the Vishisht Seva Mandal.	Reasoning
Several women officers who have served in UN Missions overseas have been denied PC.	Reasoning
There are women officers who have excelled in national sports events, exemplified by Major Pallavi Sharma who has a proven track record inter alia in shooting championships which has been ignored In IA 12148 of 2020 in Writ Petition (C) 1172 of 2020 (Lt. Col. Sonia Anand v. Union of India), a detailed chart has been annexed indicating illustrations of women achievers who have been denied PC.	None
At the cost of enlarging the size of this judgment, it becomes necessary to highlight the tabulated statement.	Reasoning
The facts which have been setforth before the Court have not been denied during the course of the submissions of the ASG Illustrations Women Officer Achievers who have been denied Permanent Commission.	Reasoning
TABLE Of the above officers, it is necessary to emphasize in particular Lt. Col. Navneet Lobana (serial No XIV above).	Reasoning
Lt. Col. Lobana is presently pursuing an M.Tech degree course for which she has been deputed by the Army from 30 July 2020.	Reasoning
Following the decision not to grant a PC to her, the officer has been asked to refund the cost of the course which is approximately between Rs. 8.5 to 10 lacs.	Reasoning
Applications for selection of officers for a Master of Technology in Structures at the College of Military Engineering were invited by the Training Branch, EiCs Branch of Integrated Headquarters of MoD (Army), by a communication dated 28 November 2019.	Reasoning
Based on a qualitative requirement criterion, the applications were shortlisted and a list of officers eligible for the interview was published on 20 April 2020.	Reasoning
Lt. Col. Lobana was interviewed by a panel of DRDO Scientists at the College of Military Engineering, a Board of Officers headed by Brigadier rank officers and member officers from MS Branch 12 (Military Secretary Branch of Corps of Engineers) and Training Branch from EinCs Branch.	Reasoning
The officer was finally detailed on 10 July 2020 and has given an undertaking to continue to serve the Army for a minimum period of five years.	Reasoning
Following her selection for the course, Lt. Col. Lobana moved from her posting at Patiala and reported to the College of Military Engineering, Pune and the course commenced on 30 July 2020.	Reasoning
She is the only woman officer who has qualified in 2020 for an M.Tech in the Indian Army.	Reasoning
She has been denied PC and has been asked to refund the cost of the course.	Reasoning
The issue of medical fitness is not being considered here since it will be dealt with later.	Reasoning
The above analysis leads to the conclusion that the process by which WSSCOs, were evaluated for the grant of PC was by a belated application of a general policy that did not redress the harms of gendered discrimination that were identified by this Court in Babita Puniya (supra).	Reasoning
Additionally, its belated and formal application causes an effect of indirect discrimination.	Reasoning
The petitioners submitted that Special No. 5 Selection Board appears to have been more a Board for rejection of candidates, than for selection.	Reasoning
Some of the finest women officers who have served the Indian Army and brought distinction by their performance and achievements have been excluded by refusing to consider their achievements on the specious ground that these were after the 5th/10th year of service.	Reasoning
They have been asked to benchmark with the last male counterparts from the corresponding batches.	Reasoning
The benchmarking criterion plainly ignores that in terms of the MoD Policy Letter dated 15 January 1991 a cutoff of 60 per cent was prescribed and a cap of 250 officers who would be granted PC annually was laid down.	Reasoning
Competitive merit was required to be assessed only where the number of eligible officers exceeds the ceiling of 250.	Reasoning
As the figures which have been disclosed by the Union of India indicate, for the period from 19942010, there were years when the ceiling of 250 officers had not been reached.	Reasoning
Then there are other years where the total number of male officers granted PC was well in excess of 250.	Reasoning
For years during which the ceiling of 250 had not been reached, there is absolutely no justification to exclude the WSSCOs who had fulfilled the cutoff grade on the basis of the benchmarking criteria.	Reasoning
Moreover, it is evident that the ceiling of 250 was not regarded as an absolute or rigid criterion as already indicated in the earlier part of this judgment.	Reasoning
The evaluation process which has been followed in the case of the WSSCOs has clearly ignored that the writing of their ACRs was fundamentally influenced by the circumstance that at the relevant time an option of PC was not available for women.	Reasoning
Even as late as October 2020, the authorities have emphasized the need to duly fill in a recommendation on whether or not WSSCOs should be granted PC.	Reasoning
The manner of allocating 20 marks or 5 marks as the case may be, in the subjective assessment has been found to be flawed since male counterparts of the WSSCOs were assessed by an entirely distinct Special No. 5 Selection Board.	Reasoning
To make a comparison in regard to the award of subjective marks ranging between 5 and 20 by different sets of boards would be completely unfair and arbitrary.	Reasoning
It does not fulfill the avowed purpose of benchmarking which was to compare like with like.	Reasoning
In addition to this, an argument on systemic flaws has been advanced by the petitioners that they were not given career enhancement opportunities available to their male counterparts, such as participating in performance courses, and in cases where they did participate in such courses, it was not given due reflection in their ACRs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The ASG in his written submissions has stated that this argument is incorrect and that women officers have done mandatory courses.	Arguments of Respondent
The only difference, he states, lies in the fact that certain male officers had done additional nonmandatory courses, which would not give any extra advantage as the marks were given only on an average basis.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not find merit in the submissions of the ASG.	Reasoning
While it may be the case that in some instances women officers were given the opportunity to undertake additional courses to enhance their performance, we must also be alive to the other end of the spectrum which is that, at no point during their service were women officers incentivized to take such performance enhancement courses as they were never eligible for grant of PC then.	Reasoning
It may have been the case that for extension of their service such performance enhancing measures were not critical.	Reasoning
Even if we take the argument of the ASG at its highest and concede that these additional courses would not make any difference since the marks were given on an average, it is still possible that these courses could have impacted the value judgment or the subjective criterion of 20 or 5 marks, as the case may be, in their ACRs.	Reasoning
The impact caused by the evaluation of ACRs, particularly on the marks for performance of courses is a stark representation of the systemic discrimination that pervaded the structures of the Army.	Reasoning
A formalistic application of preexisting policies while granting PC is a continuation of these systemic discriminatory practices.	Reasoning
WSSCOs were continued in service with a clear message that their advancement would never be equal to their male counterparts.	Reasoning
Their ACR evaluations made no difference to their careers, until PC was granted to them by a court mandate in Babita Puniya (supra).	Reasoning
Accordingly, some womens failure to opt for courses in the past that would strengthen their chances and reflect positively on their ACRs is not a vacuous exercise of choice but a consequence of a discriminatory incentive structure.	Reasoning
Finally, the above analysis indicates that there has been a flawed attempt to peg the achievements of the WSSCOs at the 5th/10th years of service thereby ignoring the mandate that the last ACR ought to be considered and the quantitative performance for the entire record of service must be assessed.	Reasoning
Considering the ACRs as on the 5th or 10th year of service for grant of PC would have been appropriate, if the WSCCOs were being considered for PC at that point of time.	Reasoning
However, the delayed implementation of the grant of PC to WSSCOs by the Army and considering of ACRs only till the 5th/10th year of service has led to a situation where, in effect, the Army has obliviated the years of service, hard work and honours received by WSSCOs beyond their 5th/10th year of service and relegated them back to a position they held, in some cases, more than 10 years ago.	Reasoning
The lack of consideration given to the recent performance of WSSCOs for grant of PC is a disservice not just to these officers who have served the nation, but also to the Indian Army, which on one hand salutes these officers by awarding them honours and decorations, and on the other hand, fails to assess the true value of these honours when it matters the most  at the time of standing for the cause of the WSSCOs to realise their rights under the Constitution and be treated on an equal footing as male officers who are granted PC.	Reasoning
On the basis of our analysis we have come to the conclusion that while implementing the judgment of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra), the Army authorities have attempted to demonstrate the application of a facially neutral standard as between WSSCOs and their male counterparts.	Reasoning
The entire approach is indicated in the following averment in the counter affidavit filed by the Military Secretary That the Petitioners herein on one hand seek to be treated at par with the male counterparts, however, on the other hand, seek special and unjustified treatment in the eligibility conditions.	Reasoning
Subsequently, in the course of the written submission, an apology has been tendered in the following terms At this stage, an apology would be in order as regards the equivocality of the last sentence in para 14 of the C A (pages 21 and 22), which though made in good faith to emphasize the point that the implementation is being done, treating women officers at par with the men officers, ended up, albeit inadvertently, carrying an impression as if the same is being done to complete the rituals.	Reasoning
It is submitted that the UoI is immensely proud of the contribution of women officers to the cause of Indian Army.	Reasoning
It is submitted that it is not by any preplanning that a particular number of women SSC officers do not find themselves approved for PC.	Reasoning
The fact that there was no preplanning to exclude women from the grant of PC is irrelevant under an indirect discrimination analysis.	Reasoning
As we have noted previously, under this analysis, the Court has to look at the effect of the concerned criteria, not at the intent underlying its adoption.	Reasoning
In light of the fact that the pattern of evaluation will in effect lead to women being excluded from the grant of PC on grounds beyond their control, it is indirectly discriminatory against WSSCOs.	Reasoning
We must recognize here that the structures of our society have been created by males and for males.	Reasoning
As a result, certain structures that may seem to be the norm and may appear to be harmless, are a reflection of the insidious patriarchal system.	Reasoning
At the time of Independence, our Constitution sought to achieve a transformation in our society by envisaging equal opportunity in public employment and gender equality.	Reasoning
Since then, we have continuously endeavored to achieve the guarantee of equality enshrined in our Constitution.	Reasoning
A facially equal application of laws to unequal parties is a farce, when the law is structured to cater to a male standpoint.(Catharine A. MacKinnon, TOWARDS A FEMINIST THEORY OF STATE (Harvard University Press 1989) at p.220.)	Reasoning
Presently, adjustments, both in thought and letter, are necessary to rebuild the structures of an equal society.	Reasoning
These adjustments and amendments however, are not concessions being granted to a set of persons, but instead are the wrongs being remedied to obliterate years of suppression of opportunities which should have been granted to women.	Reasoning
It is not enough to proudly state that women officers are allowed to serve the nation in the Armed Forces, when the true picture of their service conditions tells a different story.	Reasoning
A superficial sense of equality is not in the true spirit of the Constitution and attempts to make equality only symbolic.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the respondents must remove the requirement of benchmarking the WSSCOs with the last male officer who had received PC in their corresponding batches and all WSSCOs meeting the 60 cutoff must be granted PC.	Reasoning
Additionally, the calculation of the cutoff at 60, which must by army orders and instructions be reviewed every 2 years, must be reassessed to determine if the casual completion of their ACRs is disproportionately impacting the WSSCOs ability to qualify for PC even at that threshold.	Reasoning
In light of the systemic discrimination that women have faced in the Army over a period of time, to call for the adoption of a pattern of evaluation that accounts and compensates for this harsh reality is not to ask for special and unjustified treatment.	Reasoning
Rather, it is the only pathway for the attainment of substantive equality.	Reasoning
To adopt a symmetrical concept of equality, is to empty the antidiscrimination guarantee under Article 15, of all meaning.	Reasoning
G.4 Medical Criteria	None
The medical criteria for assessing officers for the grant of PC have been specified in Army instructions and Army Orders to which a detailed reference has been made in the earlier part of this judgment.	Reasoning
While dealing with the application of the criteria to the WSSCOs in pursuance of the judgment in Babita Puniya (supra), it would be necessary to revisit some salient features SAI/3/S/70 specifically provided that in order to be eligible to apply for PC, an SSC officer must be in medical category A1.	Reasoning
Those placed in medical categories A2, B1 and B2 as a result of casualties suffered in action during operations could also be considered on the merits of each case by the government Subsequently, when the SHAPE criteria was introduced, para 2(b) was re constructed in 1972 by AI 102/1972 to stipulate that the medical category should not be lower than gradeII under any of the SHAPE factors, excluding the S factor in which the grade should not be lower than 1.	Reasoning
In exceptional cases, it was stipulated that a grading of 2 in both H and E together may be acceptable.	Reasoning
A low medical categorization could not be due to medical reasons, but only as a result of casualties suffered in action during operations or due to injury or other disability sustained during duty Subsequently, AO 110/1981 contained a stipulation for medical boards.	Reasoning
Para 13 indicated that for officers who are placed in the TLMC, medical board proceedings recorded on form AFMSF2 are not required until their medical category stabilizes.	Reasoning
Upon the stabilization of the medical category, certain procedures had to be followed Army Instruction 7581 dated 4 November 1978 provided for the terms and conditions of service for officers granted SSC in the Army Medical Corps.	Reasoning
While laying down an upper age limit of 45 years, para 3(d) also stipulated that applicants must be in medical category SHAPE1 AO 18/1988 stipulates in para 21, that the medical category of an officer seeking PC should not be lower than grade 2 under any of the SHAPE factors, excluding the S factor in which the grade should not be lower than 1.	Reasoning
In exceptional cases, grading of 2 in both H and E together acceptable.	Reasoning
Moreover low medical categorization should have been caused as a result of casualties suffered in action during operations or due to injuries or other disabilities sustain during duty Army Instruction 14/1999 dated 1 August 1999 amended SAI 3/S/70 by stipulating that Their medical category should not be lower than S1 or H2 or A3 or P2 or E2 or H2E2 or H2A3 or H2P2 or E2A3 or E2P2.	Reasoning
However grant of Permanent Commission to low medical category Short Service Commissioned Officers will be subject to rendition of the requisite certificate in terms of AO 20/75 AO 9/2011 specifically defines the meaning of the SHAPE criteria and makes detailed provisions in regard to modalities for evaluation of medical fitness.	Reasoning
We have already adverted to the meaning and content of the SHAPE criteria in the earlier part of this judgment.	Reasoning
The essence of the submission which has been urged on behalf of the petitioners is that the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020 stipulated that only those officers who are SHAPE 1 or in the PLMC will undergo a medical board.	Arguments of Petitioner
Officers with TLMC were required to submit the proceedings of their medical categorization or recategorization, giving their present medical category.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such TLMC officers who were otherwise found fit for PC by the Special No. 5 Selection Board were given a maximum period of one year of stabilization of their medical category.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards officers in the PLMC categorization, it was clarified that this should not be due to medical reasons (whether attributable to military service or not) but should have been a result of casualties suffered in action during operations or due to disabilities by other injury sustained during duty such as while traveling on duty, during training exercises or playing organized games under regimental arrangements.	Arguments of Petitioner
In addition, certain specific medical categories were made ineligible for the grant of PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
104.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now the singular aspect of the medical requirements that must be noticed at the outset is that there is a broad consistency of policy on the norms, which have to be fulfilled in order for an officer to qualify for the grant of PC.	Reasoning
Another important facet which needs to be emphasized is that SHAPE1 has a specific meaning which is assigned to it under AO 9/2011.	Reasoning
S donates the physiological features including cognitive function abnormalities, H stands for hearing, A for appendages, P for physical capacity and E for eyesight.	Reasoning
The requirement of being in grade1 in each of the five factors of SHAPE is subject to relaxation in terms of exceptions which are clearly spelt out.	Reasoning
The policy provides a concession to such candidates who may not have suffered injury on the line of duty as a result of which their medical categorization has been lowered.	Reasoning
But this should not be lower than S1 or H2 or A3 or P2 or E2 or A2E2 or H2A3 or H2P2 or E2A3 or E2P2.	Reasoning
The exception which has been provided is available if an injury (as distinct from a disease) has been suffered while on the line of duty, irrespective of whether it has been incurred during peace time or in field operations.	Reasoning
Officers in the PLMC who fulfill the terms of the exception are granted PC, if they are otherwise found fit on merits.	Reasoning
The requirement of fulfilling the SHAPE criteria as explained earlier is a prerequisite even in such arms or services where both men and women join up to the age of 45 years, as in the case of the Army Medical Corps.	Reasoning
The Army follows and adopts the TLMC norm which allows an officer placed in that category to return to SHAPE 1 within the stabilization period of one year.	Reasoning
By this, an opportunity is granted to the officer to return to the SHAPE1 category within one year.	Reasoning
Physical fitness is crucial for securing a place in the Army.	Reasoning
While exercising judicial review, the Court must be circumspect on dealing with policies prescribed for the Armed Forces personnel in attaining norms associated with physical and mental fitness.	Reasoning
In the present case, as disclosed before this Court, out of the initial 87 petitioners contesting the proceedings in 7 writ petitions, 55 are SHAPE 1 going up to the age of 52 years, 23 have been assigned to PMLC, while 9 are placed in TLMC.	Reasoning
The material which has been placed on record in the form of AO 9/2011 indicates a classification range of minimum and maximum permissible parameters for each of the five factors comprised within the SHAPE norm.	Reasoning
The submission of the respondents is that these parameters have been fixed, keeping in mind the inevitable advancement of age of both men and women officers.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, in refusing to consider the SSC extensions as sufficient evidence of fitness, it has been submitted by the respondents that an unsaid concession is made in terms of medical requirements where an officer has been considered for extension as opposed to when they are considered for grant of PC.	Arguments of Respondent
Another important aspect which has been emphasized is that out of 615 WSSCOs officers, 422 were found fit on merits for PC subject to fulfillment of medical and discipline parameters.	Arguments of Respondent
Out of these 422, 57 were nonoptees.	Arguments of Respondent
From the remaining 365, 277 women officers were found fit on merits as well on medical parameters and have been granted PCs.	Arguments of Respondent
Of the remaining 88, 42 are TLMC and have the opportunity to upgrade this to the required medical parameters within one year.	Arguments of Respondent
Out of the remaining 46, only 35 were found not to meet the medical criteria.	Arguments of Respondent
These 35 officers constitute less than ten per cent of the 365 who had opted for the grant of PC and were found fit on merits.	Arguments of Respondent
Even in the remaining 193 officers (615 minus 422 found fit) that were not considered fit for PC, it was submitted that 164 of these officers fulfilled the SHAPE1 criterion.	Arguments of Respondent
This tabulation indicates a significant proportion of WSSCOs, irrespective of their belated consideration, are able to presently meet the prescribed criteria.	Reasoning
With respect to the medical criteria prescribed by the Army, we are cognizant that there can be no judicial review of the standards adopted by the Army, unless they are manifestly arbitrary and bear no rational nexus to the objects of the organization.	Reasoning
The SHAPE criterion is per se not arbitrary.	Reasoning
Having come to the conclusion that the medical criterion is per se not arbitrary, it is the Courts responsibility to examine whether it has been equally applied.	Reasoning
We cannot shy away from the fact, that these 615 WSSCOs are being subjected to a rigorous medical standard at an advanced stage of their careers, merely on account of the fact that the Army did not consider them for granting them PC, unlike their male counterparts.	Reasoning
By the judgment of the Delhi High Court dated 12 March 2010, specific directions were issued for considering the women SSC officers for the grant of PC.	Reasoning
This was a decade ago.	Reasoning
During the pendency of the appeal from the judgment of the Delhi High Court before this Court, there was no stay on the application of the judgment of the High Court.	Reasoning
This was specifically clarified by the order of this Court on 2 September 2011.	Reasoning
The intent of the clarification was that implementation of the directions of the High court must proceed.	Reasoning
The WSSCOs have submitted with justification that had they been considered for the grant of PC then, as the respondents were directed to do by the decision of the Delhi High Court, they would have met the norms of eligibility in terms of medical parameters.	Reasoning
Their male counterparts who were considered for and granted PC at that time are not required to maintain SHAPE 1 fitness to be continued in service.	Reasoning
Serious hardship has been caused by the Army not considering the cases of these WSSCOs for the grant of PC at the relevant time, despite the express clarification by this Court.	Reasoning
Though the contempt proceedings against the respondents were stayed, this did not obviate the obligation to comply with the mandate of the judgment of the Delhi High Court especially after a specific clarification that no stay had been granted.	Reasoning
Consideration for PC was not just a legitimate expectation on the part of the WSSCOs but a right which had accrued in their favour after the directions of the High Court, which were issued about a decade ago.	Reasoning
The WSSCOs who have been excluded on medical grounds in November 2020 have a legitimate grievance that whether they fulfilled the SHAPE 1 criterion has to be determined from their medical status on the date when they were entitled to be considered, following the decision of the Delhi High Court.	Reasoning
Such of them who fulfilled the criterion at the material time are entitled to PC and can continue in service so long as they continue to meet the medical standards prescribed for continuance in the Army.	Reasoning
In other words, there is no challenge to the criteria for medical fitness prescribed.	Reasoning
These WSSCOs do not seek a special dispensation or exemption for themselves, as women.	Reasoning
The essence of the dispute is when the SHAPE 1 criterion has to be applied in the peculiar circumstances which have been noted above.	Reasoning
Within the SHAPE criterion, para 31 of AO 9/2011 provides for functional capacities.	Reasoning
This ranges from category 1A (fit for all duties anywhere) and category 1B (fit for all duties anywhere under medical observation without employability restrictions) category 2 (fit for all duties but with limitations involving severe physical and mental stress) category 3 (except S factor fit for routine or sedentary duties but limitations of employment duties both job wise and terrain wise) category 4 (temporarily unfit for duties on account of hospitality sick leave) and category 5 (permanently unfit for military duties).	Reasoning
It has been submitted by the petitioners that while being in SHAPE 1 is the requirement at the induction or entry level, it is not the requirement for continued service in the Army.	Arguments of Petitioner
Many of their male counterparts who are granted PC in their 5th or 10th year of service are entitled to continue in service, irrespective of whether they continue to be compliant with SHAPE 1 criteria.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the ASG and Mr Balasubramaniam, learned Senior Counsel, submitted that even for the time scale promotions to the rank of Colonel and Brigadier, there may be no SHAPE1 requirement.	Arguments of Respondent
We need not dwell on that aspect since it is an admitted position that SHAPE1 is not a requirement for continuation in service.	None
The ASG had sought to bolster his submission of SHAPE1 as a threshold requirement for PC, by relying on the recruitment process for the Army Medical Corps, where even a 45 year old person seeking recruitment, must comply with SHAPE1 medical criteria.	Reasoning
However, a critical assumption that undergirds the grant of PC is the approximate age of persons who would be under consideration.	Reasoning
The WSSCOs in this case are not fresh recruits who are due to be considered in their 5th or 10th year of service, nor are they seeking exceptional favors on account of their sex.	Reasoning
On one hand, the Army authorities are insistent on relying on the medical criteria as a filtering mechanism for grant of PC to WSSCOs.	Reasoning
On the other hand, we have WSSCOs who have legally fought for their rights and are additionally suffering due to the untimely implementation of their hardwon rights.	Reasoning
The Army authorities have stated that the medical criterion has been sufficiently adjusted to take into account age related factors.	Reasoning
However, the Army authorities are insistent to apply the medical criteria as of today, while simultaneously attempting to freeze the ACRs of the WSSCOs at the 5th or 10th year of service.	Reasoning
Indirect discrimination coupled with an exclusionary approach inheres in this application.	Reasoning
An enhancement in the qualifications of WSSCOs from their 5th/10th year of service till today, as would be reflected in their recent ACRs, would demonstrate them as an experienced pool of human resource for the Indian Army.	Reasoning
However, a reduction of medical fitness below the SHAPE 1 norm at present as a consequence of age or the tribulations of service is not a necessary detriment to the Army when similarly aged male officers with PC (invariably granted in the 5th or 10th year of their service) no longer have to meet these rigorous medical standards for continuing in service.	Reasoning
This is further bolstered by the fact that the WSSCOs who are no longer in SHAPE1, have been meaningfully continuing in service, even after 14 years of service, till the declaration of results of the PC in November 2020.	Reasoning
We also must express our anguish at the respondents failure to implement the judgment rendered by the Delhi High Court in 2010, whose operation was specifically not stayed by this Court in 2011.	Reasoning
The conundrum on the applicability of the medical criterion to WSSCOs who are 4050 years old, has arisen only because of the Army not having implemented its decision in time, despite the course correction prescribed by the Delhi High Court in 2010.	Reasoning
The WSSCOs, a few of whom are petitioners before us today, have persevered for over a decade to gain the same dignity of an equal opportunity at PC.	Reasoning
The fact that only around 35 women who are otherwise fit for PC, and 31 women who do not qualify in addition to not meeting the medical criteria, is irrelevant in determining whether each of these women is entitled to equality of opportunity in matters of public employment under Article 16(1) and (2).	Reasoning
As observed by a 9 judge bench of this Court in Justice KS Puttaswamy v. Union of India,((2017) 10 SCC 1 ) a de minimis rationale is not a permissible exception to invasion of fundamental rights.	Reasoning
The Court, speaking through one of us (Chandrachud, J.) had held that the de minimis hypothesis is misplaced because the invasion of a fundamental right is not rendered tolerable when a few, as opposed to a large number of persons, are subjected to hostile treatment.	Reasoning
( Id. at para 128)	Reasoning
Similarly, the percentage of women who have suffered as a consequence of the belated application of rigorous medical criteria is irrelevant to the determination of whether it is a violation of Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In rendering the decision in Babita Puniya (supra), this Court was mindful of the insidious impact on the generations of women who must have given up on their dreams to serve in the Armed Forces owing to the gendered roadblock on their aspirations, and of the women who must have chosen to opt out of availing an extension to their SSC terms on similar grounds.	Reasoning
We must not forget that those women officers who have remained in service are those with the tenacity to hold on and to meet the exacting standards of performance of which the Indian Army has made her citizens proud.	Reasoning
It is also important for us to bear in mind that a career in the Army comes with a serious set of trials and tribulations of a transferable service with postings in difficult terrains, even in times of peace.	Reasoning
This is rendered infinitely more difficult when society relegates functions of domestic labour, caregiving and childcare exclusively on the shoulders of women.	Reasoning
The WSSCOs before us are not just women who have dedicated their lives to the service of the Army, but are women who have persevered through difficult conditions as they trudged along a lengthy litigation to avail the simplest of equality with their male counterparts.	Reasoning
They do not come to the Court seeking charity or favour.	Reasoning
They implore us for a restoration of their dignity, when even strongly worded directions by the Court in Babita Puniya (supra) have not trickled down into a basic assessment of not subjecting unequals to supposedly neutral parameters.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept the ASGs submission on the medical criteria being modulated to account for advancement of age.	Reasoning
The timing of the administration of rigorous standards is a relevant consideration for determining their discriminatory impact, and not just an isolated reading of the standards which account for differences arising out of gender.	Reasoning
The WSSCOs have been subject to indirect discrimination when some are being considered for PC, in their 20th year of service.	Reasoning
A retrospective application of the supposedly uniform standards for grant of PC must be modulated to compensate for the harm that has arisen over their belated application.	Reasoning
In the spirit of true equality with their male counterparts in the corresponding batches, the WSSCOs must be considered medically fit for grant of PC by reliance on their medical fitness, as recorded in the 5th or 10th year of their service.	Reasoning
G.5 WSSCOs belonging to WSES(O) 2731 and SSC(TNT) 13 who had not completed 14 years of service as on the date of Babita Puniya Another aspect of the case relates to the interpretation of the direction in Babita Puniya (supra) mandating WSSCOs who have completed 14 years of service as on the date of the judgment to be considered for PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the event of their nonapproval or nonoption, these officers are to be continued in service for 20 years, with benefits of pension.	Reasoning
In Babita Puniya (supra), the directions issued by this Court, were while accepting the policy decision of the Union Government.	Reasoning
The policy decision of the Union Government for the grant of PCs to WSSCOs in all the ten streams where women were granted SSC in the Indian Army was accepted, subject to several conditions which were spelt out in clauses (a) to (g) of direction (1) in paragraph 69 of the judgment.	Reasoning
The directions (a) to (c) are again reproduced below as a convenient point of reference 69.	None
(i) (a) All serving women officers on SSC shall be considered for the grant of PCs irrespective of any of them having crossed fourteen years or, as the case may be, twenty years of service.	Reasoning
The option shall be granted to all women presently in service as SSC officers.	Facts
Women officers on SSC with more than fourteen years of service who do not opt for being considered for the grant of the PCs will be entitled to continue in service until they attain twenty years of pensionable service.	Facts
As a onetime measure, the benefit of continuing in service until the attainment of pensionable service shall also apply to all the existing SSC officers with more than fourteen years of service who are not appointed on PC.	None
(emphasis supplied) Directions (e), (f) and (g) are not material at this stage.	None
Direction (d) refers to existing SSC officers with more than 14 years of service.	Reasoning
This expression is clearly intended to encompass those WSSCOs who had completed 14 years of service on the date of the judgment.	Reasoning
It is important to note that these officers were also granted the benefit of continuing in service until the attainment of pensionable service.	Reasoning
The petitioners in Lt. Col. Reena Gairola v. Union of India(Writ Petition (Civil) No. 34 of 2021) and in Major Nilam Gorwade v. Union of India(Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1223 of 2020) belong to the group of women officers recruited under the WSES(O) 27 to 31 and SSCW(TNT) 1 to 3.	Reasoning
These petitioners were commissioned on or after March 2006 and had not completed 14 years of service as on the date of the judgment in Babita Puniya (supra).	Reasoning
Under the directions in Babita Puniya (supra), in case they do not opt for PC or opt for PC and are not granted PC, they will be released at the end of their 14 years of contractual service.	Reasoning
The petitioners in these batches would neither be entitled to pension as they would have only completed 14 years of service at the end of their contract, nor would they be given the one time relief granted in Babita Puniya (supra) of entitlement to continue in service for 20 years.	Reasoning
115.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners in the abovementioned writ petitions have argued that within their batches (WSES(O)  27 to 31 and SSCW(TNT) 1 to 3), 161 women have been granted PC, out of the 284 serving officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
66 officers who were not approved for PC (allegedly, inter alia, as a consequence of the medical criteria and ACR assessment) and 9 officers who did not opt for PC, have to retire at the end of their contractual term of 14 years, with no pension or benefits.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pertinent to mention that these petitioners were not a party before this Court in Babita Puniya (supra) and consequently could not make out a case for their entitlement to a similar relief for extension till they attain pensionable service, in light of the respondents failing to consider them in time, despite the petitioners being beneficiaries of the judgment of the Delhi High Court.	Reasoning
116.	Arguments of Petitioner
The case of the petitioners is also that at the time of rendering of the judgment of the Delhi High Court in 2010, these WSSCOs had completed a maximum of 4 years in service (or less).	Arguments of Petitioner
Once relief was granted to them by the Delhi High Court and the interim order of the Supreme Court, these WSSCOs took a conscious decision based on these reliefs to continue in service, in anticipation that sooner or later, they would be granted PC.	Reasoning
Had they been rejected for PC upon the judgment of the Delhi High Court in 2010, that is over a decade ago, it would have been easier for them to make a career shift and seek employment elsewhere.	Reasoning
This Court, as a consequence of the constraint of information being provided to it by the parties arraigned before it in Babita Puniya (supra), was not alive to the full extent of the cadres who were denied a timely opportunity for PC in their 5th or 10th year of service.	Reasoning
Direction (c) and (d), as a onetime measure, attempted to correct the gross injustice that was meted out to women officers who had completed over 14 years in service, and were being considered for PC at a belated stage.	Reasoning
The onetime benefit of continuation in service until their 20th year was provided as a corrective exercise for women who have devoted their careers to the Army, in spite of the dignity of PC being elusive to them, merely as a consequence of their gender.	Reasoning
The Courts objective in providing for such a cut off was to compensate for the impact of the discrimination which had denied them timely opportunities and to account for the significant risk and commitment they demonstrated by their continuation in service.	Reasoning
It has been brought to our attention that the women officers in the batches of WSES(O)  27 to 31 and SSCW(TNT) 1 to 3 face a similar predicament as they are being considered for PC beyond their 10th year in service (in the best case).	None
Similar to the women in the older cadres who were denied opportunities, career progressions and assurances owing to the respondents failure at the relevant time to ensure gender equality in the forces the women in the batches who were between 1014 years of their service were meted the same insecurity.	None
The WSES scheme has been discontinued and the WSES(O) 31, commissioned in 2008, is the last batch to have gained entry in the scheme, rendering it a dying cadre.	None
We have deployed the expression dying cadre not in a pejorative sense.	None
The expression has a specific meaning in service jurisprudence to denote a dwindling class of officers in service.	None
The officers in the consequent batches of SSCW (TNT) 1 to 3, although part of the new scheme that replaced WSES, will be the only batches who will face an adverse impact of the respondents failure to implement the Delhi High Court judgement before the 10th year of their service.	None
In exercise of the constitutional power entrusted to this court under Article 142 to bring about substantial justice, we are compelled to extend the benefit of directions (c) and (d) in Babita Puniya (supra) to the officers of the abovementioned batches, as a onetime benefit.	None
This onetime extension, would bring parity inter se between officers who were discriminated by their nontimely consideration by the respondents.	None
H Conclusion and directions Based on the above analysis	None
, we are of the view that the evaluation criteria set by the Army constituted systemic discrimination against the petitioners.	Decision
The pattern of evaluation deployed by the Army, to implement the decision in Babita Puniya (supra) disproportionately affects women.	Decision
This disproportionate impact is attributable to the structural discrimination against women, by dint of which the facially neutral criteria of selective ACR evaluation and fulfilling the medical criteria to be in SHAPE1 at a belated stage, to secure PC disproportionately impacts them visvis their male counterparts.	Decision
The pattern of evaluation, by excluding subsequent achievements of the petitioners and failing to account for the inherent patterns of discrimination that were produced as a consequence of casual grading and skewed incentive structures, has resulted in indirect and systemic discrimination.	Decision
This discrimination has caused an economic and psychological harm and an affront to their dignity.	Decision
For the above reasons, we allow the petitions in terms of the following directions The administrative requirement imposed by the Army authorities while considering the case of the women SSCOs for the grant of PC, of benchmarking these officers with the officers lowest in merit in the corresponding male batch is held to be arbitrary and irrational and shall not be enforced while implementing the decision of this Court in Babita Puniya (supra) All women officers who have fulfilled the cutoff grade of 60 per cent in the Special No 5 Selection Board held in September 2020 shall be entitled to the grant of PC, subject to their meeting the medical criteria prescribed by the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020 (as explained in (iii) below) and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance For the purpose of determining the fulfillment of direction (ii), the medical criteria stipulated in the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020 shall be applied at the following points of time At the time of the 5th year of service or At the time of the 10th year of service, as the case maybe.	Arguments of Petitioner
In case the officer has failed to meet the medical criterion for the grant of PC at any of these points in time, the WSSCO will not be entitled to the grant of PC.	Decision
We clarify that a WSSCO who was in the TLMC in the 5th/10th year of service and subsequently met the SHAPE1 criterion after the one year period of stabilization, would also be eligible for grant of PC.	Decision
Other than officers who are nonoptees, the cases of all WSSCOs, including the petitioners who have been rejected on medical grounds, shall be reconsidered within a period of one month and orders for the grant of PC shall in terms of the above directions be issued within a period of two months The grant of PC to the WSSCOs who have already been granted PC shall not be disturbed The WSSCOs belonging to WSES(O)  27 to 31 and SSCW(TNT) 1 to 3 who are not considered to be eligible for grant of PC after the above exercise, will be extended the onetime benefit of direction (c) and (d) in Babita Puniya (supra)	Decision
All consequential benefits including the grant of time scale promotions shall necessarily follow as a result of the directions contained in the judgment in Babita Puniya (supra) and the present judgment and steps to do so shall be completed within a period of three months from the date of the judgment The candidature of Lt. Col. Navneet Lobana, Petitioner No. 3 in Writ Petition (C) 1109 of 2020, will be reconsidered for grant of PC in terms of the above directions.	Decision
In case the officer is not granted PC, she will be allowed to complete her M.Tech degree course for which she has been enrolled at the College of Military Engineering, Pune and shall not be required to pay or reimburse any amount towards the course In accordance with preexisting policies of the respondents, the method of evaluation of ACRs and the cutoff must be reviewed for future batches, in order to examine for a disproportionate impact on WSSCOs who became eligible for the grant of PC in the subsequent years of their service and During the pendency of the proceedings, the ASG had assured the Court that all the serving WSSCOs would be continued in service, since the Court was in seisin of the proceedings.	None
There shall be a direction that this position shall continue until the above directions of the Court are implemented and hence the serving WSSCOs shall be entitled to the payment of their salaries and to all other service benefits.	Decision
The writ petitions are accordingly disposed of in the above terms.	Decision
Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of.	Decision
