 	Arguments of Respondent
This appeal has been filed challenging the judgment of the Calcutta High Court dated 20.09.2017 allowing the writ appeal filed by the respondent.	Issue
The respondent has filed appeal before the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court questioning the judgment of learned Single Judge passed in Writ Petition No.2712(W) of 2010 Rathin Ghosh vs. West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited, whereby the writ petition was allowed setting aside the dismissal order of the appellant with all consequential benefits.	Issue
2.	None
The appellant was appointed as Graduate Engineer (Training) in the year 1985 in the West Bengal State Electricity Board, which subsequently was restructured and reorganized to form the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Company?).	Facts
The appellant on account of his work and conduct was promoted to different posts and in the year 2007, he was holding the post of Superintending Engineer.	Facts
In February, 2007 he was asked to prepare a draft specification of singlephase static meters.	Facts
The draft specification submitted by the appellant was approved by the competent authority, which technical specifications were to be provided to all bidders and was an open document.	Facts
Tender No.P2/200708/(PII) was published for purchase of 20 lakh meters which tender was cancelled for technical reasons.	Facts
Fresh specifications drafted by Advisor (Security and Vigilance) and settled by Additional Chief Engineer (District Testing) was approved by all Technical Directors of the Board of Directors and the ChairmancumManaging Director.	Facts
The Tender No.P28/200708 was issued by the Company for procurement of 10 lakh meters on 09.01.2008.	Facts
Nineteen bids along with their respective sample meters were received by the Company on 08.02.2008.	Facts
The samples of the meters were sent to the Additional Chief Engineer (Testing) for evaluation.	Facts
On 13.03.2008 the said meters were tested by a team of officers and technicians which included the appellant.	Facts
On 26.03.2008, the appellant received the personal invitation from an organization IEEMA to attend a presentation organised in New Delhi.	Facts
On testing of sample meters by the team of officers, only four bidders were found technically qualified which also included one bidderM s. Secure Meters.	Facts
The Chairman of the Company on 31.03.2008 approved the opening of the price bids of the three technically suitable bidders, bids were opened and M s. Secure Meters was declared the successful bidder to the highest rate.	Facts
Other two bidders were also successful bidders having offered rates lower than M s. Secure Meters.	Facts
On 16.04.2008, the appellant informed his immediate superior Officer, Additional Chief Engineer (Distt.	Facts
Testing) about his going to New Delhi to attend IEEMA?s Conference.	Facts
The appellant got his Air Tickets booked from Globe Travel Agents, who were the travel agents of M s. Secure Meters for to and fro visit to Delhi.	Facts
On 17.04.2008, the appellant attended the IEEMA Conference at New Delhi and returned on 17.04.2008 to Calcutta itself.	Facts
On 18.04.2008, the Globe Travel Agency raised an invoice of Rs. 12,350/ for the return air ticket of the appellant upon M s. Secure Meters as the booking was done through them.	Facts
On 24.04.2008, on an enquiry by the Corporate Vigilance Department of the Company to Globe Travel Agency about the appellant?s ticket, which informed that the payment towards the aforesaid invoice was still due.	Facts
On 28.04.2008, the appellant paid the entire amount of Rs.12,350/ to M s. Secure Meters for payment of the aforesaid invoice raised by Globe Travel Agency.	Facts
On 29.04.2008, the respondentCompany suspended the appellant and initiated disciplinary proceedings.	Facts
The appellant was suspended alleging gross misconduct tarnishing the image of the Company.	Facts
3.	None
The appellant, who had 22 years unblemished service to his credit, felt hurt by the act of the Company suspending him.	Facts
The appellant on 13.05.2008 submitted his resignation to the Company.	Facts
The appellant in his resignation letter mentioned that his order of suspension is an act of vengeance instigated by the parties whose personal agenda had been disturbed by his honest intentions.	Facts
The appellant also expressed his willingness to pay the Company three months salary in lieu of notice.	Facts
A chargesheet dated 28.05.2008 was submitted.	Facts
The chargesheet was served on the appellant on 28.05.2008 for proposed enquiry to be held under Regulations 61 and 63 of WBSEB Employees?	Facts
Service Regulations.	Facts
The appellant submitted his reply.	Facts
The chargesheet also listed several documentary evidences including invitation from IEEMA dated 17.04.2008, the attendance sheet of participants in the presentation held on 17.04.2008 at New Delhi.	Facts
4.	None
The chargesheet also enlisted the list of witnesses who were proposed to be examined in support of the chargesheet.	Facts
On 10.06.2008, the appellant received communication that his resignation had not been accepted due to the noncompletion of the disciplinary proceedings.	Facts
On 20.06.2008, the appellant submitted a detailed reply to showcause.	Facts
The reply did not find favour with the Company and disciplinary enquiry was initiated.	Facts
Witnesses were crossexamined by the appellant.	Facts
Inquiry Officer submitted his findings on 26.12.2008.	Facts
The findings were forwarded to the appellant by letter dated 30.12.2008 by the respondent.	Facts
The Inquiry Report found charges proved against the appellant.	Facts
The appellant submitted his representation on 24.01.2009 to the findings in the enquiry.	Facts
The Company issued a second showcause notice dated 28.03.2009.	Facts
Second showcause notice was issued to the appellant which also mentioned the proposed punishment of dismissal from service, permanent withholding of pension for life time, forfeiture of entire gratuity and nonpayment beyond the subsistence allowances during the suspension period.	Facts
Reply to the second showcause notice was also submitted by the appellant.	Facts
The disciplinary authority passed an order on 02.06.2009 by which following punishments were awarded ?	Facts
I have considered the gravity of the misconduct and the circumstances under which the misconduct was committed.	None
Considering all aspects in open mind including the past service records, I finally impose the following punishment upon Sri Rathin Ghosh, Superintending Engineer (E) (under suspension) ?	Facts
(i) Dismissal from service.	None
(ii) Permanent withholding of pension for lifetime.	None
(iii) forfeiture of entire gratuity.	None
(iv) The period of suspension in respect of Sri Rathin Ghosh, S.E.(E) is hereby confirmed.	Facts
He will not earn anything beyond the subsistence allowances payable to him during the period of suspension.	None
This order takes immediate effect.?	None
The appeal filed by the appellant against the order of punishment was also dismissed.	None
It was communicated to the appellant on 10.11.2009.	Facts
Aggrieved against the punishment order as well as order dismissing the appeal Writ Petition No.2712(W) of 2010 was filed by the appellant.	Facts
The writ petition was heard by the learned Single Judge and by judgment dated 29.06.2015 learned Single Judge allowed the writ petition by following order ?	None
For the reasons discussed above, the entire disciplinary proceeding including the order of suspension dated 29th April, 2008, the charge sheet dated 25th May, 2008, the enquiry report dated 26th December, 2008, the order of punishment dated 2nd June, 2009 and the appellate authority order dated 10th November, 2009 are set aside and quashed.	None
The respondents are directed to reinstate the petitioner within 6 weeks from the date of communication of this order and to start payment of the petitioner?s monthly salaries and other allowances, month by month.	Facts
The respondents are also directed to treat the petitioner in service without any break as if no order of dismissal was ever issued to the petitioner.	None
The petitioner will also be entitled to receive full back wages for the period he was not paid the salaries in view of issuance of the order of dismissal which has been quashed in the writ application.	Facts
The respondents are further directed to calculate the back wages payable to the petitioner in terms of this order and to disburse the same through 4 equal monthly instalments, the first of which should be paid within a period of 6 weeks from the date of communication of this order.	Facts
With such observations and directions, the writ application is disposed of.?	None
The respondent aggrieved by the judgment of learned Single Judge has filed the appeal before the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court.	Facts
The Division Bench by its judgment dated 20.09.2017 allowed the appeal and set aside the judgment of the learned Single Judge.	Facts
Aggrieved by the judgment of the Division Bench, this appeal has been filed by the appellant.	Facts
7.	None
Notice was issued by this Court on 24.11.2017.	Facts
The respondent appeared and the matter was heard by this Court on 09.10.2018.	Facts
This Court on 09.10.2008 passed following order ?	None
Learned counsel for the petitioner had submitted a letter of resignation on 13.05.2008.	None
By way of settlement, it is proposed that the resignation letter be treated as a voluntary retirement and the petitioner will be entitled to all benefits accruing to him on retirement as on that date.	Reasoning
This will also necessarily mean that the departmental proceedings against the petitioner initiated by the respondents will stand quashed without going into the merits of the case.	None
Learned counsel for the petitioner says that this is acceptable to him.	None
However, learned counsel for the respondent says that he would like to take instructions in this regard.	None
List the matter after three weeks.?	None
When the matter was again taken by this Court on 09.04.2019, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the proposal recorded in the order of this Court on 09.10.2018 is not acceptable to the respondents and the matter be heard on merits.	Facts
Consequently, the appeal was heard on 16.07.2019. 9.	Facts
Before we notice the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties, it is necessary to notice the substance of charges, which were levelled against the appellant.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court in the impugned judgment has itself noticed twofold charges in the following words ?23.	None
The charges against the delinquent employee were two folds i.e. (i) he gave a presentation in the seminar on 17.04.2008 at New Delhi hosted by IEEMA without having any permission from his higher authority (ii) he availed the hospitality of SML as his air fare from Kolkata to New Delhi on 16th April, 2008 and return journey from New Delhi to Kolkata on 17th April, 2008 was borne by SML when he was officially dealing with SML in the tender process, which was pending finalization for placement of orders to the successful company of suppliers.	Facts
He thus placed himself under pecuniary obligation under SML.?	None
Shri Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel assisted by Shri Udayaditya Banerjee, learned counsel for the appellant contends that the appellant had unblemished service of 22 years and the charges which were levelled against the appellant were not correct.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the appellant submits that with regard to Charge No.1 of his attending a presentation at New Delhi invited by IEEMA, he had already informed his immediate superior Officer before leaving for Delhi with regard to his absence on 17.04.2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
His application for casual leave was also allowed on 24.04.2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, no misconduct was committed by the appellant inviting any punishment.	Arguments of Petitioner
With regard to charge No.2, learned counsel submits that with regard to tender Notice No.P28/200708(PCII)	Arguments of Petitioner
the appellant was merely involved in preparation of specifications and the technical report was submitted by the Additional Chief Engineer(Distt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Testing), which was sent to separate committee comprising higher official to take decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant was neither a member of the core committee nor he was present during the discussion of core committee where decision was taken.	Arguments of Petitioner
Neither there is any allegation nor any kind of benefit or favour has been accepted by the appellant from M s. Secure Meters nor the appellant has caused any loss to the Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Tender Notice No.P28/200708 was subsequently cancelled.	Arguments of Petitioner
Insofar as booking of air tickets by Globe Travel Agency is concerned, no payment of bill was paid by M s. Secure Meters rather payment was made by the appellant of the bill amount of Rs.12,345/ to M s. Secure Meters, receipt of which was filed during the inquiry.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Inquiry Officer without adverting to relevant aspects proceeded and submitted the report in premeditated manner and proceeded to hold charges proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant in his representation against the findings of the Inquiry Officer has given all facts and material to prove that findings are perverse but disciplinary authority without adverting to those material and facts held the charges proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any view of the matter, charge of attending IEEMA presentation on 17.04.2018 without previous permission of employer was not such a charge on which punishment of dismissal could have been awarded.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, insofar as air tickets obtained from Travel Agent of M s. Secure Meters are concerned, the payment of air tickets was never made by M s. Secure Meters but was made by the appellant, receipt of which was filed in the inquiry proceedings which having not been disbelieved, there is no other material or evidence of any kind of obtaining pecuniary benefit from M s. Secure Meters by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, there being no material or charge for any kind of favour or benefit extended by the appellant to M s. Secure Meters, present was not a case of awarding punishment of dismissal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Awarding punishment of dismissal of the appellant is disproportionate and deserves to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that punishment of permanent withholding of pension for life time and forfeiture of entire gratuity by the order of the disciplinary authority is without jurisdiction, which punishment could not have been imposed in the disciplinary proceedings which were initiated under the West Bengal State Electricity Board Employees?	Arguments of Petitioner
Service Regulations adopted by WBSBCL.	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	None
Shri Yasobant Das, learned senior counsel, appearing for the respondent refuting the submissions of the appellant contends that the charges having been proved in the inquiry proceedings, learned Single Judge committed error in interfering with the punishment.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant had official dealing with M s. Secure Meters and it was not expected from such officer in obtaining any benefit from such bidder, the appellant obtained air tickets from M s. Secure Meters and utilized its hospitality, which is a misconduct inviting punishment under Service Rules and Service Regulations.	Arguments of Respondent
12.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents has supported the impugned judgment of the Division bench of Calcutta High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that Company has lost confidence in the appellant and the direction of the learned Single Judge to reinstate the appellant with back wages was uncalled for.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that Company cannot reinstate a person who has lost confidence of the Company.	Arguments of Respondent
13.	None
We have considered submissions of the learned counsel for the parties and perused the records.	None
14.	None
The substance of the charges against the appellant as noted in the impugned judgment dated 20.09.2017 and extracted above were twofold.	Reasoning
Insofar as charge of attending the seminar on 17.04.2008 without having any permission from higher authorities, suffice it to say that the casual leave application for 17.04.2008 having been sanctioned by Additional Chief Engineering (Distt.	Reasoning
Testing) by order dated 24.04.2008 ex post facto the sting of charge goes away.	Reasoning
Further, it is on the record that the appellant had informed his superior, Additional Chief Engineer (Distt.	Reasoning
Testing) on 16.04.2008 itself about his programme to attend the presentation at New Delhi.	Reasoning
The Additional Chief Engineer (Distt.	Reasoning
Testing), Shri Subrata Kumar Das was produced by employer as PW.4 in support of the charges, who in his statement has clearly mentioned about the invitation by the appellant having been placed before him and appellant having intimated in the evening of 16th April, 2008 prior to leaving for New Delhi that he was going to New Delhi for attending the meeting.	Reasoning
It is further stated by the witness that the appellant informed him regarding his intention to attend the meeting on 17.04.2008.	Reasoning
Following was stated by PW4 in his crossexamination ?	None
The CO had shown me the letter (Ex.13) received from IEEMA by himself.	None
Sri Ghosh, CO informed me regarding his intention to attend meeting on 17.04.2008.	Reasoning
The CO had intimated me on 16.04.2008 in the evening prior to leaving New Delhi that he was going to New Delhi for attending the said meeting I never restrained or forbidden the CO from going to New Delhi.?	Reasoning
Thus, the appellant attended the presentation at New Delhi with the prior information to his superior officer and also shown his invitation.	Reasoning
The presentation organized by IEEMA was a programme organised by a private organisation on the subject of presentation MIOS (Meter Inter Operative System), which subject was relevant and beneficial to all who were concerned with the subject.	Reasoning
The invitation was not any official invitation but was in the personal name of the appellant.	Reasoning
The appellant has never been nominated nor has been sent by the Co. for the presentation.	Reasoning
Even if it is assumed that appellant was required to obtain prior written permission from the Company to go to attend the meeting, he having informed his superior officer in advance before going to attend the presentation, the charge of any such misconduct is not made out, which may warrant extreme punishment of dismissal.	Reasoning
16.	None
Now, coming to the second charge as noted above i.e. appellant availed the hospitality of M s. Secure Meters as his airfare from Calcutta to Delhi on 16.04.2008 and return journey on 17.04.2008 was paid by M s. Secure Meters when he was officially dealing with M s. Secure Meters, one of the tenderers.	Reasoning
Suffice it to say that M s. Secure Meters has not made any payment for the air tickets nor is there any material on the record to show that such payment was made.	Reasoning
The appellant has made the payment on 28.04.2008 for an amount of Rs.12,350/ against the bill raised by the Travel Agency dated 18.04.2008, money receipt dated 28.04.2008 was filed in the proceedings, which has not been disbelieved, thus, it was the appellant, who made the payment for the journey from DelhiCalcutta and CalcuttaDelhi.	Reasoning
Inquiry Officer was not right in his conclusion that getting ticket booked through the Travel Agent by M s. Secure Meters is equivalent to borrowing money by the appellant from M s. Secure Meters.	Reasoning
The conclusion of the Inquiry Officer is perverse and not supported by the material on record.	Reasoning
17.	None
It is further relevant to notice that insofar as the appellant?s role in providing for technical specifications for tender and his role in selection of M s. Secure Meters in acceptance of technical bid or in decision regarding acceptance of tenders, the appellant had no role to play.	Reasoning
PW4, the Additional Chief Engineer (Distt.	Reasoning
Testing), who was produced on behalf of the employer in support of the charges, himself in his statement has clearly stated about the role of the appellant.	Reasoning
In the above reference with regard to notice No.P28/200708 and its details, following statement was made by PW4 ?	None
Tenders specifications vide Notice No.P28/200708 (PII) was actually prepared by the Advisor(SV) and finally settled by the Adviser (SV) and myself.	None
Sri.P.Biswas, SE and Sri Ghosh, CO assited me in the process.	Facts
The specification, which was referred above, was presented by the Adviser (SV) in a meeting where all the Technical Directors were present.	Facts
The Chairman and myself were also present there.	Facts
Sri Ghosh, CO was not present in that meeting.	Facts
I formed a team of engineers and technicians to test the sample meters submitted by the bidders.	Facts
The testing reports as in Ext.7A, Ext.7B, Ext.7C respectively were prepared in an approved format of the Company.	Facts
The meter testing was made as per prescheduled date and representative from SLP Wing and other interested bidders were allowed to witness the testing.	Facts
In the instant case the engineers of the SLP Wing were present during testing.	Facts
I have not received any complaint from any bidders regarding the testing of meters so far I remember.	Facts
After completion of the testing by the respective officers and technical to whom it was allotted, I personally made certain sample checking and being fully satisfied I submitted technical evaluation report in this regard.	Facts
After I send the technical evaluation report a separate core committee comprising higher officials take decision towards the acceptance of the technical evaluation report.	Facts
The CO was neither a member of the core committee nor he was present during the discussion of the core committee.?	Facts
The above statement of PW4, who was produced on behalf of the employer, clearly indicates that the appellant was neither a member of the committee nor he was present during the discussion of the core committee, who was authority competent to accept the tenders.	Reasoning
Further, insofar as specification regarding Notice No.P28/200708, it was clearly stated that specification was prepared by the Adviser (SV) and finally decided by the Adviser (SV) himself, i.e., Additional Chief Engineer (Distt.	Reasoning
Testing).	Reasoning
The appellant was not involved in any such manner.	Reasoning
Furthermore, neither any allegation nor any material regarding appellant having got any kind of benefit from M s. Secure Meters in any manner was produced.	Reasoning
The tender specification by specification notice NO. P28/200708 was ultimately cancelled, hence it is not a case of any benefit obtained from M s. Secure Meters out of the tenders.	Reasoning
The immediate officer under whom appellant was working himself spoke about the tender and further spoke that ?	None
.I can depose that the CO never lacking in his sincerity and integrity towards his work.?	None
19.	None
We are conscious of the scope of judicial review by the High court and this Court in reference to disciplinary proceedings.	None
A three Judge Bench of this Court in B.C. Chaturvedi vs. Union of India and others, (1995) 6 SCC 749 , in paragraph 18 has laid down parameters of judicial review in the disciplinary proceedings to the following effect ?	None
18.	None
A review of the above legal position would establish that the disciplinary authority, and on appeal the appellate authority, being factfinding authorities have exclusive power to consider the evidence with a view to maintain discipline.	None
They are invested with the discretion to impose appropriate punishment keeping in view the magnitude or gravity of the misconduct.	None
The High Court Tribunal, while exercising the power of judicial review, cannot normally substitute its own conclusion on penalty and impose some other penalty.	None
If the punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority or the appellate authority shocks the conscience of the High Court Tribunal, it would appropriately mould the relief, either directing the disciplinary appellate authority to reconsider the penalty imposed, or to shorten the litigation, it may itself, in exceptional and rare cases, impose appropriate punishment with cogent reasons in support thereof.?	None
There cannot be any dispute to the proposition that disciplinary authority has exclusive power to impose appropriate punishment keeping in view the magnitude and gravity of misconduct.	Reasoning
The punishment to be imposed on a delinquent employee has to be proportionate to the charge and in event punishment is disproportionate, the delinquent has to be held to be given discriminatory treatment violating Article 14.	Reasoning
The test as has been approved by this Court is that the High Court and this Court can interfere with the punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority when it shocks conscience of the Court.	Reasoning
The present is a case where the punishment is so disproportionate to the charge that it clearly shocks the conscience of the Court.	Reasoning
The charges which were held to be proved were not any such charges on which punishment of dismissal could have been imposed.	Reasoning
Further, when the payment of air ticket which was got prepared by Travel Agent of M s. Secure Meters was ultimately made by the appellant, which was not disbelieved in the proceedings and no other material or evidence extending any benefit to M s. Secure Meters were on the record, there was no occasion of awarding extreme punishment.	Reasoning
21.	None
Another aspect, which needs to be noticed is that disciplinary authority while imposing the punishment of dismissal from service has also awarded (a)permanently withhold of pension for life time (b) forfeiture of his entire gratuity.	Reasoning
The proceedings were initiated against the appellant under Regulations 61 and 63 of WBSEB Employees?	Reasoning
Service Regulations, which is clear from following statement in the chargesheet ?	None
The undersigned proposes to hold an enquiry under Regulation 61 63 of WBSEB Employees?	None
Service Regulations since adopted by WBSEDCL, against Sri Rathin Ghosh, Superintending Engineer (E) (Under suspension) attached to Distribution Testing Department.?	None
The West Bengal State Electricity Board Employees?	None
Service Regulations are on record.	None
Regulation 61 deals with act of misconduct.	None
Regulation 62 which deals with punishment is as follows ?	None
Regulation 62.	None
Without prejudice to the provisions of any law for the time being in force, an employee who is found to be guilty of any act of misconduct or of any breach of discipline is punishable as indicated below, according to the gravity of the breach or misconduct.	None
The punishment will not only depend on the findings in the case under review, but also on his record.	None
The imposition of penalties may be ordered by the Secretary or by the respective appointing authorities or any other officers of the Board empowered in this behalf.	None
(1) Censure (2) Withholding of increment or Promotion (3) Suspension (4) Reduction to a lower post or timescale or to a lower stage in the timescale (5) Recovery from pay of any sum as a measure of punishment forming part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Board by wilful negligence or breach of orders (6) Removal from service which does not debar future employment (7) Dismissal from service which ordinarily debars future employment.?	None
It is relevant to notice that Regulation 62 does not contain any punishment of permanent withholding of pension for life time or forfeiture of gratuity.	Reasoning
In the proceedings drawn against the appellant under West Bengal State Electricity Board Employees?	Reasoning
Service Regulations, which have been adopted by the Company, no punishment could have been awarded as permanent withholding of pension for life time or forfeiture of gratuity.	Reasoning
Learned Single Judge has dealt with the issue and has rightly concluded that the disciplinary authority committed jurisdictional error in imposing the above punishments.	Reasoning
The Division Bench in the impugned judgment has sought to justify the punishment of withholding the pension and forfeiture of gratuity by referring to West Bengal State Electricity Board Employees?(DeathCumRetirement Benefit) Regulations, 1985 (hereinafter referred to as ?Regulations, 1985?, which contain provisions as Regulation 11A dealing with withholding of pension.	Reasoning
Pension has been defined in Regulation 6(i) as ?Pension?	None
except when the term pension is used in contradistinction to gratuity, includes gratuity.	None
Regulation 11A which is relevant for the present case is as follows ?	None
11A	None
(1) The pension of an officer may be withheld in whole or in part under an order of the Board passed not later than three years after the date of retirement to meet any sum due under the liability incurred by such officer to the Board.	None
(2) Right of the Board to withhold pension in certain cases The Board reserves to itself the right of withholding or withdrawing the pension or any part of it whether permanently or for specified period and the right of ordering the recovery from a pension of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Board, if the pensioner is found in a departmental or judicial proceeding to have been guilty of grave misconduct or negligence during the period of his service, including service rendered on reemployment after the retirement Provided that (a) Such departmental proceeding if instituted while the officer was in service whether before his retirement or during his reemployment shall after the final retirement of the officer be deemed to be a proceeding under this Regulation and shall be continued and concluded by the authority by which it was commenced in the same manner as if the officer had continued in service.	None
(b) Such departmental proceedings, if not instituted while the officer was in service before his retirement or during his reemployment (i) Shall not be instituted save with the sanction of the Board (ii) Shall not be in respect of any event which took place more than four years before such institution and (iii) Shall be conducted by such authority and in such place as the Board may direct and in accordance with the procedure applicable to the departmental proceedings in which an order of dismissal from service could be made in relation to the officer during his service (c)	None
No such judicial proceeding, if not instituted while the officer was in service whether before his retirement or during his reemployment shall be instituted in respect of the cause of action which arose or an event which took place more than four years before such institution.	None
Ref Office Order No.4232 dtd.23.11.1987 Provided further that the pension of an employee may be released in rarest of the rare cases by the Chairman of the Board even during pendency of the criminal proceedings against the employee where the Chairman of the Board is entirely satisfied that the following conditions are fulfilled (i) There is a reasonable possibility of acquittal from all charges leveled against the employee in the pending criminal proceedings.	None
(ii) The conduct of the employee during his tenure in service was otherwise satisfactory in all respects.	None
(iii)	None
The criminal proceeding arises out of due discharge of the official duties by the employee.	None
Ref Office Order No.5676 dated 21.01.1999?	None
There is no doubt that Board has right to withhold pension in certain cases in the circumstances as mentioned in Regulation 11A(2).	None
The precondition for withholding pension as enumerated in Regulation 11A(2) ?	None
if the pensioner is found in a departmental or judicial proceeding to have been guilty of grave misconduct or negligence during the period of his service?	None
25.	None
The scheme of the Regulation indicates that the power to withhold the pension has to be exercised when proceedings are drawn under Regulations, 1985.	Reasoning
Further, what is contemplated is withholding of pension of pensioner, which power has to be exercised qua a pensioner, the appellant having never retired from service nor was a pensioner, there was no occasion for exercising of power under Regulation 11A of Regulations, 1985.	Reasoning
Even for argument, it is assumed if before retirement of a person power under Regulation 11A can be exercised, there has to be separate proceeding under Regulations, 1985 for withholding of pension with notice under Regulations, 1985 for proposed action.	Reasoning
Present is a case where disciplinary authority has drawn proceeding against the appellant under the West Bengal State Electricity Board Employees?	Reasoning
Service Regulations and not any proceeding is drawn under Regulations, 1985.	Reasoning
The imposition of punishment of withholding of pension while in proceeding under WBSEBES Regulations are illegal and without jurisdiction.	Reasoning
The order passed by the disciplinary authority, thus, suffered from the above jurisdictional error.	Reasoning
26.	None
In view of the foregoing discussions, we are unable to sustain the judgment of the Division Bench.	Reasoning
We upheld the judgment of the learned Single Judge to the extent it has set aside the dismissal order.	None
27.	None
Now, we come to the question of relief which the appellant may be entitled in the facts of the present case.	Issue
As noticed above, the appellant has already submitted his resignation on 13.05.2008, which was not accepted by the respondent.	None
As recorded in the order dated 09.10.2018, this Court has proposed that the resignation letter be treated as a voluntary retirement and the appellant be entitled to all benefits accruing to him on retirement as on that date.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the ends of justice be served in allowing this appeal setting aside the dismissal order by directing that resignation letter of the appellant dated 13.05.2008 be treated as voluntary retirement with further direction to treat the appellant as voluntarily retired on that date and to compute all benefits accruing to the appellant including gratuity and pension as admissible on that date.	Decision
The respondents are directed to compute the entire benefits of the appellant and make the payment within a period of two months from today.	Decision
In event, the payment is not made within two months of this order, such payment shall carry interest at the rate of 6 per annum.	Decision
The appeal is allowed to the above extent.	Decision
