 Raghubar Dayal, J. (On behalf of himself, K. Subba Rao, C. J., and S. M. Sikri, J.) 1.	None
These three appeals, by special leave, are directed against the orders of the Central Government dated January 18, 1962, on applications for revision under R. 7 of the Mining Leases (Modification of Terms) Rules, 1956, hereinafter called the 1956 rules, in respect of the orders passed by the Controller of Mining Leases, Nagpur, on July 1, 1961, in Cases Nos. H317, H317A and H317B. 2.	Issue
The appeals arise thus.	Facts
On August 11, 1928, Raja Ban Bahadur Singh of Palganj, in Bihar, executed a lease with respect to a certain area of his estate in favour of Babu Tribang Murani Chakravarti of Asansol for a period of 49 years for the purpose of carrying out mining operations in the said area for soap stone, kaoline etc.	Facts
Chakravarti, the head lessee, executed a sublease in favour of Deoji Jairam Solanki on May 18, 1933.	Facts
Solanki, in his turn, granted a sublease in respect of the same area in favour of M s. Hirji Premji Parmar and Brothers on May 18, 1934.	None
On October 18, 1954, M s. Hirji Premji Parmar and Brothers, assigned their right, title and interest in the said area in favour of the appellants, the Bihar Mines Ltd., Calcutta, for a period of 19 years and 7 months expiring on May 17, 1974.	Facts
3.	None
The Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 (Act XXX of 1950), hereinafter called the Reforms Act, came in to force on September 25, 1952.	Facts
On July 13, 1952, the Government of Bihar issued a notification under subs.	Facts
(1) of S. 3 declaring that the estate of Palganj passed to and became vested in the State.	Facts
On January 26, 1955, the State Government issued notification under S. 3A of the Reforms Act declaring that the intermediary interests of all intermediaries in the whole estate had passed to and become vested in the State.	Facts
Clrakravartis mining rights in the area comprised in the lease became subject to the provisions of S. 10 of the Reforms Act.	Facts
4.	None
In 1948, the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (Central Act LIII of 1948), hereinafter called the 1948 Act, was enacted for the regulation of Mines.	Facts
Section 4 (1) of this Act provided that no mining leases would be granted after the commencement of the Act otherwise than in accordance with the rules made under that Act.	Facts
Subs.	None
(2) provided that any mining leases granted contrary to subs.	None
(1) would be void and of no effect.	Facts
Section 5 empowered the Central Government to make rules for regulating the grant of mining leases in respect of any mineral or in any area.	Facts
Section 7 empowered the Central Government to make rules for the purpose of modifying and altering the terms and conditions of any mining leases granted prior to the commencement of the Act so as to bring such leases into conformity with the rules made under S. 5. 5.	Facts
The Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, hereinafter called the 1949 rules, were made by the Central Government in the exercise of its powers under S. 5 of the 1948 Act.	Facts
The 1956 rules were made by the Central Government in exercise of its powers under S. 7.	Facts
Rule 6 of the 1956 rules empowered the Controller of Mining Leases, after following the prescribed procedure, to modify any existing mining lease so as to bring it in conformity with the 1948 Act and the 1949 rules.	Facts
6.	None
The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 (Act LXVII of 1957), hereinafter called the 1957 Act, repealed the 1948 Act.	Facts
In view of its S. 29, the l956 rules continued to be effective.	Facts
7. The Controller of Mines took action for the modification of the head lease dated August 11, 1928, and the sublease executed in favour of Solanki and Hirji Premji Parmar and Brothers in 1933 and 1934 respectively.	Facts
Notice was issued to the appellants of the proposed modifications.	Facts
The appellants, however, do not admit having received the notice of the modifications of the subleases.	Facts
They admit the receipt of the notice for the modification of the head lease.	Facts
They appeared before the Controller and raised objections to the proposed modifications.	Facts
The Controller, however, passed an order on July1, 1961 to the effect that the head lease and the subleases would terminate on July 1, 1961.	Facts
Against these orders of the Controller the appellant had filed revisions before the Central Government which were rejected.	Facts
It is against those orders of the Controller and the Central Government that the present appeals have been filed.	Facts
8.	None
The first and the main contention for the appellant is that the head lease could not be modified under the 1956 rules as it did not come within the expression existing mining lease as defined in Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(c) of R.2 of those rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
Existing mining lease means a mining lease granted before October 25, 1949, and subsisting at the commencement of the 1956 rules, but does not include any leases specified in subclause (i) to (iv) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(c)	Arguments of Petitioner
The head lease was granted in 1928 and would ostensibly come within existing mining leases.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention however, is that in view of S. 10 of the Reference Act, the head lease as such came to an end and a new statutory lease under S. 10 replaced it and that therefore this new statutory lease was not a lease granted before October 25, 1949.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention for the respondent is that the effect of S. 10 of the Reforms Act is that the old lease continued with the State Government substituted as the lessor in the place of the original lessor and that therefore the lease could be modified as an existing mining lease.	Arguments of Respondent
10.	None
We agree with the contention for the appellant.	Reasoning
11.	None
The preamble of the Reforms Act states that it was expedient to provide for the transference to the State of the interests of proprietors and tenureholders in land and of mortgagees and lessees of such interests including interest in trees etc., mines and minerals.	None
Notifications under Ss. 3 and 3A of the Reforms Act passed to and vested in the State the estates or tenures of a proprietor or tenureholder and also the intermediary interests of all intermediaries.	None
No interest thus remains in the lessor, the original proprietor of the land leased.	None
Section 4 of the Reforms Act further emphasized the consequences of the vesting of the estate or tenure in the State Clause (a) of S. 4 mentions one of the consequences and states that on the publication of the aforesaid notification, such estate or tenure, including the interests of the proprietor or tenureholder in any building etc. in trees etc., as also his interest in all subsoil including any rights in mines and minerals whether discovered or undiscovered or whether being worked or not, inclusive of such rights of a lessee of mines and minerals comprised in such estate or tenure other than the interests of raiyats or underraiyats shall, with effect from the date of vesting, vest absolutely in the State free from all incumbrances and such proprietor or tenureholder shall cease to have any interests in such estate or tenure other than the interests expressly saved by or under the provision of the Act.	None
It is clear therefore that the interest of the proprietor or tenureholder including his rights in mines and minerals, inclusive of rights of a lessee of mines and minerals, come to an end and vest absolutely in the State.	None
Having once so vested, certain rights were conferred by statute on the proprietors and tenureholders and the lessees.	None
Section 9 provides that the mines which were in operation at the commencement of the Act and were being worked directly by the intermediary shall be deemed to have been leased by the State Government to the intermediary and he shall he entitled to retain possession of those mines as a lessee thereof.	None
The mines in the present case were not worked by the intermediary lessor.	None
The lease by the State Government to the intermediary, according to subs.	None
(2) of S. 9, was to have such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the State Government and the intermediary or, in the absence of such agreement, as may be settled by the Mines Tribunal appointed under S. 12 thereof, provided that all such terms and conditions shall be in accordance with the provisions of any Central Act for the time being in force regulating the grant of new mining leases.	None
According to the proviso, therefore, such terms and conditions were to be in accordance with the provisions of the 1948 Act which was in force at the time the State the vested in the State of Bihar. 12.	None
Section 10 deals with leases of mines and minerals which subsisted on the date immediately before the date of vesting of the estate or tenure.	None
It reads Subsisting leases of mines and minerals  (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where immediately before the date of vesting of the estate or tenure there is a subsisting lease of mines or minerals comprised in the estate or tenure or any part thereof, the whole or that part of the estate or tenure comprised in such lease shall, with effect from the date of vesting, be deemed to have been leased by the state Government to the holder of the said subsisting lease for the remainder of the term of that lease, and such holder shall be entitled to retain possession of the leasehold.	None
(2) The terms and conditions of the said lease by the State Government shall mutatis mutandis be the same as the terms and conditions of the subsisting lease referred to in subsection (1), but with the additional condition that, if in the opinion of the State Government the older of the lease had not, before the date of the commencement of this Act, done any prospecting or development work, the State Govermnent shall be entitled at any time before the expiry of one year from the said date to determine the lease by giving three months notice in writing Provided that nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to prevent any modifications being made in the terms and conditions of the said lease in accordance with the provisions of any Central Act for the time being in force regulating the modification of existing mining leases.	None
(3) The holder of any such lease of mines and minerals as is referred to in subsection (1) shall not he entitled to claim any damages from the outgoing proprietor or tenure holder on the ground that the terms of the lease executed by such proprietor or tenureholder in respect of the said mines and minerals have become incapable of fulfilment by the operation of this Act.	None
13.	None
The head lease of 1928, subsisted immediately before the date of vesting of the Palganj estate in the State.	None
Therefore, the whole or that part of the estate or tenure comprised in this lease was, with effect from the date of vesting, to be deemed to have been leased by the State Government to the holder of the lease i. e., the first lessee, upto August 11, 1977, the lease being for 49 Years.	None
The holder of the lease could retain possession of the leasehold property till then.	None
We may mention that we are not concerned, in this case, with the effect of S. 10A introduced by the Bihar Land Reforms Amendment Act, 1964 (Act IV of 1965).	None
14.	None
The terms and conditions of this statutory lease by the State Government were to be the same as the terms and conditions of the subsisting lease i. e., the lease of 1928, with the addition of one condition to the effect that the State Government could terminate the lease at any time before the expiry of one year, by giving three months notice in writing if it was of opinion that the holder of the lease had not before the date of commencement of the Act done any development work.	None
Anyway, this condition was not applicable in the present case as the mine had been worked an along.	None
15.	None
The terms and conditions of the lease were also subject to the proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 10 which said that nothing in that subsection would be deemed to prevent any modifications being made in the terms and conditions of the lease in accordance with the provisions of any Central Act for the time being in force regulating the modification of existing mining leases.	None
This means that the statutory lease could be modified in accordance with the provisions of the 1948 or the 1957 Act.	None
The 1956 rules provided for the modification of the leases granted before October 25, 1949.	None
It follows that in pursuance of the proviso to S. 10, the terms of the statutory lease could not be modified when the lease be held to be a new lease from the date of vesting.	None
16.	None
It has been urged for the respondent that while the proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 9 states that the terms and conditions of the lease would be in accordance with the provisions of any Central Act for the time being in force regulating the grant of new mining leases, the proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 10 does not use the expression new mining leases and that therefore it should be held that the statutory lease under S. 10 is not a new mining lease.	None
A statutory lease granted to the intermediary under S. 9 is a new lease and its terms and conditions are to be in accordance with the provisions of the Central Act regulating the grant of new mining leases.	None
As a new lease, it had to be in accordance with the provisions regulating the grant of new mining leases.	None
The proviso to subs.	None
(2) to S. 10 had to use the expression existing mining leases in contradistinction to the expression new mining leases in proviso to S. 9 (2) as modifications in the terms and conditions of the statutory lease under S. 10 might be made only in accordance with the provisions of the Central Act regulating the modifications of the existing mining leases, if the expression existing mining leases was ultimately defined to include a statutory lease under S. 10.	None
When the Reforms Act was passed the expression had not been defined.	None
No help can therefore be derived by the respondent from the difference in language in the proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 9 and the proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 10.	None
17.	None
It has also been urged for the respondent that what is to be deemed under S. 10 (1), Reforms Act, is for the purposes of the Reforms Act only i. e., the estate is to be deemed to be leased by the State Government for the purposes of the Act only and not for the purposes of the Acts of 1948 and 1957.	None
We do not agree.	None
The effect of the estate being deemed to be leased by the State Government is that the erstwhile lessee of the intermediary becomes actual1y the lessee of the State Government for all purposes from the date of the vesting of the estate in the State.	None
He cannot be deemed to be a lessee of the intermediary whose title is lost under the original lease.	None
18.	None
We are therefore of opinion that the statutory lease, now held by the head lessee from the State Government is a new lease granted after October 25, 1949.	None
It follows that the Controller had no jurisdiction to modify the terms of the lease which is granted by the State Government to the head lessee in view of subs.	None
(1) of S. 10.	None
When the head lease could not be modified, it being not an existing mining lease, the subleases could also not be modified.	None
They too would be deemed to be new leases granted by the new lessee from the State Government, as the rights of the lessor under the original head lease had ceased on the vesting of the estate and he is deemed to have got a new lease from the State.	None
19.	None
We need not therefore, in these appeals, deal with the other points urged by Mr. Sen for the appellant.	None
In our view the Controller could not have modified the lease in suit under the 1957 Act and the 1956 rules.	None
20.	None
We allow the appeals, set aside the order of the Controller dated July 1, 1961 and of the Government of India dated January 18, 1962.	None
The respondents will pay the costs of the appellant.	None
Bachawat, J. (On behalf of himself and Hidayatullah, J.) 21.	None
Counsel for the appellant submitted that a lease for extracting mineral from a mine is not a lease for the purpose of winning a mineral within the purview of Art.	None
31A (1) (e) of the Constitution, and as the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 (No. 67 of 1957) enables the compulsory acquisition of such a lease by prematurely terminating it without payment of compensation, it contravenes Art.	None
31	None
and is not protected by Art 31A (1) (e).	None
Relying on Lewis v. Fothergill, (1869) 5	None
Ch A 103, and Lord Rokebys case (1881) 7 AC 43 (1879) 13 Ch D 277 (1878) 9 Ch D 685, he submitted that a mineral is won when it is reached and is ready for continuous working.	None
In the collocation of words work and win, the expression win might be construed to mean some activity preparatory to the working and extraction of the mineral.	None
But we see no reason for giving this narrow meaning to the expression in wining in Art.	None
31A (1) (e) of the Constitution or in S. 3 (d) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act 1957.	None
In a popular sense, winning a mineral means getting or extracting it from the mine.	None
This is one of its dictionary meanings, see The Shorter Oxford Dictionary.	None
The plain and popular import of the expression furnishes the true rule of the interpretation of Art.	None
31A (1) (e).	None
A law providing for the premature termination of a lease for getting or extracting a mineral is protected by Art.	None
31A (1) (e), and cannot be attacked on the ground that it contravenes Art. 14, 19 or 31.	None
22.	None
The Mining Leases (Modification of Terms)	None
Rules,1956 were made on September 6, l956 under the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948.	None
By S. 29 of the Mines Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957, all rules made or purporting to have been made under the 1948 Act are deemed to have been made under the 1957 Act as if the latter Act had been in force on the date on which the Rules were made.	None
Counsel for the appellant submitted that the 1956 Rules were invalid (a) as they were laws with respect to acquisition of property for State purposes, which could be made by the State Legislature only under Entry 36, List II, as it stood before the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, and (b) as they did not provide for payment of compensation in conformity with S. 7 (2) (b) of the 1948 Act, and having regard to the observations of Mudholkar, J. in Bharat Kala Bhandar Ltd.	None
Municipal Committee, Dhamangaon, (1965) 3	None
SCR 499 at pp. 512516 (AIR 1966 SC 249 at pp. 257259)	None
the invalid Rules could not be regarded as purporting to have been made under the 1948 Act.	None
We cannot accept this contention.	None
The Central Government professed to make the Rules in exercise of its powers under S. 7 of the pre Constitution 1948 Act.	None
The power to make the Rules was conferred on the Government by S. 7 of the 1948 Act and not by Entry 36, List II of the Constitution.	None
As the Rules did not provide for payment of compensation in cases of reduction of the term of the lease in conformity with S. 7 (2) (b), they might not have been originally valid but they purported to have been made under the 1948 Act.	None
In view of S. 29 of the 1957 Act, the Rules must now be deemed to have been made under the l957 Act as if that Act was in force when the Rules were made.	None
The validly of the Rules must now be judged with reference to the 1957 Act.	None
As the Rules are in conformity with the 1957 Act, they must be regarded as validly made under it.	None
23.	None
The main contention of counsel for the appellant was that the leases were not existing leases within the meaning of R. 2(c) of the Mining Leases (Modification of Terms) Rules, 1956.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under R. 2 (c), an existing Mining lease means a mining lease granted prior to the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948, i. e., prior to October 25, 1949.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that there were grants of new leases by force of S. 10 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 (Bihar Act No. 30 of 1950), and these new leases could not be modified under the 1956 Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
24.	None
The lease by the Zamindar of Palganj is dated August 11, 1928.	None
The sublease is dated May 18, l933.	None
The underlease granted by the sublessee is dated May 18, 1934.	None
The Bihar Land Reforms Act was passed on September 11, 1950.	Facts
It came into force on September 25, 1952.	None
.Sections 3 and 3A provide for the issue of notifications vesting estates, tenures and intermediary interests in the State of Bihar.	None
The estate of the Zamindar vested in the State as from July 13, 1953 on the issue of the notification under S. 3 (1).	None
The intermediary interests vested in the State as from January 26, 1955 on the issue of a notification under S. 3A. By S. 4, on the issue of the requisite notification the estate or tenure including the rights of the proprietor or tenureholder in mines and minerals and inclusive of such rights of a lessee of mines and minerals comprised in the estate or tenure vested absolutely in the State free from all encumbrances subject to the subsequent provisions of Chap.	None
II of the Act.	None
Sections 9, 10 and 11 are in Chapter II.	None
Section 9 contains a special provision with regard to mines worked by a proprietor or tenureholder, and is in these terms9.	None
(1) With effect from the date of vesting, all such mines comprised in the estate or tenure as were in operation at the commencement of this Act and were being worked directly by the intermediary shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, be deemed to have been leased by the State Government to the intermediary, and as the case may be and such proprietor or tenureholder shall be entitled to retain possession of these mines as a lessee thereof.	None
(2) The terms and conditions of the said lease by the State Government shall be such as may be agreed upon between the State Government and the intermediary as the case may be, or in absence of agreement as may be settled by a Mines Tribunal appointed under Section 12 Provided that all such terms and conditions shall be in accordance with the provisions of any Central Act for the time being in force regulating the grant of new mining leases.	None
25.	None
In this case, we are not directly concerned with S. 9, Section 10 specially provides for subsisting leases for mines and minerals.	None
Section 11 deals with buildings and lands appurtenant to mines referred to in Ss. 9 and 10.	None
Section 10 is in these terms 10.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where immediately before the date of vesting of the estate or tenure there is a subsisting lease of mines or minerals comprised in the estate or tenure or any part thereof the whole or that part of the estate or tenure comprised in such lease shall with effect from the date of vesting, be deemed to have been leased by the State Government to the holder of the said subsisting lease for the remainder of the term of that lease, and such holder shall be entitled to retain possession of the leasehold property.	None
(2) The terms and conditions of the said lease by the State Government shall mutatis mutandis be the same as the terms and conditions of the subsisting lease referred to in subsection (1), but with the additional condition that, if in the opinion of the State Government the holder of the lease had not before the date of the commencement of this Act, done any prospecting or development work, the State Government shall be entitled at any time before the expiry of one year from the said date to terminate the lease by giving three months notice in writing.	None
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to prevent any modifications being made in the terms and conditions of the said lease in accordance with the provisions of any Central Act for the time being in force regulating the modification of existing mining leases.	None
(3) The holder of any such lease of mines and minerals as is referred to in subsection (l) shall not be entitled to claim any damages from the outgoing proprietor or tenureholder on the ground that the terms of the lease executed by such proprietor or tenureholder in respect of the said mines and minerals have become incapable of fulfilment by the operation of this Act.	None
26.	None
Mark the opening words of S. 10, Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act.	None
Notwithstanding what is said in Ss. 3, 3A and 4 as to vesting of the estate, tenure, intermediary interests and rights in mines and minerals, S. 10 holds the field with regard to subsisting leases of mines and minerals.	None
If there is such a lease, the deeming clause in subs.	None
(l) requires that certain consequences will follow.	None
Where immediately before the date of vesting of the estate or tenure there is a subsisting lease of mines or minerals comprised in it, we have to imagine that with effect from the date of vesting, the whole or that part of the estate or tenure comprised in such lease has been leased by the State Government to the holder of the said subsisting lease for the remainder of the term of that lease.	None
How can we imagine this lease without imagining that with effect from the date of vesting, the subsisting lease continues after substituting the State Government as the lessor in place of the proprietor or tenureholder?	None
How else can the estate be deemed to have been leased to the holder of the subsisting lease for the remainder of the term of that lease?	None
Subsection (2) tells us the terms and conditions of this lease by the State Government.	None
Lest our imagination might run riot, the proviso to subs.	None
(2) tells us that we must keep our fancy in check, and remember that this lease is an existing and not a new lease.	None
27.	None
The proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 10 indicates that the lease referred to in the Section may be modified in accordance with the provisions of any Central Act for the time being in force regulating the modification of existing mining leases.	None
Contrast the language of the proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 9.	None
The terms and conditions of the lease referred to in S. 9 must be in accordance with the provisions of any Central Act regulating the grant of new mining leases.	None
The two provisos forcefully indicate that S. 9 grants a new lease, whereas S. 10 continues an existing lease.	None
28.	None
The legislature intended that the terms and conditions of the mining leases referred to in Ss. 9 and 10 should be in accordance with the Central Act regulating mining leases.	None
For this purpose, the leases under S. 10 are treated as new leases and the leases under S. 9 are treated as existing leases, so that they may be modified and brought in conformity with the Central Act.	None
Had S. 10 the effect of granting a new lease, the legislature would have treated the lease referred to in S. 10 also as a new lease, and the language of the proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 10 would have corresponded with that of the proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 9.	None
The intention of the legislature would be completely frustrated if we are to hold that the leases referred to in subs.	None
(2) of S. 10 need not be brought in conformity with the laws regulating mining leases.	None
29.	None
Section 9 creates from the date of vesting a new lease in favour of the proprietor because before that date the was the owner of the mines and minerals and could not claim to be a lessee.	None
Section 10, on the other hand, continues a lease which was subsisting on the date of vesting.	None
The terms and conditions of the lease are modified and the Government is substituted as the lessor in place of the proprietor or the tenureholder in other respects, the old lease continues.	None
30.	None
One other matter clinches the issue.	None
Though by S. 2 (1) a lease in relation to mines and minerals includes a sublease, this definition cannot apply to S. 10.The subsisting lease referred to in S. 10 (1) cannot include a sublease.	None
Obviously, the State Government cannot grant a lease and a sublease in respect of the same subject matter at the same time.	None
Section 10 (1) continues the subsisting lease.	None
As the lease continues, the sublease also continues.	None
Had 10(1) the effect of destroying the old lease, the sublease also would fall along with the head lease.	None
The grant of a new lease would not revive the original sublease.	None
There can be no doubt that in spite of S. 10 the sublease was continued.	None
Section 10A was enacted by Bihar Act No. 4 of l965 on this footing.	None
In view of S. 10A, the interest of the lessee now vests in the Government, and the last sublessee holds his lease directly under the State Government.	None
We are, therefore, satisfied that the lease and the subleases were existing mining leases within the meaning of R. 2 (c) of the Mining Leases (Modification of Terms) Rules, 1956 and could be modified under the Rules.	None
31.	None
Counsel next submitted that the Controller by his orders, dated July 1, 1961 could not terminate the lease and he could only scale down the period of the lease to 20 years from the date when the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 came into force, i.e., from June 1, 1958.We are unable to accept this contention.	None
The lease was a mining lease in respect of soapstone, kaolin and white earth.	None
Section 8 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 and R. 40 of the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949 provide that the period of a mining lease in respect of minerals other than coal, iron ore and bauxite shall not exceed 20 years.	None
Section 16 of the 1957 Act and R. 4 (1) of the Mining Leases (Modification of Terms) Rules, 1956 require that the existing leases be brought in conformity with the 1957 Act and the 1949 Rules.	None
The period of an existing lease in respect of soapstone, kaolin and white earth can be brought in conformity with the Act and the Rules only by an order directing that the period of the lease shall be 20 years from the date of commencement of the lease.	None
How can the period of an existing lease become 20 years unless this period is counted from the commencement of the lease?	None
The Act and the Rules do not provide for the grant of a new lease for a period of 20 years from the date of the commencement of the Act.	None
They require modifications of the period of an existing lease so as to bring it in conformity with the Act.	None
The periods of 20 years from the leases expired long before July 1, 1961.	None
Accordingly, by his order, dated July 1, 1961, the Controller properly terminated the leases.	None
32.	None
The Controller passed three separate orders in cases Nos. H317,	Reasoning
M317A and H317B terminating the head lease, dated August 11, 1928 and the subleases, dated May 18, 1933 and May 18, 1934.	Reasoning
The requisite notice of the modification of the head lease under Rr. 4 and 6 of the Mining Leases (Modification of Terms) Rule, 1956 was given to the head lessee and the sublessees in case H317, and the order in that case cannot be assailed.	Reasoning
No notice to the head lessee and sublessee was given in cases Nos.	Reasoning
H317A and H317B. The orders of modification of the subleases in the last two cases were, therefore, irregularly passed and counsel for the appellant asked us to set aside those orders.	None
But as the head lease was properly terminated by the order in Case No. H317, the two subleases automatically stood terminated.	Reasoning
The defect or irregularity in the passing of the orders in cases Nos.	None
H317A	None
and H317B does no affect the merits of these cases, and we see no reason for reversing those orders.	None
33.	None
The appeals are dismissed with costs.	None
ORDER 34.	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority, Civil Appeals Nos. 172174 of 1963 are allowed with costs, Civil Appeal No. 113 of 1964 is allowed with costs, Civil Appeal No. 114 of 1964 is dismissed with costs and Civil Appeal No. 428 of 1964 is partly allowed with the direction that the parties will bear their own costs.	Decision
35.	None
Order accordingly.	None
