 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
These two appeals involving similar questions of law and facts were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.3.	Facts
Respondents herein were employees of Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd., a Government Company within the meaning of Section 617 of the Companies Act.	Facts
Coal India Limited admittedly is the holding company of Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd.	Facts
Appellant No.1 framed rules laying down terms and conditions of service of its Executive Officers.	Facts
The Executive Cadre of the Officers of Appellant No.1 is divided in various grades namely Gr. E/1 to Gr.E/8.	Facts
Indisputably, promotion from A/3 to A/4 grades is governed by the rule of SeniorityCumMerit.	None
For the purpose of considering the cases for promotion of the eligible officers from Grade E/3 to E/4, a departmental promotion committee held its meeting in AprilMay, 1999.4.	None
Respondent were, however, not promoted inter alia on the premise that the General Manager (Vigilance) of the Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. intimated to the concerned authority that vigilance cases were pending against them.	Facts
Orders of promotion were issued in favour of the officers who were admittedly junior to them on 31.8.1999.	Facts
When despite representation, they were not promoted on the ground of pendency of vigilance cases, they filed writ petitions before the Orissa High Court praying interalia for notional promotion with effect from the date their juniors were promoted.5.	Facts
During pendency of the Writ Petition namely in June, 2002, charge sheets were issued and upon a disciplinary proceeding having been initiated, a penalty of reduction of pay by one stage for a period of one year without cumulative effect was imposed upon the respondents in July, 2003.6.	Facts
Before the Orissa High Court as also before this Court, reliance has been placed by the appellants on office memorandums dated 19/27th June, 1979.	Facts
Upon taking into consideration the said office memorandum as also subsequent memorandums and in particular the one dated 8.1.1981, the High Court held Taking into consideration of the entire factual matrix of the case and keeping in view of the ratio decided by the Apex Court in different cases, so far as the present petitioner is concerned, the ratio decided in the case of Union of India Vrs.	None
K.V. Jankiraman and Union of IndiaVrs.	None
Dr. (Smt.)	None
Sudha Salhan has to be followed and since the concerned employees in the cases of Delhi Development AuthorityVrs.	None
H.C. Khurana (AIR 1993 S.C. 1488), Union of Indiavrs.	None
Kewal Kumar (AIR 1993 SC 1585 ) and Union of IndiavrsR.S. Sharma (AIR 1993 S.C. 2337) stand on a different footing than the present petitioner, the ratio decided in those cases cannot be followed in the case of the present petitioner.	None
In the case of R.S. Sharma the order of the Tribunal directing to open the sealed cover and giving effect to the recommendation made by the DPC on the ground of nonservice of charge memo, was set aside keeping in view the Rules Circulars O.M. in force more particularly clauseiv of the O.M. wherein it is provided that during the pendency or investigation on serious allegation of corruption, bribery or similar grave misconduct is in progress either by the CBI or any agency, departmental or otherwise, sealed cover procedure can be resorted to till the proceeding is over in all respect.	Facts
But in the instant case on the basis of O.M. Circular Rules followed by the MCL Coal India, the sealed cover was opened and the petitioner was given promotion to next higher grade (Grade4) since the so called investigation was not completed within two years from the date the immediate junior to the petitioner was promoted.	Facts
This particular office memorandum has been issued may be with the intention to check prolonged enquiry covering a period of more than two years in respect of certain allegations against in employee, so that the concerned employee shall not be harassed or debarred from getting benefit on the recommendation of DPC for an indefinite prolonged period on the ground of pendency of such enquiry, without initiation of a departmental proceeding after service of charge memo.	Facts
However once the sealed cover is opened and the petitioner is allowed the benefit of the recommendation of DPC by giving him promotion to the next higher grade, he shall be entitled for all consequential benefits from the date his immediate junior got the same.	Facts
In this case the petitioner had never been suspended during the period of the socalled preliminary enquiry nor during the period of departmental enquiry.	Facts
As such, he shall be entitled for promotion notionally with effect from the date his immediate junior got the same along with all service and financial benefit.	Facts
On the said findings, the writ petitions were allowed.	Facts
Mr. Ajit Kumar Sinha, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant took us through the said office memorandum dated 27.6.1979 and submitted that as in terms thereof pendency of a vigilance or departmental action would itself be sufficient for not promoting the officer who would, in the event of their complete exoneration would be promoted as and from the date his immediate junior has been promoted the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court, Mr. Sinha submitted, committed manifest error in invoking the sealed cover procedure which is not applicable to the fact of the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the impugned judgment is upheld, a floodgate of litigation would ensue.	None
Strong reliance in this behalf has been placed by Mr. Sinha on a reported decision of this case in Manoj Kumar Singh v. The Coal India Ltd. and Ors., in Civil Appeal No.17 of 2005 disposed of on 2.1.2006 as also on State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Srikant Chaphekar 1992	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) SCC 689 .9.	None
Mr. Janaranjan Das, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, supported the judgment of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The factual matrix involved in the matter being not in dispute, the only question which falls for our consideration is interpretation of the office memorandums dated 27.6.1979 and 8.1.1981.	Issue
Both First Appellant as also Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. are State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	None
Their action must, therefore, satisfy the test of reasonableness and fairness.	None
Although an employee of a State is not entitled to promotion to a higher post as a matter of right, he is entitled to be considered therefore in terms of Article 16 of the Constitution of India.	None
A right of promotion can be withheld or kept in abeyance only in terms of valid rules.	None
Rules operating in the field do not provide that only because some allegations have been made as against an officer of the company, the same would itself justify keeping a valuable right to be considered for promotion of an employee in abeyance.	None
When a question of that nature comes up for consideration before a superior court, the extant rules operating in the field must necessarily be construed in the light of the constitutional scheme of equality.	None
The office memorandum dated 19/27 June 1979 reads as under The issue relating to procedure to be followed with regard to promotion of an officer who has been kept under suspension and or against whom a vigilance departmental action is pending has been engaging the attention of the management for some time past.	None
Taking into consideration the extant rules and orders of the Government of India in this regard the following decision has been takena)	None
All orders for promotion will be issued only after vigilance clearance.b) c)	None
When an officer has been completely exonerated and he is subsequently promoted, his seniority should be fixed as if he had been promoted in accordance with the position assigned to him in the select list.	None
Period of his eligibility for consideration for promotion to the next higher grade should be reckoned with reference to the date his immediate junior has been promoted.	None
The pay of such an executive on promotion should be fixed notionally by allowing the intervening period during which the officers could not be promoted due to his suspension and or pending departmental enquiry to be counted for increments in the higher grade but no arrears would be admissible to him.	None
(Corrected as per No. C5(A)/50972 (Vol.1) Pt./1507 dated 10.07.1979).	None
The said office memorandum was, however, clarified by a subsequent memorandum dated 8.1.1981 wherein it was laid down It has been laid down in CIL O.M. number quoted above that all orders for promotions will be issued only after vigilance clearance.	None
The stage at which a vigilance enquiry should affect the promotion, confirmation et.	None
Of an employee of CIL and its subsidiaries has not been clearly defined in the above.	None
Quoted office memorandum.	None
Vigilance inquiries take considerable time to complete and in absence of a clear indication regarding the point at which such inquiries should and stand in the ay of an officers promotion, there is scope for confusion on this score.	None
This matter has been engaging the attention of the management for quite some time.	None
Taking into consideration the existing orders of the Government of India in this regard, the following decision has been taken.	None
All orders for promotions will be issued only after vigilance clearance.	None
However, vigilance clearance shall not be withheld for the mere fact that a P.E. or R.C. has been registered by the CBI against an officer or that complaints are being looked into a preliminary enquiry departmentally but no conclusion has been reacted about the prima facie guilt of the officer.	None
Vigilance clearance shall be withheld only when 1) In the case of a Preliminary Enquiry, either by the CBI or departmental agencies, the competent authority, on consideration of the results of the investigation, has formed the opinion that a chargesheet may be issued on specific imputations for departmental action, and2)	None
In case of a regular case, the competent authority has decided to accord sanction for prosecution of the officer in Court.	None
Until the competent authority arrives at such a conclusion, the officer may be treated at par as per with orders in the matter of promotion, confirmation etc.	None
These instructions, shall come into force with immediate effect.	None
It is not the case of the appellants that pursuant to or in furtherance of the complaint received by the vigilance department, the competent authority had arrived at a satisfaction as is required in terms of the said circulars that a charge sheet was likely to be issued on the basis of a preliminary enquiry held in that behalf or otherwise.	None
The circular letters issued by the appellants put restrictions on a valuable right of an employee.	None
They therefore, are, required to be construed strictly.	None
So construed there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that the conditions precedent contained therein must be satisfied before any action can be taken in that regard.	None
We may also notice that a revised guideline was also issued on or about 14.5.2002, wherein it was stated The Vigilance clearance shall be withheld only on the ground (a) when officer is under suspension (b) when the officer, in respect of whom a charge sheet has been issued and disciplinary proceedings are pending and (c) when an officer in respect of whom prosecution for a criminal charge is pending.	None
The said circular although is not ipso facto applicable in this case, clearly laws down the law otherwise prevailing.	None
Reliance placed by Mr. Sinha on Manoj Kumar Singh (supra) is wholly misplaced.	None
Therein no law was laid down.	None
It does not contain any ratio decidendi.	None
The question as to whether in absence of any chargesheet or at least in absence of any satisfaction having been arrived by the disciplinary authority that a prima facie case has been made out for proceeding against an employee, the Vigilance clearance can be given or not, did not fall for consideration at all therein.	None
No issue in that behalf was framed no argument was advanced no reason has been assigned in support of the said order.	None
This Court merely stated In the present case, the decision to take action against the appellant had been formed on 20.1.99.	None
Therefore, the appellant could not have been granted vigilance clearance.	None
In the circumstances, we see no reason to interfere with the order under challenge.	None
The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed.	None
There shall be no order as to costs.	None
It is surprising that although the appellant is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India, it failed even to be fair to this Court inasmuch as the subsequent office memorandum dated 8.1.1981 and or 14.5.2002 were not brought to its notice.	Reasoning
Had the subsequent office memorandums and in particular the one dated 8.1.1981 been brought to the notice of the Court, we have no doubt in our mind that the terms of the order passed in Manoj Kumar Singh (supra) would have been different.20.	Reasoning
Similarly, reliance placed on Srikant Chaphekar (supra) by Mr. Sinha, is equally misplaced.	None
Therein a Departmental Promotion Committee considered the adverse remarks passed against the employee concerned.	None
In this case, a departmental promotion committee did not take into consideration the case of the respondents at all.	Reasoning
They were indisputably entitled to be considered for promotion having regard to the rule of senioritycummerit.	None
Although, in the said rule, merit has some role to play, but the promotion would not be based only on merit.21.	Reasoning
See State of Kerala and Another v. N.M.	Reasoning
Thomas and Others AIR 1976 SC 490 , E.V. Chinnaiah v. State of Andhra Pradesh Ors.	Reasoning
(2005) 1 SCC 394 , Bhagwandas Tiwari and Ors.	Reasoning
vs. Dewas Shajapur Kshetriya Gramin Bank and Ors. 2006	Reasoning
(11) SCALE 593 , B.V. Sivaiah and Ors.	Reasoning
vs. K. Addanki Babu and Ors. etc.	Reasoning
(1998) 6 SCC 720 .22.	Reasoning
A departmental proceeding is ordinarily said to be initiated only when a chargesheet is issued.23.	None
The floodgate argument also does not appeal to us.	Reasoning
The same appears to be an argument of desperation.	Reasoning
Only because, there is a possibility of floodgate litigation, a valuable right of a citizen cannot be permitted to be taken away.	Reasoning
This Court is bound to determine the respective rights of the parties.24.	Reasoning
See Zee Telefilms Ltd. and Anr.	Reasoning
vs. Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
(2005) 4 SCC 649 , Guruvayoor Devaswom Managing Committee and Anr.	Reasoning
vs. C.K. Rajan and Ors., (2003)	Reasoning
7 SCC 546 .25.	Reasoning
Even, in such a case, the Employer is not in a helpless situation.	Reasoning
Despite such promotion if the delinquent employee has suffered punishment, subsequently appropriate steps may be taken on the basis thereof.	Reasoning
We, therefore, are of the opinion that there is no infirmity in the impugned judgments.	Decision
The appeals being wholly without merits, are dismissed with costs.	Decision
Counsels fee assessed at Rs.50,000/.	Decision
