 K. Sikri, J The Respondent No. 1 (hereinafter referred to as the Assessee) had imported hot rolled nonalloy steel wide coils against an advance licence issued under the Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate (DEEC) Scheme.	Issue
The quantity of the said import was 2018.6 MTs.	Facts
The imports were made on 03.03.1999 and 12.04.1999.	Issue
At the time of imports, the Assessee did not pay the import duty on the aforesaid materials taking umbrage under Notification No. 30/1997, as amended on 01.04.1997.	Issue
This Notification allows actual users to import the raw material dutyfree with the condition that the said material would be used by the importer itself and converted into specified finished goods and thereafter those goods would be exported as per the export obligations given in the advance licences.	Facts
As per this obligation, the Assessee was supposed to effect export of 1000 MTs cold rolled nonalloy steel (hard) coils and 1500 MTs of CRCA skin based steel strips coils totalling 2500 MTs.	Issue
The value pertaining to these exports was also specified in the licences.	Facts
The exports were to be effected within the time limits mentioned therein, which was 02.09.2001, but was extended up to 02.09.2004.	Facts
It is an admitted case that the raw material was used by the Assessee itself for manufacturing the specified products.	Facts
However, no exports were effected by exporting those goods so manufactured from the raw material that was imported dutyfree.	Facts
As per the Assessee, after manufacturing of the goods from the raw material, it was found that quality of those goods was not good enough for the purposes of exports.	Facts
Therefore, instead of exporting this material, the Assessee disposed of the said manufactured gods in the domestic market.	Facts
At the same time, in order to meet the export obligation under the said licences, it arranged the export through one M s. Steel Company, Gujarat as its supporting manufacturer.	Facts
M s. Steel Company, Gujarat arranged the export performance through their agents M s. Shirdi Industries Ltd., Mumbai.	Facts
M s. Shirdi Industries Limited in turn arranged for third party exports of cold rolled nonalloy steel coils through M s. Essar Steel Ltd., Hazira, Surat, a merchant manufacturer.	Facts
A quantity of 58.865 MTs and 176.5 MTs were exported vide Shipping Bill Nos. 1000051316 dated 17.05.2000 and 1000048872 dated 10.05.2000.	Facts
These exports were made to Bangladesh via Mumbai Port.	Facts
Further a quantity of 510.515 MTs was exported to Nepal by M s. Steel Company, Gujarat vide Shipping Bill No. 68/DEEC/2000 dated 23.02.2000.	Facts
On that basis, the Assessee claimed that it had fulfilled its obligation.	Facts
The Appellant Revenue was not amused with the aforesaid manner of fulfilling the export obligation by the Assessee.	Facts
According to the Appellant, conditions contained in Notification No. 30/1997 had not been complied with, by the aforesaid third party export, as the Notification in question mandated the export of that very product which was to be manufactured out of the imported raw material and, therefore, the exemption claimed under the aforesaid Notification was unjustified.	Facts
The Revenue, thus, issued showcause notice dated 30.03.2002 demanding the duty in the sum of Rs. 1,65,07,454 along with interest 24 from the date of clearance.	Facts
The Assessee submitted its reply bringing to the notice of the Revenue authorities the facts which have already been noted above.	Facts
It was pleaded that the export through third party was as per ExportImport (EXIM) Policy and third party exports had not availed any of the export incentives.	Facts
The aforesaid reply did not convince the Adjudicating Authority, namely, the Commissioner of Customs, who passed orders dated 31.03.2004 confirming the demand made in the showcause notice.	Facts
He also imposed a penalty of Rs. 10 lakhs.	Facts
Aggrieved by the aforesaid order of the Commissioner, the Assessee filed appeal before the Customs Excise Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (for short, CESTAT).	Facts
The CESTAT has, vide order dated 11.03.2005, allowed the appeal by arriving at a conclusion that Director General of Foreign Trade (for short, DGFT) had passed an order making amendment in the licence issued under the DEEC Scheme which effectively changed the products.	Facts
Amendment was also made in respect of nature of exports to be effected through third party exports.	Facts
Therefore, when the DGFT had amended the licence permitting such an export through third party, it amounted to fulfilling the export obligations as this changed position had to be reckoned.	Facts
On that basis, allowing the appeal, the order of the Commissioner has been set aside.	Facts
It is this order of the CESTAT which is under attack in the present appeals filed by the Revenue.	Facts
The neat submission which is made by Mr. Yashank Adhyaru, learned senior Counsel appearing for the Revenue, is that the amendment in the licences, as carried out by the DGFT, is totally inconsequential and extraneous to the issue at hand.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that the matter pertains to levy of import duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
The exemption from payment of export duty is provided by Notification No. 30/1997 dated 1.4.1997 where a specific condition is attached to the effect that exempt materials shall not be disposed of or utilized in any manner except for utilisation in discharge of export obligation or for replenishment of such materials and the materials so replenished shall not be sold or transferred to any other person.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that when admittedly this condition has not been fulfilled by the Assessee, the Assessee cannot be allowed the benefit of Notification No. 30/1997.	Arguments of Petitioner
In respect of this plea, he referred to the judgment of this Court in Sheshank Sea Foods Pvt. Ltd., Karnataka Vs. Union of India (UOI) and Others, (1997) 68 ECR 17 (1996)	Arguments of Petitioner
88 ELT 626 (1996) 8 SCALE 461 (1996) 11 SCC 755 (1996) 8 SCR 802 Supp .	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	None
Mr. Gourab Banerji, learned senior Counsel appearing for the Assessee, refuted the aforesaid submission and supported the orders by arguing that the obligation to effect the export stood fulfilled by the Assessee and since it was in terms of EXIM Policy, the Assessee could not be fastened with any such liability.	Arguments of Respondent
He also drew our attention to the proceedings which were taken out by the DGFT in this behalf.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that DGFT had issued showcause notice dated 20.10.2010 for initiating action for failure to complete the export obligation failure to submit relevant information documents.	Arguments of Respondent
In this showcause notice, the proceedings initiated by the Appellant herein were also mentioned.	Arguments of Respondent
The Assessee had filed reply to the same and thereafter matter was adjudicated upon by the DGFT.	Arguments of Respondent
After hearing, the OrderinOriginal dated 03.08.2011 was passed by the DGFT.	Arguments of Respondent
In this order, the DGFT has accepted that export through third party amounted to fulfilling the export obligation contained in the said licences.	Arguments of Respondent
However, since the total import entitlement of the firm, as per the amended licences, worked to 2123.1538 MTs and the Assessee had imported 2712.41 MTs, it resulted in excess import of 589.26 MTs.	Reasoning
Therefore, only on this excess import, customs duty was payable, which was directed to be paid along with interest calculated 15 from the date of first import to the date on which last consignment of exports were effected by the Assessee through third party.	Reasoning
Predicated on this order, submission of Mr. Banerji was that since DGFT has also accepted the fulfillment of export obligation under the licences, there is no question of payment of any further import duties.	Arguments of Respondent
Another submission of Mr. Banerjee was that nonexport of product manufactured from the said material was bona fide as it was found to be of inferior quality, not worthy of export, which bona fides was accepted by the DGFT as well, thereby permitting the amendment in the licence.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, obligations under Notification No. 30/1997 should also be treated as fulfilled when the matter is to be looked into from this angle as well.	Arguments of Respondent
Insofar as judgment in the case of Sheshank Sea Foods Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is concerned, Mr. Banerji argued that the said case pertains to the period prior to 1992 and there is a change in EXIM Policy now.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, he referred to another decision of this Court in Titan Medical Systems Pvt.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Collector of Customs, (2003) 87 ECC 13 (2003) 151 ELT 254 (2002) 10 JT 431 (2003) 9 SCC 133 to submit that it should be treated as a case of sufficient compliance.	Arguments of Respondent
We have given our serious consideration to the respective submissions made by the learned Counsel for the parties on either side.	None
Notification No. 30/1997 provides for Exemption to materials imported against advance licence with actual user condition.	Reasoning
It is issued by the Central Government in exercise of powers conferred by Subsection (1) of Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 after arriving at a satisfaction that it is necessary in the public interest so to do.	Reasoning
It exempts materials imported in India, against the advance licence with actual user condition in terms of para 7.4 of the EXIM Policy 19972000, from the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon, including the additional duty leviable thereon under the Customs Tariff Act, subject to certain conditions mentioned in this Notification.	Reasoning
In this behalf, we are concerned with condition Nos.	Reasoning
(v) to (viii) as there is no dispute that other conditions have been satisfied.	Reasoning
These conditions are reproduced below that the export obligation is discharged within the period specified in the said certificate or within such extended period as may be granted by the Licensing Authority by exporting resultants products manufactured in India which are specified in Part E of the said certificate (hereinafter referred to as resultant products) and in respect of which facility Under Rule 12(1)(b) or Rule 13(1)(b) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 has not been availed in respect of materials permitted under the said license that the importer produces evidence of discharge of export obligation to the satisfaction of the Assistant Commissioner of Customs within a period of 30 days of the expiry of period allowed for fulfillment of export obligation, or within such extended period as the said Assistant Commissioner of Customs may allow exempt materials shall not be disposed of or utilized in any manner except for utilization in discharge of export obligation or for replenishment of such materials and the materials so replenished shall not be sold or transferred to any other person that in relation to an Advance Licence issued to a Merchant Exporter (a) the name and address of the supporting manufacturer is specified in the said licence and the bond required to be executed by the importer in terms of condition (ii) shall be executed jointly by the Merchant Exporter and the supporting manufacturer binding themselves jointly and severally to comply with the conditions specified in this notification and (b) exempt materials are utilized in the factory of such supporting manufacturer in terms of condition (vii).	Reasoning
This Notification also contains definition of materials, which reads as under Materials means (a) raw materials components, intermediates, consumables, computer software and parts required for manufacture of resultant product specified in PartE of the said certificate Provided that the benefit of this notification shall apply to import of Acetic Anhydride, Ephedrine and Pseudoephedrine only against licences issued with the approval of Advance Licensing Committee in the office of the Director General of Foreign Trade (b) mandatory spares within the value limit of (10) of the value of the licence which are required to be exported along with the licence which are required to be exported along with the resultant product and (c) packing materials required for packing of resultant product.	None
From the reading of this Notification, it becomes clear that the material which is imported has to be against an advance licence with actual user condition in terms of para 7.4 of the EXIM Policy 19972000.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that the Assessee was in possession of such an advance licence issued by DGFT and this licence was with actual user condition, namely, the material so imported was to be used by the Assessee itself in its factory for manufacturing the items specified therein.	Reasoning
As per Condition No. (ii), the Assessee was required to execute a bond at the time of clearance of the imported materials to pay on demand an amount equal to the duty leviable, but for the exemption, on the imported materials in respect of which the conditions specified in this Notification have not been complied with, together with interest 24 per annum from the date of clearance of the said materials.	Reasoning
The export obligation was contained in the licence issued by the DGFT, which was to be adjusted during the period specified in the said certificate or within such extended period, as may be granted by the licensing authority (DGFT in this case).	Reasoning
The Assessee was supposed to produce evidence of discharge of export obligation to the satisfaction of the Assistant Commissioner of Customs within a period of 30 days of the expiry of the period allowed for fulfillment of the export obligation or within extended period as allowed.	Reasoning
Stringent stipulation is contained in Condition (vii), which is very significant and relevant for our purposes.	Reasoning
The Respondent was not supposed to dispose of or utilize the exempt materials in any manner except for utilization in discharge of the export obligation.	Reasoning
It would mean that not only the raw material imported (in respect of which exemption from duty is sought) is to be utilised in the manner mentioned, namely, for manufacture of specified products by the importer Assessee itself, this very material has to be utilised in discharge of export obligation.	Reasoning
It, thus, becomes abundantly clear that as per this Notification, in order to avail the exemption from import duty, it is necessary to make export of the product manufactured from that very raw material which is imported.	Reasoning
This condition is admittedly not fulfilled by the Assessee as there is no export of the goods from the raw material so utilised.	Reasoning
Instead, export is of the product manufactured from other material, that too through third party.	Reasoning
Therefore, in stricto senso, the mandate of the said Notification has not been fulfilled by the Assessee.	Reasoning
In such a scenario, whether amendment of the licence by the DGFT allowing export obligation to be fulfilled through third party would tantamount to meeting the requirement of the Notification becomes the central issue which needs to be answered.	Issue
Some developments which have taken place, highlighted by the Respondent, need to be mentioned at this stage.	None
In the present case, advance licence was issued to the Assessee in terms of para 7.4 of the EXIM Policy 19972000.	Reasoning
It was in terms of this licence that the import of the specified material was permitted on the condition that the Assessee is obligated to meet the export obligation as contained in the licence issued by the DGFT.	Reasoning
No doubt, this obligation in the export licence, read with conditions contained in Notification No. 30/1997, puts the onus upon the Assessee to make the exports of the products produced from the material so imported.	Reasoning
However, it is the case of the Assessee that for certain bona fide reasons (as the bona fides of the Assessee have been accepted by the DGFT), as the Assessee was not able to export same very goods produced by it from the material imported on which he was given exemption from payment of the import duty, the DGFT allowed the Assessee to meet the export obligation through third party.	Reasoning
It is also correct that insofar as DGFT is concerned, it has passed OrderinOriginal dated 03.08.2011 holding that the export through third party would tantamount to fulfilling the export obligation contained in the licence.	Reasoning
However, since the total import entitlement of the firm, as per the amended licences, worked to 2123.1538 MTs and the Assessee had imported 2712.41 MTs, it resulted in excess import of 589.26 MTs.	Reasoning
Therefore, only on this excess import, customs duty was payable, which was directed to be paid along with interest calculated 15 from the date of first import to the date on which last consignment of exports were effected by the Assessee through third party.	Reasoning
The DGFT, in its order, also mentioned that there was no misutilization of the raw material imported by the Assessee and there was no violation of any other conditions of the licence causing Revenue loss at the cost of exchequer.	Reasoning
The aforesaid OrderinOriginal of DGFT was under the provisions of EXIM Policy.	Reasoning
It is held by this Court in	Reasoning
Sheshank Sea Foods Pvt. Ltd.	Reasoning
(supra) that the same would not be binding on the customs authorities and as far as action taken under the Customs Act is concerned, the same is to be covered by the provisions of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
The relevant discussion thereupon which takes note of the concerned provisions of the Act as well is reproduced below Learned Counsel placed reliance upon a communication to all Collectors of Central Excise issued by the Central Board of Excise and Customs on 1351969, on the subject of whether, in the event of the contravention of a postimportation condition of an import licence, it was open to the Customs authorities to confiscate imported goods Under Section 111(o) of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
The said communication stated that before Section 111(o) could be attracted there had to be an exemption, subject to a condition, from a prohibition.	Reasoning
Where a valid licence has been issued, it is not a case of an exemption from the prohibition.	Reasoning
Therefore, if a postimportation condition of a licence is contravened, it cannot be said that any condition of exemption is contravened.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated above, the Ministry of Law have advised that it may not be possible to take action Under Section 111(o) with respect to the conditions of the licence relating to the use of goods after they are cleared from the customs charge.	Reasoning
Section 111(o) is the sheetanchor of the Respondents case.	Reasoning
It reads thus Confiscation of improperly imported goods, etc.  	None
The following goods brought from a place outside India shall be liable to confiscation xxx (o) any goods exempted, subject to any condition, from duty or any prohibition in respect of the import thereof under this Act or any other law for the time being in force, in respect of which the condition is not observed unless the nonobservance of the condition was sanctioned by the proper officer.	Reasoning
Section 111(O) states that when goods are exempted from customs duty subject to a condition and the condition is not observed, the goods are liable to confiscation.	Reasoning
The case of the Respondents is that the goods imported by the Appellants, which availed of the said exemption subject to the condition that they would not be sold, loaned, transferred or disposed of in any other manner, had been disposed of by the Appellants.	Reasoning
The Customs authorities, therefore, clearly had the power to take action under the provisions of Section 111(o).	Reasoning
We do not find in the provisions of the Import and Export Policy or the Handbook of Procedures issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Government of India, anything that even remotely suggests that the aforesaid power of the Customs authorities had been taken away or abridged or that an investigation into such alleged breach could be conducted only by the licensing authority.	Reasoning
That the licensing authority is empowered to conduct such an investigation does not by itself preclude the Customs authorities from doing so.	Reasoning
The communication of the Central Board of Excise and Customs dated 1351969, refers to the breach of the condition of a licence and suggests that it may not be possible to take action Under Section 111(o) in respect thereof.	Reasoning
It is true that the terms of the said exemption notification were made part of the Appellants licences and, in that sense, a breach of the terms of the said exemption notification is also a breach of the terms of the licence, entitling the licensing authority to investigate.	Reasoning
But the breach is not only of the terms of the licence it is also a breach of the condition in the exemption notification upon which the Appellants obtained exemption from payment of customs duty and, therefore, the terms of Section 111(o) enable the Customs authorities to investigate.	Reasoning
The decision in the aforesaid case, which is of the Coordinate Bench, binds us.	Reasoning
Judgment in the case of Titan Medical Systems (P) Ltd. (supra), which was referred to by Mr. Banerji, has no relevance at all.	Reasoning
In that case, one of the conditions of duty exemption scheme contained in Notification No. 116/88CUS was for conversion of raw material into the resultant product involving substantial manufacturing activity.	Reasoning
The Court considered the scope of substantial manufacture and held that assembly of various components into finished machines (ultrasound scanners in that case) amounted to substantial manufacture and it was not necessary that manufacturing of substantial amount of component is required.	Reasoning
Obviously, the issue was altogether different which has no bearing on the controversy involved in the present case.	Reasoning
Since the conditions of the exemption notification are not fulfilled and the law requires strict compliance of the exemption notification, the Assessee becomes liable to pay the import duty which was payable, but for the benefit of exemption Notification No. 30/1997, which was obtained by the Assessee.	Reasoning
Though we have rendered this decision keeping in view the legal position discussed above, at the same time, we deem it necessary to observe that the Government should bestow its consideration and make appropriate provision dealing with such situations.	Reasoning
After all, the Exemption Notification No. 30/1997 has been issued to implement and effect the EXIM Policy provisions.	Reasoning
Therefore, the purport of the exemption notification is to advance the objectives of the EXIM Policy.	Reasoning
When the DGFT has itself accepted the benefits of the Assessee and carried out the amendment in the import licence and further that the Assessee could make the exports on the basis of the amendment albeit through third party, such person should not be left high and dry.	Reasoning
Therefore, necessary amendments are needed in such notifications making appropriate provisions to meet these types of eventualities.	Reasoning
We are hopeful that the competent authority shall look into these aspects and cater for such situations as well so that unnecessary hardship is not caused to the bona fide Assessees as well.	Reasoning
Insofar as charge of interest is concerned, we are conscious of the fact that as per the bond the Assessee had agreed to pay interest 24 per annum.	Decision
However, that would not take away our right to reduce the rate of interest if the ends of justice so warrant.	Decision
In the peculiar facts of this case, more so when there was an amendment in the licence by the DGFT and DGFT has taken the view that export obligation is fulfilled, we deem it proper to reduce the rate of interest from 24 per annum to 9 per annum.	Decision
Further, there shall not be any penalty.	Decision
Setting aside the order of the Tribunal, the appeals are allowed in the aforesaid terms with no order as to costs.	Decision
