 Vaidialingam, J.1.	None
In this appeal, by special leave, the question that arises for consideration is regarding the validity of the new Note substituted in place of the old Note the December 23, 1967 to cl.	Issue
(b) of rule 2046 (F. R. 56) of the Indian Railway Fundamental Rules.2.	Issue
The High Court by its judgment and order, under appeal, dated October 8, 1968 has struck down the new Note as discriminatory and violative of Art.	Issue
14 of the Constitution.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent was originally an employee of the Madras and Southern Mahjratta Railway Company (hereinafter to be referred as the Company) having joined service.	Facts
On August 16, 1927 as Clerk GradeI.	Facts
His date of birth, there is controversy, was April 15, 1910.	Facts
The Company was amalgamated with the Indian Railway Administration, in the year 1947 and on such amalgamation.	Facts
the respondent became the employee of the Indian Railway Administration.	Facts
There is also no controversy that he came within the classification of a ministerial railway servant within the meaning of that expression, occurring in rule 2046.	Facts
Rule 2046 deals with retirement of a railway servant.	Facts
At the time of amalgamation, under cl.	Facts
(1) of the siad rule, the date of retirement of Railway servant, other than a ministerial railway servant, other than a ministerial railway servant, was the date on which he attained the age of 55 years.	Facts
It was also provided therein that the said railway servant, after attaining the age of the retirement, may be retained in service with the sanction of the competent authority on public ground to be recorded in writing.	Facts
But there was a prohibition regarding retention of such a railway servant after the age of 60 years except in very special circumstances.	Facts
Clause (2) of the said rule, which deals with a ministerial railway servant, under which category the respondent falls at the time of amalgamation was as follows 2046 (2) (a) A ministerial servant, who is not governed by subclause (b) may be required to retire at the age of 55 years, but should ordinarily be retained in service, if he continues efficient up to the age of 60 years.	Facts
He must not be retained after that age except in very special circumstances and with the sanction of the competent authority.(b) A ministerial servant (i) who has entered Government service on or after the Ist April, 1938, or(ii) who being in Government service on the 31st March, 1938 did not hold a lien or a suspended lien on a permanent post that date.	Facts
Shall ordinarily be required to retire at the age of 55 years.	Facts
He must not be retained after that age except on public grounds which must be recorded in writing, and with the sanction of the competent authority and he must not be retained after the age of 60 years except in very special circumstances.4.	Facts
It will be noted that under subclause (a), quoted above, a ministerial servant, who is not governed by subclause (b) may be required to retire at the age of 55 years, but if he continues to be efficient, he should ordinarily be retained in service up to the date of 60 years.	Facts
Retention in service after the age of 60 years can only be under very special circumstances, to be recorded in writing and with the sanction of the competent authority.	Facts
There was a further special provision made under Clause (b) in respect of a ministerial servant who had entered in Government service on or after April 1, 1938 or being in Government service on that date did not hold a lien or a suspended lien on a permanent post on that date.5.	Facts
On December 5, 1962, the Railway Board addressed a communication to the General Managers of All India Railways that the Government were considering the question for some time whether the age of compulsory retirement of railway servants, should be raised above 55 years.	Facts
It is further stated that the President is pleased to direct that the age of compulsory retirement of railway servants should be 58 years subject to the three exceptions mentioned in the order.	Facts
The only relevant exception is Exception No. 1 relating to ministerial railway servants, which was as follows (1) The exiting Rule 2046 (F. R. 56) (2)(a)  	Facts
RII under which ministerial railway servants who held a lien or suspended lien on a permanent post on 31st March, 1938 are to be retained in service up to the age of 60 years subject to their continuing to be efficient and physically fit after attaining the age of 55 years, will remain in force.x x x x x6.	Facts
It will be seen from the decision of the Government, as communication in the above letter, that the age of retirement of railway servants was raised from 55 to 58 years.	Facts
But this was subject to the restriction regarding the continuance of a ministerial servant after 55 years upto the age of 60 years as provided for under subclause (b) of Clause (2) of Rule 2046.7.	Facts
On January 11, 1967, the old Rule 2046 as amended in 1962 was substituted by the new rule.	Facts
The new rule consisted of four clauses but we are not concerned with Clauses (c) and (d).	Facts
The material part of the said rule relevant to be noted are Clauses (a) and (b) together with the Note to Clause (b) which ran as follows 2046 (FR. 56)  (a) Except as otherwise provided in this rule, every railway servant shall retire on the day he attains the age of fiftyeight years.(b)	Facts
A ministerial railway servant who entered Government service on or before the 31st March, 1938 and held on that date (i) a lien or a suspended lien on a permanent post, or(ii) a permanent post in a provisional substantive capacity under Clause (d) of the Rule 2008 and continued to hold the same without interruption until he was confirmed in that post.shall be retained in service till the day he attains the age of sixty years.	Facts
Note	Facts
For the purpose of this Clause, the expression Government Service includes service rendered in excompany, and exState Railways, and in former Provincial Government.8.	Facts
Two aspects broadly emerge from the above new rule (a) every ministerial railway servant who had entered Government service on or before March 31, 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned in subcl.	Facts
(i) or (ii) of clause (b) had a right to continue in service till he attained the age of sixty years and (b) under the Note the expression Government Service in Clause (b) takes in service rendered in excompany, exState Railways and in former provincial Government.	Facts
There is no controversy that the respondent held a permanent post in the Company on March 31, 1938.	Facts
Therefore, under this new rule, he would be entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of sixty years, as provided in Clause (b) read with the Note thereto.9.	Facts
On December 12, 1967, the Note to Clause (b) of Rule 2046 defining the expression Government Service as per the order dated January 11, 1967 was deleted, and a new Note was substituted in its place.	Facts
The order dated December 23, 1967 together with the new Note is as follows For the existing note, substitute the following.	Facts
For the purpose of this clause the expression Government Service includes service rendered in a former Provincial Government and in exCompany and exState Railways, if the rules of the Company or the State had a provision similar to Clause (b) above.10.	Facts
From the new Note, extracted above, it will be seen that the definition of the expression Government Service was changed.	Facts
The effect of the new Note, so far as the respondent is concerned, is that whereas he was entitled to continue in service upto 60 years, as per Clause (b) read with the Note thereto under Rule 2046 as substituted on January 11, 1967, now he can get service upto 60 years only if the Company had a provision similar to Clause (b) of Rule 2046.	Facts
There is no dispute that under the service conditions applicable to the respondent, when he was an employees of the Company, he had no right to continue in service till he attained the age of sixty years.	Facts
On the other hand, under the service conditions of the Company he had to retire at the age of 55 years.11.	Facts
It appears that after the introduction of the new Rule 2046 on January 11, 1967, the Divisional Accounts Officer, Hubli passed an order on March 31, 1967 that the respondent was entitled to continue in office till he attained the age of 60 years.	Facts
But after the new Note to Clause (b) to Rule 2046 was substituted on December 23, 1967, the Divisional Accounts Officer.	Facts
Hubli, passed an order on January 17, 1968 to the effect that the respondent is to retire from service on April 14, 1968 on which date he would be attaining the age of 58 years.	Facts
The said order also states that this action was being taken in view of the new Note substituted on December 23, 1967 to Clause (b) of Rule 2046.12.	Facts
The respondent filed on March 6, 1968 in the Mysore High Court, Writ Petition No. 657 of 1968 challenging the legality and validity of the order dated January 17, 1968 retiring him from service which effect from April 4, 1968.	Facts
In the writ petition he had referred to his previous service in the Company and to the latter being amalgamated with the Indian Railway Administration in 1947.	Facts
According to him, after such amalgamation he has become a ministerial railway servant under the Indian Railway Administration and all the rules applicable to the employees of the latter became applicable to him.	Facts
In particular, he pleaded that he was entitled to continue in service, until he attained the age of sixty years, as per the new Rule 2046 introduced on January 11, 1967, as he satisfies all the conditions prescribed under Clause (b) thereof.	Facts
He particularly attacked the new Note to Clause (b) substituted on December 23, 1967 as discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Facts
According to him, the members of the Indian Railway Service similarly situated like service till 60 years, whereas that right ahs been denied to persons like him under the new Note.	Facts
He also referred to the order passed on March 31 1967 by the Divisional Accounts Officer, Hubli in and by which it was directed that he was entitled to continue in service till 60 years.	Facts
According to the respondent, the Railway Administration was not entitled to go back on this order.	Facts
On these grounds, the respondent challenged the validity of the order directing him to retire on the basis of the new Note.13.	Facts
The appellant contested the writ petition on the ground that the order dated March 31, 1967 was passed on the basis of the Rule 2046 read with the Note, as it existed on January 11, 1967.	Facts
But the position was changed by the deletion of the original Note to Clause (b) and its substitution by the new Note on December 23, 1967.	Facts
The appellant claimed that the service conditions of persons, like the respondent, have always been different from those serving under the Railway Administration and that by the introduction of the new Note, no discrimination has been practised on any officer.	Facts
On the other hand, according to the appellant, the new Note only gave effect to the conditions of service, which obtained in the Company, where the respondent originally joined service.	Facts
The appellant further pleaded that the new Note does not violative Article 14 of the Constitution.14.	Facts
The High Court, by its judgment and order dated October 8, 1968 has accepted the contentions of the respondent and held that the new Note substituted to Clause (b) of Rule 2046 on December 23, 1967 is discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Facts
In this view, the said Note was struck down.	Facts
In consequence, the High Court set aside the order dated January 17, 1968 and gave a declaration that the respondent was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of sixty years.15.	Facts
Mr. M. C. Setalvad, learned counsel for the appellant, Railway Board, has strenuously attacked the findings of the High Court that the new Note, substituted on December 23, 1967 to Clause (b), is discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, he urged that a distinction has always been made in the case of ministerial railway servant who is governed by Clause (b) and those who are not so governed by that clause of Rule 2046.	Arguments of Petitioner
Different provisions regarding the age of retirement have been provided in respect of those two classes of ministerial railway servants.	Arguments of Petitioner
The new Note, Mr. Setalvad pointed out only gives recognition to the practice that has been obtaining in respect of the ministerial railway servants under their previous employers.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further pointed out that the Note to Clause (b) of Rule 2046 incorporated on January 11, 1967 gave the benefit of the expression Government Service to persons, like the respondent, who have previously been working in exCompany, Provincial Government or exState Railways.	Arguments of Petitioner
The new Note keeps the same categories of employees within the expression Government Service, but adds a qualification that in order to have the benefit of a longer period of service, they should have had such benefit under their previous employers.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Setalvad further pointed out that a government servant has no right to continue in service till the age of 60 years and that the option to so continue him upto that age, vests exclusively within the discretion of the authority concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the proposition the counsel relied on the decision of this Court in Kailash Chandra v. Union of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1962) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 374 (AIR 1961 SC 1346 )	Arguments of Petitioner
interpreting Clause (2) of R. 2046 as it existed prior to the amendment in 1962.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, Mr. Setalyad pointed out, that the officers who had worked under a former Provincial Government, ExCompany or ExState Railway and who had been deals with under the new Note substituted on December 23, 1967 form a class by themselves and therefore there is a reasonable classification of such officers, and that satisfies the requirement of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
On all these grounds, Mr. Setalvad urged that the new Note is not discriminatory and it does not violative Art.14 of the Constitution.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. R. B. Datar, learned counsel for the respondent and M s. M. K. Ramamurthi and J. Ramamurthi, who appeared for the two interveners have supported the reasoning of the High Court for holding that Art.	Arguments of Respondent
14 is violated by the new Note to cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(b) of rule 2046.18.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of the opinion that the contentions of Mr. Setalved cannot be accepted.	None
No doubt, the counsel is justified in his contention only to this limited extent, namely, that under cl.	None
(2) of rule 2046, as it existed prior to its amendment on January 11, 1967 that ministerial railway servant falling under that clause, has no right to continue in service beyond the age of 55 and that the appropriate authority has the option to continue him in service after his attaining the age of 55 years, subject to the condition that the servant continues to be efficient.	Reasoning
This Court in Kailash Chandras case, (1962) 1 SCR 374 (AIR 1961 SC 1346 ) had an occasion to consider rule 2046 (2) (a) it originally stood.	None
It was held that the ministerial railway servants falling under the said clause may be compulsorily retired on attaining the age of 55 years.	None
But when the servant is between the age of 55 and 60 years, the option to continue him in service, subject to the servant continuing to the efficient, exclusively vests with the appropriate authority.	None
It was further laid down the authority is not bound to retain a railway servant after the age of 55 years, even if he continues to be efficient.	None
It was further emphasised that the rule gave no right to a ministerial railway servant to continue in service beyond the age of 55 years.19.	Facts
It is in view of the above principles laid down by this Court, we have observed, earlier that Mr. Setalvads contention in respect of the vads contention in respect of the rule 2046, as it originally stood, is well founded.	Reasoning
But this Court in the above decision, had no occasion to consider the problem that how arises, by virtue of the new Note added to cl.	Reasoning
(b) of rule 2046.	Reasoning
There is no controversy that after the amalgamation of the Company with the Indian Railway Administration, the respondent has become an employee of the latter.	Reasoning
If so in our opinion, the respondent is entitled to be given the same rights and privileges that are available to the other employees employed by the Indian Railway Administration.	Reasoning
That exactly was the position under the rule 2046, as it originally stood after Rs amendment on December 5, 1962 increasing the age of retirement to 58 years as also under the new rule 2046, incorporated on January 11, 1967.	Reasoning
All these rules upto and inclusive of January 11, 1967 treated the former employees of the ExCompany, ExState Railways and former Provincial Governments, who were amalgamated with the Indian Railway Administration in 1947, on a par with the other original employees of the Indian Railway Administration.	Reasoning
In fact, the Note to cl.	Reasoning
(b) of rule 2046 incorporated on January 11, 1967, reinforced this position, by making it clear that the expression Government Service in cl.	Reasoning
(b) will include service under the various employers referred to therein.20.	None
Mr. Setalvad placed reliance on the fact that rule 2046, as it existed upto and inclusive of January 11, 1967, dealt differently with the age of retirement in respect of (I) a railway servant coming under cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) and (ii) a ministerial railway servant coming under cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b).	Reasoning
He further pointed out that even in respect of a ministerial railway servant coming under cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b), the latter, in order to be eligible to have a longer age of retirement should be one who complies with the conditions mentioned therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
Those conditions are as per cl.	None
(b) existing on January 11, 1967, that the officer should have entered government service on or before March 31, 1938.	None
The said officer should also have the one or the other of the qualification mentioned in subclauses (I) and (ii).	None
That is according to the learned counsel, if a ministerial railway servant has not entered government service before March 31, 1938, he will not be eligible for the longer age of retirement.	None
These circumstances will clearly show, according to Mr. Setalvad that the rule has been throughout maintaining a distinction, even amongst the ministerial railway servants working under the Indian Railway Administration.	None
This argument, may on the face of it appear to be attractive but in our opinion, it cannot be accepted.	None
The point to be not is that though a distinction has been made in the rule between a railway servant coming under cl.	None
(a) and a ministerial railway servant coming under cl.	Reasoning
(b), those clause will apply uniformly to all members of the Indian Railway Administration depending upon whether they are railway servants coming under cl.	Reasoning
(a) or a ministerial railway servant coming under cl.	Reasoning
(b), as the case may be.	Reasoning
To all railway servants coming under cl.	Reasoning
(a) the age of retirement is the same.	Reasoning
Similarly to all ministerial railway servants coming under cl.	Reasoning
(b), the age of retirement is again the same.	Reasoning
Further if a ministerial railway servant does not satisfy the requirements of cl.	Reasoning
(b) he will not be eligible to get the extended period of retirement.	Reasoning
That again will apply to all ministerial railway servants, who do not satisfy the requirements of cl.	Reasoning
(b).	Reasoning
We are emphasising this aspect to show that no distinction has been made either in cl.	Reasoning
(a) or cl.	Reasoning
(b) regarding the uniform application in respect of the age of retirement to the officers mentioned therein and who are governed by those clauses.	Reasoning
That is, there is no inter se distinction made.	Reasoning
The distinction made in cl.	Reasoning
(b) regarding the ministerial railway servants who entered government service on or before March 31, 1938 is again of uniform application.	Reasoning
That rule only makes a broad distinction between the ministerial railway servants who entered government service on or before March 31, 1938 and who entered government service after that date.	Reasoning
As per the Note to cl.	Reasoning
(b) to rule 2046, incorporated on January 11, 1967, the respondent is a person who has entered government service on or before March 31, 1938 and satisfies also the requirements under subcl.	Reasoning
(ii) of cl (b).	Reasoning
Similarly, another railway servant may have entered government service under the Indian Railway Administration on or before March 31, 1938.	Reasoning
He also, under cl (b) will be a ministerial railway servant who has entered government service on or before March 31, 1938 and if he satisfies one or other of the conditions mentioned in subclauses (I) and (ii) of cl.	Reasoning
(b) vice till 60 years.	Reasoning
That means both persons, like the respondent, and the officers who have straight joined the service under the Indian Railway Administration, prior to March 31, 1938 and who satisfy the requirements under subclause (I) or subclause (ii) of clause (b) will be equally entitled to continue in service till they attain the age of 60 years.	Reasoning
These facts clearly show that cls.	Reasoning
(a) and (b) of rule 2046 had uniform application to all the employees of the Indian Railway Administration.21.	Reasoning
Coming to the new rule 2046 incorporated on January 11, 1967, the conditions of service of persons, like the respondent, have been better crystallised.	Reasoning
Read with the Note, under cl.	Reasoning
(b), the respondent is a ministerial railway servant, who had entered government service on or before March 31, 1938.	Reasoning
By virtue of cl.	Reasoning
(b), he was entitled to be retained in service till he attains the age of 60 years.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that there is no option left with the employer, but to retain such a ministerial railway servant upto 60 years.	Reasoning
In other words, if the ministerial railway servant satisfies the requirements of cl.	Reasoning
(b), he is, as of right, entitled to be in service, till he attains the age of 60 years.	Reasoning
Similarly, cl.	Reasoning
(a) introduced on January 11, 1967, gives a right to a railway servants to continue in office, till he attains the age of 58 years.	Reasoning
Here again, there is no option vested with the authorities except to continue him till that age.	Reasoning
The option to extent the period of service of the officers mentioned in cls.	Reasoning
(a) and (b) is dealt with under subclause (d) and (c) respectively, which we have not quoted.	Reasoning
Subclauses (c) and (d) deal with the granting of extention of service beyond the period mentioned in subclauses (b) and (a).	Reasoning
The option to extend the service beyond the period mentioned in subclauses (a) and (b) mentioned in subclauses (a) and (b) may be with the authorities but they have no voice in a railway servant coming under cl.	Reasoning
(b), continuing upto 60 years.22.	Reasoning
That the authorities also understood the position in the manner mentioned above, is clear from the order dated March 31, 1967, of the Divisional Accounts Officer, Hubli declaring the right of the respondent to continue in service upto 60 years.	Reasoning
In fact, this order was passed in consequence of the new rule 2046 substituted on January 11, 1967.	Reasoning
Therefore, from what is stated above, it is clear that upto and inclusive of January 11, 1967, no distinction inter se apart from that made by clauses (a) and (b), between the officers of the Indian Railway Administration from whatever source they the risk of repetition, we may state that under cl.	Reasoning
(b) of rule 2046, as introduced on January 11, 1967, the original employees of the Indian Railway Administration, as well as persons, like the respondent, who came into the Indian Railway Administration in 1947, were both entitled, as of right, to continue in service till they attained the age of 60 years.	Reasoning
This position admittedly has been changed, by altering the definition of the expression Government Service by the new Note to cl.	Reasoning
(b) introduced on December 28, 1967.	Reasoning
Under that Note, it cannot be gainsaid, that a distinction has been made between the original employees of the Indian Railway Administration, and the new employees, who were amalgamated with the Indian Railway Administration in 1947, but who had their previous service, with either a former provincial Government, or an ExCompany or ExState Railways.	Reasoning
In the case of such employees, the benefit of the extended age of retirement, that has been given to the other employees of the Indian Railway Administration, was made available, only if the new employees had the same benefit under their previous employers.	Reasoning
Therefore, the position employers.	Reasoning
Therefore, the position is that on and after December 23, 1967, though all the employees are under the Indian Railway Administration, there will be two sets of rules relating to the age of retirement, depending upon the fact whether they were in the original employment of the Indian Railway Administration or on the fact of their coming from one or the new Note.	Reasoning
It is in consequence of the new Note, that the order dated January 17, 1968 was issued by the Divisional Accounts Officer, Hubli, that the respondent has to retire at the age of 58 years, on April 14, 1958.23.	Facts
The question is whether the distinction made under the new Note to cl.	Issue
(b) substituted on December 23, 1967 valid?	None
In our opinion, such a rule, which makes a distinction between the employees working under the same Indian Railway Administration is not valid.	None
The position, after the new Note was added, is that the employees who had throughout been under the Indian Railway Administration is entitled to continue in service till he attains the ago of 60 years whereas the persons, like the respondent, who are also the employees of the Indian Railway Administration, but whose previous services were with the Company, will have to retire at the age of 58 years, because a provision similar to cl.	Reasoning
(b) did not exist in the service conditions of the Company.	Reasoning
Discrimination, on the face of it, is writ large in the new Note, which is under challenge.24.	Reasoning
Mr. Setalvad, no doubt, urged that the ministerial railway servant, who was originally employee of a Company, ExState Railway or a former Provincial Government dealt with under the new Note are a class by themselves, and therefore there is a reasonable classification.	Reasoning
Once the employees dealt with under the new Note, have taken up service under the Indian Railway Administration and have been treated alike upto January 11, 1967, it follows, in our opinion that they cannot again be classified separately from the other employees of the Indian Railway Administration.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are not inclined to accept the contention that the classification of these officers, under the new Note, is a reasonable classification and satisfies one of the essential requisites of Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution, as interpreted by this Court.25.	Reasoning
We will assume, that in dealing with the types of employees under the new Note, there is a reasonable classification.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the further question arises whether the reasonable classification, with the added condition in the Note incorporated on December 23, 1967, can be said to have a nexus or a relation to the object sought to be achieved by cl.	Reasoning
(b) of rule 2046?	Reasoning
The object of rule 2046 itself is to provide for the age of retirement of the two types of officers coming under cls.	Reasoning
(a) and (b).	Reasoning
Where there is no indication that any further distinction inter se is sought to be made amongst the officers mentioned in cls (a) and (b) and when a uniform age of retirement has also been fixed in respect of the officers coming under these two clauses, the classification, carving cut the exemployees of the three authorities mentioned therein, with the added condition that the rules of the Company or the State should have a provision similar to clause (b), has, in our opinion, no nexus or relation to the object of the rule.26.	Reasoning
For the reasons given above, we are of the view that the High Court was justified in striking down the order of the Divisional Accounts Officer, Hubli, dated January 17, 1968 directing the respondent to retire from service on April 14, 1968, on which date he will attain the age of 58 years.	Reasoning
However, it is not clear from the judgment of the High Court whether the entire new Note substituted under cl.	Reasoning
(b) of rule 2046 on December 23, 1967 has been struck down or whether it has struck down only the new condition incorporated in the said Note.	Reasoning
Even as per the Note under cl.	Reasoning
(b), Incorporated along with the new R. 2046 an January 11, 1967, the expression Government Service included service rendered in ExCompany, ExState Railways and in a former provincial Government, and such a provision is beneficial to the employees like the respondent.27.	Reasoning
In the new substituted Note dated December 23, 1967, the first part of the Note including in government service any service rendernment service any service rendered in a former provincial Government, ExCompany and ExState Railways is more or less identical with the original Note of January 11, 1967, though in the new Note the order of the former employees has been slightly changed.	Reasoning
In our opinion, that part of the new rule providing that for the purpose of cl.	Reasoning
(b) the expression Government Service includes service rendered in a former provincial Government and in a ExCompany and ExState Railways can be allowed to stand to this extent.	Reasoning
Therefore, the offending part in the new Note are the further words if the rules of the Company or the State had a provision similar to Clause (b) above.	Decision
This offending part can be deleted, without doing violence to the definition of the expression Government Service even under the new Note.	Decision
Therefore, it is only necessary to strike down the offending part in the Note namely, if the rules of the Company or the State had a provision similar to Clause (b) above and this part of the Note alone is stuck down as discriminatory and violative of Art 14 of the Constitution.28.	Decision
Subject to the above directions, the judgment and order of the High Court are confirmed and this appeal dismissed.	Decision
Special leave to appeal has been granted on August 7, 1969 subject to the condition that the appellants is to pay the costs of the respondent in any event.	Decision
The respondent, accordingly, will be entitled to his costs in the appeal.29.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
