 Sikri, J. 1.	None
These appeals by certificate granted by the Bombay High Court under Section .66A (2) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, hereinafter referred to as the Actare directed against its judgment in Incometax Reference No. 45 of 1960 by which it answered the first question of law referred to it by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal in favour of the National Storage Lt., Bombay, hereinafter referred to as the assessee.	Issue
The following questions were referred to the High Court by the Appellate Tribunal at the instance of the Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay City I, Bombay 1.	Facts
whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the vaults were used for the purposes of the business and income arising therefrom is assessable under Section 10 ?	Facts
2.	None
If the answer to question 1 is in the negative, whether the income is assessable under Section 9 or Section 12?	Issue
2.	None
The relevant facts and circumstances are as follows The assessee was promoted because the Government of India promulgated the Cinematograph Film Rules, 1948, hereinafter referred to as the Film Rules according to which the distributors were required to store films only in godowns constructed strictly in conformity with the specifications laid down in the Film Rules and in a place to be approved by the Chief Inspector of Explosives, Government of India.	Facts
A place at Mahim was approved and the assessee, after purchasing a plot of land there constructed 13 units thereon, 12 units meant for the Members of the Indian Motion Picture Distributors Association who had floated the Company, and one unit for Foreign Film Distributors in Bombay, who were not members of the Association.	Facts
Each unit was divided into four vaults, having a ground floor for rewinding of films and an upper floor for storage of films.	Facts
These units were constructed in conformity with the requirements of and the specifications laid down in the Film Rules.	Facts
The walls and ceilings were of a particular width and automatic fire proof door was installed in one wall which would close immediately on the outbreak of fire in the vault.	Facts
Other walls had no opening or window and one ventilation was provided in the ceiling.	Facts
The units were built at a distance of 50 feet from one another.	Facts
The assessee entered into agreements with the film distributors.	Facts
There were two types of agreements, one was classified as A Licence and the other as B Licence.	Facts
The agreements were more or less in identical terms with minor variations here and there.	Facts
One agreement has been annexed to the statement of the case as annexure A and some of the relevant clauses are as under 3.	Facts
Clause 2 provides that the licensee shall not use the vault for any other purpose except for storing cinema films and shall use the ground floor (examination room) only for the purpose of examination, repairs, cleaning, waxing and rewinding of the films.	Facts
According to clause 9, the licensee could not transfer, assign, sublet, underlet or grant any licence in respect of or part with the possession of the vault or any part thereof without the written permission of the assessee.	Facts
According to clause 12, the assessees were entitled to revoke, determine and put an end to the licence by giving the licensee at any time seventy days previous notice in writing.	Facts
Further, the licensee was not entitled to terminate the licence for a period of five years except with the consent in writing of the assessee.	Facts
According to Cl. 13, the assessee was entitled to terminate the licence by giving two days notice in writing to the licensee and allocate to the licensee alternative space in another vault of the said property.	Facts
Clause 16 makes it clear that nothing contained in the agreement shall be construed to create any right other than the revocable permission granted by the assessee in favour of the licensee of the licensed vault nor as conferring any right to quiet enjoyment or other right except so far as the assessee has power to grant the same and the assessee may of its mere motion and absolutely retain possession of the licensed vault with all additions, fittings and fixtures thereto.	Facts
Apart from these conditions, the key to each vault was retained by the vaultholder, but the key to the entrance which permitted access to the vaults was kept in the exclusive possession of the assessee.	Facts
It is further stated in the statement of the case that the assessee also rendered other services to the vaultholders.	Facts
A fire alarm was installed and an annual amount was paid to the municipality towards fire services.	Facts
The assessee opened in the premises two Railway Booking Offices free of charge for the convenience of the members for despatch and receipt of film parcels.	Facts
A canteen was also run in the premises for the benefit of the vaultholders and telephone had been provided for them.	Facts
A licensees paid Rs. 40 per month while B licensees paid Rs. 140 per month.	Facts
The Foreign Film Distributors were originally charged Rs. 300 per month but later on the charges were reduced to Rs. 100.	Facts
4.	None
For the assessment years 195051, 195152 and l95253, assessments were made on the assessee under S. 10 of the Act, but for the assessment years 195354 and 195455, the Incometax Officer took the view that the assessee should be assessed under S. 9 and not under S. 10.	Facts
His view was confirmed on appeal by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, who also rejected the assessees alternative submission that the income if not taxed under S. 10 should be taxed under S. 12.	Facts
On further appeal to the Tribunal, there was a difference of opinion between the Judicial Member, who was the President, and the Accountant Member.	Facts
There being a difference of opinion, the following question was referred to a third Member.	None
Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the vaults were used for the purposes of the business and income arising therefrom is assessable under Section 10 or Section 9.	Issue
The third Member, agreeing with the President, held that the assessee was carrying on business in these premises and the business was of similar type as carried on by a bank in letting safe deposit vaults, and income was taxable under Section 10.	Facts
As already stated, the Appellate Tribunal, at the instance of the Commissioner, referred the two questions which we have already set out above.	Facts
The High Court answered the first question in favour of the assessee.	Facts
The High Court after reviewing several cases deduced seven propositions.	Facts
The sixth and seventh propositions were these 6.	Facts
In cases where the income received is not from the bare letting of the tenement or from the letting accompanied by incidental services or facilities, but the subject hired out is a complex one and the income obtained is not so much because of the bare letting of the tenement but because of the facilities and services rendered, the operations involved in such letting of the property may be of the nature of business or trading operations and the income derived may be income not from exercise of property rights properly socalled so as to fall under Section 9 but income from operations of a trading nature falling under Section 10 of the Act.	Facts
7.	None
In cases where the letting is only incidental and subservient to the main business of the assessee, the income derived from the letting will not be the income from property falling under Section 9 and the exception to Section 9 may also come into operation in such cases.	Facts
Then the High Court after examining the facts and circumstances concluded The income, which is obtained by the company in the present case, required considerable expenditure to be incurred by the company, which is ordinarily not incurred by a landlord who turns his house property to profitable account and which is also not taken into account in the deductions permissible under Section 9.	Facts
In our opinion, therefore, the income which the company obtained from the licenceholders in the present case, could not be regarded as income from property falling under Section 9 of the Indian Incometax Act.	Facts
The activity of the company in earning that income was a business activity and the source of the income which the company obtained from the licenceholders, was not the ownership of the house property but its business.	Facts
The Commissioner having obtained certificate of fitness from the High Court, the appeal is now before us.	Facts
5.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant, Mr. T. V. Viswanatha Iyer, has put the following propositions before us (1) The assessee is the owner of property and has to be assessed as such under Section 9 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Any incidental services rendered as owner do not alter the character of the relationship between the assessee and the users of the vaults, and there is no complexity as far as the services are concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) In any event, assuming for a moment that certain services are rendered, they, are independent of and in addition to the ownership of the property (3) The assessee is not carrying on any trade or business by way of letting or otherwise (4) The assessee is not in occupation of these vaults for the purpose of his business, and if any room is occupied its staff, that occupation is different from the occupation the users (5) There is no plant or machinery which has been let to the users and the building has been let as something inseparable from the plant and machinery if any, which exists and (6) Even if the assesses is carrying on business insofar as it is an owner it has to be taxed under Section 9 additional income has to be dealt with under Section 10.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai, the learned counsel for the assessee formulated his proposition as follows Distinction has to be drawn between income derived by exercise of property rights properly so called on the one hand, and on the other hand income derived from licensees who are allowed the use of any property, specially constructed safe deposit vaults for securely storing hazardous or inflammable films, or similar goods or safe deposit lockers for securely keeping valuables and for which purpose special amenities are given in the latter class of cases the object is a complex one and not merely letting of property and the activities amount to carrying on trade or business, property being the subjectmatter of business.	Arguments of Respondent
He further says that propositions sixth and seventh as formulated by the High Court are sound.	Arguments of Respondent
7.	None
The answer to the question depends upon the interpretation of Sections 9 and 10 of the Act, and the ascertainment of the activities of the assessee.	None
It is not disputed that the scheme of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, is that the various heads of income, profits and gains enumerated in Section 6 are mutually exclusive, each head being specific to cover the item arising from a particular source.	Reasoning
Further whether an income falls under one head or another has to be decided according to the common notions of practical men for the Act does not provide any guidance in the matter (vide Sarkar, J., in Nalinikant Ambalal Mody v. Narayan Row, 196661 ITR 428 at p. 432 (AIR 1967 SC 193 at p196).	None
8.	None
The relevant portion of Section 9 reads as follows 9.	None
(1) The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head Income from property in respect of the bona fide annual value of property consisting of any buildings or lands appurtenant thereto of which he is the owner, other than such portions of such property as he may occupy for the purposes of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him the profits of which are assessable to tax subject to the following allowances, namely Section 10 (1) reads 10.	None
(1) The tax shall be payable by all assessee under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation in respect of the profits or gains of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him.	None
9.	None
The word business is defined in S. 2(4) to include any trade, commerce, or manufacture or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture.	None
10.	None
The question which really arises in the present case is whether the assessee is carrying on any business, i. e., is it carrying on any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture?	Issue
If it is carrying on any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, then Section 9 specifically excludes the income derived from property from computation under Section 9 if the property is occupied for the purpose of adventure or concern.	None
Similar questions have arisen under the English Incometax Act.	None
Though the scheme of the English Incometax Act is different, some of the cases throw light on the question as to what is adventure or concern in the nature of trade.	None
In the Governors of the Rotunda Hospital, Dublin v. Coman, (1919) 7 Tax Cas 517, the Governors of a maternity hospital established for charitable purposes were owners of a building which comprised rooms adapted for public entertainments, and which was connected with the hospital buildings proper by an internal passage.	None
The hospital derived a substantial income from letting the rooms for public entertainments, concerts, etc., for periods varying from one night to six months and applied the income to the general maintenance of the hospital.	None
The rooms were let upon terms which included the provision of seating, heating, and attendance, but an additional charge was made for gas and electricity consumed.	None
The House of Lords held that the profits derived from the letting of the rooms were assessable to Income Tax under Schedule D, either under Case I, as the profits of a trade or business or under Case VI of that Schedule.	None
11.	None
The learned counsel for the assessee strongly relies on this case.	Arguments of Respondent
It seems to us that the reasoning of the Law Lords in their speeches does assist the assessee.	None
The Lord Chancellor observed at p. 582Profits are undoubtedly received in the present case which are applied to charitable purposes, but they are profits derived not merely from the letting of the tenement but from its being let properly equipped for entertainments, with seats, lighting, heating and attendance.	None
The subject which is hired out is a complex one.	None
The mere tenement as it stands, without furniture etc. would be almost useless for entertainments.	None
The business of the Governors in respect of those entertainments is to have the hall properly fitted and prepared for being hired out for such uses.	None
The profits fall under Schedule D, and to such profits the allowance in question has no application as they cannot be properly described as rents or profits of lands, tenements, hereditaments or heritages.	None
They are the proceeds of a concern in the nature of a trade which is carried on by the Governors, and consists in finding tenants and having the rooms so equipped as to be suitable for letting.	None
In our view the High Court was right in holding that the assessee was carrying on an adventure or concern in the nature of trade.	None
The assessee not only constructed vaults of special design and special doors and electric fittings, but it also rendered other services to the vaultholders.	Reasoning
It installed fire alarm and was incurring expenditure for the maintenance of fire alarm by paying charges to the Municipality.	Reasoning
Two Railway Booking Offices were opened in the premises for the despatch and receipt of film parcels.	Reasoning
This it appears to us, is a valuable service.	Reasoning
It also maintained a regular staff consisting of a secretary, a peon a watchman and a sweeper, and apart from that it paid for the entire staff of the Indian Motion Picture Distributors Association an amount of Rs. 800 per month for services rendered to the licensees.	Reasoning
These vaults could only be used for the specific purpose of storing of films and other activities connected with the examination, repairs, cleaning, waxing and rewinding of the films.	Reasoning
12.	None
But the learned counsel for the Commissioner says that Section 9 applies because the assessee cannot be said to be in occupation of the premises for the purpose of any concern of its own.	Reasoning
He says that the licensees were in possession of the vaults as lessees and not merely as licensees.	Reasoning
But, in our opinion, the agreements are licenses and not leases.	Reasoning
The assessee kept the key of the entrance which permitted access to the vaults in its own exclusive possession.	Reasoning
The assessee was thus in occupation of all the premises for the purpose of its own concern, the concern being the hiring out of specially built vaults and providing special services to the licensees.	Reasoning
As observed by the Lord Chancellor in (1919) 7 Tax Cas 517 the subject which is hired out is a complex one and the return received by the assessee is not the income derived from the exercise of property rights only but is derived from carrying on adventure or concern in the nature of trade.	None
13.	None
There is no force in the sixth submission of the learned counsel for the appellant because the Indian Incometax Act does not contemplate assessment of property under Section 9 in respect of the rental income and assessment under Section 10 in respect of the extra income derived from the carrying on of an adventure or concern in the nature of trade if the assessee is in occupation of the premises for the purposes of the business.	Reasoning
The scheme of the English Act is different and special statutory provisions exist in the English Incometax Act (see Rule 5, Schedule D. English Incometax Act, 1918).	Reasoning
14.	None
A number of other cases have been cited before us but it is not necessary to deal with them because the answer to the question whether an activity is an adventure or concern in the nature of trade or business must depend upon the facts of each case.	Reasoning
15.	None
Accordingly the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
16.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
