 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave raises the question of the scope of Art.	Issue
132(2) of the Constitution.2.	Issue
The first respondent is one of the shareholders of the second respondent M s. Jammu Kashmir Mechanics And Transport Workers Cooperative Society Limited, Jammu (hereinafter called the Society).	Facts
The Society was registered under the Jammu and Kashmir Cooperative Societies Act No. 6 of 1993 (Vikrimi).	Facts
They put in a number of applications before the third appellant for the grant of stage carriage and public carrier permits to them for various routes in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, but no permits were granted to them on the ground that under R. 447 of the Jammu and Kashmir Motor Vehicles Rules (hereinafter called the Rules), service licence could only be issued to a person or a company registered under the Partnership Act and that, as the Society was neither a person nor a partnership, it was not entitled to a licence under the Rules.	Facts
The respondents filed a petition in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir under S. 103 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir challenging the vires of R. 447 of the Rules.	Facts
To that petition the appellants herein, viz., the Government of Jammu and Kashmir State, the Transport Minister, the Registering Authority and the Traffic Superintendent, were made partyrespondents.	Facts
The High Court held that the said rule was ultra vires as offending Art.	Facts
14 of the Constitution, and, on that finding, directed a writ of mandamus to issue against the appellants herein from enforcing the provisions of the said rule.	Facts
The appellants filed an application in the High Court for a certificate under Art. 132	Facts
(1) of the Constitution, but the High Court rejected it on the ground that no substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution was involved in the case.	Facts
Thereafter the appellants applied for special leave under Art.	Facts
132(2) of the Constitution and this court granted the same.	Facts
The order giving the special leave expressly granted liberty to the respondents herein to raise the question of the maintainability of the appeal at its final hearing.3.	Facts
Learned Counsel for the respondents raises a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
Shortly stated his objection is that under Art. 132 (2) of the Constitution special leave can be given only if the Supreme Court is satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the constitution, that in the present case the interpretation of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
14 of the Constitution has been well settled and put beyond dispute by a series of decisions of this court, that, therefore, no question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution, much less a substantial question of law in regard to that matter, arises for consideration and that, therefore, no special leave can be granted under the said Article.4.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument is sought to be met by the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral in the following manner	Arguments of Petitioner
Whenever a question of classification is raised, it involves the interpretation of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution with reference to the classification impugned.	Arguments of Petitioner
To state it differently, the argument is that the question in each case is whether the classification offends the principle of equality enshrined in Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, whether a registered firm, a limited company and a person have equal attributes is a question of interpretation of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution.5.	None
Before considering the validity of the rival contentions it would be convenient to ascertain precisely what was the question raised in the High Court and what was the decision given thereon by it.	None
The argument advanced before the High Court on behalf of the Society was that under R. 447 a licence can be issued only to a person or a firm registered under the Partnership Act and not to a corporation registered under the Cooperative Societies act or otherwise, and, therefore, the said rule, being discriminatory in nature, offends Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	None
The learned AdvocateGeneral appearing for the appellants contended that under Art. 14 of the Constitution rational classification is permissible and the legislature has framed the impugned rule on such a basis, the object of which is to safeguard the interest of the public.	None
The High Court, after considering the rival arguments, expressed the opinion that the said rule did not proceed on any rational basis of classification and that, as a corporation had been arbitrarily singled out for discriminatory treatment, the impugned rule offended the equality clause of the Constitution.	None
The appellants in their petition for special leave filed in this Court questioned the correctness of the conclusion of the High Court.	None
They asserted that the said rule was based upon reasonable classification and therefore could not be struck down as repugnant to Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	None
In other grounds they elaborated the same point in an attempt to bring out the different attributes of the two classes affording an intelligible differentia for classification.	None
They clearly posed the question proposed to be raised by them in the appeal as underGround iv The aforesaid rule 447 (of the Motor Vehicles Rules) is based upon reasonable classification and is and was perfectly intra vires and valid and could not be struck down as repugnant to Art.	None
14 of the Constitution of India.	None
Ground vi	None
There is a marked difference between a corporate body and partnership registered under the provisions of the Partnership Act and these points of difference provided an intelligible differentia for classification.	None
The Honble High Court has only referred to one point of difference and has overlooked other points of distinction and has erred in striking down the aforesaid rule 447.Group	None
viii Rule 447 was framed in the light of local conditions prevailing.	None
Cooperative Societies and Corporations in the matter of transport were not considered to be proper objects for the grant of licence or permit.	None
The classification is rational and reasonable.	None
The exclusion of artificial persons from the ambit of the Rule is natural and not discriminatory.	None
The other grounds are only a further clarification of the said grounds.	None
In part II of their statement of case the appellants stated as followsIt is now wellestablished that while Art. 14 forbids class legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation.	None
The respondents, in their statement of case, accepted the said legal position but contested the position that there was reasonable classification.	None
It is therefore manifest that throughout there has never been a controversy between the parties in regard to the interpretation of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution, but their dispute centered only on the question whether the impugned rule stood the test of reasonable classification.6.	None
In the premises, can special leave be granted to the appellants under Art.	None
132(2) of the Constitution?	Issue
Article 132(2) readsWhere the High Court has refused to give such a certificate, the Supreme Court may, if it is satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution, grant special leave to appeal from such judgment, decree or final order.	None
Under cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art.	Reasoning
132 there is no scope for granting a special leave unless two conditions are satisfied (i) the case should involve a question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution and (iii) the said question should be a substantial question of law.	Reasoning
The principle underlying the Article is that the final authority of interpreting the Constitution must rest with the Supreme Court.	Reasoning
With that object the Article is freed from other limitations imposed under Art.	Reasoning
S. 133 and 134 and the right of appeal of the widest amplitude is allowed irrespective of the nature of the proceedings in a case involving only a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution.7.	Reasoning
What does interpretation of a provision mean?	None
Interpretation is the method by which the true sense or the meaning of the word is understood.	None
The question of interpretation can arise only if two or more possible constructions are sought to be placed on a provision  one party suggesting one construction and the other a different one.	None
But where the parties agree on the true interpretation of a provision or do not raise any question in respect thereof, it is not possible to hold that the case involves any question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution.	None
On an interpretation of Art. 14, a series of decisions of this Court evolved the doctrine of classification.	Reasoning
As we have pointed out, at no stage of the proceedings either the correctness of the interpretation of Art. 14 or the principles governing the doctrine of classification have been questioned by either of the parties.	None
Indeed accepting the said doctrine, the appellants contended that there was a valid classification under the rule while the respondents argued contra.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General contended, for the first time, before us that the appeal raised a new facet of the doctrine of equality, namely, whether an artificial person and a natural person have equal attributes within the meaning of the equality clause, and, therefore, the case involves a question of interpretation of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument, if we may say so, involves the same contention in a different garb.	None
If analysed, the argument only comes to this as an artificial person and a natural person have different attributes, the classification made between them is valid.	None
this argument does not suggest a new interpretation of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution, but only attempts to bring the rule within the doctrine of classification.	None
We, therefore, hold that the question raised in this case does not involve any question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution.8.	None
Assuming that the case raises a question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution, can it be said that the question raised is a substantial question of law within the meaning of cl.	None
(2) of Art. 132.	None
This aspect was considered by the Federal Court in T. M. Krishnaswami Pillai v. Governor General In Council 52 Cal WN (FB) 1 (AIR 1947 FC 37).	None
That decision turned upon the provisions of S. 205 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
The material part of that section saysS. 205 (1) An appeal shall be to the Federal Court from any judgment, decree or final order of a High Court if the High Court certifies that the case involves a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of this Act or any Order in Council made there underThe Madras High Court gave a certificate to the effect that the case involved a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of S. 240(3) of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
Under S. 240(3) of the said Act, no person who was a member of a civil service of the Crown in India or held any civil post under the Crown in India could be dismissed or reduced in rank until he had been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him.	None
The High Court, on the facts found, held that the appellant therein had been offered a reasonable opportunity of showing cause within the meaning of the said section, but gave a certificate under S. 205(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
In dealing with the propriety of issuing the certificate in the circumstances of that case, Zafrulla Khan, J., speaking on behalf of the Court, concisely and pointedly stated at p. 2(of Cal WN (FR))	None
(at p. 37 of AIR)It was urged before us that the case involved a question relating to the interpretation of subsec.	None
(3) of Section 240 of the Act .To	None
the extent to which any guidance might have been needed for the purposes of this case on the interpretation of that subsection that guidance was furnished so far as this Court is concerned in its judgment in Secy. of State v. I. M. Lall, (1945) FCR 103 (AIR 1945 FC 47).	None
The rest was a simple question of fact.	None
In our judgment no substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution Act was involved in this case, which could have formed the basis of a certificate under section 205(1) of the Act.	None
On the question of interpretation of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution this Court in Budhan Choudhary v. State of Bihar, 19551 SCR 1045 at p 1049 ((S) AIR 1955	None
SC 191 at p. 193) explained the true meaning and scope of that Article thusIt is now wellestablished that while article 14 forbids class legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation.	None
In order, however, to pass the test of permissible classification two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and (ii) that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.	None
The classification may be founded on different bases namely, geographical ,or according to objects or occupations or the like.	None
What is necessary is that there must be nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under consideration.	None
This is only a restatement of the law that has been enunciated by this Court in Charanjit Lal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India, 1950 SCR 869 (AIR 1951 SC 41 ) and in other subsequent decisions.	None
The said principles were reaffirmed in the recent decisions of this Court in Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice Tendolkar, (1959)	Reasoning
SCR 279 (AIR 1958 SC 538 ) and in Mohammed Haneef Qureshi v. State of Bihar, (1959)	Reasoning
SCR 629 (AIR 1958 SC 731 ).	Reasoning
In view of the said decision there is no further scope for putting a new interpretation on the provisions of Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution visis the doctrine of classification.	Reasoning
The interpretation of Art. 14 in the context of classification has been finally settled by the highest Court of this land and under Art. 141 of the Constitution that interpretation is binding on all the Courts with in the territory of India.	Reasoning
What remained to be done by the High Court was only to apply that interpretation to the facts before it.	Reasoning
A substantial question of law, therefore, cannot arise where that law has been finally and authoritatively decided by this Court.9.	Reasoning
In the result we accept the preliminary objection and dismiss the appeal with costs.10.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
