 Kapur, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal from the order of the Election Tribunal dated January 31, 1957, setting aside the election of the appellant, Maulana Abdul Shakoor, who was elected to the Council of States by the Electoral College of Ajmer which consisted of 30 members constituting the State Legislature of Ajmer.	Issue
He received 19 votes as against 7 polled in favour of the other candidate who is respondent No. 1 in this appeal.	Facts
The total number of valid votes polled was 26 and there were 3 invalid votes.	Facts
The result of the election was published in the Official Gazette on March 31, 1957, declaring the election of the appellant.	Facts
The unsuccessful candidate, the present first respondent filed his election petition on May 2, 1956.	Facts
It is not necessary to set out all the allegations in the petition because the main controversy between the parties is whether the successful candidate, the present appellant, held an office of profit under the government.	Facts
The impugned election was held on March 22, 1956.	Facts
2.	None
By a notification issued on February 17, 1956, the nominations for candidature were to be filed between February 28, 1956, and March 1, 1956.	Facts
The date for scrutiny was March 5, 1956, and for the polling March 22, 1956.	Facts
The appellant filed two nomination papers on February 28, 1956, and a third one on March 1, 1956.	Facts
The respondent Rikhab Chand Jain also filed his nomination papers on March 1, 1956.	Facts
On March 5, 1956, the respondent Rikhab Chand Jain raised certain objections to the validity of the appellants nomination, the main ground being that the appellant was holding an office of profit under the government.	Facts
The Returning Officer by his order dated March 6, 1956, rejected the two nomination papers of the appellant filed on February 28, 1956, but accepted the third one, i.e., on March 1, 1956, because, according to that officer, under the provisions of Durgah Khwaja Sahib (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1950 (Act XVII of 1950) which was in force upto 2921956, the appellant was holding an office of profit under the government but on the coming into force of the Durgah Khawaja Sahib Act (Act XXXVI of 1955) on 131956, he no longer held such office under the government.	Facts
On 351956, the respondent filed an election petition under S. 81 of the Representation of People Act 1951 in which he submitted that the third nomination paper of the appellant should also have been rejected as even under the provisions of Durgah Khawaja Sahib Act (Act XXXVI of 1955), the appellant was holding an office of profit under the government and therefore his case was covered by the provisions of Art. 102(1)(a) of the Constitution.	Facts
He also prayed that he be declared elected as the votes cast in the appellants favour were thrown away votes and the respondent alone received a majority of valid votes.	Facts
3.	None
A majority of the Election Tribunal by their order dated 3131957, held that on 131956, the appellant was holding an office of profit under the government and therefore his nomination paper was hit by Art.	None
102 (1) (a) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
They set aside his election and accepting the contention as to thrown away votes declared the respondent elected.	None
Disagreeing with the majority, the Chairman of the Election Tribunal held that on 131956, the appellant was no longer holding an office of profit under the government, his nomination paper was rightly accepted and his election was valid and therefore the respondent could not be declared elected.	None
On the question whether the two nomination papers of the appellant dated 2821956, were valid or not the Tribunal unanimously held them to be invalid on the ground that the appellant held an office of profit under the government on that date.	None
4.	None
It is not necessary to go into the question whether the two nomination papers filed by the appellant on 2821956, were valid or not because if the nomination paper filed on 131956, is valid the question of their validity would not arise.	Facts
It may here be stated that the argument before us has proceeded on the assumption that the appellant held an office of profit.	Facts
The controversy between the parties was therefore confined to whether this office of profits was held under the Government of India and therefore the disqualification for membership under Art.	Facts
102(1)(a) applies to the appellant.	Facts
In order to resolve this controversy the important question of construction that arises is was the appellant holding an office of profit under the Government of India and does Art.	Facts
102(1)(a) of the Constitution operate?	Facts
This article is as follows102(1) A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament (a) if he holds any office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of any State, other than an office declared by Parliament by law not to disqualify its holder This article occurs under the heading Disqualification of members.	Facts
In the same part of the Constitution, i.e., Part V are given the disqualification for election to the offices of President and VicePresident.	Facts
The relevant part of Art. 58 which lays down the disqualification for the office of the President is Art.	None
58 (1)	None
No person shall be eligible for election as President unless he (a) (b) (c) (2) A person shall not be eligible for election as President if he holds any office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of any State or under any local or other authority subject to the control of any of the said Governments.	Facts
5.	None
There is a similar provision in regard to the VicePresident in Art. 66	Facts
(4).	None
6.Counsel has rightly pointed out the difference in the language between the two articles.	Facts
Whereas in the case of the President and VicePresident the holding of an office of profit under an authority subject to the control of the government is a disqualification, it is not so prescribed in the case of members of the legislatures.	Facts
7.	None
The Madarsa Durgah Khwaja Sahib Akbari in which the appellant held the appointment of a manager (mohatmin) is a school for teaching Persian, Arabic and Muslim theology.	Facts
Before 1951 is was managed and run by the Government of the Nizam of Hyderabad.	Facts
In 1951 this school was taken over by the Durgah Committee.	Facts
On 2821955 the appellant was given an honorary appointment of mohatmin (manager) of the school by the Administrator of Durgah Khwaja Sahib.	Facts
He was to work under the Administrator and was to hold charge of the management of the school.	Facts
But from May 1955 he was being paid Rs. 100 per month which has been variously described as salary and honorarium.	Facts
8.	None
Counsel for the appellant raised three questions of construction that this appointment as manager of the school amounted neither to an office nor to an office of profit under the government.	Arguments of Petitioner
a decision favourable to the appellant on the last question, i.e., office of profit under the government, would render the decision of the other two questions wholly unnecessary and therefore assuming that the appellant held an office of profit, the questions remains was it an office of profit under the government and therefore fell within Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
102 (1) (a) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to determine this we have to examine the provisions of the Statute under which the appointing authority came into existence and its powers under the statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before and upto 1936 the Durgah Khwaja Sahib Endowment was administered by a committee which was constituted by the Chief Commissioner of Ajmer under S. 7 of the Religious Endowment Act (Act XX of 1863).	Arguments of Petitioner
In 1936 the then Central Legislature enacted the Durgah Khwaja Sahib Act (Act XXIII of 1936).	Arguments of Petitioner
By the provisions of that Act the management and administration was vested in Durgah Committee constituted under S. 4 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was a body corporate with perpetual succession and common seal having the right to sue and be sued in the name of the president of the Committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under S. 5 which dealt with the constitution of the Committee it was to consist of 25 members some of whom were elected and some nominated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 11(f) of the Act gave to the Committee the power to appoint all its servants.	None
9.	None
The Act of 1936 was replaced by the Durgah Khwaja Sahib (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 3 of 1949, which in turn was replaced by the Durgah Khwaja Sahib (Emergency Provisions) Act (Act XVII of 1950), By S. 3 of that Act the Durgah Committee constituted under the Act of 1936 was superseded and the management was vested in an Administrator appointed by the Central Government who under S. 7 was to be under the control of the Central Government and had all the powers of the committee constituted under the Act of 1936.	None
That Act continued to be in force upto February 29, 1956, and it was during its continuance that the appellant filed two nomination papers on February 28, 1956, which were rejected by the Returning Officer.	None
10.	None
The Act of 1950 was replaced by the Durgah Khwaja Sahib Act (Act XXXVI of 1955) which received the assent of the President on October 14, 1955, but came into force on March 1, 1956.	None
Under S. 4 (1) of this Act the administration, control and management of the Durgah Endowment came to be vested in a committee, which is a body corporate having perpetual succession and common seal and which can sue and be used through its President.	None
Under S. 5 the Committee is to consist of not less than 5 and not more than 9 members of the Hanafi Muslim faith all of whom are to be appointed by Central Government.	None
Section 8 gives power to Central Government to supersede the Committee.	None
Under S. 9 the Central Government in consultation with the committee can appoint a Nazim (administrator) of the Durgah who is an exofficio secretary of the committee.	None
His salary is to be fixed by the Central Government but is to be paid out of the revenues of the Durgah Endowment Funds.	None
The committee exercises its power of administration, control and management through the Nazim.	None
The powers and duties of the committee are given in S. 11 of the act clause (i) of this section which is relevant for the purpose of this case when quoted runs as under S. 11 The powers and duties of the Committee shall be (i) to appoint, suspend or dismiss servants of the Durgah Endowment.	None
Under S. 20 the committee has the power to make byelaws to carry out the purpose of the Act, and the respondent emphasised cl.	None
(i) of subs.	None
(2) which provides S. 20(2)	None
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such byelaws may provide for (i) the duties and powers of the employees of the durgah.	None
Subsection (5) of this section is as follows (5) The Central Government may, after previous publication of its intention, cancel any byelaw which it has approved and confirmed, and thereupon the byelaw shall cease to have effect.	None
11.	None
The respondent contended that because under the Act of 1955, the Committee of Management is to be appointed by the Government who also appoint one Nazim (administrator) through whom the committee acts and because under S. 6(2) the Government has the power of removal from office of any member of the committee and because the committee can make byelaws prescribing the duties and powers of the employees of the Durgah, the appellant was under the control and supervision of the Central Government and therefore he was holding an office of profit under the Government of India.	None
It is significant to note that in laying down the disqualifications of the President and the VicePresident the Constitution has expressly provided the disqualifications which include not only an office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of any State	None
but also an office of profit under any local or other authority subject to the control of any of the said Governments.	None
This last disqualification the Constitution does not make applicable to the members of the legislatures.	None
12.No doubt the Committee of the Durgah Endowment is to be appointed by the Government of India but it is a body corporate with perpetual succession acting within the four corners of the Act.	None
Merely because the committee or the members of the committee are removable by the Government of India or the committee can make byelaws prescribing the duties and powers of its employees cannot in our opinion convert the servants of the committee into holders of office of profit under the Government of India.	None
The appellant is neither appointed by the Government of India nor is removable by the Government of India nor is he paid out of the revenues of India.	None
The power of the Government to appoint a person to an office of profit or to continue him in that office or revoke his appointment at their discretion and payment from out of Government revenues are important factors in determining whether that person is holding an office of profit under the Government though payment from a source other than Government revenue is not always a decisive factor.	None
But the appointment of the appellant does not come within this test.	None
13.	None
A number of election cases reported in the Election Law Reports were cited before us but they were decided on their own facts and are of little assistance in the decision of the present case.	None
The test of the power of dismissal by the Government or by an officer to whom such power has been delegated which was pressed in support of his case by the respondent is equally inapplicable to the facts of the present case because the appellant cannot be dismissed by the Government or by a person so authorised by the Government.	None
He is a servant of the statutory body which in the matter of its servants acts within the powers conferred upon it by the statute.	None
14.	None
The respondent then sought to fortify his submissions by relying on Shivnandan Sharma v. The Punjab National Bank Ltd., (1955) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 1427 ( (S) AIR 1955 SC 404 ) (A).	Arguments of Respondent
That was a case under the Industrial Disputes Act and the question for decision was whether a cashier appointed by the Banks treasurer on behalf of the Bank and paid by the Bank was a servant of the Bank.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held that he was.	None
The rule of that case is that if the master employs a servant and authorises him to employ a number of persons to do a particular job and to guarantee their fidelity and efficiency for cash consideration, the employees thus appointed by the servant would be, equally with the servant, servants of the master.	None
But that again has no application to the facts of the present case because the appellant has not been employed by a servant of the Government who is authorised to employ servants for doing some services for the Government nor is he paid out of Indian revenues.	None
No doubt the nonpayment from out of the revenues of the Union is not always a factor of any consequence but it is of some importance in the circumstances of this case.	None
15.	None
A comparison of the different articles of the Constitution 58(2), 66(4), 102(1)(a) and 191 (1)(a) dealing with membership of the State Legislatures shows in the case of members of the Legislatures unlike the case of the President and the VicePresident of the Union the disqualification arises on account of holding an office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of the States but not if such officer is under a local or any other authority under the control of these governments.	None
As we have said the power of appointment and dismissal by the government or control exercised by the government is an important consideration which determines in favour of the person holding an office of profit under the government, but the fact that he is not paid from out of the State revenue is by itself a neutral factor.	None
16.	None
It has not been shown that the appellants appointment as a mohatmin (manager) of the school satisfies any of the tests which have been discussed above.	None
On the other hand on March 1, 1956, he was holding his appointment under a Committee which is a statutory body and such appointment cannot be called an appointment by or under the control of the Government of India nor is his salary paid out of the revenues of the Government but out of the funds of Durgah endowment.	None
In the circumstances the majority of the tribunal has erred in holding that the appellant held an office of profit under the government and the opinion of the Chairman to the contrary lays down the correct position.	None
17.	None
In view of the finding in regard to the office of profit under the government, it is not necessary to go into the question whether there were any thrown away votes or whether the respondent has been rightly declared to have been elected.	Reasoning
18.	None
We are of the opinion that the election of the appellant has been wrongly set aside and we would allow the appeal and set aside the order of the majority of the tribunal.	Decision
The appellant will have his costs in this Court as also before the Tribunal.	Decision
19.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
