 BEG, J. 1.	None
The eight appeals before us by special leave arise out of four Sale Tax References, under Section 23(1) of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947, (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
Six common questions arose here relating to assessments for different periods on identically similar facts stated below.	Issue
Five of these were decided by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court.	Issue
As it answered the main question determining liability to pay the sales tax under the Act against the State, there are four appeals against it by the State.	Issue
The sixth question, which was one of law only, was referred by the Division Bench to a Full Bench, and, this was determined in favour of the State.	Issue
There are, therefore, four appeals by the assessee against the Full Bench decision.	Issue
2. M s. Central Provinces Manganese Ore Co. Ltd., the assessee, has its Head Office in London.	Facts
It carries on business on an extensive scale.	Facts
It owns 22 manganese ore mines in Madhya Pradesh from where manganese ore, after being excavated, is sent mostly abroad through different ports.	Facts
The Company is a registered dealer under the Act.	Facts
I t used to enter into contracts at places outside Madhya Pradesh for the despatch of what came to be known, in the special parlance of this companys business, as Oriental Mixture But the contracts contain specification s only of strengths of manganese ore to be supplied with permissible percentages of other ingredients as admixtures.	Facts
The term Oriental Mixture was evidently employed by the Company itself to describe a particular type of conglomerate which the unloading at one place of Various types of manganese ore produced.	Facts
The required average consistency or strength of manganese ore specified in the contracts, which did not contain a reference to any Oriental Mixture, was said to be obtained in the course of this mechanical process of transportation when various grades of manganese ore were heaped together.	Facts
These grades of manganese ore were transported, in railway wagons, from one or more mines, and, it appears that the order in which trucks were loaded in goods trains and unloaded was also so, arranged that the mixture came into existence, as described above, in the mere process of unloading at the port.	Facts
But, this procedure did not seem to involve a process of Manufacture, as that term is ordinarily understood, to which the assessee could be s aid to have subjected its manganese ore.	Facts
3.	None
The case of the assessee company was that the Oriental Mixture as a taxable commodity came into existence only after the ores got mixed up in the process of unloading and not before so that it could not be taxed as goods in existence in Madhya Pradesh at the time when , contracts relating to these goods were made.	Facts
This is the crucial and simple question, largely one of fact, which resulted in considerableargument before the High Court and before us also.	Issue
Other questions , appear to be subsidiary.	Issue
Nevertheless we have to consider them before coming to the crucial question which is Is the process described above one of manufacture so that a new kind of goods, known as Oriental Mixture, came into existence at the port where manganese ore trucks were unloaded?	Issue
4.	None
As the High Court pointed out, the periods involved in the four references before it were not governed by the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
They related to the following period 1.	Reasoning
Reference No. 17 of 1964 for the period 1st January, 1947 30th September, 1947.	Reasoning
2. Reference No. 18 of 1964 for the period 1st October, 1947 to 31st December, 1948.	Reasoning
3. Reference No. 19 of 1964 for the period 1st January, 1949 to 31st December, 1949.	Reasoning
4. Reference No. 20 of 1964 for the period 1st January, 1950 to 25th January, 1950.	Reasoning
We, therefore, agree with the High Courts view that Article 286 of the Constitution, which is not retrospective in operation, could not help the assessee merely because it was there at the time of assessment.	None
5.	None
The next question to be considered, which was referred to the Full Bench, flows from Explanation (II) to Section 2(g) of the Act which was amended by the C.P. Berar Sale Tax (Amendment) Act No. XVI of 1949, came into force on 11th April, 1949.	None
Hence, the law, as found after the amending Act could apply, if valid, only to the last two references.	None
But, the question which arose, on the assumption that the amendment was ineffective, was whether the unamended law could be applied at all after the purported amendment.	None
Section 2(g) of the Act, with its two explanations, before it was amended, may be reproduced here in toto.	None
It reads as follows 2(g) sale with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means any transfer of property in goods for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration, including a transfer of property in goods made in course of the execution of a contract, but does not, include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge Explanation (I) A transfer of goods on hire purchase or ot her installment system of payment shall, notwithstanding that the seller retains a title to any goods as security for payment of the price, be deemed to be a sale Explanation (11) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930, the sale of any goods which are actually in the Central Provinces and Berar at the time when the contract of sale as define in that Act in respect thereof is made, shall wherever the. said contract of sale is made, be deemed for the purpose of this Act to have taken place in the Central Provinces and Berar.	None
Section 2 of the Amending Act of 1949 provided 2.	None
In section 2 of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), (a) in clause (g) for Explanation (I1) the following shall be substituted Explanation (I1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indian Sale of Goods Act 1930, the sale or purchase of any goods shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act, to have taken place in this province, wherever the contract of sale or purchase might have been made (a) if the goods were actually in this province at the time when the contract of sale or purchase in respect thereof was made, or (b) in case the contract was for the sale or purchase of future goods by description, then, if the goods are actually produced or found in this Province at any time after the contract of sale or purchase in respect thereof was made.	None
The submission made on behalf of the assessee, which was accepted by the High Court was that, as the amendment did not receive the assent of the Governor General under Section 107 of the Govt.	None
of India Act, it was void.	None
It was, however, also urged, on behalf of the assessee, that a repeal of the previously existing section did not require the assent of the Governor General at all.	None
The argument was that the original provision was validly repealed, but, as no substitution of the new provision could take place, because the assent of the Governor General was not obtained, only the repeal survived.	None
The result of accepting such a submission would be that the substitution will have to be split up into two distinct enactments firstly, a repeal of the original section 2(g) of the Act and, secondly, the substitution of the new provision for the repealed one.	None
The assessees argument was that two processes, one of repeal and another of substitution, are necessarily implied in such an amendment as the one before us.	None
It was urged that both had received the assent of the Governor, but, since the substituted provision alone required the assent of the Governor General, which was not obtained, a repeal, which was assented to by the Governor, stood on its own separate footing.	None
Thus, the result was said to be a repeal simpliciter without the enactment of the fresh provision meant to replace it.	None
6.	None
It was submitted that the High Court, after finding the substituted provisions of section 2(g) of the Act to be invalid, had erred in holding that the repeal was also ineffective.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that such a view resulted in attributing to the legislature a n intention contrary to that which it had unmistakably expressed by repealing the unamended provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the repeal, which was clearly intended, must be held to be valid.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to this submission, neither the old unamended provision nor the replacement of it were in operation during the last two.	Reasoning
assessment periods.	Reasoning
Of course, this argument assumes that the repeal and the new enactment are separate.	Reasoning
In Shriram Gulabdas v. Board of Revenue, Madhya Pradesh Ant. ((1952) 3 S.T .C. 343. 367.) which was cited before us, it was held, on the question argued before us (at p. 366367)	Reasoning
we have already shown that the second Explanation in clause (g) of Section 2, which makes an agreement of sale taxable even though the sale may have taken place outside.	Reasoning
the province, is not ultra vires the Provision Legislature.	Reasoning
We must make it clear that our answer to this question is in the affirmative, free from considerations arising under Article 286.	Reasoning
We have shown that the necessary power to make the unamended Explanation did exist in the State Legislature but we have also made it clear that by virtue of Article 286 the Explanation can no longer be enforced because under the present Constitution the sales tax can only be collected at the market and where the goods are delivered for consumption.	Reasoning
We may also state that the amended Explanation II is not validly enacted because it makes drastic changes in the rules as found in the Sale of Goods Act without obtaining the assent of the GovernorGeneral.	Reasoning
The effect of the amended Explanation going out would be to rehabilitate the old Explanation as it existed because the amendment being unconstitutional will fail to work any change in the law (See the opinion given by one of us, Hidayatullah, J., in Laxmibai v. The State (I.L.R. 1951)	Reasoning
Nag. 563, 608, 610 (F.B.).	Reasoning
7.	None
No question relating to the enforcement of the Salestax by any collection to be made after the Constitution came into force was raised the cases before us.	Reasoning
Only questions relating to taxability arise here As we have already indicated, Article 286 does not stand in the way of taxability.	Reasoning
This was held to be the correct position in the ca se of Shriram Gulabdas (Supra).	Reasoning
It was also clearly held there that the result of the invalidity of the amended explanation was to leave the law unaltered as it stood before the amendment.	Reasoning
We approve of this pronouncement made long ago on this very question.	Reasoning
It was urged on behalf of the assessee that the case of Shriram Gulabdas (supra) contained what was merely an observation with regard the rehabilitation of the preexisting law as that question was no directly under consideration there.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that this observation must be deemed to have been overruled by subsequent pronouncements of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The passage cited above by us occurs in answering the fifth question considered there which was framed as follows (v) Whether Explanation II to clause (g) of Section 2, which makes an agreement of sale taxable even though the sale may have taken placed outside the Province, ultra vires of the Provincial Legislature ?	Issue
8.	None
Other questions framed indicate that it was not only the validity of the provision, both before and after its amendment, which was directly considered and pronounced upon, but the application of the concept of sale under the unamended law and its effects were also under consideration.	Reasoning
Therefore, we think that the decision was directly on a question which necessarily arose for determination before the Court on that occasion.	Reasoning
We think that the view that the unamended law was in operation was not a mere obiter dictum.	Reasoning
It was necessary to decide that question before other questions could be determined.	Reasoning
We give out own reasons below for accepting the correctness of the view taken then.	Reasoning
The following passage was also cited from Koteswar Vittal Kamath V.K. Rangappa Baliga Co. (at p. 509) Learned counsel for the respondent, how ever, urged that the Prohibition Order of 1119 cannot, in any case, be held to have continued after 8th March, 1950, if the principle laid down by this Court in Firm A.T.B. Mehtab Majid Co. v. State of Madras, (1963) Supp.	None
2 SCR 435(AIR 1963 SC 928 ) is applied.	None
In that case, rule 16 of the Madras General Sales Tax (Turnover and Assessment) Rules, 1939, was impugned.	None
A new R. 16 was substituted for the old Rule 16 by publication on September 7, 1955, and this new rule was to be effective from 1st April, 1955.	None
The Court held that the new Rule 16(2) was invalid because the provisions of that.	None
rule contravened the provisions of Article 304(a) of the Constitution.	None
Thereupon, it was urged before the Court that, if the impugned rule be held to be invalid, the old Rule 16 gets revived, so that the tax assessed on the basis of that rule will be good.	None
The Court rejected this submission by holding thatOnce the old rule has been substituted by the new rule, it ceases to exist and it does not automatically get revived when the new rule is held to be invalid.	None
On that analogy, it was argued that, if we hold that the Prohibition Order of 1950 was invalid, the previous Prohibition Order of 1119 cannot be held to be revived.	None
This argument ignores the distinction between super session of a rule, and substitution of a rule.	None
In the case of (1963) Supp.	None
2 SCR 435(AIR 1963 SC 928 ) (supra), the new Rule 16 was substituted for the old Rule 16.	None
The process of substitution consists of two steps.	None
First, the old rule is made to cease to exist, and, next, the new rule is brought into existence in its place.	None
Even if the new rule be invalid, the first step of the old rule ceasing to exist comes into effect and it was for this reason that the Court held that, on declaration of the new rule as in valid, the old rule could not be held to be revived.	None
9.	None
In the above mentioned passage, this Court merely explained the argument which was accepted in the case of firm A.T.B. Mehtab Majid Co. v. State of Madras(1963 Suppl.	None
2 S.C.R. 435.).	None
After doing so, it distinguished the facts in Koteswars case (supra), relating to an alleged substitution of one Prohibition Order by a subsequent order which was found to be inv alid.	None
It recorded its conclusion as follows (at p. 509)	None
In the case before us, there was no substitution of the Prohibition Order of 1950 for the Prohibition Order of 1119.	None
The Prohibition Order of 1950 was promulgated independently of the Prohibition Order of 1119, and because of the provisions of law it would have had the effect of making the Prohibition Order of 1119 inoperative if it had been a valid order.	None
If the Prohibition Order of 1950 is found to be void ab initio, it could never make the Prohibition Order of 1119 inoperative.	None
10.	None
The argument before us is that since the word substituted is used in the amending Act of 1949, it necessarily follows that the process embraces two steps.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of repeal and another of the new enactment.	Arguments of Petitioner
But, this argument is basically different from the argument which prevailed in Koteswars case (supra) where a distinction was drawn between a substitution and super session.	Reasoning
It is true that, as the term substitution was not used there, the old rule was not held to have been repealed.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the real basis of that decision was that what was called super session was void ab initio so that the law remained what it would have been if no such legislative process had taken place at all.	Reasoning
It was held that the void and inoperative legislative process did not affect the validity of the preexisting rule.	Reasoning
And, this is precisely what is contended or by the State before us.	None
11.	None
In the case before us although the word substitution is used in the amending Act, yet the whole legislative process termed substitution was itself abortive.	Reasoning
The whole of that process did not take effect as the assent of the GovernorGeneral, required by Section 107 Govt.	Reasoning
of India Act, was lacking.	Reasoning
Such ineffectiveness was the very reason why, in the case of Sriram Gulabdas (supra), it was held that the previous law stood unaffected by the attempted legislation called substitution.	Reasoning
Moreover, the case of Shriram Gulabdas (supra) is a direct authority on the very provisions now before us.	Reasoning
Other cases cited are on very different legislative provisions.	Reasoning
12.	None
We do not think that the word substitution necessarily or always connotes two severable steps, that is to say, one of repeal and another of a fresh enactment even if it implies two steps.	Reasoning
Indeed, the natural meaning of the word substitution is to indicate that the process cannot be split up into two pieces like this.	Reasoning
If the process described as substitution fails, it is totally ineffective so as to leave intact what was sought to be displaced.	Reasoning
That seems to us to be the ordinary and natural meaning of the words shall be substituted.	Reasoning
This part could not become effective without the assent of the GovernorGeneral.	Reasoning
The State Governors assent was insuffi  cient.	Reasoning
It could not be inferred that, what was intended was that, in case the substitution failed or proved ineffective, some repeal, not mentioned at all, was brought about and remained effective so as to create what may be described as a vacuum in the statutory law on the subject matter.	Reasoning
Pri marily, the question is one of gathering the intent from the use of words in the enacting provision seen in the light of the procedure gone through.	Reasoning
Here, no intention to reveal, without a substitution, is deducible.	Reasoning
In other words, there could be no repeal if substitution failed.	Reasoning
The two were a part and parcel of a single indivisible process and not bits of a disjointed operation.	Reasoning
Looking at the actual procedure which was gone through, we find that, even if the Governor had assented to the substitution, yet the amendments would have been effective, as a piece of valid legislation, only when the assent of the GovernorGeneral had also been accorded to it.	Reasoning
It could not be said that what the Legislature intended.	Reasoning
or what the Governor had assented to consisted of a separate repeal and a fresh enactment.	Reasoning
The two results were to follow from one and the same effective Legislative process.	Reasoning
The process had, therefore, to be so viewed and interpreted.	Reasoning
13.	None
Some help was sought to be derived by the citation of B.N. Tewari v. Union of India Ors., (1965 2 S.C.R. 421.)	Reasoning
and the case of Firm A.T.B. Mehtab Majid Co v. State of Madras (supra).	Reasoning
Tewaris case (supra) related to the substitution of what was described as the carry forward rule contained in the departmental instruction which was sought to be substituted by a modified instruction declared invalid by the Court.	Reasoning
It was held that when the rule contained in the modified instruction of 1955 was struck down the rule contained in a displaced instruction did not survive.	Reasoning
Indeed, one of the arguments there was that the original carry forward rule of 1952 was itself void for the very reason for whic h the carry forward rule, contained in the modified instructions of 1955, had been struck down.	Reasoning
Even the analogy of a merger of an order into another which was meant to be its substitute could apply only where there is a valid substitution.	Reasoning
Such a doctrine applies in a case where a judgment of a Subordinate Court merges in the judgment of the Appellate Court or an order reviewed merges in the order by which the review is gran ted.	Reasoning
Its application to a legislative process may be possible only in cases of valid substitution.	Reasoning
The legislative intent and its effect is gathered, inter alia, from the nature of the action of the authority which func tions.	Reasoning
It is easier to impute an intention to an executive rule making authority to repeal altogether in any event what is sought to be displaced by another rule.	Reasoning
The cases cited were of executive instructions.	Reasoning
We do not think that they could serve as useful guides in interpreting a Legislative provision sought to be amended by a fresh enactment.	Reasoning
The procedure for enactment is far more elaborate and formal.	Reasoning
A repeal and a displacement of a Legislative provision by a fresh enactment can only take place after that elaborate procedure has been followed in toto.	Reasoning
In the case of any rule contained in an executive instruction.	Reasoning
on the other hand, the repeal as well as displacement are capable of being achieved and inferred from a bare issue of fresh instructions on the same subject.	Reasoning
In Mehtab Majid	Reasoning
Cos case (supra) a statutory role was held not to have revived after it was sought to be substituted by another held to be invalid.	Reasoning
This was also a case in which no elaborate legislative procedure was prescribed for a repeal as it is in the case of statutory enactment of statutes by legislatures.	Reasoning
In every case, it is a question of intention to be gathered from the language as well as the acts of the rulemaking or legislating authority in the context in which these occur.	Reasoning
A principle of construction contained now in a statutory provision made in England since 1850 has been Where an Act passed after 1850 repeals wholly or partially any former enactment and substitutes provision for the enactment repealed, the repealed enactment remains in force until the substituted provisions come into operation.	None
(See Halsburys Laws of England, Third Edn.	None
Vol. 36, P. 474 Craies on Statute Law, 6th Edn. p.386).	None
14.	None
Although, there is no corresponding provision in our General Clauses Acts, yet, it shows that the mere use of words denoting a substitution does not ipso facto or automatically repeal a provision until the provision which is to take its place becomes legally effective.	Reasoning
We have, as explained above reached the same conclusion by considering the ordinary and natural meaning of the term substitution when it occurs.	Reasoning
without anything else in the language used or in the context of it or in the surrounding facts and circumstances to lead to another inference.	Reasoning
It means, ordinarily, that unless the substituted provision is there to take its place, in law and in effect, the preexisting provision continues.	Reasoning
There is no question of a revival.	None
15.	None
This question of interpretation was referred separately to the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court which drew a distinction between the two meanings of the word substituted firstly, where it involved a direction as to what would have to be removed or repealed simultaneously with another as to what was to be substituted, so as to involve two directions and secondly where the substitution merely carried one direction to modify .	Reasoning
It is difficult to see how a single direction to one direction to modify.	Reasoning
It is difficult to see how a single direction to substitute would be effective without implying in it another to remove what was to be displaced.	Reasoning
Perhaps more simply and correctly stated, the difference between two meanings of the word substituted is one where it stands for two separable legislative process and another where it stands for one total or completed legislative procedure, including the assent of the GovernorGeneral, which would be covered by the words shall be substituted.	Reasoning
The Full Bench came to the conclusion that, in the context in which the words directing substitution occur, they do not imply that in the event of the failure of the amendment, taken as a whole a repeal would survive.	Reasoning
To be a ble to Survive a repeal had first to come into existence.	Reasoning
In the situation before us no repeal came into legal existence.	Reasoning
16.	None
The real question for determination is always one of the meaning of words used in a purported enactment in a particular context.	Reasoning
We think that the Full Bench of the High Court correctly held that there was no repeal of the existing provision when substitution, by means of an amendment, failed to be effective.	Reasoning
It had also rightly distinguished some of the cases cited before it on the ground that, in those cases, the process for substitution was interpreted to necessarily imply both a repeal and reenactment out of which only the repeal which took place had survived when the reenactment proved abortive.	Reasoning
17.	None
On the question whether the particular goods existed in Madhya Pradesh at all at the time of the contracts, so that the contract could be said to be referable to them, the High Court had observed the question was whether Oriental Mixture was present in the former State of Madh ya Pradesh when the contracts of sale in respect of Oriental Mixture were made by the applicant company.	Reasoning
On this point, which was purely a question of fact, the decision of the second appellate authority was final and that decision was that Oriental Mixture in the form in which the contracts to sell that commodity were made was present in the State of Madhya Pradesh at the time when those contracts were made.	None
Therefore, that point was not open for decision before the Tribunal and it is not necessary to dilate on the facts relating to that question.	None
18.	None
It also said In Commissioner of Sales Tax, Eastern Division, Nagpur v. Hesenali Adamji Co. (1959) (10 STC 297 ), there was no evidence that at the date when the agreement for sale was made, the particular logs delivered there under were in Central Provinces in t he shape of logs at all, and a standing tree which was in existence at the date of the agreement of sale and out of which the logs were later on prepared cann ot be said to be the form of the commodity in respect of which the agreement of sale was made.	None
The Tribunal relied on the observations in the Judgment of the Supreme Court at page 310 which are to the effect that the goods must, at the date of the contract, be there in the taxing State in the form in which they are agreed to be sold.	None
In that case, the agreement of sale can be said to be in respect of those goods.	None
Here, as found by the second appellate authority, ore in the form of Oriental Mixture was present in the taxing State when contracts of sale in respect of Oriental Mixture were made by the Head Office of the applicant company.	None
19.	None
After giving the findings set out above, on the question whether the goods existed in the State of Madhya Pradesh when they were sold and, whether the contracts were referable to these goods, the High Court proceeded to consider the question whether Oriental Mixture itself had come into existence in Madhya Pradesh or at the port where the goods forming the Oriental Mixture became mixed up in the process of unloading and transportation.	Reasoning
Apparently, what the High Court had meant by its earlier findings was not that the Oriental Mixture was in existence in Madhya Pradesh, but that the ingredients which went into its composition existed in Madhya Pradesh at the time when the contracts were made.	Reasoning
It had finally reached the conclusion that the Mixture itself was formed at the port where the ingredients were unloaded.	Reasoning
20.	None
We are unable to accept the High Courts reasoning that, while the goods which went into the composition of the Oriental Mixture existed in Madhya Pradesh when the contracts were made, yet, they were not taxable in Madhya Pradesh because the Oriental Mixture came into existence at the port.	Reasoning
In other words, it held that a mere mixture of goods, even if it occurs in the process of unloading, converts the goods, which existed in Madhya Pradesh and were transported to the port, into separately identifiable commercial commodity Known as Oriental Mixture.	Reasoning
As already mentioned above, this term is not used in the contracts but is a term employed by the firm itself to indicate the specifications contained in the contracts of goods ordered.	Reasoning
It is difficult to see what process of manufacture is gone through so as to bring a new category or genus of commercial goods into existence at the port.	Reasoning
21.	None
The High Court had relied on cases where raw tobacco subjected to various processes, such as sprinkling of jaggery juice or water on it and allowing it to ferment for some time before cutting it up and packing it, was held to become a new commodity.	Reasoning
These cases were The State of Madras v. Bell Mark Tobacco Co. ((1967) 19 S.T.C. 129.)	Reasoning
The State of Madras v. Swasthik Tobacco Factory((1966) 17 S.T.C. 316.)	Reasoning
Anwarkhan Mehboob Co. v. The State of Bombay (Now Maharashtra) Ors.	Reasoning
((1960) 11 S.T.C. 698).Reliance was also placed on behalf of the assessee on Shaw Wallace Co. Ltd. v. The State of Tamil Nadu((1976)	Reasoning
3 S.T.C. 522.), where it was held that goods were actually subjected to a process of manufacturing when chemical fertilisers and fillers like China clay, gypsum, and other ingredients, were mixed at a mixing works of a company, by means of shovels, so as to conform to a particular formula.	Reasoning
It was held there by this Court that the resulting product was a commercially distinct commodity.	Reasoning
Several cases of manure mixtures are referred to in the case.	Reasoning
Now, in the case of manure mixtures, made out of different ingredients, at a mixing works, it can per haps be said that a chemical process is gone through.	Reasoning
In any case, the product which came into existence was known and sold as a separate commercial commodity in the mar ket.	Reasoning
It required a process to be gone through at what were known as mixing works of the company to convert it into that commodity.	Reasoning
On the other hand, in the case before us, it seems to us that what has been manufactured by the assessee is the same Oriental Mixture only if the term manufacture can be employed at all to anything done by the assessee.	Reasoning
What is to be determined is whether there has been the manufacture of a new product which has a separate commercially current name in the market.	Reasoning
The mere giving of a new name by the seller to what is really the same product is not the manufacture of a new product.	Reasoning
There is, it appears to us, no new process of the manufacture of goods at all by the assessee before us.	Reasoning
22.	None
Again, cases in which logs of wood were cut in order to convert them into planks e.g. Shaw Bros Co. v. The State of West Bengal((1963) 14	Reasoning
S.T.C. 878.) could be of no assistance in the case before us.	Reasoning
That too could be a process of manufacture.	Reasoning
The High Court had also made a passing reference to Nilgiri Ceylon Tea Supplying Co. v. The State of Bombay((1959) 10 S.T.C. 500.)	Reasoning
, a case decided by the Bombay High Court, where different brands of tea, purchased in bulk and without application of any mechanical or chemical process, were mixed so as to conform to a particular mixing formula, but this mixture was held not to constitute a fresh commodity as neither processing nor alteration of the ingredients of the tea in any manner had taken place.	Reasoning
We think that the similarity of the process to which goods sold were subjected in this case seems to make the reasoning adopted in this case more properly applicable to the cases before us than any other found in other cases mentioned above.	Reasoning
23.	None
In any event, we are unable to see how, without Subjecting to some process the various grades of ores, mixed up in the process of transporting, so as to conform to the specifications given in the contract, could result in a new commercial product as it is known in the market.	Reasoning
The ingredients were not even shown to have got so mixed up as to become inseparable.	Reasoning
As already mentioned above, this is a case in which the term Oriental Mixture was nothing more than a name given by the appellant company itself to the goods which were in the State of Madhya Pradesh at the relevant time and sent from there specially in order to satisfy the specifications given in the contracts.	Reasoning
The goods get mixed up in the process of unloading.	Reasoning
The mere fact that the specifications in the contracts are satisfied when they get mixed up is not a good enough ground for holding that a new product has been manufactured.	Reasoning
They could no more constitute a new commodity than parts of some machinery sent by its manufacturer to a purchaser outside a State, so that the buyer has to just fit in the various parts together, becomes a new commodity when the parts are fitted in.	Reasoning
The mere fitting up of parts or a mixture of goods, without employing any mechanical or chemical process of manufacture, could not, we think, result in a new commodity.	Reasoning
24.	None
We, therefore, answer the following six questions before the High Court as follows Q. 1.	Decision
Was the Tribunal right in holding that, although the assessment order was made after the Constitution of India came into force, Article 286 was thereby not contravened, because such order related to a period prior to 26.1.1950?	Decision
Ans.	Decision
Yes, The provisions of Article 286 were not contravened.	Decision
Q. 2.	Decision
Was the Tribunal right in holding that Explanation (II) to Section 2(g) as was originally embodied in the Sales Tax Act, 1947, got restored on the Statutebook because of the unconstitutionality of the substituted Explanation enacted in the Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1949 ?	Decision
Ans.	Decision
There is no question of restoration of unamended explanation (II) to Section 2(g) as the purported amendment itself did not take effect.	Decision
Hence, the unamended provision stood as it was before the attempted amendment.	Decision
The question framed rests on a misconception that there was something to be restored.	Decision
As nothing was taken away, nothing was there to be restored.	Decision
And, there was nothing added or substituted.	None
Q. 3.	Decision
Does the Tribunals decision not contradict the true meaning of the language sale of any goods which are actually in the Central Provinces and Berar at the time when the contract of sale as defined in that Act in respect thereof is made, as occurring in Explanation (II) to section 2(g) of the Sales Tax Act, with reference to in respect thereof is reference to specified or earmarked goods which are actually present in the taxing State when the contracts are made ?	Decision
Ans.	Decision
This is a question of fact as to what contracts specify and whether those goods were taxed, on which the finding already recorded are enough to dispose it off against the assessee.	Decision
Q. 4.	Decision
In any case, was the Tribunal right in its interpretation, application and use of the provisions of original Explanation (II) to section 2(g) of the Sales Tax Act even as they were ?	Decision
Ans.	Decision
Yes.	Decision
Q. 5.	Decision
Was the Tribunal right in assuming the law to be that the existence of ingredients of ores in the taxing State in question, which were sufficient if and when mixed in the due proportion for yielding different varieties of standard mixtures contracted for by the overseas buyers, was in law enough to attract the tax ?	Decision
Ans.	Decision
There is no question of assuming anything.	Decision
The process which was revealed and findings of fact given on it show that it did not result in the production of a new commodity at the port.	Decision
It was only manganese ore of different grades which was unloaded at the port and give s the name of Oriental Mixture because the ingredients got mixed up automatically in transportation and satisfied certain specifications.	Decision
No new commodity was produced in this process.	Decision
Q. 6.	Decision
Was the Tribunal right in holding that the Sales Tax Authorities had found as a fact that the goods consisting of oriental mixture were in the Madhya Pradesh State when the contracts in respect of these goods were made?	Decision
Ans.	Decision
Yes. 25.	Decision
Before we part with the case we may observe that the questions could have been much more lucidly and simply and less culmsily stated.	Decision
26.	None
The appeals of the assessee company against the decisions of the Full Bench are dismissed.	Decision
The appeals of the State of Maharashtra against the judgment of the Division Bench are allowed.	Decision
Parties will hear their own costs.	Decision
