 P. JEEVAN REDDY J. The Commissioner of Incometax, Calcutta (Central), has preferred these appeals against the judgment and order dated March 1, 1979, made by the Settlement Commission under section 245D of the Incometax Act, 1961 (the Act).	Facts
The respondentassessee, Paharpur Cooling Towers Private Limited, is engaged in the manufacture of cooling towers and their parts.	Facts
For the assessment years 197071 to 197475 (five years), it had filed its returns.	Facts
(The accounting year was the year ending 31st October).	Facts
For the assessment year 197576, the assessee had filed its return.	Facts
It was pending.	Facts
While so, on October 27, 1976, and on the following dates, searches were conducted by the Director of Inspection and his officers in the premises of the assessee at Calcutta, Bombay and Delhi.	Facts
The assessees factories and the residential premises of the managing director, sales manager, directors and their associates were also searched simultaneously.	Facts
A number of documents were seized On June 24, 1977, the assessee approached the Settlement Commission (commission) with an application under section 245C of the Act.	Facts
The application was made in the prescribed proforma.	Facts
Against column No. 5 assessment years in connection with which the application for settlement is made, the assessee stated, assessment year 197576 and any other proceeding that may be decided by the Settlement Commission (now pending before the Incometax Officer).	Facts
Against column No. 8, particulars of the matters to be settled, the assessee stated, assessment of total income for the assessment year 197576 and any other matter that may be decided by the Settlement Commission The application made by the assessee was forwarded to the Commissioner of Incometax for his report under section 245D(1).	Facts
In his report dated July 6, 1977, the Commissioner stated that he has no objection to the application for settlement being processed with in respect of the assessment year 197576.	Facts
By order dated July 21, 1977, the commission admitted the application for settlementOn November 15, 1977, the assessee filed a brief statement of facts stating, inter alia, the following facts it had filed the return of its income for the assessment year 197576 on February 10, 1976, showing a total income of Rs. 64, 75, 860 the assessment for the said year is not yet completed while so, searches were conducted in its various premises the accounts department and the managing director were not aware of many facts which have since been discovered in view of the said fact and with a view to cooperate with tax authorities and to avoid harassment and unnecessary litigation, it has been advised to approach the commission for settlement the value of the finished goods as mentioned in the return for the assessment year 197576 is Rs. 14, 25, 077.16 it should in fact be Rs. 31, 55, 000 similarly, the value of the stocks and of finished goods at the end of the accounting year ending with October 31, 1975, ought to be Rs. 19, 85, 000 as against the disclosed figure of Rs. 5, 36, 304.	Facts
The assessee requested that the aforesaid revised figures may be accepted in the place of the figures disclosed in the return.	Facts
It then stated, Since the value of the opening stock is required to be amended by Rs. 14, 48, 696 (Rs. 19, 85, 000 minus Rs. 5, 36, 304) as aforesaid, this will have effect on the profits of the previous years as the increased stocks were not and could not be built up in any one accounting year only.	Facts
(9) . . .	Facts
for a proper fixation of the profits for the assessment year 197576, due to increased value of the closing stocks, the company submits that the commission may consider reopening of the earlier five assessment years, i.e., assessment year 197071 to 197475.	Facts
(10) The company hereby gives its consent for reopening all the earlier five years assessments as required in section 245E of the Act.	Facts
Similar request is said to have been made regarding the other item of disclosure, viz., certain capital expenditure claimed in the return as revenue expenditure, but which the assessee now conceded may be treated as a capital expenditure.	Facts
The assessee also requested that all further proceedings with respect to the assessment year 197576 as well as those relating to the said earlier assessment years be stayedThe commission called upon the Commissioner to file his response to the aforesaid statement of facts filed by the assessee.	Facts
In hit response report dated January 3, 1978, the Commissioner stated, inter alia, the applicant asked for settlement in respect of the assessment year 197576, but in the statement of facts now submitted, it is stated that the amount now offered for settlement will have effect on earlier five years assessments all these assessments have long been completed and in none of these years, the undervaluation of stock, as now offered, was considered for assessment reassessment . . .	Facts
There is absolutely no material in the file in support of this contention of the applicant.	Facts
The Commissioner further submitted that since the assessees original application was for settlement in connection with the assessment year 197576, the assessees prayer in para 13 of the statement of facts for issuing stay orders in respect of penalty proceedings pertaining to the earlier assessment years is unwarranted, more particularly when the said penalty proceedings do not relate to undervaluation of stock but to other matters some of which were not even contested in appeal.	Facts
To this response report, the Commissioner enclosed the report of the concerned Incometax Officer stating in detail the facts relating to the said earlier assessment years.	Facts
It was stated therein that there was substantial concealment on the part of the assessee, that in certain cases assessments were reopened and that penalty proceedings were also pending for concealment in respect of the said assessment years.	Facts
Several irregularities in the maintenance of accounts and records by the assessee were also pointed out The commission comprising the chairman and two members heard the parties at length and disposed of the application for settlement under the impugned order.	Facts
The chairman and the two members differed on one issue  which is the only issue in these appeals.	Facts
The question is whether the commission could drop the penalty proceedings relating to the assessment years 197071 to 197475 in an application for settlement relating to the assessment year 197576.	Issue
We are not concerned with the other directions made by the Commissioner.	Reasoning
They were not argued before us and we express no opinion thereon.	None
The only question we are considering is the power of the commission to drop waive penalty proceedings and penalties for the assessment years 197071 to 197475 in an application for settlement relating to the assessment year 197576.	Issue
The majority opinion (of the commission) mainly relied upon section 245E for holding that the commission did have such power while the chairman held to the contrary.	None
The chairman opined that since the application for settlement before the commission was only in respect of the assessment year 197576, the penalty proceedings relating to earlier assessment years were in no way connected with the present settlement application or statement of facts made by the assessee and, therefore, the commission had no jurisdiction to waive or drop the said penalty proceedings.	None
He pointed out further that the said penalty proceedings were in respect of some other concealment already detected by the Incometax Officer and not relating to incomes considered in the settlement application.	None
(emphasis added)Contentions urged by the parties.	None
In these appeals, the main submission. of Sri J. Ramamurthy, learned counsel for the Revenue, is with respect to the jurisdiction of the commission to drop the penalty proceedings relating to the assessment years 197071 to 197475.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that the application for settlement pertained only to the assessment year 197576 and not to the said earlier assessment years.	Arguments of Petitioner
The assessee did disclose certain additional income for the assessment year 197576 requesting at the same time that the said additional income be spread over all the six assessment years 197071 to 197576.	Arguments of Petitioner
The assessee had so requested and had given its consent for reopening the said earlier assessment years for the limited purpose of spreading over distributing the said additional income over the six years, which was a request made in his own selfinterest.	Arguments of Petitioner
He did not want the entire additional income to be added to his income in the assessment year 197576 which would have enhanced his tax liability.	Arguments of Petitioner
The request to reopen the assessments of the said earlier assessment years was, said learned counsel, for the limited purpose of giving due and appropriate relief for the assessment year 197576.	Arguments of Petitioner
The advantage he was asking for could not be granted except by reopening the assessments for the said earlier assessment years for the limited purpose of adding certain amounts as a consequence of spreading over.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no request or concurrence to reopen the earlier assessments for all the purposes.	Arguments of Petitioner
In short, the application filed by the assessee did not pertain to the said earlier assessment years but only to 197576.	Arguments of Petitioner
Whatever was asked for was being asked for only to reduce the tax liability for the assessment year 197576.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel emphasised the admitted fact that the penalty proceedings relating to the said earlier assessment years, pending at the time of filing of the settlement application, pertained to some other concealments and not to the items which were disclosed in the settlement application.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel also submitted that a settlement application can be filed only in respect of a pending matter whereas the assessments in respect of the said earlier assessment years were already concluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
They were also not appealed against by the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sri Ramamurthy commended the opinion of the chairman for our acceptanceSri N. K. Poddar, learned counsel for the respondent assessee, supported the reasoning and conclusion of the majority.	Arguments of Petitioner
His reasoning runs thus the assessee had expressly requested and had given his consent concurrence for reopening the assessments for the earlier assessment years 197071 to 197475.	Arguments of Respondent
It is true that this request and concurrence was for giving the relief asked for by the assessee in respect of the assessment year 197576.	Arguments of Respondent
But for giving the relief so asked for by the assessee, it was necessary to reopen the assessment for the said earlier assessment years and add certain amounts on account of enhanced valuation of the opening stocks in each of the relevant accounting years.	Arguments of Respondent
The commission did have the undoubted power, in these circumstances, to reopen the assessments relating to the said earlier assessment years for the aforesaid purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
Once the commission reopened the said assessments, it was entitled to pass necessary and appropriate orders relating to those earlier assessment years there was no restriction or limitation upon the cornmissions power.	Arguments of Respondent
Even though the penalty proceedings relating to the said earlier assessment years pertained to certain other alleged concealments by the assessee other than the two items concerned in the settlement application the commission had the power, in law, to direct the dropping of those penalty proceedings also, once it reopened the assessments relating to the said earlier assessment years.	Arguments of Respondent
The majority opinion of the commission is, therefore, the correct one both on facts and in law.	Arguments of Respondent
The scheme and the object underlying Chapter XIXA supports the said interpretation.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel submitted further that the penalty proceedings are corelated to the amount of concealment.	Arguments of Respondent
Once the amount concealed undergoes a change by virtue of additions made in the said earlier assessment years on account of spreading over of the value of opening stock in each of the relevant accounting years, the penalty proceedings become automatically unsustainable in law.	Arguments of Respondent
They cannot proceed further.	Arguments of Respondent
Fresh penalty proceedings have to be initiated on the basis of the revised figure of concealment and that can be done only by the commission and not by the Incometax OfficerRelevant provisions of law.	Arguments of Respondent
For a proper appreciation of the questions arising herein, it is necessary to notice the relevant provisions in Chapter XIXA as they were obtaining at the relevant time.	None
The definition of the expression case in clause (a) of section 245A reads.	None
case means any proceeding under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), or under this Act for or in connection with the assessment or reassessment of any person in respect of any year or years which may be pending before an incometax authority on the date on which an application under subsection (1) of section 245C is made.	None
Section 245C provides that the application for settlement shall be filed in the form prescribed and containing prescribed particulars.	None
Section 245D prescribes the procedure to be followed on receipt of an application for settlement.	None
The second proviso to subsection (1) says.	None
provided further that an application shall not be proceeded with under this subsection if the Commissioner objects to the application being proceeded with on the ground that the concealment of particulars of income on the part of the applicant or perpetration of fraud by him for evading any tax or other sum chargeable or imposable under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, or under this Act, has been established or is likely to be established by any incomet ax authority, in relation to the case.	None
Subsection (4) provides that after examining the entire material including the report(s) of the commission, the commission may pass final orders in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	None
It is not necessary to refer to other subsections in section 245D for the purposes of these appeals.	None
Section 245E is relevant for our purposes and may be set out in full.	None
245E. Power of Settlement Commission to reopen completed proceedings.	None
If the Settlement Commission is of the opinion (the reasons for such opinion to be recorded by it in writing) that, for the proper disposal of the case pending before it, it is necessary or expedient to reopen any proceeding connected with the case but which has been completed under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), or under this Act by any incometax authority before the application under section 245C was made, It may, with the concurrence of the applicant, reopen such proceeding and pass such order thereon as it thinks fit, as if the case in relation to which the application for settlement had been made by the applicant under that section covered such proceeding also Provided that no proceeding shall be reopened by the Settlement Commission under this section after the expiry of a period of eight years from the end of the assessment year to which such proceeding relates.	None
Subsection (1) of section 245F provides that in addition to the powers conferred on the Settlement Commission under this Chapter, it shall have all the powers which are vested in an incometax authority under this Act.	None
Subsection (2) provides that where an application made under section 245C has been allowed to be proceeded with under section 245D, the Settlement Commission shall, until an order is passed under subsection (4) of section 245D, have, subject to the provisions of subsection (3) of that section, exclusive jurisdiction to exercise the powers and perform the functions of an incometax authority under this Act in relation to the case Section 245H empowers the commission to grant immunity from prosecution under the Indian Penal Code or any other Central Act to an applicant if it is satisfied that he has made a full disclosure of his income and has fully cooperated with the commissionSection 245I declares that every order of settlement passed under subsection (4) of section 245D shall be conclusive as to the matters stated therein and no matter covered by such order shall, save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, be reopened in any proceeding under this Act or under any other law for the time being in force.	None
Consideration of the contentions urged.	None
Section 245C(1) provides that an application for settlement shall be filed in the prescribed form containing prescribed particulars in this case, the application filed by the assessee pertained only to one assessment year, viz., 197576, and to no other assessment year.	Reasoning
According to the second proviso to section 245D(1), as in force at the relevant time, no such application can be proceeded with by the commission if the Commissioner objects to the application being proceeded with on the ground that concealment of particulars of income on the part of the applicant or perpetration of fraud by him for evading any tax or other sum chargeable has been established or is likely to be established by any incometax authority in relation to the case in this case, the Commissioner objected to the commission passing any orders with respect to the assessment years other than the assessment year 197576 so far as the assessment year 197576 is concerned, the Commissioner put forward no objection.	Reasoning
Subsection (4) of section 245D says that after examining the entire material, the commission shall pass such order as it thinks fit on the matters covered by the application and any other material relating to the case not covered by the application, in accordance with the provisions of the Act in other words, the commission has not only to act in accordance with the provisions of the Act but that its jurisdiction is confined to the matters covered by the application before it.	Reasoning
The further words and any other material relating to the case hot covered by the application show that the commission can take into consideration any other material not covered by the application but it must be one relating to the case before it.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that this Chapter XIXA prescribes a procedure which is a departure from the normal procedure provided by the Act.	Reasoning
Once an application is admittedan application can be made only in respect of a pending casethe commission takes over all the proceedings relating to that case which may be pending before any authori ty under the Act.	Reasoning
But this power is confined to the case before the commission, which means the case relating to the assessment year for which the application for settlement is filed and admitted for settlementto wit, assessment year 197576 in this case.	Reasoning
Section 245E, which is the sheet anchor of the majority opinion, empowers the commission to reopen any completed proceedings connected with the case before it but this power is circumscribed by the requirement expressly stated in the section that such reopening of completed proceedings should be necessary or expedient for the proper disposal of the case pending before it.	Reasoning
There are two other limitations upon this power, viz., that this reopening of the completed proceedings can be done, even for the aforesaid limited purpose, only with the concurrence of the assessee and secondly that this power cannot extend to a period beyond eight years from the end of the assessment year to which such proceeding relates.	Reasoning
These two features make it abundantly clear that the section contemplates reopening of the completed proceedings not for the benefit of the assessee but in the interests of the Revenue.	Reasoning
It contemplates a situation where the case before the commission cannot be satisfactorily settled unless some previously concluded proceedings are reopened which would normally be to the prejudice of the assessee.	Reasoning
It is precisely for this reason that the section says that it can be done only with the concurrence of the assessee and that too for a period within eight years.	Reasoning
This section cannot be read as empowering the commission to do indirectly what cannot be done directly.	None
We may explain.	None
The commission has jurisdiction to settle the case which is before it.	None
Take this very case the application for settlement before it pertains to the assessment year 197576.	None
Its jurisdiction is limited to settling this case alone.	None
In this case, it cannot settle the matters relating to other assessment years, which are not before it.	None
The Commission cannot touch the proceedings relating to the earlier or other years.	None
This rule is, however, relaxed by section 245E to a limited extent and for a limited purpose.	None
The concluded proceedings can be reopened by the commission provided (a) such reopening is necessary or expedient for the proper disposal of the case before it, (b) the reasons for such opinion are recorded in writing by the commission, (c) the applicantassessee must give his concurrence therefor, and (d) the proceeding which is being reopened must relate to an assessment year which is within eight years from the end of the assessment year to which the case before the commission relates.	Reasoning
The power conferred by section 245E is thus a circumscribed and a conditional power.	Reasoning
It can be exercised only in accordance with and subject to the conditions aforementioned and in no other manner.	Reasoning
Now, let us see whether section 245E availed the commission to direct the dropping of penalty proceedings relating to the assessment years 197071 to 197475 while settling the case relating to the assessment year 197576In the present case, the application filed by the assessee was in respect of only one assessment year, viz., 197576.	Reasoning
This is clear from the particulars mentioned in his application for settlement dated June 24, 1977, referred to hereinbefore.	Reasoning
In his response report to the said application, the Commissioner had stated that he had no objection to the application for settlement being processed with in respect of the assessment year 197576 vide Commissioners report dated July 6, 1977.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the assessee filed, what he called, a brief statement of facts.	Reasoning
In this statement, he requested that the enhanced value of the opening stock disclosed by him should not be added in the assessment of the assessment year 197576 alone but should be appropriately spread over all the six assessment years, viz., assessment years 197071 to 197576.	Reasoning
This he requested because, doing so would have reduced his overall tax liability.	Reasoning
It is for this purpose that he gave his consent concurrence for reopening the assessments of the earlier assessment years.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, not a situation contemplated by section 245E.	Reasoning
This was not a case where the commission wanted to reopen the concluded assessments because it was found necessary or expedient to do so for the proper disposal of the case pending before it it was a case where the assessee was requesting for a benefit and for the purpose of obtaining that benefit, he was requesting the reopening of the earlier assessments.	Reasoning
Even this request of the assessee was for a limited purpose, viz., for spreading over the enhanced value of opening stock disclosed by him over the said six assessment years.	Reasoning
It was not a request or concurrence to reopen the entire assessment and penalty proceedings relating to the said earlier assessment years.	None
As a matter of fact, penalty proceedings for the said earlier assessment years were pending on the date of filing of the application for settlement and its admission.	None
As pointed out by the chairman in his opinion, the said proceedings were in respect of certain concealments already discovered by the Incometax Officer, i.e., concealments established or likely to be established by the Incometax Officer within the meaning of the second proviso to section 245D(1)another limiting factor on the power of the commission.	None
It, therefore, follows that the commission could reopen the assessment proceedings for the said earlier assessment years only for the aforesaid limited purpose, i.e., for spreading over the said enhanced value.	None
Under the guise of reopening the said assessments for the aforementioned limited purpose, the commission could not have reopened or for that matter, settled the matters relating to the said earlier assessment years.	None
It is not permissible for the commission to say that since it has reopened the assessments of earlier assessment year for the limited purpose of giving relief for the assessment year before it, it gets full command and total jurisdiction over all the said earlier assessment years and that it can pass such orders as it thinks fit in respect of all the matters relating to the said assessment years including the penalty proceedings.	Reasoning
This would amount to doing indirectly what cannot be done directly.	Reasoning
The ultimate orders passed by the commission should relate to the case before it it is only for the purpose of effectively settling the case before it that the commission can reopen concluded proceedings subject to the four conditions set out hereinabove.	Reasoning
We fail to see how the penalty proceedings (which have now been dropped) fall within the ambit of the power conferred by section 245E. The penalty proceedings not only relate to assessment years not before the commission but they relate to alleged concealments during those earlier assessment years which concealments were not before the commission.	Reasoning
The disclosures before the commission related to two other concealments disclosed for the assessment year 197576 but which amounts the assessee wanted to be spread over all the six assessment years 197071 to 197576 wholly different and distinct from the concealments on account of which the said penalty proceedings were initiated.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the commission exceeded its jurisdiction in directing that the said penalty proceedings relating to the assessment years 197071 to 197475 should be dropped or that penalties be waived in respect of the said assessment years.	Reasoning
The interpretation placed by the chairman upon section 245E is the correct one and not the interpretation placed by the majorityWe are also not impressed by the argument of Sri Poddar, learned counsel for the assessee, that inasmuch as the quantum of penalty depends upon the quantum of the income assessed and because the income assessed for the said earlier assessment years was bound to undergo a change on account of the spreading over aforesaid, the earlier penalty proceedings fall to the ground automatically and that, thereafter penalties, if any, can be levied only by the Settlement Commission.	Reasoning
There is a clear fallacy in the said submission.	Reasoning
The penalty proceedings related to certain other concealments, i.e., other than the two concealments disclosed in the assessees application for settlement and which were sought to be spread over backwards.	Reasoning
The said penalty proceedings could not, therefore, have been affected or rendered nugatory by the addition to the total income resulting from the aforesaid spreading over.	Reasoning
It is difficult to see any connection, much less an intimate connection, between the said spreading over and the consequent enhancement of the income assessed for the said assessment years and the penalty proceedings.	Reasoning
Lastly, we may refer to Sri Poddars submission based upon section 245F(1).	None
According to him, subsection (1) confers the powers of an incometax authority upon the Settlement Commission including the power to reopen the assessments as contemplated by section 147.	Reasoning
We do not know whether the power under section 147 can also be claimed by the commission.	Reasoning
But assuming it can, the said power has to be exercised in accordance with the provisions contained in sections 147 to 150 including sections 148 and 149.	Reasoning
Admittedly, they were not complied with in this case.	Reasoning
The appeals are accordingly allowed and the order of the Settlement Commission is set aside to the extent it has dropped the penalty proceedings relating to the assessment years 197071 to 197475 and to the extent it has waived the penalties for the said assessment years.	Decision
The orders and directions made by it shall not affect the said penalty proceedings which can now proceed according to law.	Decision
The Settlement Commission shall modify its judgment and order in terms of and in accordance with this judgmentThe appeals are accordingly allowed with costs.	Decision
The appellants costs are quantified at a consolidated sum of rupees twenty thousand.	Decision
