 M. JOSEPH, J. Six appeals arise out of a common judgment rendered by the High Court confirming the conviction and sentence of the appellants by the Trial Court.	Issue
The earliest of the aforesaid appeals, i.e., Criminal Appeal No. 403 of 2010, is filed by the fourth accused.	Issue
Criminal Appeal No. 827 of 2013 and Criminal Appeal No. 828 of 2013 are filed by the third and the fifteenth accused, respectively.	Issue
WHY THIS THREEJUDGES BENCH?	Facts
The appeals filed by the third, fourth and fifteenth accused came to be heard by a Bench of two learned Judges.	Issue
There was a cleavage of opinion among the learned Judges.	Issue
One learned Judge (Justice V. Gopala Gowda), by his Judgment, proceeded to acquit the accused while Justice Arun Mishra dismissed the appeals.	Facts
The Judgment rendered by the two learned Judges is reported in Somasundaram alias Somu v. State Represented by Deputy Commissioner of Police (2016) 16 SCC 355.	Facts
After the judgment was rendered, it is that the other appeals came to be filed by the other accused.	Facts
They are as follows A5 and A8 have filed Criminal Appeal Nos. 2008 of 2017 A6 has filed Criminal Appeal No.1504 of 2017 A7, A11, A14, A16 and A17 have together filed Criminal Appeal No. 2006 of 2017 Though Criminal Appeal No.2007 of 2017 and Criminal Appeal No. 2009 of 2017 were also filed, subsequent to the hearing, applications have been filed seeking to withdraw the aforesaid two appeals and they are liable to be dismissed as withdrawn.	Facts
THE PROSECUTION CASE On M.K. Balan (hereinafter referred to as the deceased, for short), who was an Ex. M.L.A., was reported to be missing by his sonPW1 after he went for his morning walk on 30.12.2001.	Facts
On the basis of the complaint, law was set in motion.	Facts
PW67Inspector of Police, took over the investigation on 12.01.2002 from PW66.	Facts
It was, in fact, PW66, who initially conducted investigation.	Facts
PW66 has spoken about information of the absconding person being given to the Police Control Room and to all Police Stations by wireless.	Facts
He has sent photograph of absconding person to be published in the daily newspapers.	Facts
Inquiry was conducted in hospitals.	Facts
He has examined a large number of witnesses.	Facts
It is, as noted, on 12.01.2002, further investigation was taken over by PW67Deputy Superintendent of CBCID.	Facts
The evidence of PW67 would show that from 13.01.2002, the Officer has examined several witnesses.	Facts
According to the prosecution, the breakthrough came on the basis of information, as per which, the A5 (fifth accused) came to be arrested on 18.03.2002.	Facts
On the very next day, A6 came to be arrested.	Facts
Still, within the space of twentyfour hours, viz., on 20.03.2002, A7 came to be arrested.	Facts
A8 was arrested on 22.03.2003.	Facts
A1 was arrested on 23.03.2002.	Facts
A3 was arrested on 25.03.2002.	Facts
A4 came to be arrested on 09.04.2002.	Facts
A15 was arrested on 25.04.2002.	Facts
It is the prosecution case that the accused made confessional statements within the meaning of Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as the Evidence Act, for short) yielding information leading to recoveries.	Facts
It is the case of the prosecution that the deceased had been abducted (though it is shown as kidnapped) on 30.01.2002, taken and kept in a factory premises which belonged to PW34Krishna Pandi with whom PW10 and PW11 had become partners.	Facts
A huge sum, running into several crores, motivated the accused to hatch the conspiracy to abduct the deceased.	Facts
It was the further case of the prosecution that the accused decided to do away with the deceased in case he did not yield to the demand.	Facts
As it transpired as the deceased did not yield, he was murdered while he was kept captive in the first floor of the vermicelli factory, which, as already noted, was being operated by PW34. A3 was noted as leader of the ADMK.	Facts
A12, it was alleged, who was married to the A2, was made to speak in the voice of an AIADMK leader Shashikala to A3.	Facts
In this, the A1 and A2 played a role.	Facts
It is, according to the prosecution, on being so spurred by the command given by A12, apparently mimicking the voice of the AIADMK leader, A3 acts.	Facts
A9 contacted PW10 and PW11.	Facts
It is alleged that PW10 and PW11 were persuaded to search for houses.	Facts
Not satisfied with many of the houses shown to A3 and A9, they finally found favour with the factory premises which is located in Mudichur.	Facts
It is the further case of the prosecution that after he was murdered, the body of the deceased came to be cremated at the Corporation cremation ground on 01.01.2002 and, in order to accomplish the same, PW33an employee working in a Government Hospital, was roped in by A3 to procure a false death certificate.	Facts
Accordingly, PW33, it was alleged, approached PW32a Medical Practitioner.	Facts
The Medical Practitioner gives a death certificate wherein the name of a person is indicated in the certificate, and allegedly residing at an address, which, the Police, on investigation, found, was not the abode of the person.	Facts
In other words, the name of a nonexisting and a fictional person was used to concoct a death certificate and, under the cover of the same, the body of the deceased came to be cremated.	Facts
On the basis of the chargesheet and after complying with the formalities, the Trial Court framed charges against the accused.	Facts
The following are the charges framed against the various accused as evident from the Trial Court Judgment	None
The following charges were framed against the accused in this case That during the month of November 2001, the 1 st , 2 nd and 3 rd accused conspired together and discussed about the matter as to how the Ex.M.L.A. M.K. Balan could be kidnapped and extract money from him and it was decided to murder him in case if he refuses to pay any amount and that consequent upon such conspiracy on 30.12.01 early morning, he was kidnapped near MRC Nagar and he was illegally kept at T.K.P. Vermicelli factory at Mudichur and on account of committing him murder on 1.1.02 night at about 900 p.m., thereby a charge under section 120.B.	Facts
IPC has been framed as against the accused 1 to 18 in this case.	None
Secondly for the purpose fulfilling the object of such conspiracy, while the said Ex.M.L.A. M.K. Balan was walking in the morning on 30.12.01 near MRC Nagar, at the knife point he was kidnapped near Iyyapan temple at about 5.30 am by the accused 4,7,10,11,14,15,16 and 17 in the Maruti van bearing Regn.	None
No. TNA7484 and at that time the 15 th accused went in front of that van in a Hero Honda to show the route for them and lastly the said M.K. Balan was kept illegally at Vermicelli factory belonging to one Krishnapandi at Mudichur road, thereby the said accused have been charged under Section 365 IPC and for abetment of the said offence the accused 1,2,3,5,6,8,9 and 13 to 18 accused in going in a car bearing Regn.	Facts
No. TN10F5555 have been charged under Section 365 read with Section 109 IPC.	None
Thirdly in order to fulfil the object of such conspiracy, in the said place on the said date the said M.K. Balan (Ex.M.L.A.) was tied with iron chain and rope in a cot and he was threatened to part with Rs.16 crores of Rupees or else to execute the document in respect of his properties in their favour, thereby the accused 1 to 11 and 14 to 18 have been charged under Section 387 IPC.	Facts
Fourthly, in order to fulfil such conspiracy and in pursuant of the same at the instance and instigation of the accused 1 and 2, the 12 th accused spoke to the third accused over phone by changing the voice as that of Smt.	None
Sasikala uttering the words if possible get the amount or else close him and come along with Senthil and meet me and Senthil would tell you everything later, thereby the said accused have been framed charges under Section 419, 420 and 387 IPC read with 109 IPC.	Facts
Fifthly in order to fulfil the object of the said conspiracy and consequent upon the said occurrence on 1.1.02 night at about 900p.m.	None
the accused 3,4,6 to 8,10,11 and 14 to 18 committed the murder of M.K. Balan who refused to pay any money or to execute any documents in respect of his properties, by tying a rope around the neck and tightened, thereby all the above said accused persons had committed the offence punishable under section 302 IPC.	Facts
Likewise the accused 1,2,5,9,12 and 13 were charged under section 302 read with section 109 IPC for having committed the offence of abetment for the act of committing the murder.	Reasoning
Sixthly, consequent upon the same on the same day in the said occurrence, with an object of extracting the property from the deceased M.K. Balan, he was kidnapped thereby accused 3 to 11 and 13 to 18 were framed charge under section 347 and 364 IPC and for being abetment for the said offence, the accused 1,2 and 12 have been framed charge under section 347 read with 109 and 364 read with 109 IPC.	Facts
Seventhly, after committing the murder of the deceased M.K. Balan, the body was taken to the cremation ground and cremated in Perambur cremation ground by getting false death certificate as if one Rajamani Chettiar died due to heart ailment and that therefore by suppressing the real facts in order to screen the crime, accused 8,10,11 and 13 to 18 have been framed charge under section 201 IPC.	Facts
The prosecution has sought to discharge its burden by examining 67 witnesses.	Facts
It has also produced and proved a large number of documents (P1 to P86) and also material objects (MO1 to MO39).	Facts
Five witnesses were examined by the accused.	Facts
D1 to D8 were proved on their behalf.	Facts
The Trial Court, on appreciation of the evidence, found merit in the case of the prosecution, except in regard to the A12 and A18.	Facts
Resultantly, the Trial Court convicted the accused as follows A1 and A2 were found guilty of the offences under Sections 120B of The Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as the IPC, for short), Section 365 read with Section 109 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 read with Section 109 of the IPC, Section 347 read with 109 of the IPC and under Section 364 read with Section 109 of the IPC.	Facts
A3 is found to have acted upon the conspiracy of A1 and A2.	None
He was found guilty of the offences under Section 365 read with Section 109 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 of the IPC, Section 347 of the IPC, Section 364 of the IPC and Section 201 of the IPC.	Facts
He was acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC.	Facts
(See paragraph 194 of the Trial Court Judgment) A4 was found guilty of the offences under Section 365 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 of the IPC, Section 347 of the IPC, Section 364 of the IPC and Section 201 of the IPC.	Facts
He was acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC A5 was found guilty under Section 365 read with Section 109 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 read with Section 109 of the IPC, Section 347 of the IPC, Section 364 of the IPC and Section 201 of the IPC.	Facts
He was, however, acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC.	Facts
A6 was found guilty under Section 365 read with Section 109 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 of the IPC, Section 347 of the IPC, Section 364 of the IPC and Section 201 of the IPC.	Facts
He stood acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC A7 was found guilty under Section 365 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 of the IPC, Section 347 of the IPC, Section 364 of the IPC and Section 201 of the IPC.	Facts
He stood acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC A8 was found guilty under Section 365 read with Section 109 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 read with Section 109 of the IPC, Section 347 of the IPC, Section 364 of the IPC and Section 201 of the IPC and he stood acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC A11, who is one of the appellants before us, was convicted, Section 365 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 of the IPC, Section 347 of the IPC, Section 364 of the IPC and Section 201 of the IPC and was acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC A12 was acquitted of all the charges A14, A15, A16 and A17 were convicted under Section 365 of the IPC, Section 387 of the IPC, Section 302 of the IPC, Section 347 of the IPC, Section 364 of the IPC and Section 201 of the IPC and the charge under Section 120B of the IPC was found not proved against them and they stood acquitted.	Facts
It is necessary to notice the details of the findings against each of the accused (appellants)	Facts
The accused 3,6 and 8 for having abetted the crime of conspiracy of the accused 1 and 2, on 30.12.01 at about 530 a.m. the former M.L.A. M.K. Balan was kidnapped and kept in a secret place at Vermicelli factory at Mudichur road, Tambaram, committed the offence under section 365 read with 109 IPC and for having made an attempt to extract money or property from the said M.K. Balan, former MLA, committed the offence under section 387 IPC and when it was not able to get the same, by committing the murder of the said M.K. Balan, committed the offence under section 302 IPC and before committing murder him, for having kept him in a secret place unlawfully and illegally, committed the offence under section 347 IPC and for having kidnapped him for the purpose of murdering him, committed the offence under section 364 IPC and after the murder of the said M.K. Balan, former M.L.A., the body was cremated at the crematorium at Erukkancherry, Perambur and with a view to screen the traces and giving false information, committed the offence under section 201 IPC and accordingly they are found guilty of the above said offences.	Facts
In order to fulfil the object of on 30.12.01 at about 5.30 a.m. the former M.L.A. M.K. Balan was kidnapped and kept in a secret place at Vermicelli factory at Mudichur road, Tambaram, committed the offence under section 365 read with 109 IPC and for having made an attempt to extract money or property from the said M.K. Balan, former MLA, committed the offence under section 387 IPC and when it was not able to get the same, by committing the murder of the said M.K. Balan, committed the offence under section 302 IPC and before committing murder him, for having kept him in a secret place unlawfully and illegally, committed the offence under section 347 IPC and for having kidnapped him for the purpose of murdering him, committed the offence under section 364 IPC conspiracy of the accused 1 and 2, the 4 th accused has been charged for the above said offences.	Facts
The 5 th accused is found guilty of the offences for having fulfilled the conspiracy of the accused 1 and 2 on 30.12.01 at about 530 a.m. the former M.L.A. M.K. Balan was kidnapped and kept in a secret place at Vermicelli factory at Mudichur road, Tambaram, committed the offence under section 365 read with 109 IPC and for having made an attempt to extract money or property from the said M.K. Balan, former MLA, committed the offence under section 387 IPC and when it was not able to get the same, by committing the murder of the said M.K. Balan, committed the offence under section 302 IPC and before committing murder him, for having kept him in a secret place unlawfully and illegally, committed the offence under section 347 IPC and for having kidnapped him for the purpose of murdering him, committed the offence under section 364 IPC and after the murder of the said M.K. Balan, former MLA, the body was cremated at the crematorium at Erukkancherry, Perambur and with a view to screen the traces and giving false information, committed the offence under section 201 IPC and accordingly he is found guilty of the above said offences.	Facts
The 7 th , 10 th , 11 th and 14 th accused were charged for the offences for having colluded with the accused 1 and 2 in fulfilling their conspiracy by stating that on 30.12.01 at about 5.30 a.m. the former M.L.A. M.K. Balan was kidnapped and kept in a secret place at Vermicelli factory at Mudichur road, Tambaram, committed the offence under section 365 read with 109 IPC and for having made an attempt to extract money or property from the said M.K. Balan, former MLA, committed the offence under section 387 IPC and when it was not able to get the same, by committing the murder of the said M.K. Balan, committed the offence under section 302 IPC and before committing murder him, for having kept him in a secret place unlawfully and illegally, committed the offence under section 347 IPC and for having kidnapped him for the purpose of murdering him, committed the offence under section 364 IPC and after the murder of the said M.K. Balan, former M.L.A., the body was cremated at the crematorium at Erukkancherry, Perambur and with a view to screen the traces and giving false information, committed the offence under section 201 IPC and accordingly, they are found guilty of the above said offences as decided in this case.	Facts
It is stated as against the accused 9 and 13 that for fulfilling the object of conspiracy of the accused 1 and 2 on 30.12.1 at about 5.30 a.m. the former M.L.A. M.K. Balan was kidnapped and kept in a secret place at Vermicelli factory at Mudichur road, Tambaram, committed the offence under section 365 read with 109 IPC and for having made an attempt to extract money or property from the said M.K. Balan, former M.L.A., committed the offence under section 387 IPC and when it was not able to get the same, by committing the murder of the said M.K. Balan, committed the offence under section 302 IPC and before committing murder him, for having kept him in a secret place unlawfully and illegally, committed the offence under section 347 IPC and for having kidnapped him for the purpose of murdering him, committed the offence under section 364 IPC and accordingly they were found guilty of the above said offences.	Facts
The sentencing is as follows Further the accused 3, 6 and 8 are convicted for the offence under section 365 read with 109 IPC and sentenced to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ each in default to undergo one year RI each convicting them for the offence under section 387 IPC and sentencing them to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo one year RI each and that convincing them for the offence under section 302 IPC and sentencing them to undergo life imprisonment and to pay fine of Rs. 50000/ each and convicting them for the offence under section 347 IPC and sentencing them to undergo three years RI each and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo six months RI each also convicting them for the offence under section 364 IPC and sentencing them to undergo 10 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo two years RI each convicting them for the offence under section 201 IPC and sentencing them to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 10000/ in default to undergo one year RI each and that the total fine amount imposed on them each Rs. 80000/ (Rupees eighty thousand only) and that it is ordered that all the sentences imposed on these accused shall run concurrently.	Facts
The 4 th accused is convicted for the offence under section 365 IPC and sentenced to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ and in default to undergo one year RI and convicting him for the offence under section 387 IPC and sentenced to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs.5000/ in default to undergo one year RI that convicting him for the offence under section 302 IPC and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment and to pay fine of Rs.	Facts
50,000/ convicting him for the offence under section 347 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 3 years and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo six months RI convicting him to undergo 10 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo 2 years RI and that it is ordered that all the sentences imposed on this accused shall run concurrently (total fine amount imposed on him is Rs. 70,000/ Rupees seventy thousand only).	Facts
The 5 th accused is convicted for the offence under Section 365 read with 109 IPC and sentenced to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs.5000/ in default to undergo one year RI convicting him for the offence under section 387 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo one year RI convicting him for the offence under section 302 IPC read with 109 IPC and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment and to pay fine of Rs.50,000/ convicting him for the offence under section 347 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 3 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo six months RI and convicting him for the offence under section 364 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 10 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo two years RI convicting him for the offence under section 201 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 10,000/ in default to undergo one year RI and that total fine imposed on this accused is Rs. 80,000/ (Rupees eighty thousand only) and that all the sentences imposed on this accused shall run concurrently The 9 th accused is convicted for the offence under section 365 read with 109 IPC and sentenced to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo one year RI, convicting him for the offence under section 387 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs.5000/ in default to undergo one year RI convicting him for the offence under section 302 read with 109 IPC and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment and to pay fine of Rs.	Facts
50,000/ and also convicting him for the offence under section 347 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 3 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo six months RI and also convicting the accused for the offence under section 364 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 10 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo 2 years RI as decided.	Facts
It is ordered that all the sentences imposed on him in this case shall run concurrently (total fine amount is Rs.	Facts
Seventy thousand only).	None
Further the 13 th accused is convicted for the offence under section 365 read with 109 IPC and sentenced to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo one year RI convicting the accused for the offence under section 302 read with 109 IPC and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment and to pay fine of Rs. 50000/ and also convicting him for the offence under section 347 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 3 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo six months RI convicting him for the offence under section 364 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 10 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo two years RI convicting him for the offence under section 201 IPC and sentencing him to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 10000/ in default to undergo one year RI as ordered.	Facts
All the sentences imposed on him shall run concurrently.	Facts
(Total fine amount imposed on this accused is Rs.	Facts
Seventy five only).	Facts
It is further ordered that this 13 th accused shall undergo the sentences imposed on him in respect of the case in S.C. No. 206/03 along with the sentences imposed on him in this case concurrently.	Facts
Further the accused 7,10,11,14,15,16 and 17 are convicted for the offence under section 365 IPC and sentenced to undergo seven years RI and to pay fine of Rs.5000/ in default to undergo one year RI each convicting them for the offence under section 387 IPC and sentencing them to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo one year RI each convicting them for the offence under section 302 IPC and sentencing them to undergo life imprisonment and to pay fine of Rs.	Facts
50000/ each and also convicting them for the offence under section 347 IPC and sentencing them to undergo 3 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo six months RI each convicting them for the offence under section 364 IPC and sentencing them to undergo 10 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/ in default to undergo two years each convicting them for the offence under section 201 IPC and sentencing them to undergo 7 years RI and to pay fine of Rs. 10,000/ in default to undergo one year RI each as decided.	Facts
(The total fine amount being Rs. 80,000/ each) All the sentences imposed on these accused shall run concurrently as ordered.	Facts
The High Court confirmed the judgment of the Trial Court except as regards A10 who was acquitted.	Facts
We heard the learned Counsel for the appellants.	None
We have also heard the learned Counsel appearing for the respondentState in all the appeals.	None
Learned Counsel for A3 would submit that the case of the prosecution was based on the theory of conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is accordingly that the charge under Section 120B was framed against the accused including A3.	Arguments of Petitioner
The case of the prosecution in this regard was, A12, who was married to A2, made phone calls to A3.	Arguments of Petitioner
A3 was told over phone by A12 allegedly in the voice of Shashikala that A1 and A2 would meet A3 and he was asked to do what they would ask him to do.	Arguments of Petitioner
There were further calls.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the conspiracy was, according to the prosecution, hatched in the minds of A1 and A2.	Arguments of Petitioner
A1 flaunted his proximity to M.K. Stalin (a political leader) stating that he was about to marry his daughter.	Arguments of Petitioner
A2 was in dire financial straits.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had contracted an interreligious marriage with A12.	Arguments of Petitioner
They hit upon the idea of abducting the deceased and to compel him to part with a large sum of money (Rs.16 crores) and, in case he refused, to do away with him.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that the Trial Court has disbelieved the case of the prosecution relating to criminal conspiracy which culminated in the court acquitting A12 of the charge against her.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant also stood acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The entire edifice of the prosecution case was built on the alleged criminal conspiracy which involved A12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Once this edifice was knocked out by the acquittal of A12, the superstructure sought to be built by the prosecution must necessarily fall to the ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Next, it is pointed out that the prosecution case is otherwise based on the testimony of PW10 and PW11.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would point out that PW10 and PW11 were unreliable witnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is clear that PW10 and PW11 were accomplices.	Arguments of Petitioner
They were untrustworthy witnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that it is settled law that the court would not act on the deposition of accomplices unless they are found reliable and, furthermore, there is corroboration of their testimony from other reliable evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Neither are PW10 and PW11 reliable nor is there any corroborative evidence forthcoming in this case, it is submitted.	Arguments of Petitioner
As far as conviction employing Section 109 of the IPC is concerned, learned Counsel submitted that in order that Section 109 may apply apart from mere conspiracy, some act or illegal omission in pursuance of the socalled conspiracy is indispensable.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would further submit that though V. K. Shashikala was interrogated by PW67Officer, she has not been examined as a witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no evidence relating to what her voice is.	Arguments of Petitioner
Unless the voice of Shashikala was known to A12, it would be wellnigh impossible to believe that the A12 could speak in her voice to A3 which ultimately is what the prosecution case is all about.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no evidence of Shashikala having made a public speech.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though A3 may be familiar with her voice being a party functionary, it hardly suffices as there is no evidence to conclude that A12 was familiar with her voice without which it is incredible that she could mimic Shashikala.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would further contend that in this case once the prosecution case relating to conspiracy under Section 120B of the IPC failed, reliance placed on Section 109 of the IPC, which contemplates a conspiracy and something more would have no legs to stand on.	Arguments of Petitioner
Leave alone any illegal act or omission based on a conspiracy, no conspiracy itself is proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, Section 109 of the IPC can have no play.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regarding the recovery of Maruti Zen car at the instance of A3, it is pointed out that A3 is not the owner of the car.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW10 and PW11 were active participants.	Arguments of Petitioner
They were not tendered pardon under Section 306 of The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the CrPC for short).	Arguments of Petitioner
He would further contend that the evidence of PW3 does not establish involvement of A3.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW3 has merely stated that at 05.30 A.M., he saw three persons and that he was at the distance of 75 meters when he saw three persons pushing another person into a Maruti Van. Evidence of PW1, who is the son of the deceased, would show that the shoes allegedly recovered as was worn by the deceased, did not belong to his father.	Arguments of Petitioner
The case of abduction is not proved on the basis of the evidence tendered by PW3.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Van, which was recovered, has not been identified.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Motorcycle, which was recovered, again was not identified.	Arguments of Petitioner
The recovery was also not proved, he contends.	Arguments of Petitioner
The prosecution has failed to prove that A3 brought the deceased to the factory.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW34, on whose testimony prosecution has placed considerable reliance, is also an accomplice.	Arguments of Petitioner
He drew our attention to the judgment (2016) 16 SCC 355 of Justice Arun Mishra in paragraph 115, which reads as follows With respect to charge of murder against A3 and A4 it is apparent that MO 31 is in the handwriting of A1.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was read out by A12 and heard by A3 and was acted accordingly.	Arguments of Petitioner
Evidence of Sahul Hameed, PW 47 also proves recovery of chain with which M.K. Balan was tied and that of other articles.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is apparent that M.K. Balan was abducted.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was an attempt to extract money when it was not possible, he was murdered in factory premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants were charged for committing the murder by putting nylon rope around his neck and tightening it.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though there is no direct evidence with respect to that but it can be inferred in the circumstances that they committed the offence of murder also.	Arguments of Petitioner
Once they had abducted M.K. Balan it was for them to explain how they dealt with him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The dead body of M.K. Balan could not be found as it was cremated in the name of a fictitious personRajamani Chettiar.	Arguments of Petitioner
His postmortem also could not be conducted but the evidence clearly indicates that the dead body of M.K. Balan was taken from the vermicelli factory.	Arguments of Petitioner
It gives an inference that the accused persons had murdered the victim.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not necessary for recording a conviction that corpus delicti to be found.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is ample evidence leading to an inescapable conclusion that M.K. Balan was done to death by the appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
His dead body was seen by the witnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
He complains that this approach involves shifting of the burden to be shouldered by the prosecution to the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since abduction itself has not been proved, in order that the prosecution should succeed in the matter of securing conviction under Section 302 of the IPC, the prosecution ought to have proved the case as set out by it.	Arguments of Petitioner
A chain was allegedly used to commit murder of the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
A14 and A16 were in jail.	Arguments of Petitioner
The chain and the nylon rope were recovered on the basis of the statements given by them.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would point out that however the said recoveries cannot be used against the other accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
He reminds the court of the backdrop in which the investigation proceeded following the missing of a highprofile person, as the deceased was an Ex MLA.	Arguments of Petitioner
A Habeas Corpus Petition was filed in the Madras High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was much pressure.	Arguments of Petitioner
The matter engaged the attention of the media also.	Arguments of Petitioner
This forced the Investigating Officers to manufacture the version indeed in order to cater to the general public.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW 21 and PW35 are Police Officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are alleged to have identified some of the accused as loitering in a public road after midnight on 01.01.2002, which was immediately after the alleged commission of the crimes including murder.	Arguments of Petitioner
But this cannot result in conviction of A3.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW12 and PW19 are prosecution witnesses produced to prove the case under Section 201 of the IPC, viz., destruction of the body of the deceased after the commission of the crime, PW12 and PW19 worked at the cremation ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that as far as PW12 is concerned, he has turned hostile.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out, in this regard, that the ashes were not recovered.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bones of the deceased person were not recovered or sent for scientific investigation.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would submit that the body of the deceased itself is not found or not produced, and therefore, the case of the prosecution cannot be accepted.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is evidence to show that for a person above 60 years, a death certificate is not required for conducting cremation.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is the submission made in the context of evidence relied on by both the courts and also a learned Single Judge of this Court to conclude that A3 was involved in procuring a false death certificate.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the prosecution, PW32Doctor was approached by PW33 at the instance of A3.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was mentioned to the Doctor that another person had passed away.	Arguments of Petitioner
Believing PW33, PW32Doctor has deposed that he gave a death certificate.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to PW19, the dead body was cremated in the night on 01.01.2002.	Arguments of Petitioner
The death certificate is, no doubt, dated 02.01.2002.	Arguments of Petitioner
But what weighed with the courts is the role played by A3 in setting up a false case that a person, other than deceased, involved in this case, had passed away and securing a death certificate which paved the way for cremation of the body of the deceased resulting in the destruction of the evidence relating to the body of the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
16. Learned Counsel for the A3 pointed out that A3 must be connected with the matter as sought to be done by both courts which was not the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regarding the recovery effected from A3, it is pointed out that, MO12 is the Maruti Zen Car.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would point out that the relevance of the recovery (apart from the infirmity attached with the recovery) is not established.	Arguments of Petitioner
MO28 are the audio cassettes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regarding the same, it is pointed out that it was incumbent upon the prosecution to establish the content by providing the transcript.	Arguments of Petitioner
The audio was supposed to contain conversation of the deceased but it cannot be relied on in the absence of a transcript.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevancy of the content has not been established.	Arguments of Petitioner
The voice of the speaker has not been proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regarding MO12Maruti	Arguments of Petitioner
Zen Car, recovery at the instance of A3	Arguments of Petitioner
, it is contended that the evidence would show that the owner of the said car had given MO12 to A3 in November, 2001 and A3 has given back the car in February, 2002.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no particular role which is attributed to the Maruti Zen Car.	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regarding audio evidence, it is submitted that it did not satisfy the requirements of Section 3 of the Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
MO33 is a bit of paper on which, in the alleged handwriting of A1, the message from A12 to A3 was written it will be remembered that it is the case of the prosecution that A12, imitating the voice of Shashikala, had commanded A3, a party functionary, to oblige A1 and A2 and this set in motion the chain of events culminating in the gruesome murder of the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the acquittal of A12 who allegedly messaged to A3, which is the subject matter of MO33, which is pressed before us to remove any importance it may otherwise have had.	Arguments of Petitioner
Till 10.04.2002, the evidence of PW67 would show that it was not sealed thus robbing the material object of any legal efficacy it may have otherwise had, it is contended.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended that the voice of the deceased, is not proved through PW1.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel would submit that if statement under Section 27 is made and a person making it is acquitted, such statement cannot be used against other accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel would contend that in the case of a conviction employing Section 109 of the IPC, the principal offender must be identified.	Arguments of Petitioner
He drew our attention in regard to the judgment reported in Siri Ram Batra and others v. Financial Commissioner, Delhi and others (2004) 12 SCC 52 .	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that Justice Arun Mishra, has proceeded on the basis that a confession under Section 164 of the CrPC is a substantive piece of evidence, which, it is not.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, our attention is drawn to the judgments of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In George and others v. State of Kerala and another (1998) 4 SCC 605 , it was held as follows We may now turn to the evidence of PW 50, detailed earlier.	None
From the judgment of the trial court we notice that the substantial parts of its comments, (quoted earlier) are based on his statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC and not his evidence in court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said statement was treated as substantive evidence as would be evident from the following, amongst other observations made by the learned trial court If Ext. P42 (the statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC) is found to be a genuine statement it can be used as an important piece of evidence to connect the accused with the crime.	Arguments of Petitioner
In making the above and similar comments the trial court again ignored a fundamental rule of criminal jurisprudence that a statement of a witness recorded under Section 164 CrPC cannot be used as substantive evidence and can be used only for the purpose of contradicting or corroborating him.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Learned Counsel for A3 relied upon the following decisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Baldev Singh v. State of Punjab (1990) 4 SCC 692 , this Court noted that the High Court had fallen into error in relying upon the statement of the witness under Section 161 of the CrPC as well as on the FIR regarding identification of the accused in a case where, in his crossexamination in the court, he deposed that he could not, due to darkness, identify the culprits.	Arguments of Petitioner
The court emphasised that the statement under Section 161 of the CrPC is not to be used for any purpose except to contradict the witness in the manner provided in Section 162 of the CrPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Obviously, this judgment is invoked against the court relying upon the evidence of PW19.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Ziyauddin Burhanuddin Bukhari v. Brijmohan Ramdass Mehra and others (1976) 2 SCC 17 , is relied on to point out that while taking record of speeches as documents under Section 3 of the Evidence Act, the admissibility would depend upon the following conditions being fulfilled The voice of the person alleged to be speaking must be duly identified by the maker of the record or by others who know it.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) Accuracy of what was actually recorded had to be proved by the maker of the record and satisfactory evidence, direct or circumstantial, had to be there so as to rule out possibilities of tampering with the record.	Arguments of Petitioner
(c) The subjectmatter recorded had to be shown to be relevant according to rules of relevancy found in the Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also pointed out that if the photograph of the accused is shown to the witnesses and the witnesses then depose about identifying the accused, it would deprive the identification of any value it would have otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relied on the judgement of this Court in Vijayan v. State of Kerala 7	Arguments of Petitioner
Another circumstance sought to be established was through the evidence of PW 4, a young girl living a few yards away from the house of the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to her, she heard the sound of somebody running and when she turned, she saw accused Vijayan running away after crossing a water channel and wearing a blue pant and blue shirt.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is no doubt true that she identified accused Vijayan in the test identification parade but for the reasons already advanced while discussing the evidence of PWs 3 and 9, the identification of the accused in the test identification parade cannot be relied upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court unfortunately appears to have taken a view that the identification of the accused by PW 4 in the test identification parade should be relied upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to agree with this conclusion particularly when it is apparent from the prosecution material that much before the holding of the test identification parade, the photograph of 7 (1999) 3 SCC 54 the accused Vijayan had been published in the newspaper and because of a certain sensation in the locality, it had a lot of publicity and there was sufficient opportunity for the witnesses being shown the accused person.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this view of the matter, in our considered opinion, the High Court erroneously interfered with the conclusion of the learned Sessions Judge in this regard and came to hold that the identification of Vijayan by PW 4 could be relied upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have examined the evidence of the said PW 4 in great detail and we are unable to subscribe to the view the High Court has taken on the evidence of the aforesaid witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
We also really fail to understand how a witness seeing an unknown man running away could be able to identify him at a later point of time.	Arguments of Petitioner
No special feature was also indicated by the witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view, the evidence of PW 4 is totally unworthy of credit and, as such, cannot be relied upon for bringing home the charge.	Arguments of Petitioner
(Emphasis supplied)	None
It was a case where also just before the Test Identification Parade, someone told her to identify the tallest man in the Parade.	Arguments of Petitioner
22.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel would point out that the accused are entitled to request the Court to draw an adverse inference against the prosecution when the best evidence has not been produced See Mohanlal Shamji Soni v. Union of India and another 1991 Supp (1) SCC 271 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Clearly, the accused was entitled to at least the benefit of doubt.	Arguments of Petitioner
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 2006 OF 2017 23.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel for A3 also adopted arguments in Criminal Appeal No. 2006 of 2017 where he appeared for A7, A11, A14, A16 and A17 about PW10 and PW11 and other submissions.	Arguments of Petitioner
CRIMINAL APPEAL	Arguments of Petitioner
NO.	Arguments of Petitioner
403 OF 2010 APPEAL BY ACCUSED NO.4(A4)	Arguments of Petitioner
24.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel would submit that no value can be given to the Test Identification Parade (TIP) conducted insofar as A4 is concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would point out that PW10 and PW11 are proved to be familiar with A4 by having seen him on a number of occasions prior to the TIP.	Arguments of Petitioner
This would deprive the alleged identification of any value it would have.	Arguments of Petitioner
MO6 is the Ford Escort Car, which is recovered from A4 on the basis of the statement given under Section 27 of the Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The recovery is attacked by the learned Counsel on the basis that it is planted evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
He took us through the deposition of PW25 to impugn the recovery.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to PW67, he points out that car was parked outside.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would complain that the courts have relied on PW10 and PW11 as if they were reliable witnesses, which they were not.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would also emphasise that being accomplices, they should not only be reliable but their evidence must stand the test of corroboration.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that the prosecution has tried to build up the case that the said witnesses had not approached the Police out of fear for their lives and that of their family members but he would point out that on a perusal of their evidence, it would be clear that they were involved with the matter right from the beginning and nothing prevented them from approaching the law enforcement authorities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their evidence, therefore, should not inspire the confidence of the court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would point out that PW10 and PW11 were in police custody for about more than two months.	Arguments of Petitioner
They would have bargained with the police and their testimony is suspect.	Arguments of Petitioner
The TIP was held after 45 days on 24.05.2002.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would point out contradiction between the testimony of PW10 and PW11.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, he would point out that leave alone corroboration from other evidence available on record, there is no corroboration of evidence of PW10 even from the evidence of PW11 as their deposition reveal contradictions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel otherwise adopts arguments of A3.	Arguments of Petitioner
25.	Arguments of Petitioner
Substantially, similar arguments are addressed in regard to A5 as in respect of A3.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that PW67 was aware of the involvement of all and the evidence of PW10 and PW11 was unreliable.	Arguments of Petitioner
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 1504 OF 2017 26.	Arguments of Petitioner
Herein the appellant is A6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel for the appellant would address the following submissions.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would submit that there are four circumstances used against A6.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is first sought to be contended by the prosecution that A6 was seen on 05.12.2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
Next, his presence on 31.12.2001 at the factory, where the deceased was allegedly done to death, is used against him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Still further, the deposition of PW10 that he saw him on 01.01.2002 and that he threatened PW10, are used against him.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would also point out the contradiction between PW10 and PW11, in this regard.	Arguments of Petitioner
MO8 is the white colour Maruti Van recovered at the instance of A6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said vehicle bore Number  TN22BO/343.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would point out that there is no evidence to show that the said vehicle was used for abduction or transportation.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would, in other words, question its very relevance to secure conviction of his client.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would further point out that PW24Police Officer has in fact identified A8 as A6.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, he drew our attention to paragraph 147 of the Trial Court judgement.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that PW12the employee at the crematorium, did not identify A6 though PW19 identified A6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Identification by PW19 is unreliable as he did not mention about physical features of A6.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would complain that PW19 would have seen photographs in the media, a complaint which is being echoed on behalf of the other accused, also.	Arguments of Petitioner
Next, the circumstance used against A6 is deposition of PW21 and PW35, Police Head Constable and Constable, respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would, in fact, submit that even accepting their deposition, it would prove nothing more than the fact A6 was there on the public road on the midnight of 01.01.2002.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would not connect A6 with the crime.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would further point out that the deposition of PW35 would show that contrary to the usual practice in the Beat Note, there is nothing noted about A6 though he has deposed that along with three others, A6 presence was noted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The identification of A6 by the Police Officers is not reliable, it is contended.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that the Police Officer would have visited the jail and also been in the court premises where he would have seen A6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the identification of A6 by the Police Officers loses all meaning.	Arguments of Petitioner
27.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also relied on deposition of PW1 that the Reebok Shoes did not belong to his fatherthe deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no corroboration of the evidence relating to the presence of A6 on 30.01.2001 and 31.01.2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no evidence to establish the presence of A6 on 01.01.2002.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW10 and PW11, accomplices, were tutored by the Police Officers considering the pressure on the Investigating Officers consequent upon the fact that the case attracted considerable publicity as a result of the Habeas Corpus Petition being filed in the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would submit that PW67Investigating Officer, after the arrest of A5 on 18.03.2002, was completely aware of involvement of all the persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also the case of the appellantA15 that no reliance could be placed on the recovery of the shoe when PW1son of the deceased, has himself deposed that the shoe which is recovered was not the one which was worn by his father.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also the contention that PW31 has not been able to identify the person who took away allegedly the shoe from the factory.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the State would begin by submitting that PW10 and PW11 were not accomplices.	Arguments of Respondent
Their evidence would, therefore, not require corroboration.	Arguments of Respondent
He tried to make good this submission by pointing out that qua the offence under Section 302 of the IPC, PW10 and PW11 had no involvement and the mere fact that they were familiar with the developments leading to the murder and other acts of the accused, they could not be treated as accomplices.	Arguments of Respondent
He would point out, in fact, that accused nos.	Arguments of Respondent
1 and 2, have been convicted under Section 120B read with 302 of the IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
He would draw considerable support from the deposition of PW34.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that A1 and A2 were the principal conspirators.	Arguments of Respondent
The other accused, who have been convicted under Section 109 of the IPC, have aided and connived, within the meaning of Section 109 of the IPC, with A1 and A2.	Arguments of Respondent
He would submit that the acquittal of A12 would have no impact on the conviction of the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
He would point out that this Court, in the case of this nature, which is based on circumstantial evidence, what is to be looked into is the cumulative effect of all the circumstances put together.	Arguments of Respondent
In regard to any defect in charge, he drew our attention to Section 460 of the CrPC and contended that there is no incurable illegality involved in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
He drew our attention to the deposition of PW60.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred us to the recoveries which have led to relevant evidence believed in by two courts, and what is more, a learned Single Judge of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
He would further point out to the deposition of PW19.	Arguments of Respondent
He points out that both PW12 and PW19 had made statements under Section 164 of the CrPC.	Arguments of Respondent
Statement under Section 164 of the CrPC could be used for the purpose of corroborating though it could not be used as a substantive evidence by itself.	Arguments of Respondent
He also drew considerable support from deposition of PW32 read with PW33.	Arguments of Respondent
The hand of A6 in the murder of a public man is clearly made out, runs the argument.	Arguments of Respondent
He fairly does not dispute the contention of A6 in regard to MOs 28 and 33.	Arguments of Respondent
He assures the Court that the Court can eschew the said items of evidence but he would submit that even dehors the same, there is sufficient material before the Court to confirm the conviction of the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel for A3, in reply, would point out that in fact, even A1 and A2 have also been convicted with the aid of Section 109 of the IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, it is his case that even A1 and A2 are not the principal actors so that the other accused could be convicted for abetting them.	Arguments of Respondent
They were themselves convicted on the basis that they abetted the crimes in question.	Arguments of Respondent
He further pointed out that PW10 and PW11 have been treated as accomplices by the High Court contrary to what is sought to be espoused by the learned Counsel for the State.	Arguments of Respondent
SECTIONS 120A, 107, 108, 109, 141 AND 149 OF THE IPC Section 120A of the IPC defines criminal conspiracy, which reads as follows 120A. Definition of criminal conspiracy.	None
When two or more persons agree to do, or cause to be done, (1) an illegal act, or (2) an act which is not illegal by illegal means, such an agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy Provided that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides the agreement is done by one or more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof.	None
Explanation.	None
It is immaterial whether the illegal act is the ultimate object of such agreement, or is merely incidental to that object.	None
Section 141 of the IPC falls under Chapter VIII, viz., offences against the public tranquillity.	None
Section 141 defines unlawful assembly as assembly of five or more persons, the common object of the persons being any one of the five mentioned thereunder.	None
It includes the common object to commit any mischief or criminal trespass or other offence.	None
Section 142 of the IPC declares that if a person, being aware of facts which render an assembly an unlawful assembly, either initially joins it or continues in it is a member of such unlawful assembly.	None
Section 149 of the IPC declares the Principle of Vicarious Criminal Liability.	None
Upon an offence being committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object, every person, who at the time of the offence being committed is a member of such assembly is guilty of such offence.	None
Equally, in the second part of Section 149, the Law Giver has provided that upon an offence being committed by any member of the unlawful assembly which was such that members of that assembly, viz., the unlawful assembly, knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of that object, every member of the assembly, though he may not have committed the offence, is rendered guilty of the offence.	None
In Nanak Chand v. State of Punjab AIR 1955 SC 274 , the Court had to deal with a contention on behalf of the prosecution that Section 149 of the IPC did not create any offence at all and hence a separate charge, was not obligatory.	None
This Court, therefore, found it necessary to decide a question whether Section 149 of the IPC creates a specific offence.	None
The Court held, inter alia, as follows Under this section a person, who is a member of an unlawful assembly is made guilty of the offence committed by another member of the same assembly, in the circumstances mentioned in the section, although he had no intention to commit that offence and had done no overt act except his presence in the assembly and sharing the common object of that assembly.	None
Without the provisions of this section a member of an unlawful assembly could not have been made liable for the offence committed not by him but by another member of that assembly.	None
Therefore when the accused are acquitted of riot and the charge for being members of an unlawful assembly fails, there can be no conviction of any one of them for an offence which he had not himself committed.	None
The Court, thereafter, went on to notice the distinction between Sections 34 and 149 of the IPC.	None
Dealing with the argument that Section 149 of the IPC cannot be understood as creating an offence because it did not itself provide for the punishment, this Court held as follows There is a clear distinction between the provisions of Sections 34 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code and the two sections are not to be confused.	None
The principal element in Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code is the common intention to commit a crime.	None
In furtherance of the common intention several acts may be done by several persons resulting in the commission of that crime.	None
In such a situation Section 34 provides that each one of them would be liable for that crime in the same manner as if all the acts resulting in that crime had been done by him alone.	None
There is no question of common intention in Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
An offence may be committed by a member of an unlawful assembly and the other members will be liable for that offence although there was no common intention between that person and other members of the unlawful assembly to commit that offence provided the conditions laid down in the section are fulfilled.	None
Thus if the offence committed by that person is in prosecution of the common object of the unlawful assembly or such as the members of that assembly knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of the common object, every member of the unlawful assembly would be guilty of that offence, although there may have been no common intention and no participation by the other members in the actual commission of that offence.	None
In Barendra Kumar Ghosh v. Emperor (1925) ILR LII Cal 197 Lord Sumner dealt with the argument that if Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code bore the meaning adopted by the Calcutta High Court, then Sections 114 and 149 of that Code would be otiose.	None
In the opinion of Lord Sumner, however, Section 149 is certainly not otiose, for in any case it created a specific offence.	None
It postulated an assembly of five or more persons having a common object, as named in Section 141 of the Indian Penal Code and then the commission of an offence by one member of it in prosecution of that object and he referred to Queen v. Sabid Ali (1873) XX Weekly Reporter (Cr), p 5.	None
He pointed out that there was a difference between object and intention, for although the object may be common, the intentions of the several members of the unlawful assembly may differ and indeed may be similar only in respect that they are all unlawful, while the element of participation in action, which is the leading feature of Section 34, was replaced in Section 149 by membership of the assembly at the time of the committing of the offence.	None
It was argued, however, that these observations of Lord Sumner were obiter dicta.	None
Assuming though not conceding that may be so, the observations of a Judge of such eminence must carry weight particularly if the observations are in keeping with the provisions of the Indian Penal Code.	None
It is, however, to be remembered that the observations of Lord Sumner did directly arise on the argument made before the Privy Council, the Privy Council reviewing as a whole the provisions of Sections 34, 114 and 149 I.P.C. (Emphasis supplied) Further, this Court proceeded to hold that a person charged with an offence under Section 149 of the IPC cannot be convicted of the substantive offence without there being a specific charge framed as required under Section 233 of the CrPC, 1898.	None
This Court held as follows After an examination of the cases referred to on behalf of the appellant and the prosecution we are of the opinion that the view taken by the Calcutta High Court is the correct view, namely, that a person charged with an offence read with Section 149 cannot be convicted of the substantive offence without a specific charge being framed as required by Section 233 Cr.	None
P.C. Section 107 falls in Chapter V of the IPC.	None
It reads as follows Abetment of a thing.	None
A person abets the doing of a thing, who (First) Instigates any person to do that thing or (Secondly) Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing or (Thirdly) Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing.	None
Explanation I.A person who, by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing.	None
Illustration A, a public officer, is authorized by a warrant from a Court of Justice to apprehend Z. B, knowing that fact and also that C is not Z, wilfully represents to A that C is Z, and thereby intentionally causes A to apprehend C. Here B abets by instigation the apprehension of C. Explanation II.Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in order to facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby facilitate the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act.	None
Section 108 of the IPC provides that a person abets an offence who abets either the commission of an offence or the commission of an act which would be an offence if committed by a person capable by law of committing an offence with the same intention or knowledge as that of the abettor.	None
The first Explanation provides that abetment of an illegal omission of an act may amount to an offence although the abettor may not himself be bound to do that act.	None
Explanation (2) declares that it is not necessary to constitute abetment that the act abetted should be committed or that the effect requisite to constitute the offence should be caused.	None
The Illustration(a) under Explanation II provides as follows A Instigates B to murder C. B refuses to do so.	None
A is guilty of abetting B to commit murder.	None
The second limb of the Explanation (II) is illumined by the illustration(b) and it reads as follows A instigates B to murder D, B in pursuance of the instigation stabs D. D recovers from the wound.	None
A is guilty of instigating B to commit murder.	None
Explanation (3) declares that it is not necessary that the person abetted should be capable by law of committing an offence or that he should have the same guilty intention or knowledge as that of the abettor or any guilty intention or knowledge.	None
The first illustration is as follows A, with a guilty intention, abets a child or a lunatic to commit an act which would be an offence, if committed by a person capable by law of committing an offence, and having the same intention as A.	None
Here A, whether the act be committed or not, is guilty of abetting an offence.	None
Another illustration(d) is as follows A, intending to cause a theft to be committed, instigates B to take property belonging to Z out of Zs possession.	None
A induces B to believe that the property belongs to A. B takes the property out of Zs possession, in good faith, believing it to be As property.	None
B, acting under this misconception, does not take dishonestly, and therefore does not commit theft.	None
But A is guilty of abetting theft, and is liable to the same punishment as if B had committed theft.	None
Thus, Explanation (3) constitutes an exception to the main provisions of Section 108 of the IPC.	None
Abetment of an offence being an offence, the abetment of such abetment is also an offence under Explanation IV.	Reasoning
Explanation V makes it clear that it is not necessary to the commission of offence of abetment by conspiracy that the abettor should concert the offence with the person who commits and it is sufficient if he engages in the conspiracy in pursuance of which the offence is committed.	None
The illustration under Explanation V is as follows A concerts with B a plan for poisoning Z. A was to under the agreement administer the poison.	None
B then explains the plan to C without taking the name of A. C agrees to procure the poison and deliver it to B for it being used in the manner explained.	None
Z dies pursuant to the poison being administered.	None
However, A and C have not conspired together yet since C has been engaged in the conspiracy in pursuant to which Z was murdered, C has committed an offence of abetment who is guilty for punishment for murder.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thus, abetment of a thing is defined in Section 107 of IPC and the concept of abettor is explained in Section 108 of the IPC.	None
Sections 107 and 108 of the IPC must be read together to glean the intention of the Law Giver.	None
So read, abetment can happen in three situations (a) It may happen when a person instigates another person to do the thing which is abetted (b) Secondly, abetment takes place if a person engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing.	None
Finally, there is abetment when a person intentionally aids, by an act or omission, the doing of that act.	None
At this juncture, we may have to take a deeper look at the concept of abetment by engaging in a conspiracy resulting in abetment and conspiracy as provided in Section 120A of the IPC.	None
In Pramatha Nath Talukdar v. Saroj Ranjan Sarkar AIR 1962 SC 876 , this Court spoke about the distinction between the offence of abetment by conspiracy and the offence of criminal conspiracy (Section 120A of IPC)	None
The gist of the offence of criminal conspiracy is in the agreement to do an illegal act or an act which is not illegal by illegal means.	None
When the agreement is to commit an offence, the agreement itself becomes the offence of criminal conspiracy.	None
Where, however, the agreement is to do an illegal act which is not an offence or an act which is not illegal by illegal means, some act besides the agreement is necessary.	None
Therefore, the distinction between the offence of abetment by conspiracy and the offence of criminal conspiracy, so far as the agreement to commit an offence is concerned, lies in this.	None
For abetment by conspiracy mere agreement is not enough.	None
An act or illegal omission must take place in pursuance of the conspiracy and in order to the doing of the thing conspired for.	None
But in the offence of criminal conspiracy the very agreement or plot is an act in itself and is the gist of the offence.	None
Willes, J. observed in Mulcahy v. Queen (1868)	None
LR 3 HL 306 at 317 When two agree to carry it into effect, the very plot is an act in itself, and the act of each of the parties, promise against promise, actus contra actum, capable of being enforced, if lawful, punishable if for a criminal object or for the use of criminal means.	None
Put very briefly, the distinction between the offence of abetment under the second clause of Section 107 and that of criminal conspiracy under Section 120A is this.	None
In the former offence a mere combination of persons or agreement between them is not enough.	None
An act or illegal omission must take place in pursuance of the conspiracy and in order to the doing of the thing conspired for in the latter offence the mere agreement is enough, if the agreement is to commit an offence.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Section 109 of the IPC provided for the punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed and where there is no express provision made for punishment.	None
It provides that where no express provision is made for the punishment of the abetment, the punishment will be the same as is that which is provided for the offence.	None
The Explanation provides as follows An act or offence is said to be committed in consequence of abetment when it is committed in consequence of the instigation or in pursuance of the conspiracy or with the aid which constitutes the abetment.	None
Explanation II to Section 108 of the IPC makes it clear that the offence of abetment would be committed irrespective of whether the act abetted is committed or not or whether the effect which would constitute the offence is caused or not.	None
Illustrations(a) and (b) are clear that the person who abets, as declared in law, cannot extricate himself from criminal liability for the offence of abetment on the ground that the act which was abetted was not done or that the offence which was actually abetted was not committed.	Reasoning
Section 109 of the IPC contemplates, on the other hand, the situation that there is abetment and the act abetted is committed, and what is furthermore, it is committed as a result of the abetment.	None
Should these ingredients be present and if there is no express provision under the IPC for the punishment of the act of such abetment, the person renders himself liable for being punished with the punishment for that offence which stands committed in consequence of the abetment by the accused.	None
In order that the act or offence, be committed within the meaning of Section 109 of the IPC, in consequence of the abetment, it must be as a consequence of the instigation or in pursuance of the conspiracy or with the aid which constitutes the abetment.	None
Explanation to Section 109 of the IPC must be read in conjunction with Section 107 of the IPC which creates the offence of abetting.	None
As far as instigating any person to do an act, it is relatable to the first part of Section 107 which declares that abetment is done when the person who abets instigates any person to do that thing.	None
As far as conspiracy within the meaning of Explanation to Section 109 of the IPC is concerned, it deals with secondly under Section 107 of the IPC which speaks about engaging of a person with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing provided an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of the conspiracy.	None
As far as the last part of the Explanation to Section 109 of the IPC is concerned, which speaks about an act or offence being committed in consequence of abetment being committed with the aid which constitutes abetment, it is relatable to thirdly under Section 107 of the IPC.	None
Section 107 of the IPC under this head requires intentional aiding by the act or illegal omission.	None
Instigation takes place in terms of Explanation I to Section 107 of the IPC when (i) a person by wilful representation (ii) by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures or attempts to causes or procure a thing to be done and he would be guilty of instigating the doing of that thing.	None
Explanation (2) to Section 107 declares that whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of the act, does anything in order to facilitate the commission of that act and thereby facilitate its commission, is said to aid the doing of that act.	None
Thus, anything done which facilitates the commission of the criminal act and promotes the commission of the act, would bring the person within the scope of abetment.	None
Explanation III to Section 108 also contemplates a situation where the principal player meant to describe the person who actually commits the act which is abetted, would not be guilty of the offence such as a child or a lunatic but the abettor, would remain guilty of the offence of abetment of that offence and if it attracts Section 109 of the IPC, would be punishable for that offence under the appropriate provision.	None
Also, as we have noticed, under Explanation V to Section 108 of the IPC for the offence of abetment by conspiracy to be committed, the principal player, meaning a person who commits the act which results in the offence being committed (as in the case of murder by poisoning) need not be in league with the abettor.	None
All that is required is that the abettor also engages in the conspiracy which must be understood as meaning participate in the concert between two or more others even if he may not have seen or known, by face or otherwise, one or more persons who are privy to the conspiracy.	None
Thus, based on their involvement constituting abetment, a person or any number of persons without even knowing the identity of all the principal participants to the conspiracy, can be prosecuted with the aid of Section 107 read with Section 108 of the IPC.	None
In order to attract Section 109 of the IPC, the act abetted must be committed in consequence of the abetment.	None
Sections 115 and 116 of the IPC deal with punishments for abetment of offences when the offence is not committed in consequence of the abetment and where no express provision is made in the IPC for the punishment of such abetment.	None
In Arjun Singh v. State of Himachal Pradesh AIR 2009 SC 1568 , this Court held as follows Law does not require instigation to be in a particular form or that it should only be in words.	None
The instigation may be by conduct.	None
Whether there was instigation or not is a question to be decided on the facts of each case.	None
It is not necessary in law for the prosecution to prove that the actual operative cause in the mind of the person abetting was instigation and nothing else, so long as there was instigation and the offence has been committed or the offence would have been committed if the person committing the act had the same knowledge and intention as the abettor.	None
The instigation must be with reference to the thing that was done and not to the thing that was likely to have been done by the person who is instigated.	None
It is only if this condition is fulfilled that a person can be guilty of abetment by instigation.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thus, to sumup, abetment, as defined is a substantive offence.	Reasoning
The punishment for it varies according to different circumstances.	Reasoning
If the act which is abetted is done in pursuance to the abetment, the punishment is graver, as can been seen from Section 109 of the IPC, as the punishment is for the offence which is committed based on the abetment.	Reasoning
The offence of abetment is punishable even if the act which is abetted is not committed.	Reasoning
As noted, Sections 115 and 116 provide for punishment in such cases.	Reasoning
There are several other aspects relating to offences including Section 114 of the IPC which provides cumulative punishment for the act abetted and also for the act done.	Reasoning
At the heart of the offence of abetment, however, is the presence of any of the three requirements in Section 107 of the IPC.	Reasoning
The key and indispensable elements under the law to constitute abetment is instigation, conspiracy or the intentional aiding by any act or illegal omission, the doing of the thing.	Reasoning
The law does not permit the abettor to escape punishment for abetment even if the actual player who commits the offence is not criminally liable for the actual act which results in the commission of an offence (See in this regard, the situation contemplated in illustrations in Explanation III of Section 108 of the IPC).	Reasoning
Equally, there need not be meeting of minds between all the persons involved in a conspiracy and it is sufficient if a person is engaged in the conspiracy following which the offence is committed (See Explanation V to Section 108 of the IPC).	Reasoning
This means that it is not even necessary that the persons who are engaged in the conspiracy, to even know the identity, leave alone physically meet the other players.	Reasoning
There can be any number of persons depending on their guilty mind and acts or omissions which may render them liable.	Reasoning
In Noor Mohammad Mohd.	None
Yusuf Momin v. State of Maharashtra (1970) 1 SCC 696 , this Court had an occasion to deal with Sections 34, 107 and 120B of the IPC and this is what this Court lay down So far as Section 34 IPC is concerned, it embodies the principle of joint liability in the doing of a criminal act, the essence of that liability being the existence of a common intention.	None
Participation in the commission of the offence in furtherance of the common intention invites its application.	None
Section 109 IPC on the other hand may be attracted even if the abettor is not present when the offence abetted is committed, provided that he has instigated the commission of the offence or has engaged with one or more other persons in a conspiracy to commit an offence and pursuant to that conspiracy some act or illegal omission takes place or has intentionally aided the commission of an offence by an act or illegal omission.	None
Turning to the charge under Section 120B	None
IPC criminal conspiracy was made a substantive offence in 1913 by the introduction of Chapter VA in the Penal Code, 1860.	None
Criminal conspiracy postulates an agreement between two or more persons to do, or cause to be done, an illegal act or an act which is not illegal, by illegal means.	None
It differs from other offences in that mere agreement is made an offence even if no step is taken to carry out that agreement.	None
Though there is close association of conspiracy with incitement and abetment the substantive offence of criminal conspiracy is somewhat wider in amplitude than abetment by conspiracy as contemplated by Section 107 IPC (Emphasis supplied)	None
THE APPROACH OF THE TWO LEARNED JUDGES THE APPROACH OF JUSTICE V. GOPALA GOWDA The learned Judge proceeds to find that PWs 10 and 11 are accomplice witnesses.	None
The two tests to test accomplice evidence are referred to, viz., that the evidence must be credible and, secondly, there must be corroboration of accomplice evidence.	None
The learned Judge noted that PWs 10 and 11 have not been granted pardon by any court but further notes that the mere fact that pardon was not tendered, did not make the accomplice cease to be an accomplice.	None
It was further found that it was a wellsettled position of law that the evidence of two accomplices cannot be used to corroborate with each other as laid in R.V. Baskerville 1916 (2) KB 658.	None
Support in this regard was sought from precedent in India in the form of judgment of this Court in Mohd.	None
Husain Umar Kochra Etc. v. K.S. Dalipsinghji and another Etc. (1969) 3 SCC 429	None
wherein this Court, inter alia, laid down that corroboration must be from an independent source.	None
One accomplice cannot corroborate another.	None
This position was noted to be reiterated in a still later decision of this Court in Chonampara Chellapan Etc. v. State of Kerala Etc. (1979) 4 SCC 312.	None
Corroboration must be in regard to material particulars or rather it must be in relation to the crime as well as identity of the accused.	Reasoning
Noting that the accused before the Court were A3, A4 and A15, it was found crucial that they were acquitted of the charge under Section 120B of the IPC.	None
They were found convicted for the offence under Section 302 of the IPC read with Section 109 of the IPC and Section 365 of the IPC read with Section 109 of the IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
Nothing on record was found to show the direct involvement of the accused in the abducting of the deceased or his murder.	None
The Ford Escort CarMO12 recovered at the instance of PW10 did not trace back its ownership to A4.	None
Thereafter, it is stated that the requirement of corroboration from independent sources in material particulars, has not been met in the instant case and made it impossible for the accused to be convicted under Sections 302 and 364 of the IPC.	None
PWs 10 and 11 were not witnesses to the abduction of the deceased.	None
PW3, who witnessed the abduction, it is stated, did not witness the accused at the site of the abduction.	None
Though, PW10 placed A3 and A4 in the meeting on 05.12.2001, significance of the same was lost in view of their acquittal under Section 120B of the IPC.	None
PWs 10 and 11 have not placed any of the three accused (A3, A4 and A15) at the site when the body of the deceased was brought down in the factory.	None
A3, according to the deposition of the accomplices, was found staying downstairs while PW11, who went upstairs, actually saw the deceased tied to chains in the room where he was kept.	None
PW11 only saw A5 at the site on the night of 30.12.2001 carrying a tiffin parcel.	None
The death certificate of the deceased issued by PW32, which PW33 has stated was got at the instance of A3, was found, even if genuine, did not connect A3 in any way to the deceased.	None
As far as A15 is concerned, MO1Reebok Shoe, which was recovered, was brushed aside by noticing that the courts had failed to consider that PW31a worker in the factory, has stated that she could not remember the person who came to get it as there is lapse of more than two years.	None
Therefore, PW31 cannot be used against A15.	None
PWs 1 and 2 in their testimony (the son and driver, respectively, of the deceased) stated that the Reebok Shoes did not belong to the deceased.	None
Evidence of PWs 10 and 11 was not found reliable.	None
Finding the accused not guilty under Section 120B of the IPC, the learned Judge noted that it was the duty of the Trial Court to establish the involvement of each of the accused persons individually for each offence for which they have been charged.	None
Reference was made to Section 107 of the IPC, and thereafter, to the Judgment of this Court in Kehar Singh and others v. State (Delhi Administration) (1988) 3 SCC 609 that something more than a mere conspiracy, viz., some act or illegal omission in pursuance of the conspiracy, is required to be established for abetment by conspiracy.	None
Once a charge under Section 120B of the IPC fails, what was needed to convict the appellants was the happening of some overt act on the part of the appellants.	None
The learned Judge noted that there was no evidence except the testimony of PWs 10 and 11 which linked the appellants to the crime.	None
The charge under Section 109 of the IPC could not be sustained.	None
THE APPROACH OF JUSTICE ARUN	None
MISHRA	None
The learned Judge divided the circumstances into fifteen circumstances.	None
They are as follows Prosecution case  Evidence of PWs.	None
10 and 11 Prior relationship of accused Selection of premises where M.K. Balan was kept and other arrangements Abduction of deceased M.K. Balan on 30.12.2001 in white omni van Taking of M.K. Balan to factory premises meeting dated 30.12.2001 at the residence of A9 Commission of offence under section 302 IPC Removal of dead body from factory premises Cremation of dead body Procurement of death certificate by A3 Confessions and recoveries from accused Commission of offence under section 387 IPC Effect of acquittal under section 120B IPC Evidence of accomplices Holding TIP recording of statement under section 164 CrPC.	Facts
Cell phones cassettes forensic evidence.	None
The learned Judge proceeded to discuss the evidence of PWs 10 and 11 elaborately.	None
Thereafter, the prior relationship between the accused came to be discussed.	None
The circumstance relating to selection of premises where the deceased was kept and other arrangements as also abduction of the deceased was discussed.	None
The learned Judge referred to the deposition of PW1son of the deceased.	None
He also referred to evidence of PW3 and, at paragraph 20, it stated that PW3 has clearly stated that the former MLA was abducted at 05.30 A.M	None
Actually PW3 has stated that a person was put inside a van by three persons.	None
Thereafter, motorcycle followed the said van.	Reasoning
That his friend Selvam also came there.	None
PW13 has also stated that he has seen the deceased taking morning walk at about 05.45 A.M	None
The learned Judge finds that it is apparent that the deceased in this case was abducted from M.R.C. Nagar.	None
After abduction, the evidence discloses meeting at the residence of A9.	None
He further finds that on 30.12.2001, PWs 10 and 11 have stated about A3 stating that the abduction of the deceased has been made and money remains to be collected.	None
Thereafter, the learned Judge discusses evidence relating to taking of the deceased to the factory premises.	None
In this regard, apart from PWs 10 and 11, the learned Judge refers to the evidence of PW56 also.	None
In regard to the commission of offence under Section 302 of the IPC, it is found that abduction is proved and the deceased was murdered soon after abduction in two days and the body cremated under the name of a fictitious person.	None
The learned Judge finds that in the aforesaid circumstances, it is for the accused person to satisfy the Court how the abducted victim was dealt with by them.	None
Undoubtedly, he noted that there is no direct evidence with respect to the murder by putting nylon rope around the neck and tightening it but it can be inferred, in the circumstances, that they committed the offence of murder also.	None
There is evidence which clearly indicated that the dead body of the deceased was taken from the factory.	None
Thereafter, the Court discusses again evidence of PWs 10, 11, 21 and 35 in regard to the removal of the dead body from the factory premises.	None
Next, the learned Judge discusses the evidence relating to the cremation of the dead body.	None
The evidence referred to include PWs19 and 36 apart from noting that PW12 has resiled from part of his statement.	None
Next, the learned Judge elaborately discusses the evidence relating to the procuring of the death certificate by A3.	None
The confessions and recoveries by the accused were next discussed.	None
The effect of acquittal under Section 120B of the IPC next engaged the learned Judge.	None
It was found that mere acquittal under Section 120B of the IPC when the charge under Section 109 of the IPC was found established, was of no avail to them.	None
Charges, which were framed, were specific.	None
Ingredients of Section 109 of the IPC were there and have been rightly found to be present by both the courts below.	None
Section 120B of the IPC was found established against accused A1 and A2 and other charges against the accused appellants.	Reasoning
Sections 120B and 109 of the IPC were found to be distinct offences.	None
He referred to the judgment of this Court in Ranganayaki v. State by Inspector of Police (2004) 12 SCC 521 , which, inter alia, held that for an offence under Section 120B of the IPC, a charge under Section 109 of the IPC was unnecessary and inappropriate.	None
The commission of offence under Section 109 of the IPC was found established along with other offences.	None
The acquittal under Section 120B of the IPC was found not to adversely impinge upon the ingredients of Section 109 of the IPC.	None
The evidence of PWs 10 and 11, even taken as accomplices, was found corroborated by overwhelming evidence on record on each and every aspect.	None
Regarding holding of TI Recording of Statement under Section 164 of the CrPC, it was proved by PWs 60, 59, 61, 32, 33, 62, 12 and 19.	None
The last circumstance discussed was the cell phone cassette forensic evidence.	None
Cassettes were recovered with suitcaseMO2 from A2 which was supported by PW43.	None
Regarding the contention that no value is to be attached to the recovery of the Ford Car at the instance of A4 based on ownership, it was found that ownership was irrelevant.	None
PW10 may have purchased the car in the name of Shri Ranjit Kumar.	None
The evidence disclosed that the car in the possession of PW10 was given by him to the accused.	None
Total six cars were used in the offence including the Ford Escort Car and one motorcycle.	None
As regards the recovery of the remains from the cremation ground not being proved to be that of the deceased, it was found that as the case of the prosecution, the body was fully burnt, their seizure and forensic report was of no value.	None
This broadly is the basis for the learned Judge to uphold the conviction.	None
ACCOMPLICE EVIDENCE Section 133 of the Evidence Act declares that an accomplice is a competent witness and further that a conviction based on the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice is not illegal only on account of it being so.	None
Section 133 reads as follows Accomplice.	None
An accomplice shall be a competent witness against an accused person and a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice.	None
It is apposite to notice Section 114 of the Evidence Act, Illustration b, the Court may presume That an accomplice is unworthy of credit, unless he is corroborated in material particulars.	None
Thus, there appears to be a contradiction between these provisions.	Reasoning
The matter is no longer res integra.	None
We may notice the following statement of the law contained in an early judgment of this Court reported in Sarwan Singh Rattan Singh v. State of Punjab 18	None
It is hardly necessary to deal at length with the true legal position in this matter.	None
An accomplice is undoubtedly a competent witness under the Indian Evidence Act.	None
There can be, however, no doubt that the very fact that he has participated in the commission of the offence introduces a serious stain in his evidence and courts are naturally reluctant to act on such tainted evidence unless it is corroborated in material particulars by other independent evidence.	None
It would not be right to expect that such independent corroboration should cover the whole of the prosecution story or even all the material particulars.	None
If such a view is adopted it would render the evidence of the accomplice wholly superfluous.	None
On the other hand, it would not be safe to act upon such evidence merely because it is corroborated in minor particulars or incidental details because, in such a case, corroboration does not 18 AIR 1957 (SC) 637 afford the necessary assurance that the main story disclosed by the approver can be reasonably and safely accepted as true.	None
But it must never be forgotten that before the court reaches the stage of considering the question of corroboration and its adequacy or otherwise, the first initial and essential question to consider is whether even as an accomplice the approver is a reliable witness.	None
If the answer to this question is against the approver then there is an end of the matter, and no question as to whether his evidence is corroborated or not falls to be considered.	None
In other words, the appreciation of an approvers evidence has to satisfy a double test.	None
His evidence must show that he is a reliable witness and that is a test which is common to all witnesses.	None
If this test is satisfied the second test which still remains to be applied is that the approvers evidence must receive sufficient corroboration.	None
This test is special to the cases of weak or tainted evidence like that of the approver.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
We may profitably also refer to the views expressed in Haroom Haji Abdulla v. State of Maharashtra AIR (1968)	None
SC 832 The law as to accomplice evidence is well settled.	None
The Evidence Act in Section 133 provides that an accomplice is a competent witness against an accused person and that a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice.	None
The effect of this provision is that the court trying an accused may legally convict him on the single evidence, of an accomplice.	None
To this there is a rider in Illustration (b) to Section 114 of the Act which provides that the Court may presume that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars.	None
This cautionary provision incorporates a rule of prudence because an accomplice, who betrays his associates, is not a fair witness and it is possible that he may, to please the prosecution, weave false details into those which are true and his whole story appearing true, there may be no means at hand to sever the false from that which is true.	None
It is for this reason that courts, before they act on accomplice evidence, insist on corroboration in material respects as to the offence itself and also implicating in some satisfactory way, however small, each accused named by the accomplice.	None
In this way the commission of the offence is confirmed by some competent evidence other than the single or unconfirmed testimony of the accomplice and the inclusion by the accomplice of an innocent person is defeated.	None
This rule of caution or prudence has become so ingrained in the consideration of accomplice evidence as to have almost the standing of a rule of law.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The dichotomy between the mandate of Section 133 and illustration (b) to Section 114, of the Evidence Act has been explained as follows in Sheshanna Bhumanna Yadav v. State of Maharashtra AIR (1970)	None
SC 1330	None
The law with regard to appreciation of approvers evidence is based on the effect of Sections 133 and 114, illustration (b) of the Evidence Act, namely, that an accomplice is competent to depose but as a rule of caution it will be unsafe to convict upon his testimony alone.	None
The warning of the danger of convicting on uncorroborated evidence is therefore given when the evidence is that of an accomplice.	None
The primary meaning of accomplice is any party to the crime charged and someone who aids and abets the commission of crime.	None
The nature of corroboration is that it is confirmatory evidence and it may consist of the evidence of second witness or of circumstances like the conduct of the person against whom it is required.	None
Corroboration must connect or tend to connect the accused with the crime.	Reasoning
When it is said that the corroborative evidence must implicate the accused in material particulars it means that it is not enough that a piece of evidence tends to confirm the truth of a part of the testimony to be corroborated.	None
That evidence must confirm that part of the testimony which suggests that the crime was committed by the accused.	None
If a witness says that the accused and he stole the sheep and he put the skins in a certain place, the discovery of the skins in that place would not corroborate the evidence of the witness as against the accused.	None
But if the skins were found in the accuseds house, this would corroborate because it would tend to confirm the statement that the accused had some hand in the theft.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
We may finally advert to a recent pronouncement of this Court in K. Hashim v. State of Tamil Nadu (2005) 1 SCC 237 First, it is not necessary that there should be independent confirmation of every material circumstance in the sense that the independent evidence in the case, apart from the testimony of the complainant or the accomplice, should in itself be sufficient to sustain conviction.	None
As Lord Reading says Indeed, if it were required that the accomplice should be confirmed in every detail of the crime, his evidence would not be essential to the case it would be merely confirmatory of other and independent testimony.	None
(Baskerville case (1916) 2 KB 658 (191617)	None
All ER Rep 38 (CA) , All ER p. 42 BC)39.	None
All that is required is that there must be some additional evidence rendering it probable that the story of the accomplice (or complainant) is true and that it is reasonably safe to act upon it.	None
Secondly, the independent evidence must not only make it safe to believe that the crime was committed but must in some way reasonably connect or tend to connect the accused with it by confirming in some material parti.cular the testimony of the accomplice or complainant that the accused committed the crime.	None
This does not mean that the corroboration as to identification must extend to all the circumstances necessary to identify the accused with the offence.	None
Again, all that is necessary is that there should be independent evidence which will make it reasonably safe to believe the witnesss story that the accused was the one, or among those, who committed the offence.	None
The reason for this part of the rule is that A man who has been guilty of a crime himself will always be able to relate the facts of the case, and if the confirmation be only on the truth of that history, without identifying the persons, that is really no corroboration at all.	None
It would not at all tend to show that the party accused participated in it.41.	None
Thirdly, the corroboration must come from independent sources and thus ordinarily the testimony of one accomplice would not be sufficient to corroborate that of another.	None
But of course the circumstances may be such as to make it safe to dispense with the necessity of corroboration and in those special circumstances a conviction so based would not be illegal.	None
I say this because it was contended that the mother in this case was not an independent source.	None
Fourthly, the corroboration need not be direct evidence that the accused committed the crime.	None
It is sufficient if it is merely circumstantial evidence of his connection with the crime.	None
Were it otherwise, many crimes which are usually committed between accomplices in secret, such as incest, offences with females (or unnatural offences) could never be brought to justice.	None
(See M.O. Shamsudhin v. State of Kerala (1995) 3 SCC 351 1995 SCC (Cri) 509 .)	None
(Emphasis supplied) To summarize, by way of culling out the principles which emerge on a conspectus of the aforesaid decisions, we would hold as follows The combined result of Sections 133 read with illustration (b) to Section 114 of Evidence Act is that the Courts have evolved, as a rule of prudence, the requirement that it would be unsafe to convict an accused solely based on uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice.	Reasoning
The corroboration must be in relation to the material particulars of the testimony of an accomplice.	Reasoning
It is clear that an accomplice would be familiar with the general outline of the crime as he would be one who has participated in the same and therefore, indeed, be familiar with the matter in general terms.	Reasoning
The connecting link between a particular accused and the crime, is where corroboration of the testimony of an accomplice would assume crucial significance.	Reasoning
The evidence of an accomplice must point to the involvement of a particular accused.	Reasoning
It would, no doubt, be sufficient, if his testimony in conjunction with other relevant evidence unmistakably makes out the case for convicting an accused.	Reasoning
As laid down by this Court, every material circumstance against the accused need not be independently confirmed.	Reasoning
Corroboration must be such that it renders the testimony of the approver believable in the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
The testimony of one accomplice cannot be, ordinarily, be supported by the testimony of another approver.	Reasoning
We have used the word ordinarily inspired by the statement of the law in paragraph4 in K. Hashim (supra) wherein in this Court, did contemplate special and extraordinary cases where the principle embedded in Section 133 would literally apply.	Reasoning
In other words, in the common run of cases, the rule of prudence which has evolved into a principle of law is that an accomplice, to be believed, he must be corroborated in material particulars of his testimony.	Reasoning
The evidence which is used to corroborate an accomplice need not be a direct evidence and can be in the form of circumstantial evidence.	Reasoning
ACCOMPLICE AND APPROVER An accomplice is in many cases, pardoned and he becomes what is known as an approver.	None
An elaborate procedure for making a person an approver, has been set out in Section 306 of the CrPC.	None
Briefly, the person is proposed as an approver.	None
The exercise is undertaken before the competent Magistrate.	None
His evidence is recorded.	None
He receives pardon in exchange for the undertaking that he will give an unvarnished version of the events in which he is a participant in the crime.	None
He would expose himself to proceedings under Section 308 of the CrPC.	None
Section 308 contemplates that if such person has not complied with the condition on which the tender of pardon was given either by wilfully concealing anything essential or by giving false evidence, he can be put on trial for the offence in respect to which the pardon was so tendered or for any other offence of which he appears to be a guilty in connection with the same matters.	None
This is besides the liability to be proceeded against for the offence of perjury.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 308 declares that any statement which is given by the person accepting the tender of pardon and recorded under Section 164 and Section 306 can be used against him as evidence in the trial under Section 308(1) of the CrPC.	None
An accomplice or an approver are competent witnesses.	None
An approver is an accomplice, who has received pardon within the meaning of Section 306.	None
We would hold, that as between an accomplice and an approver, the latter would be more beholden to the version he has given having regard to the adverse consequences which await him as spelt out in Section 308 of the CrPC.	None
as explained by us.	None
It is also settled principle that the competency of an accomplice is not impaired, though, he could have been tried jointly with the accused and instead of so being tried, he has been made a witness for the prosecution.	None
See the judgment of this Court reported in Chandran and Others v. State of Kerala (2011) 5 SCC 161 .	None
PURPORT AND VALUE OF SECTION 164 OF CRPC Section 164 of the CrPC enables the recording of the statement or confession before the Magistrate.	Reasoning
Is such statement substantive evidence?	Reasoning
What is the purpose of recording the statement or confession under Section 164?	Reasoning
What would be the position if the person giving the statement resiles from the same completely when he is examined as a witness?	Reasoning
These questions are not res integra.	Reasoning
Ordinarily, the prosecution which is conducted through the State and the police machinery would have custody of the person.	Reasoning
Though, Section 164 does provide for safeguards to ensure that the statement or a confession is a voluntary affair it may turn out to be otherwise.	Reasoning
We may advert to statements of law enunciated by this Court over time.	None
As to the importance of the evidence of the statement recorded under Section 164 and as to whether it constitutes substantial evidence, we may only to advert to the following judgment, i.e., in George and others v. State of Kerala and another AIR 1998 SC 1376 In making the above and similar comments the trial Court again ignored a fundamental rule of criminal jurisprudence that a statement of a witness recorded under S. 164, Cr.P.C., cannot be used as substantive evidence and can be used only for the purpose of contradicting or corroborating him.	Reasoning
What is the object of recording the statement, ordinarily of witnesses under Section 164 has been expounded by this Court in R. Shaji v. State of Kerala AIR 2013 SC 651 So far as the statement of witnesses recorded under Section 164 is concerned, the object is two fold in the first place, to deter the witness from changing his stand by denying the contents of his previously recorded statement, and secondly, to tide over immunity from prosecution by the witness under Section 164.	None
A proposition to the effect that if a statement of a witness is recorded under Section 164, his evidence in Court should be discarded, is not at all warranted.	None
(Vide Jogendra Nahak Ors.	None
V. State of Orissa Ors., AIR 1999 SC 2565 (1999 AIR SCW 2736) and Assistant Collector of Central Excise, Rajamundry v. Duncan Agro Industries Ltd.	None
Ors., AIR 2000 SC 2901)	None
(2000 Air SCW 3150 ).	None
Section 157 of the Evidence Act makes it clear that a statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., can be relied upon for the purpose of corroborating statements made by witnesses in the Committal Court or even to contradict the same.	None
As the defence had no opportunity to crossexamine the witnesses whose statements are recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., such statements cannot be treated as substantive evidence.	None
Thus, in a case where a witness, in his statement under Section 164 of the CrPC, makes culpability of the accused beyond doubt but when he is put on the witness stand in the trial, he does a complete somersault, as the statement under Section 164 is not substantial evidence then what would be the position?	None
The substantive evidence is the evidence rendered in the Court.	None
Should there be no other evidence against the accused, it would be impermissible to convict the accused on the basis of the statement under Section 164.	None
CONTOURS OF JURISDICTION IN APPEAL BY SPECIAL LEAVE Before we embark upon a consideration of the contentions, we think it is necessary to remind ourselves of the contours of this Courts jurisdiction in an appeal generated by Special Leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	None
This question, far from being res integra, is the subject matter of a large number of decisions of this Court.	None
We would only advert to one out of many decisions, rendered by one of us (K.M. Joseph, J.), in Jagjit Singh v. State of Punjab (2018) 10 SCC 593.	None
Therein, the Court noted the principles laid down by this Court in Dalbir Kaur v. State of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 158 wherein this Court culled out the principles in paragraph8 as follows Thus the principles governing interference by this Court in a criminal appeal by special leave may be summarised as follows (1) that this Court would not interfere with the concurrent finding of fact based on pure appreciation of evidence even if it were to take a different view on the evidence (2) that the Court will not normally enter into a reappraisement or review of the evidence, unless the assessment of the High Court is vitiated by an error of law or procedure or is based on error of record, misreading of evidence or is inconsistent with the evidence, for instance, where the ocular evidence is totally inconsistent with the medical evidence and so on (3) that the Court would not enter into credibility of the evidence with a view to substitute its own opinion for that of the High Court (4) that the Court would interfere where the High Court has arrived at a finding of fact in disregard of a judicial process, principles of natural justice or a fair hearing or has acted in violation of a mandatory provision of law or procedure resulting in serious prejudice or injustice to the accused (5) this Court might also interfere where on the proved facts wrong inferences of law have been drawn or where the conclusions of the High Court are manifestly perverse and based on no evidence.	None
It is very difficult to lay down a rule of universal application, but the principles mentioned above and those adumbrated in the authorities of this Court cited supra provide sufficient guidelines for this Court to decide criminal appeals by special leave.	None
Thus in a criminal appeal by special leave, this Court at the hearing examines the evidence and the judgment of the High Court with the limited purpose of determining whether or not the High Court has followed the principles enunciated above.	None
Where the Court finds that the High Court has committed no violation of the various principles laid down by this Court and has made a correct approach and has not ignored or overlooked striking features in the evidence which demolish the prosecution case, the findings of fact arrived at by the High Court on an appreciation of the evidence in the circumstances of the case would not be disturbed.	None
A LOOK AT THE OFFENCES INVOLVED Section 201 of the IPC, inter alia, is as follows Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender.	None
Whoever, knowing or having reason to believe that an offence has been committed, causes any evidence of the commission of that offence to disappear, with the intention of screening the offender from legal punishment, or with that intention gives any information respecting the offence which he knows or believes to be false.	None
Section 347 of the IPC reads as follows Wrongful confinement to extort property, or constrain to illegal act.	None
Whoever wrongfully confines any person for the purpose of extorting from the person confined, or from any person interested in the person confined, any property or valuable security or of constraining the person confined or any person interested in such person to do anything illegal or to give any information which may facilitate the commission of an offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Section 364 of the IPC, inter alia, deals with abducting in order to murder.	None
It reads as follows Kidnapping or abducting in order to murder.	None
Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person in order that such person may be murdered or may be so disposed of as to be put in danger of being murdered, shall be punished with 1imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
The offence of abduction is described in Section 362 of the IPC and it reads as follows Abduction.	None
Whoever by force compels, or by any deceitful means induces, any person to go from any place, is said to abduct that person.	None
It is to be distinguished from kidnapping which is of two kinds as stated in Section 359 of the IPC, viz., kidnapping from India and kidnapping from lawful guardianship.	None
Both kidnapping and abducting, are referred to in Sections 364 and 365 of the IPC.	None
Section 365 of the IPC reads as follows Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person.	None
Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person with intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully confined, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Section 302 of the IPC, no doubt, deals with the offence of murder.	None
Lastly, Section 387 of the IPC is a heightened, a more serious form of offence of extortion and it reads as follows Putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion.	None
Whoever, in order to the committing of extortion, puts or attempts to put any person in fear of death or of grievous hurt to that person or to any other, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
It is clear that kidnapping differs from abduction.	None
Kidnapping is of two kinds.	None
Kidnapping from India involves taking a person against his consent or consent of legally authorised person out of India (Section 360).	None
Kidnapping from lawful custody is occasioned if a male below 16 years or female below 18 years or person of unsound mind is taken out of custody of lawful guardian without his consent (Section 361).	None
Abduction, as defined in Section 362 of the IPC, occurs when by force or deceitful means, a person is induced to go from any place.	Reasoning
In this case, under Sections 364 and 365, though, it could be kidnapping and abduction, what is involved is abduction.	None
Section 364 of the IPC, more graver than Section 365 of the IPC, occurs when abduction, inter alia, is done with the intention to commit murder or that he is so disposed of so as to put the abducted person in danger of being murdered.	None
Section 365 of the IPC is attracted when the abduction takes place to cause the abducted person to be secretly and wrongfully confined.	None
It is true that in a given case, a person may be abducted to be secretly and wrongfully confined and also to commit murder.	None
Such a situation may attract both Sections 364 and 365 of the IPC.	None
As with any other offence, there could be the actual offender, who abducts.	None
Any other person could be roped in with the aid of Section 120A of the IPC or Section 109 of the IPC (abetting).	None
Also, principle of vicarious liability, under Section 34 of the IPC or a charge under Section 149 of the IPC, if proved, could visit another with criminal liability.	None
ABDUCTION, THE EVIDENCE PW1 is the son of the deceased.	None
He has deposed, inter alia, as follows His father is an MLA of Saidapet Constituency.	None
He is Director of Mahilapur Hindu Saswatha Nidhi Limited for a period of ten years.	None
He used to go walking in the morning as he was suffering from diabetes.	None
He used to leave the house at 05.30 A.M. in the morning for walking in MRC Nagar near Ayyapan Temple and return home at about 07.30 A.M	None
He also used to go for walking in the morning along with one Ramesh residing near their house.	None
On 30.12.2001, his father went for walking at about 05.30 A.M	None
Normally, his father used to wear tshirt, black track pant and black shoes.	None
The shoes were of one Reebok company.	None
He did not return home on 30.12.2001.	None
He went in search of his father.	None
He contacted his friends.	None
Then, he went and lodged a complaint marked as Exhibit PSEI.	None
In crossexamination, PW1 deposed that he did not state that his father used to walk by using the Reebok shoes.	None
The shirt and the pant were not shown to him by the Crime Branch who investigated him.	None
The Police asked him to remove certain averments made by him in his complaint.	None
The complaint, after removal of the averments, is PSE1.	None
He went, at 08.00 P.M., to the Anna Nagar Police Station.	None
They have told him that the father was in Tirumangalam Police Station.	None
Then, he went to Tirumangalam Police.	None
He was told that he was not there.	None
He speaks about learning that his father was kept in the Police Station and, sensing danger, he filed a Habeas Corpus Petition.	None
In the complaint, he has averred that when his father went for walking, he was illegally detained by the Police for procuring certain statements from him.	None
He has read the Nakeeran Journal of 05.03.2002.	None
He says that he has stated that the arrest of the A3 and A5 was mere eyewash.	None
On 30.12.2001, when his father went for walking only his mother had seen him.	None
The shoes worn by his father was bought from the Mount Road Vasant Complex Reebok Company.	None
Then he says that the size of shoes was told by him to the Police (CBCID) and then, they showed the shoes to him.	None
PW1 told that the shoes did not belong to his father.	None
Thereupon, permission was sought and granted to declare PW10 as hostile and he was crossexamined.	None
On 30.12.2001, his father had gone for walking and had not returned till today.	None
He has not contacted them through letter or phone.	None
He has not challenged the dismissal of Habeas Corpus petition.	None
The age of his father is disclosed as 52 years on 30.12.2001.	None
His father did not fight with any private person and only fought with political adversaries.	None
To the question, whether the Police had given him any audio cassette containing the voice of his father and played it before his mother and brother, he answers in the affirmative.	None
He says there was no dispute between his father and A3 and other accused.	None
In answer to the question, whether the persons of ADMK had any grudge against his father for changing his party to DMK, he said, yes, there were serious disputes regarding this.	None
He still believed that his father was alive.	None
The prosecution conducted reexamination of PW1.	None
He states that when the CBCID examined him on 06.04.2002, he has not stated that the voice in the audio cassette was of his father.	None
Suggestion that he was purposefully deposing in favour of the accused, was denied.	None
PW2Ramesh deposes that he is a car driver by profession.	None
He knew the deceased.	None
He used to go to the house at 08.45 A.M. or 09.00 A.M	None
He speaks about taking the deceased to the company of which he was the Director.	None
He speaks about coming at about 09.00 A.M. on 30 th and the wife of the deceased informed him that her husband has not returned home after he had gone for walking.	None
He says, to his knowledge, he did not know about the fact that deceased went for walking on that day.	None
After 29.12.2001, he has not seen the deceased.	None
PW3 is another key witness produced by the prosecution to prove the aspect of abduction.	None
He is a native of Sri Lanka.	None
He came to Chennai in 1991.	None
In 2001, he used to practice wrestling.	None
He would do skipping and running along with others at MRC Nagar.	None
His wrestling master is Selvaraj.	None
On 30.12.2001, at about 05.30 A.M., as usual, he started to run.	None
At that time, at a distance of about 75 meters, he saw three persons forcing a person to get into a van.	None
Thereafter, all of them went in the same van.	None
It was an Omni Van.	None
A motorcycle followed that van.	Reasoning
Thereafter, his friend Selvam came there.	None
He told this to him.	None
He told Selvaraj Master.	None
Selvaraj Master told him why should we bother about others.	None
He has stood by his statement in the crossexamination.	None
He, no doubt, inter alia says that in December, the sunrise will be late and that 05.30 A.M. will be dark.	None
He saw the incident at a distance of 75 meters as there was street light.	None
No doubt, he says that during Police investigation, he did not mention about the glow of street light.	None
He did not lodge any complaint in the Police Station about the incident.	None
The next witness, who is produced to prove abduction, is PW13.	None
He states as follows His brother is working in the Police Department.	None
From 1999, he has diabetes.	None
He goes for walk at MRC Nagar every day at morning 05.30 A.M	None
On 30.12.2001, at 05.45 A.M. in the morning, when he was walking in the MRC Nagar, Kasturi Estate, the deceased came opposite to him.	None
He was wearing bright shoes, sandal colour tshirt and dark pant.	None
He crossed him.	None
He is shown MO14photograph and he identified the deceased.	None
In crossexamination, he says that he saw in the newspaper that the deceased was not found but he did not see the TV.	None
It is, no doubt, true that Justice Arun Mishra has found that it becomes apparent that PW13 clearly stated that the former MLA Balan the deceased was taking morning walk.	None
The learned Judge concluded that it is apparent that M.K. Balan had been abducted.	Reasoning
PW3 has not stated that it was the deceased who was abducted.	Reasoning
He has not stated that three persons, who pushed the deceased into the van were from amongst the accused in the case.	Reasoning
However, reading the evidence of PWs 1, 2, 3 and 13, the following is established.	Reasoning
The deceased used to go for morning walk.	Reasoning
He was indeed sighted by PW13 who also used to go for morning walk.	Reasoning
PW3 has indeed witnessed a person being pushed into Maruti Omni Van by three persons and the Van going away followed by the motorcycle.	Reasoning
These facts are established.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW10 and PW11 is to be seen next in this regard.	Reasoning
PW10 has, inter alia, stated that first and second accused were there at the house of A9 on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
Both of them told A3 that they have brought the MLA M.K. Balan (deceased) and only money had to be collected from him.	Reasoning
PW11 has stated that on 30.12.2001, he saw three cars at the factory led by a Tata Sumo (recovered at the instance of A9), a Ford Escort Car (recovered at the instance of A4) and finally came the Zen Car (recovered at the instance of A3).	Reasoning
Four persons identified as A4, A11, A16 and A17 brought the deceased out of the Ford Car.	Reasoning
This takes place within hours of abduction on the same day.	Reasoning
PW11 also speaks of three persons coming out of the Zen Car.	Reasoning
PW10 also says that on 31.12.2001, he found that the deceased was tiedup with chain and his eyes were covered with a cloth and he had been made to sit on a green steel cot provided by them already.	Reasoning
He was wearing black pant and sandal colour tshirt.	Reasoning
He has deposed that it was A5, A6, A7, A8, A10, A11 and A14, who were present.	Reasoning
Still further, he says that A3 threatened him that he would kill him and his family members if he discloses anything about the matter.	Reasoning
He further stated that we had kidnapped exMLA Balan itself, you are nothing to me.	Reasoning
Unless PW10 and PW11, PW3 and PW13 are disbelieved, the conclusion is inevitable that the deceased was indeed abducted.	Reasoning
The trial court finds that no one else was kidnapped on the same day.	Reasoning
The Trial Court finds that A3, A4 to A8, A10, A11 and A14 to A17 kidnapped the deceased (A10 stands acquitted by the High Court).	None
THE CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO OBTAINING OF FALSE DEATH CERTIFICATE PW32a Medical Practitioner has proved Exhibit P27Death Certificate.	None
He has deposed that PW33 Kamaraj, who was working in the Government General Hospital, Chennai and acquainted with him for fifteen years, came to him.	None
He deposed that PW33 told that one person known to him, viz., Rajamani Chettiar was 61 years and poor, died on 01.01.2002 at 06.00 P.M. due to cardiac arrest.	None
There was no body to cremate him and he alone had to do all the work for him.	None
He wanted death certificate.	None
Then, PW32 told PW33 that he would go to see him (apparently, the deceased).	None
PW33 told him, he very well knows PW32 for the past fifteen years, would he lie to him and that no one else was with him (deceased) and PW33 has to do everything and he did not have time.	None
Believing what he stated to be true, PW32 says that he issued P27death certificate without seeing the dead body.	None
No doubt, PW32 has deposed in crossexamination that PW33 came to his house and stated that his younger paternal uncle working as a watchman in the company had passed away.	None
He has given the certificate on 02.01.2002.	Reasoning
Though, it is not written that it was issued on 02.01.2002, and in P27, it was shown that it was issued on 01.01.2002.	None
PW33 states, inter alia, as follows He knew A3 for the last five years.	None
He corroborates statement of PW32 that they were known to each other for fifteen years.	None
On 01.01.2002, he was lying sick in his house.	None
One SamikannuA13 came and told him that he was called by A3.	None
He was taken by Samikannu to the house of A3.	None
A3 told him that one watchman died in Kollathur.	None
PW33 was asked whether a vehicle could be arranged.	None
He tried in vain.	None
He was given Rs.50/ by A3 on noting that he had reached the next day by auto.	None
A3 told him that one Rajamani Chettiar expired and asked him to get a certificate.	None
PW33 told about PW32 being known to him for the last fifteen years.	None
He went to his place by auto.	None
PW32 was there and he told him that a watchman in Kollathur Company had died.	None
PW32 believed PW33 and gave it in writing in a letterhead.	None
He gave it to A3.	None
He identifies P27 as the certificate.	None
He also identifies A3 and A13 (Samikannu).	None
He states that the certificate is dated 01.01.2002 as he had asked so.	None
He says that he is giving the deposition like this because he will lose his job if he does not do so.	None
He did not identify A13 to the Police or the Magistrate in the TI Parade.	None
He also says, inter alia, that it is false to say that accusedSamipannu did not call him or take him to A3.	None
He also says it is not correct to state that he is giving false deposition in the fear of losing his job.	None
We see no reason to take a different view.	None
The irresistible inference would be as follows A3 engaged A13, and at the behest of A3, a certificate is issued by PW32 medical practitioner certifying that one Rajamani Chettiar had passed away on 01.01.2002.	None
Now, the next question to be decided would be whether such a person as Rajamani Chettiar had indeed passed away and whether he was residing at the place reported?	Issue
PW38 has deposed that no person, as shown in the Certificate, died.	None
Then, PW36Office Assistant In Charge also supported the prosecution version.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that going by the evidence of PW32 and PW33, A3 wanted such a certificate.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW19 does support the prosecution case though he may not have identified the 8 persons who came.	Reasoning
The Trial Court, noted that he had identified them in the Test Identification Parade.	Reasoning
It is clear as daylight that the person cremated on 01.01.2002 by PW19 and PW12 late in night was the deceased under a fake name though.	Reasoning
THE EVIDENCE RELATING TO VEHICLES USED THE VEHICLES RECOVERED The evidence relating to vehicles used is as follows M09 is van bearing No. TNA 7484.	None
A5 made a statement to the Police.	None
PW30 has spoken about the vehicle being given to A9 and PW44 is a witness to the seizure.	None
It is the vehicle which is used in the abduction of the deceased.	None
ii.	None
The next vehicle is TN02P343.	None
This is marked though PW10 as MO8 and is another Van.	None
PW10 states that on 24.12.2001, A9 told him that A3 wanted a Maruti Van.	None
He speaks about complaining about not receiving rent for the Ford EscortMO6 and nonreturn of Motorcycle MO10.	None
He further says that A9 called later and said that he had arranged for vehicle of Kennedy and brotherinlaw of PW30, Jayprakash (MO9) and sent it to A3.	None
PW24SubInspector deposes to witnessing confessional statement of A6 leading to the recovery of MO8, the Van bearing	None
No.	Arguments of Petitioner
TN22BO343.	None
But he stated I can identify A6 who also identifies A8.	None
Pw37 IS John Keneddy who has deposed about buy MO8 on 24.12.2001.	None
PW10 called him on cellphone and asked for Van for two days.	None
It was given to him.	None
It was returned back in two days.	None
Apart from the fact that PW24 identifies A8 as A6, the connection with the offences is not clear.	None
No doubt, PW37 was declared hostile and cross examined by the State.	None
iii. A3 gave P20 statement leading to the recovery of MO12Maruti Zen having No. TN9Z 99.	None
PW16 has been examined to establish that MO12 was given by him to A3 in November, 2001 and it was returned back only in February, 2002.	None
This is the vehicle which is used on 30.03.2001, the crucial day, along with two other vehicles.	None
The Trial Court has also, no doubt, relied on the evidence of PWs 10 and 11.	None
iv.	None
A9 gave P37 statement.	None
PW41 is a witness.	None
Pursuant to the same, MO7Maruti Omni Van, having golden colour and bearing No. TN22B8853, was recovered.	None
PW18 is acquainted with A9 since childhood.	None
He has deposed to giving MO7golden colour Maruti Omni van to A9 four times.	None
He has deposed that the last time he gave was on 01.01.2002 and it was not returned on the same day, as was the case on the earlier occasions, but was returned only on 02.01.2002.	None
It is this van which has been used to take the body of the deceased away after the murder at the factory building.	None
The evidence of PW11 and, more appropriately PW35Police Constable, clinches the issue as to its use.	None
The statement of A9 has also led to the recovery of a Tata Sumo and it stood marked as MO13.	None
The number of the vehicle is TN04D9657.	None
PW15 is the Dealer in cars, inter alia.	None
He has deposed that he knew A9 for 30 years.	None
He further deposed that A9 went to him for buying the Tata Sumo and gave advance of Rs.15,000/ in September, 2001 and sold his Maruti Zen and took the Sumo.	None
Later, he came, he left the Tata Sumo saying that it was not auspicious and took away the car.	None
The Tata Sumo makes its appearance along with the Ford Escort on 30.12.2001.	None
The link is undeniable.	None
vi.	None
A4 has given statement leading to the recovery of the Ford Escort White Car having No. TN10F5555.	None
It was marked as MO6.	None
It was entrusted to A3 through A9 by PW10 for the car.	None
On the basis of statement given by A4, the said car came to be recovered.	Reasoning
We notice that Justice Arun Mishra has correctly rejected the contention that since the car stood registered in the name of another person, and therefore, it could not be relied upon.	None
It is to be noticed that the connection of the car with the crime is that the deceased is brought to the factory in the Ford Escort car, according to evidence (PW10).	None
vii.	None
A15 has given P51statement pursuant to which MO10Hero Honda Motorcycle and the black colour Reebok shoe (the shoe which the prosecution alleges was worn by the deceased and kept in the side pocket of the motorcycle, were recovered).	None
The shoe was marked as MO1.	None
More about the motorcycle, will be discussed later on.	None
This shoe has been marked as MO1.	None
There is the evidence of Pw48.	None
More about this vehicle will follow in discussion relating to A15.	None
WHAT THE ACCOMPLICES SAID We think it is appropriate that we should consider the evidence of PWs 10 and 11.	None
We have already set out the principles which govern the appreciation of evidence of accomplices.	Reasoning
Proceeding on the basis that PWs 10 and 11 are accomplices (though the Counsel for the State has a case that PWs 10 and 11 cannot be considered as accomplices insofar as it related to offence under Section 302 of the IPC), we notice the following.	Reasoning
PW10 was examined on 30.10.2003.	Reasoning
We are referring to the date of his deposition only to bear in mind that this is not a case where the witness is examined after a long gap from the date of crime as the murder is alleged to have taken place on 01.01.2002.	Reasoning
Let us examine what he has stated.	Reasoning
He was doing rice business in Tambaram from 1984 to 1995.	Reasoning
From 1995, he ran a business under the name and style of Valluvar Travels from 1985 with Uday Kumar (the ninth accused), his friend.	Reasoning
In 1998, he started a wine shop in which PW11 was also a partner.	Reasoning
It was in 1999, the ninth accused informed that Krishna PandiPW34 was running a vermicelli company in Mudichur.	Reasoning
He was facing a loss.	Reasoning
PWs 10 and 11 invested in the venture of Krishna Pandi.	Reasoning
There is reference to the relationship between PW10 and the ninth accused turning sour.	Reasoning
PW10 purchased a Ford Escort car though in the name of one Ranjit Singh with whom he had business connections.	Reasoning
The registration number of the car was TN10F5555.	Reasoning
He speaks about his reconciliation with Uday Kumar.	Reasoning
In 2001, Uday Kumar approached him and told him that he was to join ADMK with the help of the A3 for which he had to do certain works.	Reasoning
For the same, he needed some houses.	Reasoning
A search was mounted for an appropriate house.	Reasoning
The third accused comes upon the scene.	Reasoning
PWs 10 and 11, along with Uday KumarA9 and A3, finally, finalise the vermicelli factory at Mudichur Road.	Reasoning
He identified the third accused.	Reasoning
Instructions were given by the third accused for a screen to be put up on the windows of the factory building.	Reasoning
As ninth accused asked for two cots, PW10 asked for two cots from one Guru, his friend.	Reasoning
Chairs from the house of PW10, fan from the house of ninth accused and bedpan were kept in the factory by PW10, A9 and PW11.	Reasoning
Screen for the windows was put.	Reasoning
Third accused told PW34 to give a weeks leave for the company.	Reasoning
Believing that he would get rent, PW10, upon being asked for his Ford Escort car, sent the car to the house of the ninth accused.	Reasoning
There is reference to what happened on 05.12.2001.	Reasoning
On the said day, he was called by the ninth accused to come over to the residence of the third accused.	Reasoning
There were two or three other persons.	Reasoning
PWs 10 and 11 followed the ninth accused who went inside the house.	Reasoning
Third accused was telling the persons and the ninth accused that the deceased had to be brought and some money to be collected from him.	Reasoning
PW10 identifies A4, A6 and A11 as persons who were present at the residence of A3 and who followed them in another car.	Reasoning
There is reference to the involvement of A1, A2 and A12.	Reasoning
PW10 has identified A5 as the person who came along with A3, A9 and A1 by his Ford Escort car.	Reasoning
A1 was shown and he was talked about as a VIP, a very big VIP.	Reasoning
PWs 10 and 11 were to get food for him and to do other works.	Reasoning
PW10 has spoken about Rs.1,10,000/ being given, as requested by Uday Kumar A9, as money needed by A3.	Reasoning
Money was handed over to A2.	Reasoning
WHAT TRANSPIRED ON 30.12.2001 AS PER VERSION OF PW10  THE SALIENT ELEMENTS On the said date, at 08.30 a.m., A9 called him over phone to his house.	None
PW10 called PW11.	None
A boy working in his office, dropped him in residence in his motorcycle and went back.	None
A5 was asked to drop him at the factory by a bike which was at the residence of A9.	None
On reaching factory, he received a phone call from A9 asking him whether he had got the key.	None
He further asked to handover the cellphone to PW34Krishna Pandi.	None
After the conversation, PW34Krishna Pandi agreed to handover the key.	None
He handed over the key to A3 who came by auto.	None
The key came to be handed over to A5.	None
A3 thereafter sat as a pillion rider with PW10 and went to the house of A9.	None
PW10 followed A3 to the upstairs portion.	None
Therein, A1 and A2 were there.	None
They told A3 that they had brought the Ex. MLA (deceased) and only the money had to be collected from him.	None
There is reference to Hotel Henkala where room was booked for A1.	None
On the same day, at 05.00 p.m., the Ford Escort car was left in his office by the driver of A3.	None
31.12.2001	None
THE IMPORTANT FEATURES Udai KumarA9 calls PW10 at 08.30 a.m.	None
He was asked to come to Hotel Henkala.	None
He went there.	None
After some time, A3 came.	None
A3 told A9 that he needed a Maruti van.	None
Apparently, A9 went outside and brought sandal colour Maruti van.	None
A3 took PW10, A9 and A1 in that Maruti van and went to the factory.	None
A9 alone got down and was standing there.	None
One person came from upstairs and took him (PW10) and A1 upstairs.	None
There were about five or six persons.	None
The deceased was tied up with the chair and his eyes were also closed with cloth.	None
He had been made to sit on the green steel cot which was provided by them already.	None
He was wearing black pant and sandal colour tshirt.	Reasoning
Navy blue shoes were lying in the room somewhere far away from the steel cot.	None
A1 asked A9 to go to his house to get the recorded cassettes (two in number) and two empty cassettes from A2.	None
This is besides the tape recorder.	None
A3 approached PW10 and A9 to get the things.	None
PW10 speaks about the A9 getting Philips twoinone tape recorder from his house and two recorded cassettes from A2.	None
Also, two empty cassettes were purchased from a shop.	None
One person came from upstairs and A3 told him to remove the cloth tied around the eyes of the deceased.	None
PW10 speaks about feeling frightened.	None
A3 came to him and told him that he suspected only PW10 and his suspicion was that he would tell to somebody.	None
A3, it is deposed, threatened PW10 that if he disclosed anything about the matter, he would actually kill him and his family members.	None
A3 further stated that we have kidnapped Ex.	None
MLA Balan itself, you are nothing to me .	None
He speaks about being very much frightened.	None
Around 07.30 p.m., on 30.12.2001, A9 called over phone and asked him to stay in the hotel.	None
01.01.2002.	None
He went at 10.30 a.m. to the hotel after coming back from the hotel in the morning from the hotel to his house.	None
After some time, A3 came there.	None
A3 asked A9 for an ambulance.	None
PW10 and A9 went in search for an ambulance.	None
Not finding one, and on being told so, A3 told A9 to arrange for one Maruti van and to fix an Alumax light as fixed in an ambulance.	None
There is reference to driver Vigi of A3 pointing out that shops were closed as it was a holiday (being the New Year Day).	None
By 08.00 p.m., a Maruti van was taken away by two persons from the ninth accused.	None
PW10 identifies these persons as sixth accused and accusedSampath (A11).	None
PW10 speaks with PW11 about the ambulance being required and arranging up of a vehicle like ambulance.	None
PW10 deposed that both of them suspected that something was going on in the company.	None
They started at 08.45 p.m. and reached Mudichur by 09.00	None
a.m The gate was closed.	None
A6 was standing near the gate.	None
He saw them and made them go from there.	None
A golden colour Maruti van was standing there.	None
Because they were scared, they came by walk.	None
A5 went in a motorbike to the company.	None
The motorbike went inside and it was standing in the light.	None
Four persons came from upstairs carrying the body of the deceased, two holding his legs and two his hands.	None
PW10 refers to the deceased wearing black colour pant and sandal colour tshirt.	Reasoning
Body was kept on a slab like place.	Reasoning
There was no movement in the body.	Reasoning
The body was loaded in the van and it started very fast.	Reasoning
A5 went on the motor bike.	Reasoning
This, in short, is the account by PW10 about what he saw and what he knows about the incident.	Reasoning
PW10 identifies A5, A6, A7, A8, A10, A11 and A14 as the persons whom he saw near the deceased when he was tied up on the first floor of the factory (this is apparently on 31.12.2001).	Reasoning
He also identified the four persons who carried the body of the deceased as A6, A7, A8 and A11.	Reasoning
PW10 has this to say in his cross examination On 30.12.2001 he did not go to the Vermicilli factory this is a point which is also pressed by counsel for the appellant for the reason that in his chief examination he had said that he had gone to the factory on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
However, it is pertinent to note that in cross examination itself PW10 has stated that on 30 th at about 8.30 am he went to get the key, from there he went back at 9.30 am.	Reasoning
He did not go thereafter which makes it clear that that PW10 indeed did go on 30 th as deposed by him in his cross examination.	Reasoning
He, no doubt, says that till he was there a person called M.K. Balan was not brought there.	Reasoning
He further says in his cross examination that he had given a cheque for the room rent for the hotel from which he has vacated on 02.01.2002.	Reasoning
He states that he did not tell anyone outside about the matter, he had mentioned the police for the first time what he has seen on 01.05.2002.	Reasoning
It was due to fear he did not say.	Reasoning
He further says that after seeing the Police, his fear had gone.	Reasoning
He further states that he denies having met Nakkeran Gopal and discussed with him.	Reasoning
He no doubt says that if it is asked whether he is accurately aware of the incident that had happened in the factory from 31.12.2001, he did not know.	Reasoning
About 1520 days before 5.12.2001 he had seen A3.	Reasoning
He saw A4 for the first time on 5.12.2001 at the house of the 3 rd accused.	Reasoning
He says after hearing A3 telling the persons available there that the Ex. MLA M.K. Balan had to be brought and some money had to be collected from him, it did not strike that it could be a violent act.	Reasoning
He further says in cross that all the accused were not to known him earlier.	Reasoning
He denies having identified A10 and A14 after they were identified by the Police to him.	Reasoning
He says that he had finally shown his house also.	Reasoning
His house was also shown to them as he could get commission.	Reasoning
There is toilet facility in the Vermicilli factory.	Reasoning
(In the reexamination he states that toilet is in the ground floor.	Reasoning
The significance of this aspect is that a bedpack was also used when the deceased was kept in the first floor)	Reasoning
He further states that he did not ask Krishan Pandi (PW34) how long it is to let out and what is the monthly rent and what is the advance amount and what is the commission for the same, he also did not tell him.	Reasoning
He does not know how many workers were working in the factory, he could not approximately also.	Reasoning
He does not have the details about men and women who are working in the factory.	Reasoning
He was standing at a distance of 50ft. away from the place of occurrence (apparently on 01.01.2002).	Reasoning
He next says that if it is asked that why it was not informed to PW34 about the incident witnessed by him when this incident took place, he was not a partner in the factory but then he says that he received the interest amount for the amount given to PW34.	Reasoning
It is time to look what PW11, the other accomplice has deposed.	Reasoning
This is for the reason also that there is an argument that PW10 and PW 11, the two accomplices do not even corroborate each other.	Reasoning
He identifies A9 as the person with whom PW10 was doing sand quarry business.	None
He states about PW9 and PW 10 conversing with each other at the Polling Booth, A9 telling PW10 that he is going to join the ADMK and about A3, he is going to arrange for a position for him.	None
He speaks about the need for some houses, the hunt for houses and various houses being shown and the involvement of A3 in this matter.	None
He speaks about investment which A9 persuaded him and PW10 to make in the factory run by PW34. A3 told A9 that the factory is the correct place.	None
He is able to identify A3 and identifies him.	None
The Ford Escort car was obtained from PW10 on rental basis by A9 and given to A3.	None
On 05.12.2001, A9 informed him and PW10 that A3 has asked them to go to his house.	None
Three persons were present at the residence of A3.	None
He identifies them as A4, A6 and A7.	None
He further states that A3 told A9 that the deceased had to give money and the same had to be collected by bringing him.	Reasoning
He speaks about A3 going before them in the Ford Escort Car.	None
He speaks about A12.	None
He identifies A5 as the person who assisted A1 Senthil Kr.	None
On 30.12.2001, at round 8.30 A.M., PW10 called him and asked him to go to the house of A9.	None
He went there and saw that PW10 was not there.	None
A9 took him in Tata Sumo and they were waiting at Mudichur Road Junction.	None
After half an hour, the Ford Escort car came and A3 came out of the car and was talking to A9.	None
A9 told him to take A3 by an auto and go to the factory.	None
PW 10 and A5 was there at the factory.	None
A3 saw him and asked A5 whether the company is ready?	Reasoning
Then he took the company key from PW10 and gave the same to A5.	None
After about half an hour, A9 called him over phone and told him to open the gate of the company.	None
The Tata Sumo came first, followed by Ford Escort and Maruti Zen.	None
Four persons got down from Ford car.	None
Those four persons brought the deceased by closing his eyes, mouth and tying his hands and took him to the first floor.	None
The deceased was wearing black colour pant, sandalwood colour tShirt and shoes.	None
Three persons came out of the Zen. A9 came to him and asked him whether he knew that he is N.K. Balan (deceased) and he also threatened him that if he discloses the same to anybody A3 will kill him and his family members.	None
He identified the four persons who brought the deceased in the Ford Escort car as A4, A11, A16 and A17.	Reasoning
He speaks about further details, like three more persons coming with the tiffin parcels and that he could identify them, viz., A6, A15 and A7.	None
He went to his house.	None
The same day after PW10 called him over phone and asked him to go Hotel Henkala.	None
In Room No.207, he saw A9, PW10 and A1.	None
He stayed with A1 during that night.	None
The next day, viz., on 31.12.2001 at 6.00 A.M., he went from the Hotel where he stayed in the night on 30.12.2001.	None
He speaks about buying lunch for 10 persons in the factory.	None
By 12 noon he was asked to buy lunch for 10 persons, BP tablet and headache tablet and hand them over to A5 in the factory.	None
He bought them the same and went home (on 1.1.2001), he was called at 10.00 am by A9 and to get tiffin and he got the lunch for them in the afternoon.	None
A5 told him that there is no need for getting dinner in the night and they are going to start from there and asked him to convey the same to A9.	None
After 8.00 pm in the night PW 10 called him over phone and asked him to come to Hotel Henkala He went there and PW10 told that they need not to get lunch and PW10 told him that A3 and A9 asked to arrange for a van and for that he had replied that he cannot do and A9 arranged one van.	None
PW10 told him that something is going and he is not aware of the same.	None
Then PW10 told him that let us go and see in the factory.	None
Both of them went to the company by the motorcycle.	None
Two persons were near the gate.	None
Both of them told them that they have no work there and they can go from there.	None
Then PW12 left the bike adjacent to the company and when PW10 crossed the company gate they saw A5 going into the factory.	None
At that time four persons came from upstairs of the factory carrying N.K. Balan who was wearing the black colour pant and Tshirt sandalwood colour and they left him on the floor.	None
They tied up the deceased with a dhoti brought by A5 and carried him to the van and the van started from there.	None
A5 went by motorbike.	Reasoning
The van registration number is TN 22B8853 (MO7).	None
The Ford Escort number stated by him is TN 10F 5555 (MO6).	None
Maruti van number is TN 02 Z99 (MO12) and Tata Sumo number is TN04B9657 (MO13).	None
PW11 speaks about him and PW10 being scared and they went back home.	None
PW10 told him that he was called by A3 and told him that if this matter is leaked out anywhere, he will kill him and his family.	None
This, in substance is, what PW11 has spoken in his chief examination.	None
No doubt, in cross he states inter alia as follows He has TV in his house.	None
He did not know of news that deceased was missing was announced on TV.	None
He has seen that in the paper.	None
He did not see the deceased on 30.12.2001 at 10.30 A.M. in the upstairs of the vermicelli company.	None
He has seen the deceased but he did not have any contact with him.	None
PW10 had left (MO6)CAR in the travels for rent.	None
The house being selected and arrangements in the factory at Mudichur Road were known to him, A9, A3, PW34 and Venugopal PW 10 and the arrangement at the factory was known to PW10 and PW11 alone.	None
He speaks about the cot being purchased from Nirmala industries on Shanmugham Road.	None
He, A9 and PW10 has purchased the same.	None
Three cots were purchased.	None
The cot is of green colour and he could identify it.	None
He reiterates that on 5.12.2001 he had been to the house of A3.	None
The identification marks of the three persons seen in the home of A3 and age was mentioned during police investigators.	None
He mentions A4, A11 and A17 as among the four.	None
He also says another person came.	None
He says he did not remember.	None
In the identification parade he did not say that he did not tell him that he has seen three persons in the house of A3 Manickam.	None
He has identified nine persons at the time of identification parade.	None
He had only given the tiffin and meals to the accused in the factory.	None
He does not know whether on the 1 st deceased was upstairs.	None
He says that we went from there after 9.00 P.M. on the 1 st .	None
PW34 did not give the interest to him in January.	None
Till date he has not given the interest to him.	None
He knew the accused already.	None
He saw A3 only on 05.12.2001 for the first time.	None
Thereafter he had seen him on the 30 th .	None
He did not see him thereafter.	None
A3 was not identified by him during the identification parade.	None
Police did not call him to identify any of the accused.	None
He also did not go.	None
He did not identify (MOI).	None
He denies it as incorrect that he did not mention about the accused Guna either during the police investigation or before the judicial magistrate.	None
He knows A16 having seen him in the factory.	None
He does not remember whether he was also of the four persons.	None
He does not remember two persons who told PW10 and him at the factory that they do not have any work.	None
He denied having seen the Nakkeeeran Magazine.	None
He studied up to Plus 2.	None
He denies as incorrect that he and PW10 were not asked by anyone to get a house for them.	None
A9 is a member in the Puratchi Bharatem Party at state level.	None
He is not a member of ADMK.	None
A9 has own car	None
.	None
He says it is correct to state that there is no need of A9 to either believe him or PW10 to do the work.	None
During the police investigation the identification, colour, height etc. of the deceased was not asked from him and he had also not stated about the same.	None
When a person stands outside the gate of the factory, the incident taking place there could be seen.	None
During the night there was no light outside the factory.	None
The police did not take him to show the factory.	None
They did not show him the van TN22B8853 and asked him to identify.	None
They did not show MO6 also and examine him.	None
Photographs of the deceased was not shown.	None
The Tata Sumo, Maruti van car was not shown.	None
PW34, AN INDEPENDENT WITNESS?	None
It is next necessary to have a look at the testimony of PW34.	Reasoning
PW 34 is none other than the owner of the factory and as per the prosecution case PW10 and PW11 came to invest in the business of PW34 when he was undergoing financial problems.	Reasoning
He states, inter alia, as follows In 1999, he approaches A9 owing to some problems.	None
He accepted PW10 and PW11 as partners.	None
He has the entire responsibility of the company.	None
PW10 and PW11 used to come occasionally and go.	None
On 29.11.2001 at 6.00 P.M. PW10 and PW11 asked for company premises to conduct a meeting.	None
He refused.	None
They insisted.	None
He locked the articles of the company in a room and handed over room in the upstairs and went away.	None
They asked him not to come till the meeting was over.	None
On December 5 they told him the meeting was not over.	None
When looked inside the office they saw cot, dining table, chair, pedestal fan.	None
On 10 th, PW10 and PW11 brought a person and introduced him as Poonga Nagar Manickam A3 and told them that he was a big shot.	None
(It is true that PW10 places the meeting with PW34 as having taken place earlier.)	None
He was a Secretary at the same time for two Districts.	None
He was organising meeting and went immediately.	None
On 30.12.2001, at 08.30 A.M., PW 10 brought a person by name BalamuruganA5 and told him that a meeting was called and asked him (PW34) to vacate the company.	None
When he told that they have kept semai for drying and ladies are working and it will go waste, they told the meeting is set and asked him to contact A9 who said he would compensate the loss for the semai.	None
PW34 sent the employees and announced leave.	None
At 05.00 P.M., he came to the company for collecting wet semiya with company employees Chandru, Venu, Driver Karuppia.	None
At that time, PW11 and A5 were standing downstairs.	None
They loaded the semiya in the van and PW11 and A5 helped them to gather it.	None
They took the semiya and went away.	None
He speaks about taking the semiya to Ezhichur and dried the semiya and sent it to the market.	None
The employees were asked to come early and on 01.01.2002, the company was on holiday.	None
He called PW10 on the 1 st and he told him to call on the next day.	None
He came to the company on the 2 nd at 11.00 A.M	None
His employees Rathnam, Chamundeswan were there with doors open and lights burning but the outside gate locked.	None
He immediately went to the public booth and called PW10 but got PW11.	None
When he saw the lock, it was merely wound by chain but not locked.	None
They went upstairs and saw cigarettes, two case beer bottle and two shoes.	None
The cot was damaged and there was a bedpan.	None
PW34 poured the urine inside it outside.	None
At 12 to 12.30 P.M., a Maruti Van came and a person came out and asked for articles lying there.	None
He went upstairs and took away a cardboard box, shoes kept in a car and asked if there were anything left behind.	None
He took the articles that were kept near the wood storing place in the company kept in a plastic sack.	None
He again came at 02.00 P.M. and asked that he has been sent to clean the place.	None
The employee PW34 Chamundeswari admonished him saying that he has spoilt a place where women are working and sent him back saying that they will clean it themselves.	None
He identifies the shoes as MO1 series.	None
He identified A3, A9, and A5.	None
In cross examination, inter alia, he states as follows He saw A3 on December 10, 12.	None
He further says he has not seen the deceased and he did not know him.	Reasoning
On 30.12.2001, at 08.30 A.M., he went to the company office.	Reasoning
He did not give the key to anyone.	Reasoning
A5 did not allow us to go upstairs and he did not go upstairs.	Reasoning
He says that disappearance of the deceased had come as news in papers and TV also.	Reasoning
PW10 requested the company premises for meeting and he has told that it will interfere in the business and refused him the place for holding the meeting to which PW10 insisted again.	Reasoning
In the records there was nothing to show that PW10 and PW 11 were shareholders.	Reasoning
YET ANOTHER INDEPENDENT WITNESS PW31 In context would be the deposition of a worker of PW34, Samundeswari examined as PW31.	None
She says, inter alia, as follows PW34 is the proprietor of the company.	None
PW10 and PW11 became partners during 1999 and 16 persons are working.	None
She was the supervisor.	None
She speaks about attendance being maintained.	None
The company was closed for a period of one week from 29.11.2001 treating as leave.	None
Then they came to the company on 6 th December.	None
They were informed that there were no meeting convened.	None
On 30 th December she did not go for duty as it was Sunday.	None
On 31 st December, they were asked by PW34 to go to Ezhichur to dry up the vermicelli and to pack the same and on the 1 st January the company was on leave.	None
On 2 nd January, PW 31, Nagarathinam and PW34 went and saw the company.	None
The main gate was found locked.	None
While returning after making a phone call, the owner found that the gate was not locked and only chain along with was put.	None
When they went upstairs, the cot was found smashed and the lights were burning and the bottles and the bits of cigarette were found in an ugly scene and about 11.30 A.M. one person came upstairs saying that he has come to take a thing from there and he has taken Rebook shoe marked as MOI and for the second time, the same person came in a car and taken away something in a gunny bag.	None
At the same time at about 02.30 P.M., one person came in a motorcycle and asked whether it is cleaned and at that time she told him as to why you are making the place ugly where the ladies are working.	None
She states further that on 18 th March, one person was brought by the police to the company and enquired from her and at that time on seeing that person, told the police that she only shouted him and that if it is asked her whether she could identify the said person she could say that as it is a lapse of more than 2 years, she could not remember that person.	None
Regarding the cot she says that cot is in green colour and if she is asked to identify she could say that she could not remember.	None
The company owner PW34 declared holiday on the suggestion of PW10.	None
During police interrogation she did not say that there was a bedpan.	None
Her husband Vijay Kumar had acted as partner, she deposes with PW10.	None
Her husband had died of heart attack.	None
She had seen the shoe when it was taken away.	None
THE MATERIALS	None
AGAINT	None
THE ACCUSED WHO ARE APPELLANTS THE MATERIALS AGAINST A3	None
On the basis of his(A3) arrest on 25.3.2002, he gave a confession statement, which has been recorded in the presence of PW26.	Reasoning
His statement led to the discovery of Maruti Zen Car bearing No.TN02EZ99.	Reasoning
PW16 has also supported prosecution version and it is from him ultimately the vehicle came to be seized.	Reasoning
P20 is the admissible portion.	Reasoning
PW16 has identified A3.	Reasoning
The Maruti car which has been marked MO12, according to PW16, was taken in November, 2001 by A3 and returned to PW16 only during February, 2002.	Reasoning
The relevant aspect of the Maruti car is as follows PW11 has deposed that on 30.12.2001 at the factory premises, A9 called him over phone and told him to open the gate.	Reasoning
Then, he deposes about a Tata Sumo car coming first, followed by Ford Escort Car and a Maruti zen car.	Reasoning
The eyes and mouth of the deceased was closed.	Reasoning
His hands were tied.	Reasoning
The deceased was taken to the first floor.	Reasoning
PW11 has identified the four persons who brought the deceased in the position we have described a little earlier.	Reasoning
They are A4, A11, A16 and A17.	Reasoning
A5 went in the zen car which left the company.	Reasoning
He had given further statement on 05.04.2002 wherein he stated that if taken to his office, he will surrender the cassette, and bit paper given by A1 from the near side of his wifes photograph which are marked as MO28 and MO33.	Reasoning
The next circumstance appearing against the third accused which corroborates the testimony of PW10 and PW11, is the circumstance relating to the creation of a false death certificate of the deceased.	Reasoning
In our view, the prosecution has, indeed, succeeded in proving the following At the instance of A3, PW32 (medical practitioner) who was known to PW33 was persuaded to issue a false certificate.	Reasoning
The certificate was got issued in the name of a fictional person which is proved by the evidence of PW38 who has deposed that no such person (Rajamani Chettiar) who has been certified to have died by PW32 lived in the residence as reported.	Reasoning
PW36Office Assistant In Charge of the Burial Ground has deposed that on 02.01.2002, PW19 told him after he (PW36) left, (apparently on the previous day) a body came and the Doctors Certificate would be given on that day.	Reasoning
The Certificate is P27.	Reasoning
The certificate was, apparently, produced in view of what was requested by PW19, a licence in the cremation ground, PW12 has become hostile but even PW12 has deposed about a person being cremated, on 01.01.2002, in the night and his role along with PW19 in it.	Reasoning
The certificate was procured at the instance of A3.	Reasoning
It was meant to facilitate the cremation of the dead body on the date of the death.	Reasoning
Going by the testimony of PW1, the deceased was around 52 years.	Reasoning
We say this because an attempt is made to contend that for a person above 60 years, no certificate is insisted upon to cremate as deposed by PW6.	Reasoning
It may be that the age is shown as above 60.	Reasoning
The circumstance of A3 creating the document for which purpose A13 was an emissary (A13 has not filed any appeal), goes a long way to strengthen the prosecution case.	Reasoning
We see no reason at all not to conclude that the body which was cremated through PW19 and PW12 on 01.01.2002 was that of the deceased.	Reasoning
Not only would the cremation and that too under a false name attract the offence under Section 201 of IPC, which deals with the destruction of evidence of committing of offence but it is an important chain in the list of circumstances which unerringly points to the role of A3 and others in the crime of murder also.	Reasoning
The circumstance is a vital corroborative link which establishes the case of not only murder but relates back to the abduction.	Reasoning
This is for the reason that it will be absurd to believe that the deceased went with the accused voluntarily and willingly, particularly, when the evidence of PW13 and PW3 are also borne in mind.	Reasoning
We stand reminded that abduction takes place either when there is force or deceit in causing a person to move from a place under Section 362 of the IPC.	Reasoning
PW10 has spoken of seeing the deceased tied and blindfolded in the upstairs portion.	Reasoning
This is a case where the accused have not only carried out a grave crime of murder but they have also attempted to efface the most important evidence relating to the same, viz., the corpus delicti.	Reasoning
We reject also the contention that the nonproduction of the body is fatal to the prosecution case.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW32, PW33 and PW36 (the Officer of the Corporation before whom the certificate was produced) and PW38 assumes critical significance.	Reasoning
The hand of A3 from the beginning, i.e., from the selection of the factory, arranging of vehicles, confinement and cremation, is crystal clear and his role in the murder is established.	Reasoning
It is in this context that evidence of PW10 and PW11 falls to be appreciated.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW34 clearly confirms clinchingly the role of A3 and sufficiently corroborates PW10 and PW11.	Reasoning
We would arrive at the conclusion even excluding MO28 and MO33 as agreed to by the Counsel for the State.	Reasoning
ACCUSED NO. 4 (A4) A4 was arrested on 09.04.2002.	Reasoning
He made a confessional statementP34 witnessed by PW39.	Reasoning
It led to the recovery of Ford Escort White Car TN1075554.	Reasoning
PW10 deposed that he bought the same car though in the name of one Ranjit Singh.	Reasoning
He further deposes that by the end of November, 2001, A9 called him over phone and asked him for the said Ford car.	Reasoning
A9 asked for two or three months.	Reasoning
PW10 believing that he will pay the rent, sent the car to the house of A9.	Reasoning
The driver of A3Viji came and took that car.	Reasoning
The use of the said car is mentioned by PW10 thereafter by deposing that on 05.12.2001, A3 went out in the said car which had been given by him for rent.	Reasoning
He also identified A4 as one among the three persons who followed them on that day.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the said car makes its appearance when he speaks about A3 telling A9 to be at the Woodlands Hotel and going along with A1 and A2 in the car.	Reasoning
He again speaks about A3 coming alone to the Woodlands Hotel by the same car.	Reasoning
Again around 07.00 P.M., A3, A9 and A1 came along with one more person by the same car.	Reasoning
That other person is none other than A5.	Reasoning
Thereafter, he says, on 30.12.2001, at 05.00 P.M., the driver of A3 had left the car in his office.	Reasoning
In his crossexamination, PW10 has deposed that he bought the car for Rs.3,60,000/ from one Advocate Durai Pandi.	Reasoning
He, no doubt, admits that it is not in his name.	Reasoning
Passing on to PW11 in connection with the vehicle, PW11 has noted the Ford Escort car on 30.12.2001 as the car from which four persons got down and those persons brought the deceased by closing his eyes and mouth and hands being tied and took him to the first floor.	Reasoning
He has marked the Ford Escort Car as MO6.	Reasoning
It is this car which stands recovered on the basis of the statement given by A4.	Reasoning
This is a case based essentially on circumstantial evidence.	Reasoning
The statement made by A4 led to the discovery of the car in the circumstances which have already been explained in the evidence of PW10 and the presence of A4, not only on 05.12.2001	Reasoning
but also on 30.12.2001, has crucial relevance in particular the presence on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
A4 was present along with three others and they emerged out of the very same car, viz., the Ford Escort car, in which, apparently, the deceased was brought.	Reasoning
The condition of the deceased, viz., his eyes and mouth being closed and hands being tied and being taken to the first floor, are matters of moment in connecting A4 with the gory episode having its origin in the abduction of the deceased, his illegal confinement and culminating in his murder and cremation.	Reasoning
ACCUSED NO. 5 (A5) PW10 refers to him, in his deposition, as coming along with A3, A9 and A1 around 07.00 P.M. by the Ford Escort Car.	None
He has been identified by PW10.	None
This is on 05.12.2001.	None
A3 introduced him to A5 and though they (PW10 and PW11), provided food to Senthil KumarA1, it was to be served only by A5.	None
His involvement is further spoken about by PW10 as having occurred on 30.12.2001.	None
On the said day, PW10 speaks about going to the residence of A9 on being called by him.	None
A9 asked for the keys of the factory.	None
A9 asked A5 to drop him in the factory on a bike.	None
PW10 and A5 went to the factory.	None
There is further reference to the key being handed over by PW34 to PW10.	None
The key was handed over by PW10 to A3 who came in the auto.	None
PW10 deposed about the key being given to A5.	None
On the fateful day, on 01.01.2002, when the murder took place, PW10 has named A5 as going in a motorcycle to the company.	None
It went inside and was standing in the light.	None
A cloth bag was there in the bike.	None
The body of the deceased was brought from upstairs by four persons.	None
PW10 then deposes that a cloth was taken from the bag brought by A5 and tied around the body of the deceased like doing for a dead body.	None
A5 is cited by PW10 as going in his motorcycle.	None
PW11 has also spoken about A3 telling them about the person.	Reasoning
He identified him.	Reasoning
He also says that A3 told that A1 is a VIP and only A5 will do everything for him and that they should not do anything (apparently directly).	Reasoning
He notices presence of A5 along with PW10 on 30.12.2001 at the factory.	Reasoning
A3 asked A5 whether the company is ready.	Reasoning
A3 and A5 told that they were going to the house of A9 and went from there.	Reasoning
He speaks about A5 going by the Zen car on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
Thereafter, about halfanhour later, the Tata Sumo car came.	Reasoning
In the same, A5 and three more persons came with the tiffin parcel.	Reasoning
These persons have been identified as A6, A15 and A7.	Reasoning
On 31.12.2001, by 12 Noon, on being asked by A9, he purchases lunch and medicine and handed over to A5.	Reasoning
On 01.01.2002, A5 told PW11 that there was no need for getting dinner in the night.	Reasoning
PW11 has also seen A5 going into the company.	Reasoning
He also speaks about dhoti brought by A5 used to tieup the deceased and A5 leaving on a motorcycle.	Reasoning
A5, who was arrested on 18.03.2002the first arrestee in this case, has, in fact, given statement under which he has identified the Maruti Omni Van MO9 bearing No. TNA7484, the place (factory) as also the cremation ground.	Reasoning
The Maruti Omni VanMO9 is the Van which was used for abduction of the deceased.	Reasoning
PW3 has spoken about a person being pushed into a Maruti Van.	Reasoning
The facts discovered based on statement by A5 are very significant, and hence, most relevant, not only in revealing his involvement but unravelling the entire prosecution case.	Reasoning
A statement under Section 27 of the Evidence Act is not only about the thing as such which is discovered consequent upon the statement but the knowledge attributable to the person who makes the statement about the matter, discovered, based on the statement.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW44 who was a Revenue Inspector and witness to the statement of A5 and identification by A5, helps establishing his clear link and sufficiently corroborates PW10 and PW11.	Reasoning
Lastly, PW34 has spoken about the presence of A5 on 30.12.01 and identified him.	Reasoning
A6, A7, A8 and A11	Reasoning
What is the evidence, as regards, these accused appellants before us?	Reasoning
Taking the evidence of the accomplices, PW10 has this to say about them	Reasoning
He says that along with A4, A6 and A11 were present on 05.12.2001 as two out of the three persons present in the residence of A3.	Reasoning
He speaks about A3 telling the persons and A9 that Balan had to be brought and some money to be collected from him.	Reasoning
He also speaks about the three persons as A4, A6 and A11, following him, PW11, A9 in another car.	Reasoning
He further speaks about their involvement when he deposed that on 01.01.2002, A9 asked PW10 to wait at the hotel and he came with a golden colour Maruti van.	Reasoning
By 8 P.M. that Maruti van was taken by two persons from A9.	Reasoning
Those two persons have been identified as A6 and A11.	Reasoning
Presence of A6 and his involvement is further deposed by PW10 when he states that the 6 th accused was standing near the gate of the factory later on 01.01.2002.	Reasoning
PW10 and PW11 were asked to go away.	Reasoning
He speaks about PW10 and PW11 being scared after the threat by A6.	Reasoning
He further identifies A6, A7 and A11 as among the persons who were present near the deceased when he was tied up in the first floor of the factory.	Reasoning
He also identified A6, A7, A8 and A11 as the persons who carried the dead body of the deceased.	Reasoning
They go in the van with the body.	Reasoning
At this juncture, it is apposite to notice PW18 deposing that he is the owner of van bearing No. TN 228853.	Reasoning
He has deposed to giving the van to A9 on earlier occasions.	Reasoning
More importantly, he has deposed to it being taken by A9 on 01.01.2002 at about 10 A.M. and it being returned only on 2.01.2002 and its seizure by the police on 30.03.2002.	Reasoning
Turning to PW11, the other accomplice, this is what he has deposed about the involvement of the accused in question.	Reasoning
PW11, for whatever it is worth in law, has also identified A6 and A11 as two out of the three persons who were in conversation at the residence of A3 on 05.12.2001.	Reasoning
He has also spoken about A3 telling A9 that the deceased had to give some money and it has to be collected by bringing him.	Reasoning
He also speaks about A6 and A11, inter alia, following them in another car.	Reasoning
He has identified A11 as one among the four persons who brought M.K. Balan in the Ford car on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
He also identified A6 and A7 as among the persons as two out of the three persons who came with A5 in the Tata Sumo car which came again on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
Now let us look at the other evidence available, pointing to the involvement of the aforesaid accused.	None
PW21 is a Head constable (Police).	None
He has deposed to be on night duty on 01.01.2002.	None
He speaks about being given beat tickets along with PW35.	None
He speaks about a Maruti Omni van standing in the middle of the road.	None
He and PW35 went to the van.	None
He asked the occupants what they were doing at that hour.	None
They told that they were celebrating the new year with drinks.	None
Though, on become suspicious, they searched the van from inside but there was nothing suspicious inside it.	None
They continued with their duty.	None
He has proved P10 beat ticket.	None
He has also identified the accused as A6, A7 and A11.	None
He also spoken about the identification done by him before the Magistrate by way of TIP.	None
He has proved P11  the duty book.	None
PW35 is the constable referred to by PW21.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also speaks about being on duty on 01.01.2002.	None
He speaks about going with PW21 to Melpatti, Ponnappa Street from 2400 hours (PW19 speaks about the cremation from being at Melpatti, Ponnapa Mudali Street).	None
He speaks about finding of Maruti vehicle bearing no. TN22B8853 in Melpatti New Street.	None
He speaks about interacting with the four persons.	None
The vehicle was standing near Perambur cemetery and the sodium lamp was burning.	None
He has proved P28 as his duty book.	None
PW10 is also his beat book.	None
He has also identified A6, A7, A8 and A11 as the persons who were present.	Reasoning
He has also identified the van which he saw as MO7.	None
He has spoken about the identification done in the TIP.	None
It is relevant to remember that PW10 has identified A6, A7, A8 and A11 as the persons who carried the dead body of the deceased on 01.01.2002.	Reasoning
It is also to be borne in mind that PW10 and PW11 have spoken about their body being loaded in a golden colour Maruti van which has also been identified by PW10 as MO7 and bearing the very same registration no.	Reasoning
TN 22B8853.	Reasoning
It is corroborated by the evidence of PW35 (Police Constable).	Reasoning
The evidence clinchingly points to A6, A7, A8 and A11 being involved apparently at the behest of A3 and carrying dead body of the deceased on the fateful day in the van and their presence near the place where the deceased came to be cremated.	Reasoning
To overlook the testimony of PW10 and PW11 in a case based on circumstantial evidence, being about matters which could not possibly, have been witnessed by any other witnesses other than the accomplices will be asking for the impossible except perhaps concocted evidence.	Reasoning
A6 was arrested on 19.03.2002.	Facts
He gave P16 which is the admissible portion of his confession statement within the meaning of Section 27 of the Evidence Act.	None
He identified the Maruti omni van bearing no.	None
TN0343 which was parked in front of the house of PW37 and seized under P17.	None
The Maruti van itself has been marked as MO8 but we would exclude the same from consideration for reasons which we have discussed.	None
A7 was arrested on 20.03.2002.	Reasoning
He gave the admissible portion of confession statement which is P38.	None
PW42 is a Village Administrative officer who has witnessed the statement.	None
On the basis of the statement, the green colour steel cot was seized.	None
It is marked as MO11.	None
It was produced and seized under P38 which is also witnessed by PW42.	None
PW34 and PW31 have also spoken about the cot apart from PW10.	None
The evidence of PW10 shows that when he went upstairs, he found that the deceased whose eyes were closed was tied with a chain and he was asked to sit in a green colour steel cot.	Reasoning
He has been identified by PW21 and PW35 police officers as one of the four, present near the spot of cremation.	Reasoning
A8 was arrested on 22.03.2002.	Facts
He gave a confession statement in the presence of PW23 and another witness, P14 is the admissible portion.	None
PW35 police constable has identified him as one of the four found in MO7 van on 01.012002 near the cremation ground.	None
We have noticed that PW11 has identified A11 as one of the persons who brought the deceased in the Ford car to the factory.	Reasoning
It is to be remembered that PW11 has identified the accused in the Identification Parade conducted by the Judicial Magistrate.	Reasoning
That apart, after arrest, he gave P53Statement.	Reasoning
He has produced the Philips Stereo Cassette Recorder which was recovered under P54Mahazar marked as MO2.	Reasoning
To lend assurance to this circumstance, PW46, working in the Revenue Department, has been examined.	Reasoning
The taperecorder was hidden in the house of A11.	Reasoning
Moreover, PW21 and PW35, Police Constables, have deposed to seeing A11 near the graveyard on 01/02.01.2002.	Reasoning
They were standing near MO7.	Reasoning
MO7 is the Van in which the deceased was taken from the factory after the murder.	Reasoning
It is the Golden Colour Maruti Van bearing No. TN228853.	Reasoning
PW11 has, in his deposition, given the same number in his evidence as the number of the Van in which the body of the deceased was taken away from the factory.	Reasoning
Therefore, presence of A11, as noted by PW11, from 30.12.2001 till after the murder and near the site of the cremation, as noted by independent witnessesPW21 and PW35, lend sufficient assurance to the prosecution case against him.	Reasoning
PW10 has also deposed to identifying A11 as one of the three persons who were present at the residence of A3 on 05.12.2001.	Reasoning
It is on that day A3 said that the deceased had to be brought and some money had to be collected from him.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that the evidence in this case establishes that the deceased was indeed cremated under the name of a fictitious person mentioned in the death certificate issued by PW32 (the medical practitioner).	Reasoning
It is also clear that such certificate is procured by A3 through PW33.	Reasoning
It is clear that A6, A7, A8 and A11 were clearly involved.	Reasoning
A14 With regard to A14, his involvement in the matter emerges as one of the persons who stood in the upstairs of the building with the deceased when the deceased was in the state of illegal confinement.	Reasoning
This, no doubt, is based on the testimony of PW10.	Reasoning
No doubt, as far as A14 is concerned, there is no recovery.	Reasoning
It is true that there is no direct evidence that the accused abducted or murdered the victim.	Reasoning
The case, as already noticed, hinges on circumstantial evidence.	Reasoning
We do notice that A10 has been acquitted by the High Court.	Reasoning
A10 himself was also named by PW10 as present along with A14 at the time of the illegal confinement.	Reasoning
The High Court has, in paragraph 33, assigned cogent reasons for acquitting A10, including, inter alia, that PW11 though had identified A10 in the Test Identification Parade, could not identify him in the Court.	Reasoning
The evidence against A14 has been believed in by both the Courts.	Reasoning
A15 A15 is the sole appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 828 of 2013.	Reasoning
PW3, the witness to prove the abduction has spoken about a motor cycle following the Omni van.	Reasoning
He earlier deposes that he saw three persons were forcing a person to get into the van.	Reasoning
A15 gave a statement to the police in the presence of PW44 and another (Mutthu Rekku).	Reasoning
The admissible portion of the statement is P50.	Reasoning
As per PW44, he stated that he will provide the fashion Hero Honda bearing No. TN05C6475.	Reasoning
PW44 says that he identified the motorcycle parked in front of a compound of a house at Gandhiji Street, Bharathi Nagar and also the shoe.	Reasoning
PW67 has spoken about recovery of the motor cycle under P51 Mahazer.	Reasoning
The motor cycle is MO10 while the shoe is MO1.	Reasoning
Justice Arun Mishra confirmed his conviction even after eschewing MO1 shoes.	Reasoning
PW1 the son of the deceased deposed that the shoes showed by the CBCID did not belong to his father.	Reasoning
As regards the motorcycle, PW10 has deposed that A9 wanted an ambassador car and a motor cycle.	Reasoning
PW10 got the motorcycle from his friend Akbar which is fashion vehicle and navy blue in colour and gave it to A9.	Reasoning
PW10 asked for return of the motorcycle.	Reasoning
He marks the motorcycle as MO10.	Reasoning
As noticed, A15 has stated that he got the motorcycle from one Akbar.	Reasoning
PW48 is the said Akbar.	Reasoning
His name is shown as Shaheed Akbar.	Reasoning
In his deposition, he has stated that he was having a fashion motor bike Hero Honda but he states that he purchased through financier.	Reasoning
He further states that the Registration No.	Reasoning
TN04J1878 blue colour.	Reasoning
He further states that PW10 was known to him well.	Reasoning
He used to take his vehicle often.	Reasoning
Last year, during November, 2001, the said Venu (PW10) apparently, had taken his vehicle and did not return it.	Reasoning
The RC book related with the vehicle is with the financier.	Reasoning
He has produced and marked as P58 photocopy of the RC of the said motor vehicle.	Reasoning
He deposes that motor bike seen by him which belongs to him.	Reasoning
He further says that the registration number of the vehicle which he saw, was not in the said motor bike.	Reasoning
It is that motor bike which is marked as MO10.	Reasoning
No doubt, in the cross, he says that he does not know the wheel base and weight of the bike, inter alia.	Reasoning
He has neither issued any notice to PW10 nor had he filed any complaint.	Reasoning
He says that he has neither repaid any loan nor received any notice from any financier.	Reasoning
MO10 was marked by PW10 and under the statement under Section 27 the vehicle which is seized actually, has the registration no.	Reasoning
TN86785 whereas the vehicle which PW48 from whom PW10 took the vehicle for giving it to A3 as requested by A9, bears no.	Reasoning
TN04J1878.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW48 makes it clear that it is the same vehicle and he does, no doubt, say that the registration number of the vehicle was not in the said motorcycle.	Reasoning
This means that the vehicle marked as MO10 is, indeed, the vehicle belonging to PW48.	Reasoning
He makes it over to PW10.	Reasoning
As requested by A9, PW10 handed it over to A9.	Reasoning
It would appear that the registration number, as was originally seen on the motorcycle, has been changed.	Reasoning
It is the motorcycle which was apparently seen by PW3 and used at the time of abducting the deceased.	Reasoning
The vehicle has been recovered at the instance of A15.	Reasoning
Even ignoring the shoe which is recovered on the basis of the statement, we would think that the evidence sufficiently implicates A15.	Reasoning
A16 PW11 has deposed that they were amongst the four persons who brought the deceased in the Ford car on the 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
Moreover, no doubt, in cross, he is unable to remember A16 which he persevered with the names of other three.	Reasoning
But he does speak of his presence at the factory.	Reasoning
Regarding A16, he was taken into custody, and on questioning in the presence of PW47 and another witness, he gave a confessional statement.	Reasoning
He stated that if he is taken, he would produce the black bag, cell phone and knife from the house at Villivakkam.	Reasoning
P56 is marked as the admissible portion.	Reasoning
On being so taken to the place at No.110/57, Nehru Nagar, Villivakkam, he identified a Panasonic Cell Phone, sim card with charger, one black colour carry bag, nine feet long yellow colour nylon rope and two chains.	Reasoning
This is besides knife and three locks.	Reasoning
Therefore, it cannot be said that there was no corroboration for the role of A16.	Reasoning
It is quite clear that A16 was amongst the accused who brought the deceased.	Reasoning
His role in the abduction becomes clear.	Reasoning
It is also clear that the deceased is not only not alive but was undoubtedly done away by way of murder.	Reasoning
Having abducted the deceased, it is clear that the role of A16, as assessed by the Trial Court and further accepted by the High Court, does not require interference.	Reasoning
Accused No.17 (A17)	None
A17 is again another accused who was one of the four persons identified by PW11 who brought the deceased on 30.12.2001 to the factory.	Reasoning
In this case, he was arrested on 01.07.2002.	Reasoning
The principle that abduction followed by murder raises a presumption that the abductor was instrumental in murder was rightly invoked by the Trial Court.	None
AQUITTAL OF A12, THE INVOKING OF SECTION 109 OF THE IPC EVEN AGAINST A1 AND A2 THE ACQUITTAL OF A3 TO A18 UNDER SECTION 120B OF THE IPC	Facts
In this regard, it is necessary to have a closer look at the prosecution case.	Reasoning
The case of the prosecution, in substance, is as follows The first and second accused were close associates.	Reasoning
The twelfth accused is the wife of the second accused.	Reasoning
The third accused belongs to ADMK party.	Reasoning
The other accused except the twelfth accused, were all the henchmen of the third accused.	Reasoning
During the month of November 2001, at the instance of the first accused, the twelfth accused had spoken to the third accused over phone posing herself as Sasikala (a leader of the ADMK party).	Reasoning
The twelfth accused told the third accused that she had entrusted a work to the first accused for which the third accused was to help him on the same day evening.	Reasoning
A1 to A3 conspired and planned as to how to kidnap the deceased and to take money from him.	Reasoning
As per their plan on 30.12.2001, the deceased came to be kidnapped (it must be abducted).	Reasoning
He was taken to the factory owned by PW34, illegally detained was tied with the rope and iron chain in a cot.	Reasoning
They threatened him to give Rs. 16 crores and the deceased refused to give the same.	Reasoning
He was asked to tell what is his property, and thereafter on 01.01.2002, the twelfth accused, spoke over phone in the voice of Sasikala to the third accused saying that if it is possible to get the money or else finish the matter and to meet her with the first accused and the rest of the matter would be informed by the first accused himself and accordingly what was stated by him was recorded in a tape recorder.	Reasoning
The accused on the same day evening at about 09 P.M., by strangulation, murdered the deceased and to screen the crime, the accused had taken the body in a vehicle and cremated the body for which purpose a false death certificate was brought from PW32.	Reasoning
THE ACQUITTAL OF A12 (Accused No.12)	None
It must be remembered that A12 came to be charged under Sections 419, 420 and 387 IPC read with 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
There is also a charge under Section 120B of the IPC against her, as already noticed by us.	Reasoning
The Trial Court discusses the case against A12 in the following manner inter alia It is found that the twelfth accused was an AngloIndian lady.	Reasoning
On a perusal of P65 which is the confessional statement given by her under Section 164 of The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the CrPC, for short), the Court found that anyone would come to the conclusion that she was living as per the Indian culture.	Reasoning
She is a mother of twins and growing them well.	Reasoning
The second accused is her husband.	Reasoning
The second accused, as per P65 statement, was suffering a loss and facing financial problems.	Reasoning
The second accused fell into the cunning trap of first accused.	Reasoning
The second accused forced the twelfth accused to fall into the cunning trap of the first accused.	Reasoning
The first and twelfth accused got married out of their love affair.	Reasoning
The marriage took place at a temple as per Hindu Rites and Customs.	Reasoning
Initially, when first accused asked twelfth accused to talk like Sasikala, she refused.	Reasoning
Then the twelfth accused did not talk over phone thereafter.	Reasoning
The first accused pushed the second accused into his cunning trap and on account of that the twelfth accused was convinced by the second accused and she has talked over cell phone to the third accused as if Sasikala talked to him.	Reasoning
There was a threat by the first accused to the twelfth accused.	Reasoning
A2 forced his wife to act and to fall into the cunning trap.	Reasoning
The Trial Court further goes on to state that normally in foreign countries, it would be commonly seen that while the husband is committing mistakes and misdeeds, the wife would leave her husband and choose anyone as her husband of her choice as that of changing clothes every day.	Reasoning
The Trial Court further finds that it is not the State in our country.	Reasoning
When the husband is doing any wrong deeds, the wife would mend her husband in some way or the other and when the wife is trying to mend her husband and she is forced to do the same by her husband, she would do it as what her husband is asking her to do so and she thinks that her husband is as God and thereby she is committing such mistakes.	Reasoning
The Trial Court goes on to hold that the twelfth accused that if she told anything about her husband, he would be taken by the Police.	Reasoning
As a result of that she had been suffering and on account of the fact that she followed the Tamil culture, she did not whisper anything about her husband.	Reasoning
It is clearly seen that the Court goes on to hold that A12 did not do anything to attract the offence under Section 34 with the intention or motive and that she did not feel that she had done anything wrong and she was doing anything only as to what was stated by her husband and then she has been arrayed as A12.	Reasoning
The Court goes on to find that she cannot be held guilty under the fourth charge which is framed under Sections 419, 420 and 387 read with Section 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
However, the Court proceeds to find accused Nos. 1 and 2 had committed offences under Sections 419 and 420 of the IPC.	Reasoning
A12 was not labouring under any disability.	Reasoning
We may have our reservation about exonerating A12 on the reasoning that as it was perceived to be a part of the duty of the wife in the Indian culture to obey her husband even when the demand of the husband is to commit a criminal act.	Reasoning
We notice, however, that not only A12 was acquitted by the Trial Court but the appeal by the State against her acquittal has been dismissed by the High Court.	Reasoning
The State has also not challenged her acquittal before this Court.	Reasoning
No doubt A12 would be criminally liable for only those acts done with the requisite mens rea.	Reasoning
Hence, we say no more.	None
What is, however, important is that it is not a case where the Court has not believed the version of the prosecution that the twelfth accused did make the calls posing herself as Sasikala.	Reasoning
It is true that arguments have been addressed that there is no evidence to show that A12 knew the voice of Sasikala and contention is seen raised in Section 313 CrPC Statement of A3 that A3 knew the voice of Sasikala.	Reasoning
The prosecution would have to prove the negative if it is called upon to prove that A3 did not know the voice of Sasikala.	Reasoning
Though it is the duty of the prosecution to prove the case, it may not extend to holding that a matter which could be proved by the defence as something within his knowledge, the accused can sit tight.	Reasoning
Further, the case of the prosecution must, at any rate, be judged with reference to the actions of A3 and the other accused who are described as his henchmen.	Reasoning
The wealth of evidence, extending even to A3, procuring a totally false death certificate, is formidable.	Reasoning
It should be noted that the first charge was essentially framed that A1 to A3 had conspired.	Reasoning
A1 and A2 have accepted the verdict and we are not called upon to judge the correctness of their conviction under	Reasoning
Section 120B.	Reasoning
It may be true that, though, there is a charge against all the accused under Section 120B of the IPC, except A1 and A2, all the other accused stand acquitted under Section 120B of the IPC.	Reasoning
The question would, therefore, arise as to what is the effect of acquittal of the appellants before us under Section	None
120B.	None
We are primarily concerned with their conviction under Section 302 besides Sections 387, 365 read with Section 109 of the IPC and Sections 364 and 201 of the IPC.	None
The fact that the appellants have been acquitted under Section 120B will not, in our view, extricate them from criminal liability for their acts which would constitute substantive offences under Sections 302, 347 and 387 of the IPC.	Reasoning
A DEEPER GLANCE AT THE CHARGES THE EFFECT OF ACQUITTAL OF A12	Reasoning
The first charge is to the effect that A1, A2 and A3 conspired in November, 2001 to kidnap the deceased and to extract money.	Reasoning
It was further agreed to murder him in case he refuses to pay money.	Reasoning
Based on the said conspiracy, on 30.12.2001 early morning, he was kidnaped, detained at the factory and murdered on 01.01.2002.	Reasoning
Thereby a charge under Section 120B of the IPC was framed against A1 to A18.	Reasoning
The second charge is about actual kidnapping (it must be understood as abducting).	Reasoning
The abduction is alleged to be done by A4, A7, A10, A11, A14, A15, A16 and A17 in a Maruti Van bearing Registration No. TNA7484.	Reasoning
A15 went in a Hero Honda Motorcycle to show the route.	Reasoning
The deceased was kept at the factory belonging to PW34.	Reasoning
The aforesaid accused were charged under Section 365 of the IPC.	Reasoning
For abetment of the said offences, A1 to A3, A5, A6, A8, A9 and A13 to A18 were charged under Section 365 of the IPC read with Section 109 of the IPC for going in a car bearing No. TN10F5555.	Reasoning
All the accused, except A12 and A13, were charged under Section 387 for tying the deceased with iron chain and rope in a cot and he was threatened to part with Rs. 16 crores or else execute the documents in regard to his properties.	Reasoning
The fourth charge is to the effect that in order to fulfil such conspiracy, and in pursuance to the same, at the instance and the instigation of A1 and A2, A12 spoke to A3 in the voice of Sashikala uttering the words, if possible, to get the amount or else close him and come along with A1 and meet herA12.	Reasoning
Charges were accordingly framed against A12 under Section 419, 420 and 387 of the IPC read with Section 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
The fifth charge was in order to fulfil the object of the said conspiracy, consequent upon the said occurrence, on 01.01.2002, A3, A4, A6 to A8, A10, A11 and A14 to A18 committed the murder of the deceased by tying a rope around the neck and tightening it.	Reasoning
Likewise, A1, A2, A5, A9, A12 and A13 were charged under Section 302 of the IPC read with Section 109 of the IPC for abetment of murder.	Reasoning
There is a charge under Sections 347 and 364 of the IPC for kidnapping against A3 to A11 and A13 to A18 and A1, A2 and A12 were charged, with the aid of Section 109 of the IPC, under Sections 347 and 364 of the IPC.	Reasoning
Charge was also framed against A8, A10, A11 and A13 to A18 under Section 201 of the IPC for cremation of the body and getting the false certificate as if one Rajamani Chettiar had died due to heart ailment.	Reasoning
There is the argument addressed before us that the effect of the acquittal of the appellants under Section 120B of the IPC would be that their conviction under Section 302 of the IPC and other offences cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
As we have noted, the charge under Section 120B of the IPC is based on the conspiracy hatched between A1 to A3.	Reasoning
No doubt, the charges laid against A1 to A18 under Section 120B of the IPC, is essentially based on the conspiracy between A1 to A3.	Reasoning
It is to be noted, however, the charge under Section 302 of the IPC is against A3, A4, A6 to A8, A10, A11 and A14 to A18.	Reasoning
It was A1, A2, A5, A9, A12 and A13, who were charged under Section 302 of the IPC read with Section 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
We agree that for a charge under Section 109 of the IPC, a minimum of two persons are required.	Reasoning
There can be any number of accused charged with the aid of Section 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
In order that there is abetment, it is indispensable also that there is a person who abets another.	Reasoning
To take an example, a person shoots with his gun on being intentionally aided or instigated in doing so by another.	Reasoning
The latter would be guilty under Section 109 of the IPC along with the person who actually carried out the murder by shooting.	Reasoning
Thus, there is a principal player and the abettor.	Reasoning
The principal player would be guilty for the acts or omissions which amount to offences under the law.	Reasoning
The abettor though does not trigger the gun, if we may use the expression, is the moving force behind it and becomes liable as such.	Reasoning
In this case, the Trial Court has proceeded to find the appellants (except A5) guilty of the fifth charge under Section 302 IPC whereas the A1 and A2 have been found guilty of the charge of conspiracy under Section 120B of the IPC.	Reasoning
In other words, the idea to commit the offences came into being in the minds of A1 and A2.	Reasoning
The other players have been roped in on the basis of their acts which was in tune with the conspiracy hatched by A1 and A2.	Reasoning
The acquittal of A12, who has been charged under Section 120B of the IPC and also for offences under Sections 419, 420 and 387 of the IPC read with Section 109 of the IPC would not detract from the criminality of the acts committed by the other accused and, in the facts of this case, we would think that there is no illegality involved in convicting the appellants in the manner done under Section 302 of the IPC.	Reasoning
The Trial Court has found that the plan was the brainchild essentially of A1 and A2 We have noticed that the trial Court has essentially proceeded on the basis that the appellants were except A5, charged under Section 302 under the 5 th charge were guilty of the said charge (See paragraph 167 for the discussion).	None
We have referred to the paragraphs in the judgment of the trial court wherein the trial court has found A3, A4, A6, A7, A8, A9, A10, A11, A14, A15, A16 and A17 guilty under section 302 IPC.	Reasoning
It must be noticed that it is without invoking Section 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
However, it so happened, that in the initial portion of the judgment of the trial Court it is mentioned that Section 109 was also invoked along with Section 302 which is inconsistent with the actual charge which was adverted to and findings by the trial Court.	Reasoning
It is on this basis apparently that the High Court and this Court also proceeded in the matter.	Reasoning
This inconsistency must, in our view, be resolved by holding that the finding is to be understood as one in terms of the 5 th charge as discussed from paragraph 167 onwards of the judgment of the trial Court.	Reasoning
We would proceed to hold further that if it is so understood then the criticism levelled that even A1 and A2 are convicted with the aid of Section 109 and there would be no principal player would not hold good.	Reasoning
We must appreciate that the first charge is that a conspiracy was woven between accused No.1, 2 and 3 within the meaning of Section 120B.	Reasoning
It has not been found acceptable to the trial Court and only A1 and A2 are found guilty under Section 120B of the IPC.	Reasoning
The acquittal of A12 as we have noticed, would not deflect from the factum of the conspiracy between A1 and A2.	Reasoning
So also, the acquittal of A3 in this regard.	Reasoning
We have also touched upon the provisions of explanation 5 to the Section 108 of the IPC.	Reasoning
We further notice that A1 and A2 have been convicted under Section 302 read with Section 109.	Reasoning
It is to be noticed that accused 1 and 2 have been held guilty under Section 120B.	Reasoning
It is necessary to notice Section 120B. 120B. Punishment of criminal conspiracy.	None
Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death, 2imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards, shall, where no express provision is made in this Code for the punishment of such a conspiracy, be punished in the same manner as if he had abetted such offence.	None
Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy other than a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable as aforesaid shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months, or with fine or with both.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
This means that since accused 1 and 2 are held guilty under Section 120B of the IPC to commit the murder of the deceased, they are to be punished as if they have abetted the said offence.	Reasoning
The judgment of the trial Court is to be understood in the said vein.	Reasoning
It is true that abetment by conspiracy is only one form of abetment.	Reasoning
There can be alternate charges.	Reasoning
There can be abetment by instigation and intentional acting even when there is no conspiracy and, therefore, no abetment by conspiracy.	Reasoning
The fifth charge against A1, A2, A5, A9, A12 and A13 would be in the form of an alternate charge.	Reasoning
We say this as A5 (Appellant before us) in Criminal Appeal No. 2008 of 2017 is charged and found guilty of murder under Section 302 of the IPC read with Section 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
The role of A5, particularly, having regard to the statement under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, leading to recovery of the Van, the discovery of the site of the factory and the cremation ground besides other evidence, cannot be ignored.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation in repelling the contention of the appellants on this ground.	Reasoning
It is clear that their acquittal under Section 120B of the IPC will not impact their conviction under the other provisions.	Reasoning
CERTAIN CONTENTIONS OF A6 PW21 and PW35 have identified A6 in the Test Identification Parade.	Reasoning
The contention that there would be possibility of these witnesses being seen before the Parade does not appeal to us.	Reasoning
The presence of the Omni Van and A6 besides 3 others on the very date on which murder was committed and near the site of cremation and the fact of cremation of the body being done, is certainly a very important circumstance and not to be ignored as contended.	Reasoning
The fact that PW19 has not found it possible to remember A6 though he has identified him in the Test Identification Parade before the Magistrate cannot lead to the obliteration of the evidence relating to the cremation on 01.01.2002 and about 8 persons coming there.	Reasoning
The fact that PW 19 has stated that the person identified in MO14 photograph was the person cremated is not liable to be brushed aside.	Reasoning
We should also not be oblivious to the principle that in a case of this nature, the total effect of the circumstances, must be borne in mind.	Reasoning
It must be safe to believe the accomplice evidence based on other materials available.	Reasoning
We find the evidence of PW10 and PW11 credible and the presence and role attributable to A6 cannot be brushed aside.	Reasoning
The presence of A6 spoken to by the accomplices on 05.12.2001, 30.12.2001 and, particularly, on 01.01.2002 on which last day in carrying the dead body in the van which is later identified by the police officer at a spot near the cremation ground is certainly a vital circumstance which cannot be brushed aside.	Reasoning
The role of A6 in the illegal confinement appears to be established.	Reasoning
No doubt there is recovery of MO8 which is attacked on the score that PW 24 has identified A8 as A6.	Reasoning
We have dealt with it elsewhere and shall not be detained by it.	None
ABDUCTION, ILLEGAL CONFINEMENT, MURDER AND CREMATION IN FICTITIOUS NAME	None
It is clear that the deceased was abducted on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
It is also established that he was confined illegally at the upstairs portion of the factory at Moudihur owned by PW34.	Reasoning
It is clear from the evidence that it was the body of the deceased which was cremated and a fictitious name was used and a certificate issued at the instance of A3(P27) which circumstance is clinching in establishing the prosecution case.	Reasoning
As far as the murder is concerned, there is no direct evidence.	Reasoning
There is no direct evidence that deceased is murdered by strangulating him.	Reasoning
However, it is equally true that on the basis of recovery made at the instance of A16 a nylon rope and chain was recovered which undoubtedly strengthens the prosecution case.	Reasoning
There cannot be medical evidence relating to murder in a case where the body stood cremated.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation in ignoring the evidence relating to recovery of certain parts of the body of the deceased but that is not sufficient for the accused to persuade us to throw out the prosecution case.	Reasoning
A carefully thought out criminal plan has led to the cruel snuffing out of precious life.	Reasoning
The players thought it through meticulously by destroying the corpus delicti by cremation.	Reasoning
The abduction followed by murder in appropriate cases can enable a court to presume that the abductor is the murderer.	Reasoning
Now the principle is that after abduction, the abductor would be in a position to explain what happened to his victim and if he failed to do so, it is only natural and logical that an irresistible inference may be drawn that he has done away with the hapless victim.	Reasoning
Section 106 of the Evidence Act would come to the assistance of the prosecution.	None
In this regard it is necessary to look at what this Court has laid down.	None
In State of W.B. v. Mir Mohamad Omar 27 this Court held as follows Section 364 IPC says, whoever abducts any person in order that such person may be murdered or may be so disposed of as to be put in danger of being murdered he commits the offence punishable under the section.	None
So the important task of the prosecution was to demonstrate that abduction of Mahesh was for murdering him.	None
Even if the murder did not take place, the offence would be complete if the abduction was completed with the said objective.	None
Conversely, if there was no such objective when the abduction was perpetrated, but later the abductors murdered the victim, Section 364 IPC would not be attracted, though in such a case the court may have to consider whether the offence of culpable homicide (amounting to or not amounting to murder) was committed.	None
In this case the trial Court has convicted the appellants under Section 364 IPC.	Reasoning
This is apart from also convicting them either under Section 365 or under Section 365 read with Section 109 as already discussed.	None
This Court in a later judgment reported in AIR 2001 SC 1436 Sucha Singh v. State of Punjab turned down the request of the appellant to reconsider the ratio laid 27 (2000) 8 SCC 382 down in State of W.B. V. Mir Mohd.	None
Omar (supra).	None
In the said case, the conviction appears to have been only under Section 302 though read with Section 34 of the IPC.	None
It is pertinent to note what this Court held speaking through Justice K.T.	None
Thomas	None
We pointed out that Section 106 of the Evidence Act is not intended to relieve the prosecution of its burden to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, but the section would apply to cases where the prosecution has succeeded in proving facts for which a reasonable inference can be drawn regarding the existence of certain other facts, unless the accused by virtue of special knowledge regarding such facts failed to offer any explanation which might drive the court to draw a different inference.	None
We have seriously bestowed our consideration on the arguments addressed by the learned Senior Counsel.	None
We only reiterate the legal principle adumbrated in State of W.B. v. Mir Mohd.	None
Omar (2000) 8 SCC 382 2000 SCC (Cri) 1516 that when more persons than one have abducted the victim, who is later murdered, it is within the legal province of the court to justifiably draw a presumption depending on the factual situation, that all the abductors are responsible for the murder.	None
Section 34 IPC could be invoked for the aid to that end, unless any particular abductor satisfies the court with his explanation as to what else he did with the victim subsequently, i.e., whether he left his associates en route or whether he dissuaded others from doing the extreme act etc. etc.	None
We are mindful of what is frequently happening during these days.	None
Persons are kidnapped in the sight of others and are forcibly taken out of the sight of all others and later the kidnapped are killed.	None
If a legal principle is to be laid down that for the murder of such kidnapped there should necessarily be independent evidence apart from the circumstances enumerated above, we would be providing a safe jurisprudence for protecting such criminal activities.	None
India cannot now afford to lay down any such legal principle insulating the marauders of their activities of killing kidnapped innocents outside the ken of others.	None
We would think that the aforesaid principle would also apply to those persons who illegally confine the person who stands abducted even if there is no evidence that they have themselves carried out the abduction.	Reasoning
Section 387 is heightened form of extortion in which the victim is put in the fear of death or grievous hurt.	Reasoning
Section 347 involves wrongful confinement of a person for the purpose of committing extortion.	Reasoning
The appellants have been convicted under Sections 347 and 387 of the IPC.	Reasoning
This is not an inexorable rule but to be applied based on the factual matrix presented before the court.	Reasoning
Where abduction is followed by illegal confinement and still later by death, the inference becomes overwhelming that the victim died at the hands of those who abducted confined him.	Reasoning
Nobody has a case that the deceased died a natural death.	Reasoning
In State of W.B. (supra) therein, the Court, inter alia, held as follows When it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that Mahesh was abducted by the accused and they took him out of that area, the accused alone knew what happened to him until he was with them.	None
If he was found murdered within a short time after the abduction the permitted reasoning process would enable the Court to draw the presumption that the accused have murdered him.	None
Such inference can be disrupted if the accused would tell the Court what else happened to Mahesh at least until he was in their custody.	None
During arguments we put a question to learned Senior Counsel for the respondents based on a hypothetical illustration.	None
If a boy is kidnapped from the lawful custody of his guardian in the sight of his people and the kidnappers disappeared with the prey, what would be the normal inference if the mangled dead body of the boy is recovered within a couple of hours from elsewhere.	None
The query was made whether upon proof of the above facts an inference could be drawn that the kidnappers would have killed the boy.	None
Learned Senior Counsel finally conceded that in such a case the inference is reasonably certain that the boy was killed by the kidnappers unless they explain otherwise.	None
In this context we may profitably utilise the legal principle embodied in Section 106 of the Evidence Act which reads as follows When any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him.	None
The section is not intended to relieve the prosecution of its burden to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt.	None
But the section would apply to cases where the prosecution has succeeded in proving facts from which a reasonable inference can be drawn regarding the existence of certain other facts, unless the accused by virtue of his special knowledge regarding such facts, failed to offer any explanation which might drive the court to draw a different inference.	None
The deceased was brought in a Ford Escort car.	Reasoning
He was brought by A4, A11, A16 and A17.	Reasoning
It is to be remembered that the case of the prosecution is that except A12, A4 to A18 were the henchmen of A3.	Reasoning
We have referred to the evidence against A6, A11 and A16.	Reasoning
There are material other than the deposition of PW11.	Reasoning
We hold that the accomplices are credible witnesses when the whole circumstances are borne in mind.	Reasoning
Their evidence may not be immaculate in character.	Reasoning
By their very nature, that is being accomplices, any such claim would be incongruous.	Reasoning
But the test is whether it is safe to convict the accused believing such witnesses.	Reasoning
We are of the view that as regards the crime and the accused, their testimony brings home the truth, as regards accused who are appellants before us.	Reasoning
There is no motive attributed to PW10 and PW11 to falsely implicate.	Reasoning
The presumption of murder was rightly drawn.	Reasoning
The role of A15 is clear who was not only been referred to in the accomplice evidence but corroborates his link in the abduction with the recovery of motorcycle at his instance.	Reasoning
It has rightfully earned him conviction under Section 365 IPC.	Reasoning
There were two cars apart from the Ford Escort on 30.12.2001 at the site of the illegal confinement.	Reasoning
From the Maruti Zen, three persons emerged as witnessed by PW11.	Reasoning
It is true that PW11 has not identified them.	Reasoning
That apart there was also a Tata Sumo, PW11 no doubt identified A5 and A7 apart from A15 as the persons who came back on 30.12.2001 with tiffin after leaving the factory.	Reasoning
The trial Court has convicted A4, A11, A15, A16 and A17 under Section 365 which in our view is unassailable in regard to these accused who are also appellants before us.	Reasoning
We do not see any error in the court drawing the presumption that they are also guilty of murdering the deceased.	Reasoning
PW3, it must be remembered has spoken of three men pushing another into a van on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
The van moved and it was followed by a motorcycle.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that A15 gave a statement leading to the recovery of a motorcycle.	Reasoning
The evidence is relied by the two courts and we see no reason to take a different view.	Reasoning
As far as A3, A5, A6 and A8 are concerned, they stand convicted under Section 365 read with Section 109.	Reasoning
Abetting is to be understood in the context of their acting on the conspiracy which stood proved against A1 and A2.	Reasoning
No doubt, abetting also takes place when there is instigation or intentional aiding.	Reasoning
The role of A3 looms large.	Reasoning
It is clear that he organised the whole thing and it commenced with the search for an appropriate house where the victim could be confined after the abduction.	Reasoning
His role along with his men in carrying out the crime culminating in the cremation under fictitious name of the abducted person is clear.	Reasoning
Not only there is evidence of PW10 and PW11 but other evidence which includes PW32, PW33, PW36 and PW8.	Reasoning
As far as A7 and A14 are concerned, they have also been convicted under Section 365 and also under Section 364.	Reasoning
The involvement of A7 is clear.	Reasoning
He makes his maiden appearance in the accomplice evidence as early as on 05.12.2001.	Reasoning
PW10 has witnessed him standing along with certain other accused by the side of the deceased who was then clearly in the state of illegal confinement.	Reasoning
He further establishes his complicity by bringing down the body of the deceased on 01.01.2002 along with three others.	Reasoning
His role is also corroborated by the testimony of PW21 and PW35, Police officers.	Reasoning
A7 and A14 we would think ought to have been convicted under Section 365 read with Section 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
We notice that A3, A5, A6 and A8 stood convicted under Section 365 read with Section 109.	Reasoning
We notice however that the charge as against A7 and A14 was under Section 365.	Reasoning
We further notice the charge as against A14 is concerned is also under Section 365 read with Section 109 of the IPC.	Reasoning
As already noticed all the appellants have been convicted also under Section 364 of IPC.	Reasoning
In this connection as regards the lack of a charge or defect in a charge is concerned, it is one which is essentially intertwined with the question of prejudice to the accused.	Reasoning
See in this regard the judgment of this Court in Willie (William) Slaney v. State of Madhya Pradesh AIR 1956 SC 116 .	Reasoning
We do not think that prejudice is caused in this regard in the facts.	Reasoning
It must be noticed that the evidence in this case no doubt through the mouth of PW10 and PW11 who alone have witnessed what truly happened would establish that on 31.12.2001, PW10 saw A5, A6, A7, A8, A11 and A14 when he saw the deceased who was at that time tied up on the first floor.	Reasoning
We notice indeed that A10 has been acquitted by the High Court, for which reason, stands given by the High Court.	Reasoning
Thus A5, A6, A7, A8, A11 and A14 are persons who can be and have also been convicted in connection with the illegal confinement of the deceased.	Reasoning
A4, A7, A11, A14, A15, A16 and A17 are persons who have been found guilty under Section 365 of the IPC.	Reasoning
A3, A5, A6 and A8 stand convicted under Section 365 of the IPC with the aid of Section 109 of IPC.	Reasoning
All of them have also been convicted under Section 364 of the IPC.	Reasoning
In this regard there is a dichotomy involved.	Reasoning
The law attaches criminality to the act or omission by a person.	Reasoning
Another person may become liable as an abettor, a person who has conspired and thus liable under Section 120B, a person who has shared a common object and thus become vicariously liable and if there be 5 or more persons under Section 141 read with Section 149 or if the principle of vicarious liability embedded in Section 34 of the IPC is attracted.	Reasoning
In other words, for a conviction under Section 364 actual abduction is necessary.	Reasoning
A person could no doubt be liable under Section 364 read with Section 34 or under Section 364 read with Section 149 or under Section 364 read with Section 109 or if he is found guilty under Section 120B.	Reasoning
In this case there is no scope for either 120B or 149.	Reasoning
However just as they have been found guilty under Section 365 we would support the conviction under Section 364 in the same manner namely the abduction within the meaning of Section 364.	Reasoning
The abduction is alleged to have been taken place on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
Be it remembered, that essence of abduction is forced movement, inter alia, from any place.	Reasoning
The offence would be committed by any one who effects such abduction at any or all points of the route.	Reasoning
We have already noticed that in a given case, an abduction may attract both sections 364 and 365.	Reasoning
The distinguishing feature between the two kinds of abduction, is the difference in the intent with which the abduction, inter alia (as Sections 364 and 365 also deal with kidnapping), is carried out.	Reasoning
But so far as the intention attracts both provisions in a given case, conviction under both sections is not impermissible.	Reasoning
However, when some of the appellants are convicted under Section 365 simpliciter and others are convicted under Section 365 read with Section 109, then the position of those accused appellants in regard to conviction under Section 364 must also be the same.	Reasoning
However, this difference in our approach in the matter of conviction under Section 364, cannot advance the case of the appellants, as abduction whether it is with the aid of Section 109 or which is under Section 364 simpliciter, enables the Court to raise the presumption of murder, in the absence of any explanation offered within the meaning of Section 106 of the Evidence Act.	Reasoning
In other words, while we would find A4, A11, A15, A16 and A17 guilty under Section 364 which is already found by the courts below, we would support the conviction under Section 364 of other appellants on the basis that they have been actively aided the abduction.	Reasoning
In other words they would be guilty under Section 364 read with Section 109 IPC.	Reasoning
Also as far as A5, A6, A7, A8, A11 and A14 are concerned, there is the evidence of PW10 that when he saw the deceased in a clear state of wrongful confinement, as he was found tied on the first floor of the factory, A5, A6, A7, A8, A11 and A14 were present.	Reasoning
They have also been convicted under Sections 347 and 387 of the IPC.	Reasoning
Also, in fact, we have already noted that on 30.12.2001, PW11 has deposed about three cars out of which the deceased emerged out of one of them, viz., the Ford Escort.	Reasoning
A4, A11, A16 and A17 have been referred in the evidence of PW 11 as emerging out of the car along with the deceased but it is quite clear that there were more persons than A4, A11, A16 and A17 who were involved in the abduction.	Reasoning
In this regard it is profitable to remember that PW3 has witnessed three persons pushing another into a Maruti Van early in the morning on 30.12.2001.	Reasoning
No doubt there is also a man on the Motorcycle.	Reasoning
Within hours when he is brought to the factory building, he comes out of a Ford Escort.	Reasoning
There were two other cars which accompanied it.	Reasoning
We must bear in mind that under Section 362 of the IPC, abduction has been defined, inter alia, as compelling a person to go from any place.	Reasoning
It, no doubt, also includes, such movement procured by deceitful means.	Reasoning
To make it more clear, if we see the plot unravelling, viz., the abduction, the illegal confinement, the death of the deceased and his subsequent cremation, the role of A3, A5, A6, A7, A8 and A14 in aiding the abduction, appears to be made out.	Reasoning
It is also clear that A5, A6, A7, A8, A11 and A14 were involved in the wrongful confinement of the deceased.	Reasoning
We, no doubt, noticed that as far as A14 is concerned, there is no recovery, as such, effected from him under Section 27 of the Evidence Act and there is essentially the evidence of PW10, as aforesaid.	Reasoning
The same is position about A17, whose involvement has been referred to by PW11, the other accomplice.	Reasoning
We, however, find that that the accomplice witnesses, who have been relied upon by two courts, are to be treated as credible witnesses and, even in the absence of corroborative evidence, in the facts and circumstances of this case, we see no reason to disturb that conviction.	Reasoning
If that is so, even in the absence of any direct evidence relating to murder, the presumption of murder, being committed by the appellants before us, would apply.	Reasoning
In fact, the courts below have drawn a presumption about murder being committed.	Reasoning
This is a presumption which cannot be said to be drawn without any basis.	Reasoning
Having regard to the facts and circumstances before us, we are of the view that it cannot be contended that no case is made out against the appellants.	Reasoning
Applications for withdrawal of Criminal Appeal No.2007/2017 and Criminal Appeal No.2009 of 2017 are allowed.	Decision
Criminal Appeals 2007 of 2017 and 2009 of 2017 are dismissed as withdrawn.	Decision
Rest of the Criminal Appeals are dismissed.	Decision
The bail bonds of the appellants who have been released on bail under orders of this Court shall stand cancelled and they shall surrender within three weeks to serve their sentences.	Decision
