Dipak Misra, CJI.	None
In this Writ Petition preferred under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, the petitioner No. 1Indian Centre for Advancement of Research and Education, Haldia (ICARE), a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1961 through its Secretary, and the petitioner No.	None
2ICARE Institute of Medical Sciences and Research and Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy Hospital, Haldia situated in West Bengal through its Principal have prayed for issue of a writ of certiorari for quashment of the order dated 31.05.2017 passed by the competent authority of the Government of India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and further to issue writ of mandamus or directing the respondents to grant recognition under Section 11(2) of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (for brevity, the Act) approval to the petitioner No. 2 College and recognition to the MBBS degree to be awarded by the West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata in respect of the students who have completed their courses at petitioner No. 2 College.	Issue
The facts which are essential for the purpose of adjudication of the controversy are that the petitioner No. 2 College was established in 2011 and it has been imparting education in MBBS courses since the academic year 2011 2012 and has been granted renewal permission for all subsequent years up to 20162017.	Facts
For the purpose of grant of renewal of permission under Section 10A of the Act, a surprise assessment was carried out by the assessors on 05.11.2015 and 06.11.2015.	None
The assessment report dated 06.11.2015 showed certain deficiencies and thereafter the same being not removed by the institution, the Executive Committee of the Medical Council of India (MCI) recommended to the Central Government not to renew permission for the admission of 6th batch (100 seats) of the MBBS for the academic year 20162017.	Facts
The petitioners came to know about the recommendation and the deficiencies and through communication dated 02.01.2016 informed the respondent No. 1 that the deficiencies pointed out in the assessment report dated 06.11.2015 had been duly rectified and accordingly submitted for compliance report.	None
A request was made for issuance of Letter of Permission for admission of 6th batch of MBBS course for the academic year 20162017 on the basis of the compliance report.	Facts
After receipt of the compliance report from the petitioner No. 2, the second respondent carried out a surprise inspection for clarification of the compliance on 19.02.2016.	None
On the date of inspection, the assessors found certain deficiencies and eventually on 14.05.2016 recommended to the respondent No. 1 not to renew the permission for admission of the 6th batch (100 seats) in MBBS course for the academic year 20162017.	None
The decision of the Executive Committee of the MCI taken on meeting held on 13.05.2016 is note worthy.	None
It is as follows The Executive Committee of the Council considered the compliance verification assessment, report (19th February 2016) alongwith previous assessment report (5th 6th November, 2015) as well as letter dated 19/02/2016 and 14.03.2016 received from the Principal of the college and noted the following1.	Facts
Deficiency of faculty is 67 as detailed in the report2.	None
Shortage of Residents is 85 as detailed in the report3.	Facts
Bed occupancy was only 08 on day of assessment which is grossly inadequate.	Facts
Many wards were closed.4.	Facts
OPD attendance was only 250 on day of assessment which is grossly inadequate.5.	Facts
Casualty attendance was only 09 on day of assessment.	Facts
No Casualty Medical Officer was present on day of assessment6.	Facts
There was NIL Major NIL Minor operation on day of assessment7.	Facts
There was NIL Normal Delivery NIL Caesarean Section on day of assessment8.	Facts
Radiological Laboratory investigation workload is inadequate.	Facts
Separate register for Laboratory investigation is not available.9.	Facts
Histopathology Cytopathology workload is NIL on day of assessment.10.	Facts
ICUs ICCU beds are not available.	Facts
MICU ICCU are common.11. Otho.	Facts
Deficiencies as pointed out in the assessment report.	Facts
In view of the above, the Executive Committee of the Council decided to recommend to the Central Govt.	Facts
not to renew the permission for admission of 6 inbatch of 100 MBBS students at ICARE Institute of Medical Sciences Research, Haldia, West Bengal under West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata u s 10A of the IMC Act, 1956 for the academic year 20162017.	Facts
After receipt of the recommendation of the Executive Committee of the MCI, the first respondent vide communication dated 10.06.2016 directed the petitioner institution not to admit any students in 6th batch (100 seats) in MBBS course for the academic year 20162017.	None
It is necessary to state here that by that time the Oversight Committee had come into existence by virtue of the Constitution Bench judgment in Modern Dental College and Research Center and others v. State of Madhya Pradesh and others (2016) 7 SCC 353 ).	None
The Oversight Committee informed the MCI that it had decided in its meeting held on 13.06.2016 to permit all colleges which had not been afforded an opportunity of hearing to present their compliance deficiencies communicated by MCI in the inspection verification reports for 20162017 be given an opportunity to furnish their compliance reports to respondent No. 1.	Facts
The petitioner College submitted its fresh application for renewal permission for 6th batch (100 seat) for the academic year 20162017 on 20.06.2016 along with the compliance report.	Facts
The petitioners also submitted a letter dated 30.07.2016 to the Oversight Committee clarifying the factual position in respect of alleged deficiencies pointed out by the assessors and thereafter, the first respondent vide communication dated 20.08.2016 on the basis of the report of the Oversight Committee granted permission for the 6th batch (100 seats) in MBBS course for the academic year 20162017 under Section 10A of the Act and further stipulated that the next batch of students in various courses be admitted in the College only after the permission of the Central Government for renewal and fulfilling of the stipulated conditions.	Facts
Be it stated, the conditions that were imposed by the Oversight Committee were incorporated in the letter of respondent No. 1.	Facts
The conditions imposed by the Oversight Committee read An affidavit from the Dean Principal and Chairman of the Trust Society University Company etc concerned, affirming fulfillment of all deficiencies and statements made in the respective compliance report submitted to MHFW by 22 June 2016.(ii)	Facts
A bank guarantee in the amount of Rs. 2 crore in favour of MCI, which will be valid for 1 year or until the first renewal assessment, whichever is later.	Facts
Such bank guarantee will be in addition to the prescribed fee submitted alongwith the application.2.	Facts
The OC has also stipulated as follows(i) OC may direct inspection to verify the compliance submitted by the College and considered by OC, anytime after 30 September 2016.(ii)	None
In default of the conditions (i) and (ii) in para 1 above and if the compliances are found incomplete in the inspection to be conducted after 30 September 2016, such college will be debarred from fresh intake of students for 2 years commencing 201718.	None
It is the stand of the petitioner No. 2 that it had complied with the conditions imposed by the Oversight Committee and also furnished the back guarantee in favour of the second respondent.	None
In the meantime, students admitted in the first batch had completed the course and were ready to appear for their final professional MBBS University examination in February, 2017 and in this factual background, it applied for grant of approval and recognition under Section 11(2) of the Act.7.	Facts
It is contended by the petitioner No. 2 that after receiving the application of the college institute, the MCI is required to carry out assessment for compliance verification in the light of assessment report dated 19.02.2016 and to evaluate the standard of MBBS University Examination and to assess the infrastructural facilities available therein and thereafter confer approval and recognition to MBBS degree with permission to admit students during the academic session 20172018.	Facts
It is averred that MCI inspected the institution on 03.02.2017, 17.03.2017 and 18.03.2017 for the purposes mentioned above.	None
After evaluation of standard of examination on 03.02.2017, the assessors submitted a report in Form C and recommended for grant of approval of the institute.	Facts
On 17.03.2017 and 18.03.2017 in the compliance verification report, the assessors did not notice any major deficiency whatsoever but the MCI after perusal of the said assessment report decided to recommend to the Central Government to debar the petitioner institute from taking admission of students in MBBS course for the next two sessions, that is, 20172018 and 20182019.	Facts
The Executive Committee of the MCI took note of the assessors report which has noted the following There were only 08 Major Operations for the whole hospital on day of assessment.2. ICUs There were only 2 patients each in SICU, NICU, PICU on day of assessment.3.	Facts
Radio diagnosis department 4 Static Xray machines are available against requirement of 5. 2 USG machines are available against requirement of 3.4.	None
Students Hostels Available accommodation is less than required as detailed in the report Study room does not have Computer with Internet is not airconditioned.5.	None
Interns Hostel Available accommodation is less than required.	None
Hostels are not furnished.	Facts
Toiletfacilities are inadequate.	Facts
Visitors room, AC.	Facts
Study room with Computer Internet and Recreation room are not available.6.	Facts
Nurses Hostel Available accommodation is for 44 against requirement of 48.7.	Facts
MEU Infrastructure facility in MEU is not adequate.	Facts
There is no computer internet facility.8.	Facts
Other deficiencies as pointed out in the assessment report.	Facts
Thereafter the Executive Committee opined thus In view of the above, the college has failed to abide by the undertaking it had given to the Central Govt.	Facts
that there are no deficiencies as per clause 3.2(i) of the directions passed by the Supreme Court mandated Oversight Committee vide communication dated 12/08/2016.	Facts
The Executive Committee, after due deliberation and discussion, has decided that the college has failed to comply with the stipulation laid down by the Oversight Committee.	Facts
Accordingly, the Executive Committee recommends that as per the directions passed by Oversight Committee in para 3.2(b) vide communication dated 12/08/2016 the college should be debarred from admitting students in the above course for a period of two academic years i.e. 201718 and 201819 as even after giving an undertaking that they have fulfilled the entire infrastructure for recognition approval of ICARE Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Haldia, West Bengal for the award of MBBS degree (100 seats) granted by The West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata u s 11(2) of the IMC Act, 1956 and Compliance Verification Assessment for renewal of permission for admission of 6th batch (100 MBBS seats)	Facts
u s 10(A) of the IMC Act, 1956 for the Academic year 201617 with reference to the conditional approval accorded by Oversight Committee, the college was found to be grossly deficient.	Facts
It has also been decided by the Executive Committee that the Bank Guarantee furnished by the college in pursuance of the directives passed by the Oversight Committee as well as GOI letter dated 20/08/2016 is liable to be encashed.	None
A copy of the recommendation was sent to the Principal of the petitioner institute.9.	None
After receiving the communication from the MCI, petitioner No. 2 vide letter dated 04.04.2017 submitted a detailed representation to the Oversight Committee highlighting the unjustified decision of the Executive Committee of MCI with regard to compliance verification.	Facts
A communication was also sent to respondent No. 1.	Facts
In the meantime, the petitioner received a communication dated 07.04.2017 issued by the first respondent granting an opportunity of personal hearing on 13.04.2017.	Facts
The petitioners appeared before the respondent No. 1 on the date fixed and furnished the requisite information and reiterated the stand that the petitioner No. 2 institute is fully compliant with the MCI rules and regulations and clarified the position relating to deficiencies which were noted as per the assessment report on 03.02.2017.	Facts
It also highlighted that the assessment reports of 17.03.2017 and 18.03.2017 did not justify denial of grant of permission and in any case, the institution had taken measures to remove the said deficiencies.	Facts
It was asserted that the compliance report dated 12.04.2017 of the institute clearly established that all the deficiencies have been removed by 12.04.2017.	None
According to the petitioners, on 24.04.2017 officers of respondent No. 2 without prior intimation conducted an assessment flouting all norms.	None
The report dated 24.04.2017 which is named as Compliance Verification Assessment of the petitionerCollege by the MCI noted certain major deficiencies which are as follows Deficiency of faculty is 61.32 as detailed in the report.2.	None
Shortage of Residents is 36.06 as detailed in the report.3.	None
Bed Occupancy is 45.95 at 10 a.m. on the day of assessment.4.	None
Most of the wards are not as per MSR.5.	None
In Obst.	None
Gynae wards, pediatric wards and orthopedic wards patients have minor complaints did not required admission, in obstetrics wards elderly lay admitted in the wards (college authority not provide a case sheet about this).	None
Hospital internal condition is nonhygienic.6.	None
There were only 05 Major Operations on day of assessment.7.	Facts
Data of Laboratory Radiological investigations provided by the Institute are inflated.8.	Facts
IPD attendance data provided by Institute are inflated.	Facts
The Executive Committee in its meeting held on 30.04.2017 considered the compliance verification report dated 24.04.2017 along with previous assessment report (17th 18th March, 2017) and noted In view of the above, the Executive Committee of the Council decided to recommended to the Central Government not to recognize approve ICARE Institute of Medical Sciences Research, Haldia, West Bengal for the award of MBBS degree (100 seats) granted by The West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata u s 11(2) of the IMC Act, 1956 and further decided that the Institute be asked to submit the compliance for rectification of the above deficiencies within 01 month for further consideration of the matter.	Facts
However in view of above, the Executive Committee to reiterate its earlier decision to recommend to the Central Govt, that the college should be debarred from admitting students in the above course for a period of two academic years i.e. 2017 18 2018 19 as per directions passed by Oversight Committee in Para 3.2(b) vide communication dated 12.08.2016.	Facts
Inspection carried out by the MCI on 24.04.2017 was brought to the notice of the Oversight Committee highlighting that the assessment carried out on the said date was factually incorrect and not in good faith.	None
Criticism was advanced about the inspection of 24.04.2017 on the foundation that despite assessments carried out on 03.02.2017, 17.03.2017 and 18.03.2017, a surprise and perfunctory verification was carried out.	Facts
As the factual narration would uncurtain, the respondent No. 1 vide letter dated 31.05.2017 intimated the petitioner No. 2 College that the Central Government decided not to permit admission of students in the MBBS course (100 course) for the academic year 20172018 with the further stipulation that the admission made against the decision of the Central Government will be treated as irregular and action will be initiated under the Act and Regulations made thereunder.	Facts
Examples have been cited in the Writ Petition, how the other institutions who had suffered from significant deficiencies have been granted the Letter of Permission and action of the respondents have been characterized as mala fide.13.	Facts
It is necessary to state here that after the matter was sent for reconsideration, the Central Government granted hearing to the college on 22.08.2017 and took the assistance of the newly constituted Oversight Committee as per the order of the Constitution Bench.	Facts
The Hearing Committee after considering the report and submissions of the College submitted its report by stating that there was no merit for reconsideration of the case for renewal and it concurred with the decision taken by the Ministry on earlier occasion.	Facts
The decision of the Hearing Committee has been enclosed with the order dated 29.08.2017.	Facts
The report of the Hearing Committee also mentioned the tabular.	Facts
We think it appropriate to reproduce the same Deficiencies 201617Deficiencies in Compliance verification assessment on 3rd Feb. 2017 17th18th March, 2017 after OC approvalDeficiencies In compliance verification for Recognition on 24.4.2017Comments of DGHSHearing CommitteeHearing CommitteeFindings (22.8.2017) 1 Deficiency of faculty is 67 as detailed in the report2.	Facts
Shortage of Residents is 8S as detailed in the report3.	Facts
Bed occupancy was only 08 on day of assessment which is grossly inadequate.	Facts
Many wards were closed.4.	Facts
OPD attendance was only 250 on day of assessment which is grossly inadequate.5.	Facts
Casualty attendance was only 09 on day of assessment.	Facts
No Casualty Medical Officer was present on day of assessment6.	Facts
There was NIL Major NIL Minor operation on day of assessment7.	Facts
There was NIL Normal Delivery NIL Caesarean Section on day of assessment8.	Facts
Radiological Laboratory investigation workload is inadequate.	Facts
Separate register for Laboratory investigation is not available.9.Histopathology Cytopathology workload is NIL on day of assessment.10.	Facts
ICUs ICCU beds are not available.	Facts
MICU ICCU are common1.	Facts
There were only 08 Major Operations for the whole hospital on day of assessment.2. ICUs There were only 2 patients each in S1CU, NICU, P1CU on day of assessment3.	Facts
Radiodiagnosis department 4 Static Xray machines are available againstRequirement of 5. 2 USG machines are available against requirement of 3.4 Students HostelsAvailable accommodation is less than required as detailed in the report.	None
Study room does not have Computer with Internet is not airconditioned.5.	None
InternsHostelAvailable accommodation is less than required.	None
Hostels are not furnished.	Facts
Toilet facilities are inadequate.	Facts
Visitors room, A.C. Study room with Computer Internet and Recreation room are not available.6.	Facts
Nurses HostelAvailable accommodation is for 44 against requirement of 48.7.	Facts
MEUInfrastructure facility in MEU is not adequate.	None
There is no computer internet facility.1.	Facts
Deficiency of faculty is 61.32 as detailed in the report.2.	None
Shortage of Residents is 36.06 as detailed in the report.3.	None
Bed Occupancy is 45.95 at 10 a.m. on day of assessment4.	None
Most of the wards are not as per MSR.5.	None
In Obst Gynae wards, pediatric wards and orthopedic wards patients have minor complaints did not required admission, in obstetrics wards elderly lady admitted in the wards (college authority not provide a case sheet about this).Hospital internal condition is nonhygienic.6.	None
There were only.05 Major Operations on day of assessment.7.	Facts
Data of Laboratory Radiological investigations provided by Institute are inflated.8.	Facts
OPD attendance data provided by Institute are inflated.9.	Facts
Other deficiencies as pointed out in the assessment report.1.	Facts
Complied with2.	Facts
Need to the reverified3.	Facts
Agreed to the deficiency in the assessment report.	Facts
No satisfactory reply.	Facts
Deficiency persists.l,2,3.	Facts
The college authorities submitted the explanation as per the deficiency pointed out by MCI for points 1, 2 3.College authorities failed to produce any concrete documentary proof of theirContention4.	Facts
The college authorities could not provide any satisfactory evidence.5 The Hearing Committee cannot give comments regarding the genuineness of the patients as pointed out by MCI in point No.5.	Facts
Also the college authorities failed to provide any further proof regarding the same.6.	Facts
College authorities could not provide any evidence for more than 5 major operations on the date of assessment.7 8.	Facts
The Data Laboratory Radiological investigations provided by the Institute in front of hearing committee was not satisfactory.	Facts
Assailing the decisions of the MCI and the Central Government, it is submitted by Dr. Rajeev Dhawan, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner No.1 and Mr. R.S. Suri, learned senior counsel for the petitioner No. 2 submit that the institution was found fully compliant as per the inspection made on 03.02.2017 and surprise inspections carried out on 17.03.2017 and 18.03.2017 and the said inspections have to be understood in law as assessment for grant of recognition under Section 11(2) of the Act and compliance verification assessment for renewal of permission for admission of 6th batch (100 seats) of MBBS course under Section 10A of the Act and hence, further inspection on 24.04.2017 has no legal acceptation.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, submits Dr. Dhawan, the initial communication of the MCI though made within 11 days of the inspection, it, despite its obligation to obtain the approval of the Oversight Committee, had debarred the institution from admitting students and encashing the bank guarantee which exhibits absolute arbitrariness and makes the decision wholly vulnerable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the recommendation made was contrary to the fact situation and, 19 therefore, to justify its stand, the assessors of the MCI being so directed carried out routine assessment which is neither supportable in law nor does it stand to reason.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel is extremely critical of such kind of inspection because it does not follow any procedure and reveals the predetermined mind of the assessors and, in any case, the object of the MCI, as is evident, was to prove its point and not to objectively perceive things so that the medical education in this country can achieve real stability.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has referred to the compliance report of 12.04.2017 as it would be indicative of the fact that the deficiencies have been rectified.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is put forth by Dr. Dhawan that the Central Government despite the order passed by this Court in IQ City Foundation Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Union of India and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2017) 8 SCALE 369 )has not really kept itself alive to the principles stated by this Court and acted not only unreasonably but in a highhanded manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel would submit that the order dated 29.08.2017 deserves to be axed because it is cryptic and unreasonable as it has not taken into account the materials submitted before the Hearing Committee in the form of attendance record, salary statements, Forms 16A (TDS), clinical records and certain other documents which speak eloquently about the compliance of initial deficiencies pointed out by the assessors.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by him that the whole action of the MCI is mala fide and is incapable of withstanding scrutiny.	Arguments of Petitioner
Refuting the submissions of Dr. Dhawan, it is contended by Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel along with Mr. Gaurav Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the MCI contended that the aspersions made by the petitioners on the inspection held on 24.04.2017 do not deserve consideration since it is the duty of the MCI to see that the institutions remain ever compliant.	Arguments of Respondent
Attribution of mala fide is absolutely unwarranted, for the assessors of MCI had gone on surprise verification as the College submitted the compliance report which stated that the deficiencies had been removed.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel would submit that the experts enjoy great reputation in their field and the bald allegations should not be allowed to destroy the basic purpose for which the inspection is meant for and it is the statutory responsibility of the MCI to scrutinize at the spot about the due compliance report.	Arguments of Respondent
Placing reliance on certain authorities which we shall refer to in due course, contends Mr. Singh, that a minute inspection of the contents of the report is not permissible in law unless prima facie it is reflective of total unacceptability or perversity.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel has drawn the distinction between Letter of Permission at the commencement of the college and at a renewal stage and further at the final recognition stage.	Arguments of Respondent
He has pressed into service the language employed in the provisions of the Act and the Establishment of Medical College Regulations, 1999 (for short, ?the Regulations?) framed under the said Act to strengthen the stand that an institution having deficiencies which are unacceptable cannot be extended the benefit of recognition.	Arguments of Respondent
It is his further contention that an institution which is granted LOP for the initial establishment, certain deficiencies to some extent be ignored but as it moves from initial stage to another the yardsticks that apply are more rigorous.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General defending the order passed by the Central Government canvassed that the order in present incarnation cannot be characterized as an unreasoned one because it has chronologically referred to the background and taken note of the Oversight Committee which consists of eminent doctors as per the decision of this Court passed by the Constitution Bench in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 408 of 2017 titled Amma Chandravati Educational and Charitable Trust and others v. Union of India and another.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued by him that when the eminent doctors have evaluated all the verification inspection reports and arrived at the conclusion and the Central Government concurred with it by taking note of every facet to call it an unreasoned order is not only unfair but, in a way uncharitable.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Singh, the recommendations made by the MCI being well considered and based on materials have been accepted by the respondent No. 1 and in such circumstances the order passed by it should be treated as impeccable, warranting no interference.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already narrated the facts in a chronological manner.	None
What grieves the petitioners is the inspection caused on 24.04.2017.	None
The gravamen of the proponement is that the said inspection in the name of verification is an outcome of mala fides and hence, legally illegitimate.	None
The stance taken to pyramid the point is that it is not permissible under the Act or the Regulations, and the assessors nominated by the MCI have carried out inspection not only in total violation of principles of natural justice but also totally abandoning their sense of objectivity.	None
As the chronicle of the factual score would depict, the institution had filed a ?compliance report?on 12.04.2017.	None
The said compliance report referred to communication of MCI dated 28.03.2017 in respect of grant of renewal approval to the petitioner College.	None
The said report after mentioning about the minor deficiencies pointed out by the assessors stated So far as the deficiencies pointed out by the assessors after their assessment of infrastructures on 17/18 March, 2017 vide their report in Format AII is concerned, they are not in major natures which may justify denial of grant of recognition.	None
They are not in respect of staff, space, equipment, college hospital and clinical material.	None
It is not practical to insist for a full proof or absolute adherence to all requirements without regard to their importance for the purpose of imparting education, in a practical way.	None
However, since we have already removed the deficiencies a compliance report in tabular form is being submitted herewith.	None
It is important to mention here that the Assessors have not found any deficiency in teaching staff.	None
They have pointed out in their report shortage of 3.8 teaching faculty and 1.5 of resident doctors which are permissible as per MCI rules.	None
Under the facts and circumstances mentioned above, you are requested to kindly accept the compliance report and if deemed necessary grant personal hearing to us in the matter for the ends of natural justice.	None
Be it noted, the compliance report contained annexures and the soft copy in word format and in CD.	None
At this juncture, as the MCI would contend, it felt the necessity to conduct a surprise inspection to satisfy itself as regards the compliance on 24.04.2017.	None
We already have reproduced the same.	None
To appreciate the controversy in apposite perspective, it is extremely crucial to understand the scheme of the Act and how the same has been understood and appreciated by this Court.	None
Section 3 of the MCI Act deals with constitution and composition of the MCI.	None
Section 10 provides the constitution of the Executive Committee and further stipulates that in addition to the powers and duties conferred and imposed upon it by the Act, the Committee shall exercise and discharge such powers and duties as the Council may confer or impose upon it by Regulations which may be made in that behalf.	None
Section 10A(1) provides for permission for establishment of new medical college and new course of study.	None
It stipulates that notwithstanding anything contained in the Act or any other law for the time being in force, no person shall establish a medical college or no medical college shall open a new or higher course of study or training including postgraduate course of study or training or increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of the said section.	None
Section 10A(2) lays the postulate that every person or medical college shall for the purpose of obtaining permission under subsection (1), submit to the Central Government a scheme in accordance with the provisions of clause (b) of Section 3 and the Central Government shall refer the scheme to the MCI for its recommendations.	None
Subsection (3) and subsection (7) of Section 10A deal with the role of the MCI on receipt of a scheme.	None
Subsection (3), (4) and subsection (7) of Section 10A read as follows On receipt of a scheme by the Council under subsection (2) the Council may obtain such other particulars as may be considered necessary by it from the person or the medical college concerned, and thereafter, it may(a) if the scheme is defective and does not contain any necessary particulars, give a reasonable opportunity to the person or college concerned for making a written representation and it shall be open to such person or medical college to rectify the defects, if any, specified by the Council.(b) consider the scheme, having regard to the factors referred to in subsection (7) and submit the scheme together with its recommendations thereon to the Central Government.x x	None
x x x(7)	None
The Council, while making its recommendations under clause (b) of subsection (3) and the Central Government, while passing an order, either approving or disapproving the scheme under subsection (4), shall have due regard to the following factors, namely(a) whether the proposed medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training, would be in a position to offer the minimum standards of medical education as prescribed by the Council under section 19A or, as the case may be under section 20 in the case of postgraduate medical education.(b) whether the person seeking to establish a medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training or to increase it admission capacity has adequate financial resources(c) whether necessary facilities in respect of staff, equipment, accommodation, training and other facilities to ensure proper functioning of the medical college or conducting the new course or study or training or accommodating the increased admission capacity, have been provided or would be provided within the timelimit specified in the scheme.(d) whether adequate hospital facilities, having regard to the number or students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training or as a result of the increased admission capacity, have been provided or would be provided within the timelimit specified in the scheme(e) whether any arrangement has been made or programme drawn to impart proper training to students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training by persons having the recognised medical qualifications(f) the requirement of manpower in the field of practice of medicine and(g) any other factors as may be prescribed.	None
Subsection (4) of Section 8 deals with the power of the Central Government.	None
It reads The Central Govt.	None
may after considering the scheme and the recommendations of the Council under subsection (3) and after obtaining, where necessary, such other particulars as may be considered necessary by it from the person or college concerned, and having regard to the factors referred to in subsection (7), either approve 4 (with such conditions, if any, as it may consider necessary ) or disapprove the scheme, and any such approval shall be a permission under subsection (1)Provided that no scheme shall be disapproved by the Central Government except after giving the person or college concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heardProvided further that nothing in this sub section shall prevent any person or medical college whose scheme has not been approved by the Central Government to submit a fresh scheme and the provisions of this section shall apply to such scheme, as if such scheme has been submitted for the first time under subsection (2).	None
Section 10A has been interpreted in Royal Medical Trust (Registered) and Anr v. Union of India Anr (2015) 10 SCC 19 ).	None
The said decision also reflects on the Regulations framed by the MCI.	None
The Court has ruled that the MCI and the Central Government, having vested with the monitoring powers under Section 10A of the Act, they are required to show due diligence right from the day when the applications are received and the schedule giving various stages and the time limit must accommodate every possible eventuality and at the same time must comply with the requirement of observance of principles of natural justice at various levels.	None
The Court, in this regard, has expressed thus MCI and the Central Government have been vested with monitoring powers under Section 10A and the Regulations.	None
It is expected of these authorities to discharge their functions well within the statutory confines as well as in conformity with the Schedule to the Regulations.	None
If there is inaction on their part or nonobservance of the time schedule, it is bound to have adverse effect on all concerned.	None
The affidavit filed on behalf of the Union of India shows that though the number of seats had risen, obviously because of permissions granted for establishment of new colleges, because of disapproval of renewal cases the resultant effect was net loss in terms of number of seats available for the academic year.	None
It thus not only caused loss of opportunity to the students community but at the same time caused loss to the society in terms of less number of doctors being available.	None
MCI and the Central Government must therefore show due diligence right from the day when the applications are received.	None
The Schedule giving various stages and timelimits must accommodate every possible eventuality and at the same time must comply with the requirements of observance of natural justice at various levels.	None
In our view the Schedule must ideally take care of(A)	None
Initial assessment of the application at the first level should comprise of checking necessary requirements such as essentiality certificate, consent for affiliation and physical features like land and hospital requirement.	None
If an applicant fails to fulfil these requirements, the application on the face of it, would be incomplete and be rejected.	None
Those who fulfil the basic requirements would be considered at the next stage.(B)	None
Inspection should then be conducted by the Inspectors of MCI.	None
By very nature such inspection must have an element of surprise.	None
Therefore sufficient time of about three to four months ought to be given to MCI to cause inspection at any time and such inspection should normally be undertaken latest by January.	None
Surprise inspection would ensure that the required facilities and infrastructure are always in place and not borrowed or put in temporarily.(C) Intimation of the result or outcome of the inspection would then be communicated.	None
If the infrastructure and facilities are in order, the medical college concerned should be given requisite permission renewal.	None
However, if there are any deficiencies or shortcomings, MCI must, after pointing out the deficiencies, grant to the college concerned sufficient time to report compliance.(D) If compliance is reported and the applicant states that the deficiencies stand removed, MCI must cause compliance verification.	None
It is possible that such compliance could be accepted even without actual physical verification but that assessment be left entirely to the discretion of MCI and the Central Government.	None
In cases where actual physical verification is required, MCI and the Central Government must cause such verification before the deadline.(E)	None
The result of such verification if positive in favour of the medical college concerned, the applicant ought to be given requisite permission renewal.	None
But if the deficiencies still persist or had not been removed, the applicant will stand disentitled so far as that academic year is concerned.	None
The aforesaid authority makes it clear as day that the surprise inspection is conceived of within the scheme of the Act and the institution college is required to remain compliant.	None
In Manohar Lal Sharma v. Medical Council of India Ors. (2013) 10 SCC 60 ), it has been ruled that the MCI on the basis of the reports regular compliance is legally obliged to form an opinion with regard to the capacity of the College to provide necessary facilities in respect of staff, equipments, accommodation, training and other facilities to ensure proper functioning of the medical college or for increase of admission capacity.	None
In the said case, the Court while dealing with the surprise inspection, has expressed thus Surprise inspection, in this case, was conducted to ascertain whether compliance report could be accepted and to ascertain whether the deficiencies pointed out in the regular inspection were rectified or not.	None
By pointing out the deficiencies, MCI is giving an opportunity to the College to rectify the deficiencies, if any noticed by the inspection team.	None
It is the duty of the College to submit the compliance report, after rectifying the deficiencies.	None
MCI can conduct a surprise inspection to ascertain whether the deficiencies had been rectified and the compliance report be accepted or not.?Eventually, the Court held27.	None
We are also of the view that such an order is not vitiated by violation of principles of natural justice, especially, when no allegation of bias or mala fide has been attributed against the two doctors who constituted the inspection team, which conducted the surprise inspection on 67 2013.	None
When the inspection team consists of two doctors of unquestionable integrity and reputation, who are experts in the field, there is no reason to discard the report of such inspection.	None
In such circumstances, we are of the view that MCI has rightly passed the order rejecting the approval for renewal of permission for the third batch of 150 MBBS students granted for the academic year 20132014.	None
Emphasis added In this context, Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel for the MCI, has drawn our attention to Regulation 7 which deals with the report of the MCI.	Arguments of Respondent
He has also drawn our attention to Regulation 8 that pertains to grant of permission by the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
Regulation 8, has been amended on 8.2.2016 and 8.3.2016.	Arguments of Respondent
We think it appropriate to extract the relevant clauses The Central Government, on the recommendation of the Council for Letter of Permission, may issue a letter to set up a new medical college with such 18 conditions or modifications in the original proposal as may be considered necessary.	None
This letter can also include a clear cut statement of preliminary requirements to be met in respect of buildings, infrastructural facilities, medical and allied equipments, faculty and staff before admitting the first batch of students.	None
The formal permission may be granted after the above conditions and modifications are accepted and the performance bank guarantee for the required sums are furnished by the person and after consulting the Medical Council of India.(2)	None
The formal permission may include a time bound programme for the establishment of the medical college and expansion of the hospital facilities.	None
The permission may also define annual targets as may be fixed by the Council to be achieved by the person to commensurate with the intake of students during the following years.	None
Subclause (3)(1) provides that (3)(1) The permission to establish a medical college and admit students may be granted initially for a period of one year and may be renewed on yearly basis subject to verification of the achievements of annual targets.	None
It shall be the responsibility of the person to apply to the Medical Council of India for purpose of renewal six months prior to the expiry of the initial permission.	None
This process of renewal of permission will continue till such time the establishment of the medical college and expansion of the hospital facilities are completed and a formal recognition of the medical college is granted.	None
Further admissions shall not be made at any stage unless the requirements of the Council are fulfilled.	None
The Central Government may at any stage convey the deficiencies to the applicant and provide him an opportunity and time to rectify the deficiencies.	None
Underlining is by us Vide Gazette Notification dated 18.3.2016, clause 8(3)((1)(a) was substituted thus Colleges in the stage of Letter of Permission upto II renewal (i.e. Admission of third batch)If it is observed during any inspection assessment of the institute that the deficiency of teaching faculty and or Residents is more than 30 and or bed occupancy is 50 (45 in North East, Hilly terrain, etc.)	None
, compliance of rectification of deficiencies from such an institute will not be considered for issue of Letter of Permission (LOP) renewal of permission in that Academic Year.	None
Clause 8(3)(1)(b) was also substituted which reads thus 35 Colleges in the stage of III IV renewal (i.e. Admission of fourth fifth batch)If it is observed during any inspection of the Institute that the deficiency of teaching faculty and or Residents is more than 20 and or bed occupancy is 65 compliance of rectification of deficiencies from such an institute will not be considered for renewal of permission in that Academic Year.	None
Clause 8(3)(1)(c), after the amendment, reads as follows Colleges which are already recognized for award of M.B.B.S. degree and or running Postgraduate courses.	None
If it is observed during any inspection assessment of the institute that the deficiency of teaching faculty and or Residents is more than 10 and or bed occupancy is 70 compliance of rectification of deficiency from such an institute will not be considered for issue of renewal of permission in that Academic Year and further such an institute will not be considered for processing applications for Postgraduate courses in that Academic Year and will be issued show cause notices as to why the recommendations for withdrawal of recognition of the courses run by that institute should not be made for undergraduate and postgraduate courses which are recognized u s 11(2) of the IMC Act, 1956 along with direction of stoppage of admissions in permitted postgraduate courses.	None
However, the office of the Council shall ensure that such inspections are not carried out at least 2 days before and 2 days after important religious and festival holidays declared by the Central State Govt.	None
Clause (4) is as follows The Council may obtain any other information from the proposed medical college as it deems fit and necessary.	None
RECONSIDERATIONWherever the Council in its report has not recommended the issue of Letter of Intent to the person, it may upon being so required by the Central Government reconsider the application and take into account new or additional information as may be forwarded by the Central Government.	None
The Council shall, thereafter, submit its report in the same manner as prescribed for the initial report.	None
Regulation 8(3)(1) has been added by Gazette Notification dated 08.02.2016 which stipulates that permission to establish a medical college and admit students may be granted initially for a period of one year and may be renewed on an yearly basis subject to verification of the achievement of targets.	None
It also provides that the process of renewal of permission to continue till such time the establishment of the medical college and expansion of the hospital facilities are completed, and thereafter a formal recognition of the medical college is granted.	None
It clearly lays down that further admission shall not be made at any stage unless the requirements of the Council are fulfilled and the Central Government may at any stage convey the deficiencies to the college and provide an opportunity and time to rectify the deficiencies.	None
Subsection (3)(1) contains certain provisos.	None
They read as follows PROVIDED that in respect of(a) Colleges in the stage upto II renewal (i.e. Admission of third batch)If it is observed during any regular inspection of the institute that the deficiency of teaching faculty and or Residents is more than 30 and or bed occupancy is 60 , such an institute will not be considered for renewal of permission in that Academic Year.(b) Colleges in the stage from III renewal (i.e. Admission of fourth batch) till recognition of the institute for award of M.BB.S. degreeIf it is observed during any regular inspection of the institute that the deficiency of teaching faculty and or Residents is more than 20 and or bed occupancy is 70 , such an institute will not be considered for renewal of permission in that Academic Year.	None
19(c) Colleges which are already recognized for award of M.B.B.S. degree and or running	None
Postgraduate CoursesIf	None
it is observed during any regular inspection of the institute that the deficiency of teaching faculty and or Residents is more than 10 and or bed occupancy is 80, such an institute will not be considered for processing applications for postgraduate courses in that Academic Year and will be issued show cause notices as to why the recommendation for withdrawal of recognition of the courses run by that institute should not be made for Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses which are recognized u s 11(2) of the IMC Act, 1956 along with direction of stoppage of admissions in permitted Postgraduate courses.(d) Colleges which are found to have employed teachers with faked forged documentsIf it is observed that any institute is found to have employed a teacher with faked forged documents and have submitted the Declaration Form of such a teacher, such an institute will not be considered for renewal of permission recognition for award of M.B.B.S. degree processing the applications for postgraduate courses for two Academic Years i.e. that Academic Year and the next Academic Year also.	None
However, the office of the Council shall ensure that such inspections are not carried out at least 3 days before upto 3 days after important religious and festival holidays declared by the Central State Govt.(2)	None
The recognition so granted to an Undergraduate Course for award of MBBS degree shall be for a maximum period of 5 years, upon which it shall have to be renewed.(3)	None
The procedure for Renewal of recognition shall be same as applicable for the award of recognition.	None
(4) Failure to seek timely renewal of recognition as required in subclause (a) supra shall invariably result in stoppage of admissions to the concerned Undergraduate Course of MBBS at the said institute.	None
As is evincible, the aforesaid Regulations deal with various stages and the requirements under Section 10A and Section 11 (2) of the Act.31.	Reasoning
The aforesaid Regulations, as we perceive, deal with the compliance verification.	Reasoning
In the instant case, after the College submitted that it had complied with deficiencies pointed out by the team of assessors, the MCI thought it necessary to have an inspection.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that the said inspection was a surprise inspection and further it was, as the MCI perceived, required to be done to verify whether the institution was really compliant or not.	Reasoning
In the verification report dated 24.04.2017, as the assessors have pointed out, there are number of deficiencies.32.	None
The stand of the petitioners is that such verification is impermissible and grossly mala fide.	Arguments of Petitioner
In IQ City Foundation (supra), the threeJudge Bench, after referring to the authority in Royal Medical Trust (supra) has held that the emphasis on the compliant institutions that can really educate doctors by imparting quality education so that they will have inherent as well as the cultivated attributes of excellence.	Reasoning
There can be no scintilla of doubt that an institution that imparts medical education has to remain ever compliant.	Reasoning
It is necessary to mention here that in IQ City Foundation (supra), a contention was advanced that when the Central Government sends back the matter to the MCI for compliance verification, the power of the MCI is restricted and it is only required to inspect the aspects for which the matter has been referred back by the Central Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Negativining the said contention, the Court has held On a reading of Section 10A of the Act, Rules and the Regulations, as has been referred to in Manohar Lal Sharma (supra), and the view expressed in Royal Medical Trust (supra), it would be inapposite to restrict the power of the MCI by laying down as an absolute principle that once the Central Government sends back the matter to MCI for compliance verification and the Assessors visit the College they shall only verify the mentioned items and turn a Nelsons eye even if they perceive certain other deficiencies.	None
It would be playing possum.	None
The direction of the Central Government for compliance verification report should not be construed as a limited remand as is understood within the framework of Code of Civil Procedure or any other law.	None
The distinction between the principles of open remand and limited remand, we are disposed to think, is not attracted.	None
The aforesaid passage lays stress how the educational institutions are to be compliant to have the requirements as per the Act and the Regulations and not to take shelter under a subterfuge or lean upon a contrived situation to exhibit justification.	Reasoning
Thus analysed, the grievance agitated pertaining to surprise inspection with keen acumen does not commend acceptance.	Reasoning
The attack on the compliance report on asseverations of mala fide, if we allow ourselves to say so, does not deserve acceptance.	Reasoning
Whether there is mala fide or not, depends upon the facts and circumstances of the case as has been held in State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma, IAS Anr.	None
(1992 Supp.(1) SCC 222)Mere allegation of mala fide does not vitiate an enquiry or proceeding.	None
As we see, in the instant case, the allegations have been made against the assessors who are experts in the field and we find no reason to attribute any kind of malice or mala fide to them.	Reasoning
In the absence of any kind of material brought on record, the mere allegations that there was a surprise inspection, within a fortnight, would not make the inspection a tainted one.	Reasoning
In this regard, we may usefully refer to a passage from Medical Council of India v. Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (2011) 11 SCC 530)	None
Our attention was also drawn to the decision of this Court in Manohar Lal Sharma v. Medical Council of India wherein it was held (SCC p. 72, para 27) that since the inspection is taken by doctors of unquestionable integrity and reputation, who are experts in the field, there is no reason to discard the report of such an inspection.	None
In the present appeal, there is no allegation made by KIMS of any mala fides of the inspection team or any perversity in the inspection report and hence, there is no question of challenging the conclusions of a neutral, randomly selected inspection team in its assessment.	None
And againThe High Court did not appreciate that the inspection was carried out by eminent Professors from reputed medical institutions who were experts in the field and the best persons to give an unbiased report on the facilities in KIMS.	None
The High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution was certainly not tasked to minutely examine the contents of the inspection report and weigh them against the objections of KIMS in respect of each of its 18 items.	None
In our opinion, the High Court plainly exceeded its jurisdiction in this regard in venturing into seriously disputed factual issues.	None
Emphasis supplied In Royal Medical Trust and another v. Union of India and another (2017 (11) SCALE 307 )this Court held Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, we sum up our conclusions and directions, thus(a)	None
The petitioners are not entitled to Letter Of Permission (LOP) for the academic session 20172018.	None
We direct that the order passed in the present writ petition shall be applicable hereafter for the academic session 20182019 since the cut off date for admissions to MBBS course for academic session 20172018 is over and the academic session has commenced.	None
No petition shall be entertained from any institution college society trust or any party for grant of LOP for 20172018.	None
We say so as the controversy for grant of LOP for the academic year 20172018 should come to an end and cannot become an event that defeats time.	None
The students who are continuing their studies on the basis of LOP granted for the academic year 20162017 should be allowed to continue their studies in the college and they shall be permitted to continue till completion of the course.(b)	None
The applications submitted for 20172018 shall be treated as the application for 2018 2019 and the petitioners shall keep the bank guarantee deposited with the Medical Council of India alive and the MCI shall not encash the same.(c)	None
The Medical Council of India shall conduct a fresh inspection as per the Regulations within a period of two months.	None
It shall apprise the petitionerinstitution with regard to the deficiencies and afford an opportunity to comply with the same and, thereafter, proceed to act as contemplated under the Act.(d)	None
The inspection shall be carried out for the purpose of grant of LOP for the academic session 20182019.(e)	None
After the Medical Council of India sends its recommendation to the Central Government, it shall take the final decision as per law after affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioners.	None
Needless to say, it shall take the assistance of the Hearing Committee as constituted by the Constitution Bench decision in Amma Chandravati Educational and Charitable Trust (supra) or other directions given in the said decision.	None
The aforesaid directions were issued keeping in view the deficiencies in the college therein and the interest of the students.	None
In Madha Medical College Research Institute v. Union of India (2017 (11) SCALE 330 )the Court held At the same time, we are of the view that having regard to the facts which have transpired, the petitioner should be permitted to establish before MCI that it possesses the requisite infrastructure and has taken all necessary steps to remove the deficiencies which have been noted to exist.	None
Such an exercise cannot be carried out in time for academic year 201718 since the last date for admissions has elapsed and the academic session commenced.	None
Hence the petitioner cannot be permitted to participate in the counseling process for the ensuing academic year.	None
Any such exercise would necessarily have to be for the ac academic year 201819.	None
In Major S.D. Singh Medical College and Hospital Another v. Union of India another (2017 (11) SCALE 372 )it has been said Having regard to the interest of medical education and the observations contained in the judgment delivered today by this Court in W.P. (c) 674 of 2017 in Madha Medical College and Research Institute through its Managing Director v. Union of India, we decline to grant any relief in respect of academic year 201718 to the petitioner In Karpagam Faculty of Medical Sciences Research v. Union of India and others (2107 (11) SCALE 435), it has been stated The benchmark and the minimum standards for these proposals are bound to be different and we must presume that the expert body, such as MCI and the Hearing Committee in which one member of the OC also participated, were fully aware of the essentialities and preconditions for grant of recognition approval.	None
Since the decision of the Competent Authority of the Central Government is based on such inputs, it is not open for us to sit over that decision as a Court of appeal.	None
In Annaii Medical College Hospital and Anr.	None
v. Union of India and another,	Arguments of Petitioner
Writ Petition (Civil) No. 525 of 2017, the Court referred to the decision in Varunarjun Trust and Anr.	None
v. Union of India and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(W.P. (C) No. 787 of 2017, decided on 12.09.2017)and directions have been issued as in Royal Medical Trust (supra).	None
As noted earlier, an institution has to remain compliant and necessity for remaining compliant becomes more important as the institution enters the renewal year and thereafter for grant of approval and recognition under Section 11(2) of the Act.	Reasoning
At the time of consideration of recognition, the compliance is viewed and scrutinized with great rigour and strictness.	Reasoning
What may be treated as a minor deficiency at the initial stage may not remain so when the institution college proceeds from year to year.	Reasoning
In the instant case, we have already held that surprise inspection in law is permissible and the said inspection is not tainted with mala fide, as alleged.	Reasoning
Once we arrive at such irresistible conclusion, the order passed by the Central Government with the assistance of the Hearing Committee cannot be flawed.	Reasoning
Though we have so held, we think it appropriate to direct that the students who have been admitted in the respective courses shall be permitted to continue in the courses and the students who pass out from the institution, the MCI shall see to it that they are conferred degrees.	Decision
The MCI is directed to conduct an inspection for recognition keeping in view the academic year 201819 and if during the inspection any deficiency is noticed, the same shall be intimated to the petitioner No. 2 institution and thereafter, process shall be carried out keeping in view the principles of natural justice in mind and the principles stated in IQ City Foundation (supra).	Decision
The inspection shall be carried out as per the schedule by the MCI for grant of recognition for the academic year 20182019 and to avoid any kind of uncalled for situation, the application submitted for the academic year 20172018 shall be treated as application for the academic year 20182019.	Decision
The bank guarantee furnished by the institution shall not be encashed by the MCI and the petitioners shall keep it alive.41.	None
The Writ Petition is, accordingly, disposed of.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
