 Ray C.J.1.	None
The petitioners challenged Notifications No. CER 3/73 dated 13 March, 1973 and CER 16/73 dated 13 March, 1973 described as the first and the second impugned notifications.2.	None
There was unprecedented and phenomenal rise in cotton prices in the closing months of 1970 and in January, 1971.	Facts
There was a very low cotton crop in 197071 season .	Facts
There was a perceptible drop in yarn production.	Facts
Yarn is produced in hanks for handloom and cones, beams and prins for powerlooms and cones for hosiery industry.	Facts
There was rise in prices.	Facts
This strengthened the hands of the weavers in their agitation.	Facts
The Yarn Pool Scheme was devised in February, 1971.	Facts
This was a voluntary effort on the part of the cotton mill industry to afford some relief to small weavers in the handloom and powerloom sector.	Facts
The scheme covered cotton yarn in counts of 20s, 30s and 40s both in hanks and hosiery cones and in counts of 20s, 24s, 30s, 34s and 40s in weaving cones.	Facts
Under this scheme the mills participating in it had to supply yarn at prices equivalent to the average of prices ruling in the last quarter of 1970.	Facts
As a compensation the participating mills were allotted foreign cotton at a concessional rate of premium and were permitted to sell such cotton in the market.	Facts
The yarn thus made available was allocated to the various States by the Textile Commissioner.	Facts
The quantity of yarn covered by the Pool Scheme depended upon the quantum of foreign cotton made available for the purpose.3.	Facts
In the second quarter of 1972 prices of superfine counts, namely, 60s and above began to rise.	Facts
The causes were first, shortfall in production caused by prolonged labour strike in Coimbatore and other textile centres in Tamil Nadu second, an increase in the spindle cost of foreign cotton third revival of export demand for cotton yarn, and fourth, large scale unauthorised despatch to foreign countries.	Facts
In order to arrest this trend the industry reached an understanding with the Textile Commissioner in July, 1972.	Facts
Under this agreement the mills were to supply 50 per cent of the yarn of 60s and above meant for sale in the market at agreed prices.	Facts
The agreed prices were the average of the highest contract price in January, 1972 and the highest contract price on 1 June, 1972 or near about the date.	Facts
This price was known as the regulated price.	Facts
The arrangement came into force from 1 August, 1972.4.	Facts
This scheme suffered a setback in the last quarter of 1972.	Facts
This was because of severe power cuts in Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Gujrat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Mysore and Andhra Pradesh.	Facts
The downward trend in production which had begun to manifest in the last quarter had begun to manifest in the last quarter of 1972 gathered further momentum in the first quarter of 1973.	Facts
As compared with the third quarter of 1972 when the production was the highest the fall in yarn and cotton production in the first quarter of 1973 was 15 per cent and 12 per cent respectively.	Facts
The decline was 6 per cent in yarn and 7 per cent in cloth production compared with the same period of 1972.	Facts
There was of course a prolonged labour strike in February, March 1972, in Coimbatore and for a short period elsewhere in Tamil Nadu.	Facts
There was a marked fall in production in that State.	Facts
It may be stated here that Tamil Nadu has 23 per cent of Indias total spindleage and 4.4 per cent of loornage.	Facts
The bumper crop in 197172 season had, impact on yarn and cloth production in the second quarter of 1972.5.	Facts
Early in 1973 the upward trend of yarn prices rose in fine and superfine counts.	Facts
The Southern India Millowners Association offered to the Government the entire free yarn production of all counts of its member mills at prices to be mutually agreed to between the industry and the Textile Commissioner.	Facts
The Southern Association wanted the Indian Cotton Mills Federation to take the initiative for arriving at an understanding with the Government at an allIndia level.	Facts
The mills in North India were of the view that prices of coarse and medium counts had not gone up appreciably as compared with the pool prices and were either steady or even lower in some cases than those at the commencement of 1972 and therefore there was no case whatever for subjecting them to control.	Facts
The Indian Cotton Mills Federation strove hard for an understanding with the Government for some form of voluntary control on production, distribution and prices which would be beneficial for all the interests concerned and ensure price stability, and smooth and orderly movement of yarn to the lakhs of weavers in the decentralised sector.6.	Facts
The Government decided to bring all yarn under control in all respects, viz, prices, production and distribution.	Facts
The stocks of yarn with mills which had stood at 94,400 bales (of 180 kgs.	Facts
each) in September, 1972 dropped by December, 1972 to 79,000 bales and still further to 42,200 bales by the end of February, 1973 the lowest on record for the last ten years.	Facts
By the end of March, 1973 they had gone up to as much as 1,08,600 bales, and by the end of April to 1,78,000 bales.	Facts
The Government wanted to rectify the imbalance between production and deliveries of yarn in hanks, cones, pirns, and beams.	Facts
It was felt that the situation appeared to be man made.	Facts
In 1972 India exported 21.9 million kgs.	Facts
of yarn out of the total production of 975 million kgs.	Facts
The export of handloom goods needed special attention.	Facts
In this context the suggestions were, first, deliveries of yarn in hanks, and second, requirements of hosiery sector should be met third, the recent rise in price was unjustified and they should revert to normal levels fourth the responsibility for distribution should be assumed by the concerned Governments fifth yarn export should continue and sixth the handloom sector should be specially fed with the requisite raw materials.7.	Facts
The Government felt that the producers of cotton yarn would be prohibited from selling yarn except in small quantities in the form of beams meant for powerlooms to the trade or to anyone else except to the nominees of the Textile Commissioner.	Facts
Second, the manufacturers of yarn shall sell only to nominees of the Textile Commissioner.	Facts
Third, the manufacturers for civil consumption shall have to pack not less than 60 per cent of such yarn in the form of hanks for handlooms and not less than 30 per cent in the form of cones for powerlooms.	Facts
Fourth, mills producing and supplying hosiery yarns shall have to continue to do so under a statutory order.	Facts
Fifth, prices shall be notified up to counts 40s and below in one group adopting the market prices of December, 1972 as mentioned in the first impugned notification and in regard yarn prices as mentioned in the second impugned notification.8.	Facts
The first impugned notification is issued by the Textile Commissioner under clause 22 of the Cotton Textiles (Control) Order 1948 hereinafter referred to as the 1948 Order.	Facts
The notification determines the exfactory price of count of yarn of 59s and below and count of yarn of 60s and above.	Facts
In the case of count of yarn of 59s and below the price is the highest exmill price or the highest contracted price for deliveries effect in December, 1972.	Facts
In the case of producers of yarn situated in the States of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry where the electricity cut exceeds 70 per cent, the relevant price as applicable may be increased by 6 per cent.9.	Facts
In the case of counts of yarn of 60s and above the determined price is the regulated yarn price adopted for individual producers of yarn from the first day of August, 1972, increased by 6 per cent where there is no electricity cut not exceeding 20 per cent, increased by 12 per cent where the electricity power cut exceeds 20 per cent but does not exceed 50 per cent and increased by 18 per cent in the case of producers of yarn in the States of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry where the electricity power cut exceeds 70 per cent.10.	Facts
The term regulated price under the notification shall mean the price calculated by taking the difference between the highest contract price as on 1 June, 1972 or the nearest date in case no sale was effected on 1 June, 1972 and the highest price for the relevant count and form of packing during January, 1972 and allowing onehalf of the difference to the reduced from 1 June, 1972 price.11.	Facts
The first impugned notification was not applicable to yarn sold to hosiery industry and to yarn on beams delivered under specified circumstances.	Facts
There is no fixation of maximum retail price at the point of sale to the consumer.	Facts
By a notification dated 31 March, 1973 the Textile Commissioner authorised the Deputy Commissioners of yarn to be sold by dealers.	Facts
The maximum price is to be fixed after taking into consideration (a) invoice price of yarn, (b) incidental charges, (c) such reasonable margin of profit not exceeding two per cent of the invoice price as the Deputy Commissioner or the District Collector may determine in each case, and (d) any other relevant factor.12.	Facts
The second impugned notification is made by the Textile Commissioner in exercise of powers conferred under clause 30 (1) (b) of the 1948 order.	Facts
The notification directed that no producer of yarn for civil consumption shall sell or deliver any such yarn produced by him except to such person or persons and subject to such conditions as the Textile Commissioner might specify.	Facts
The same notification contained another direction under powers conferred by cl.	Facts
30 (1) (a) of the 1948 Order that every producer of yarn for civil consumption shall sell or deliver such yarn only to 5 channels of distribution mentioned therein on the basis of the directions that might be issued from time to time by the Textile Commissioner.	Facts
These 5 channels are (a) the nominees of the State Government (b) the Handloom Export Promotion Council, Madras (c) the Cotton Textile Export Promotion Council, Bombay (d) Federation of Hosiery Manufacturers Association of India, Bombay, and (e) any other person as may be nominated by the Textile Commissioner in this behalf.13.	Facts
The order of distribution through channels was not applicable under notification dated 21 June, 1973 to yarn counts of 17s and below, later under notification dated 18 July, 1973 to counts of 35s and below and finally by notification dated 4 August, 1973 to counts of 40s and below.	Facts
The control is at the point of sale by a dealer of yarn to consumer by another notification dated 31 March, 1973.	Facts
This notification provided that every dealer shall sell or deliver yarn only to persons specified there in such quantities as may be determined by the Deputy Commissioner or the District Collector.	Facts
The persons specified are first, the nominees of the State Government, and, second, any other person as may be nominated by the Textile Commissioner.	Facts
This control at the dealers level is in operation in respect of yarn of counts of 40s and below.14.	Facts
The first contention of the petitioners is that the 1948 Order in so far as it purports to make provisions in respect of control and distribution of cotton yarn by fixation of prices etc. more particularly by clauses 22 and 30 thereof is ultra vires the powers conferred on the Central Government by Section 3 of the Essential Supplied (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 hereinafter referred to as the 1946 Act, inasmuch as cotton yarn is not covered by the item Cotton and woollen textiles and cannot be brought within any other item.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first question turns on the consideration whether cotton yarn is covered in cotton textiles.	None
The Cotton Textile Order, 1948, is the relevant statute.	Reasoning
The petitioners contended that cotton yarn is not cotton textile for these reasons.	Arguments of Petitioner
The dictionary meaning of cotton Textile is that textile is a woven fabric and any kind of cloth.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cotton textile is a finished product.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cotton textile is an end product.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cotton textile therefore, cannot be yarn.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the report of Price of Cotton.	Arguments of Petitioner
Yarn and Cloth published in the year 1962 cloth and yarn are treated separately, and therefore, yarn is not within cotton textile.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the petitioners relied on the decisions in K. R. Subbaier v. Regional Provident Fund Commr.	None
Madras reported in AIR 1963 Mad 112 , Kanpur Textile Finishing Mills v. Regional Provident Fund Commr. reported in AIR 1955 Punj 130 Deputy Commr. of Commercial Taxes, Madurai Division, Madurai v. Madurai Printing Tape Factory reported in (1971) 28 S. T. C. 341 (Mad.) in support of the proposition that the word cotton textiles should be so construed as not to include cotton yarn.	None
In Subbaier case, AIR 1963 Mad 112 (supra) the expression textiles was defined to include the products of carding, spinning, weaving, finishing and dyeing yarns and fabrics, printing, knitting and embroidering.	None
The question arose as to whether a factory manufacturing tapes, wicks, braided cords and sewing thread reels was an industry engaged in the manufactures of textiles Tapes and lamp wicks were held to be the products of weaving, if not knitting.	None
The word textile according to the Oxford dictionary means of weaving.	None
In Kanpur Textile Mills case, AIR 1955 Punj 130 (supra) the expression textiles which had the same definition as in Subbaier case, AIR 1963 Mad 112 (supra) was held to include anything from yarn to woven material.	None
In Madurai Printing Tape Factory case, (1971) 28 S. T. C. 431 (Mad.)	None
(supra) the question was whether tape was textile.	None
It was held that the ingredient of textile is necessarily weaving and tapes made as a result of weaving would be within the meaning of the entry textiles.	None
These decisions show that textiles ordinarily means cloth and yarn.17.	None
In Cotton Textiles Order, 1948 the word yarn means any tape of yarn manufactured either wholly from cotton and partly from any other material.	None
Clause 20 of the Order confers power on the Textile Commissioner to issue directions to manufacturer regarding the classes or specifications of cloth or yarn which manufacturer shall or shall not manufacture Clause 22 confers power on the Textile Commissioner to specify the maximum prices at which any class or specification of cloth or yarn may be sold Clause 30 (2) confers power on the Textile Commissioner with a view to securing a proper distribution of cloth or yarn to issue directions to any manufacturer or dealer to sell or deliver specified quantities of cloth or yarn to specified persons.	None
The Cotton Textiles Order also shows that cloth and yarn are both embraced within the word textiles in the various clauses of the Order.18.	None
The dictionary meanings of cotton textile are any material that is woven, a material, as a fibre or yarn, used in or suitable for weaving, woven or capable of being woven.	Reasoning
The meaning of textile as a noun is a fabric which is or may be woven fabric, made by weaving, a woven fabric, or a material suitable for weaving, textile material.	Reasoning
The dictionary meanings show that cotton yarn is concluded in cotton textile.19.	Reasoning
The setting in which the words cotton textile are used has a legislative and executive understanding of the words consistently over a period of time.	Reasoning
There are also decisions of Courts which accepted yarn to be within textile.	Reasoning
The Cotton Cloth and Yarn Control Order, 1943, was made in exercise of powers conferred by Rule Cloth and yarn in that Order mean and include respectively cloth and yarn manufactured either wholly or partly from cotton.	Reasoning
The Cotton cloth and Yarn Control Order, 1945 repealed the Cotton Cloth and Yarn Control Order, 1943.	Reasoning
The meaning of cloth and yarn was the same as in the Control Order of 1943.20.	None
There is cognate legislation which treated yarn as cotton textile The Tariff Act, 1934 in Sec.	None
11 speaks of textile materials and textile goods and yarn is included there Trade Marks Act, 1940 in Section 62 read with Trade Marks Rules 96 and 97 treats cotton yarn as textile goods.	None
The Cotton Textiles Cess Act, 1948, provided for levy of cess on cloth and or yarn.	None
The expressions cloth and yarn are defined to mean cloth and yarn of which prices fixed by any order made under Section 3 or continued by Section 17 of the Essential Supplied (Temporary Powers) Act.	None
1946 were in force immediately before the commencement of that Act.	None
The Cotton Textile Companies (Management of Undertakings and Liquidation or Reconstruction) Act 20 of 1967 defines cotton textile to mean yarn or fabrics made wither wholly or partially or cotton.21.	None
The legislative practice shows that cotton textiles is a generic term which includes cotton fabric and yarn.	None
One of the methods of construction of statutes is to ascertain the setting and circumstances in which the words are used.	Reasoning
The entire product is cotton textile Yarn is the material or component with which cotton textile is manufactured or woven.22.	Reasoning
The second contention on behalf of the petitioners is that in any even the provisions of the 1948 Order relating to cotton yarn cannot be said to have been continued in force either under Section 16 of the Essential Commodities Ordinance 1955 or under Section 16 (2) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 hereinafter referred to as the 1955 Act as cotton yarn is not covered by the item Cotton and woollen textiles under Section 2 (a) (iv) of the 1955 Act and no notification had been issued declaring cotton yarn as an essential commodity in exercise of powers conferred under Section 2 (a) (vi) of the 1955 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also said that as a matter of fact such notification was issued only on 31 March, 1973.23.	None
As the Defence of India Act would come to an end on 30 September, 1946 the Government of India Act, 1935 was amended by the British Parliament by the Indian Central Government and Legislature Act, 1946, Section 2 of the 1946 Act provided notwithstanding anything contained in the Government of India Act, 1935, the Indian Legislature shall have power to make laws with respect to trade and commerce (whether or not within a Province) in and production, supply and distribution of cotton and woollen textile, paper products petroleum and petroleum products, spare parts of mechanically propelled vehicles, coal, iron, steel and mica.	None
The Centre could not legislate on production, supply and distribution of goods and trade and commerce therein after the emergency came to an end.	None
Entries 27 and 29 of List II of the Government of India Act, 1935, would support that.	None
The proclamation of emergency was revoked from 1 April.	None
1946 and laws made by the Dominion Legislature in the field of the Provincial Legislative List were to cease to have effect after 30 September, 1946.24.	None
The Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 received assent of the Governor General on 19, November, 1946 and came into force.	None
Various orders issued under the Defence of India Rules including Cotton Cloth and Yarn Control Order 1945.	None
Cotton Textiles Control of Movement Order 1946, Cotton Cloth and Yarn Forward Contracts Prohibition Order, 1945 and the Cotton Textile Raw Materials and Stores Order, 1946 continued.	None
The notification fixing maximum price of cotton yarn and cloth under the Cotton Cloth and Yarn Control Order, 1945 also continued until 28 January, 1948.	None
On 19 February, 1948 the Cotton Textile Control Order was issued under Section 3 of the Essential Supplied (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946.	None
The Cotton Cloth and Yarn Control Order, 1945 was repealed.	Reasoning
There was no power to control price of yarn and cloth.	None
There was only power to control qualities and specification of cloth and yarn.	None
The Cotton Textile Control Order 1948 was issued in the month of August, 1948 repealing the earlier Order.	None
In the now Cotton Textile Control Order of 1948 provision was made for controlling the price of cloth and yarn.	None
From 1948 to 1953 there was control of distribution and price of cloth and yarn by various notifications issued under Cotton Textiles Control Order, 1948.25.	None
The Yarn Distribution Scheme was framed under clause 30 of the Cotton Textile Control Order, 1948.	None
This was held to be valid by the Madras High Court in the decision in Lotus Industrial, Kallai Malabar v. State of Madras Development Department, Madras reported in AIR 1952	None
Mad 715 .	None
In 1948 Cotton Textiles Control of Movements Order was promulgated under Section 3 of the Essential Supplied (Temporary Powers) Act.	None
This order controlled the movement of cloth and yarn in India.	None
The Cotton Textiles Control of Movement Order, 1948 was held to have continued in force after the expiry of Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 by reason of the saving clause (section 16) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (See State of Bihar v. Hira Lal Kejriwal, (1960) 1	None
SCR 726  (AIR 1960 SC 47 ).26.	None
In 1949 the Cotton Textiles (Export Control) Order 1949 was made to provide for control of export of cloth and yarn.	None
The notifications under this Order were issued regarding yarn.	None
In 1949 the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Ordinance 14 of 1949 was issued amending Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946.	None
To the list of essential commodities were added raw cotton, cotton seed, coke and other derivatives of coal.	None
Essential Supplies Temporary Powers (Amendment) Act, 1949 replaced Ordinance 14 of 1949.27.	None
The Industries (Development and Regulation) Act 1952 in Section 2 provided expedient to take under control industries set out in the Schedule.	None
Item 23 in the Schedule related to textiles made wholly or in part of cotton including yarn, hosiery and rope.28.	None
The Essential Supplied (Temporary Powers) Act 1946 came to an end by operation of Art, 369 of the Constitution on 26 January, 1955.	None
On the same day Essential Commodities Ordinance 1955 was promulgated under Entry 33 of List III.	None
The Essential Commodities Act X of 1955 came into force on 1 April, 1955.	None
The objects and reasons of the 1955 Act were that under Article 369 of the Constitution Parliament had power for a period of five years from the commencement of the Constitution to make laws with respect to trade and commerce in and production, supply and distribution of certain essential commodities.	None
The life of the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act 1946 was limited to 26 January, 1955.29.	None
The essential commodities to which the 1955 Act applied fell into two broad categories.	None
The first consisted of coal, textiles iron, steel and paper, etc. which are products of industries under Union control.	None
The second related to foodstuffs, cattle fodder etc. which are not products of such industries.30.	None
On 19 October, 1962 a notification was issued under Section 2 (xi) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 declaring commodities specified therein used in the process of manufacturing yarn and machinery for manufacturing cloth.	None
Textile Machinery Production and Distribution Order, 1962 was issued under S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, for controlling use and distribution and sale of textile machinery including machines used in manufacture of yarn.31.	None
These legislative measures show that in regard to the scope of these controls in some cases it is possible with reference to the circumstances relating to nature and use of the commodity in question to institute control right from the point of origin to the point of ultimate consumption.	Reasoning
In regard to other commodities control has to stop at some intermediate point.	Reasoning
The methods of control also vary from commodity to commodity.	Reasoning
In regard to the very important matter of the method of pricing, one method is adopted regarding cloth and another method is adopted in regard to steel and a third in regard to other commodities.	Reasoning
Empiric process has been resorted to in this organisation of system of control.32.	None
The 1948 Order was made under Section 3 of 1946 Essential Supplies Temporary Powers Act referred to as the 1946 Act, Section 16 (2) of the 1955 Act which repealed the 1946 Act continued the 1948 Order.	None
The 1946 Act was provide for the continuance during a limited period of powers to control production, supply and distribution and trade and commerce in certain commodities.	None
Cotton textiles formed one of the essential commodities, specified in S. 2 (a) (ii) of the 1946 Act.	None
The 1955 Act was also enacted to provide for the control of production, supply and distribution and trade and commerce in certain commodities.	None
Cotton textiles is one of the essential commodities specified in Section 2 (a) (iv) of the 1955 Act.33.	None
Section 3 (1) and (2) of the 1946 Act empowered the Central Government for maintaining or increasing supplied of essential commodities or for securing their equitable or profit production, supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce (sic).	None
Such orders could provide for control of prices of essential commodities, and require any person holding stock to sell whole or specified part at such prices and to such persons as specified in the Order.	None
The Central Government under the 1946 Act could regulate the distribution and supply of essential commodity.	None
The Central Government could delegate its power to any officer or authority mentioned therein.34.	None
The 1955 Act contains similar power of the Central Government to regulate or prohibit production, supply and distribution and trade and commerce in essential commodities for maintaining or increasing supplies of essential commodities or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices or for securing any efficient conduct of military operation.	None
The 1955 Act also contains similar power to control the prices at which essential commodities may be bought or sold or to require any person holding stock of essential commodity to sell the whole or specified part to the Central Government or the State Government or other persons mentioned therein.	None
The 1955 Act empowers the Central Government to provide for regulating or prohibiting production, supply and distribution of essential commodities.35.	None
Section 3 (3) of the 1955 Act provides that where any person sells essential commodity in compliance with an order made with reference to clause (f) of subsection (2) there shall be paid to him (a) price agreed, if it is consistent with the controlled price, (b) the price calculated with reference to the controlled price if no agreement could be reached, (c) the price calculated at the market rate prevailing in the locality at the date of sale, if neither clause (a) nor cl.	None
(b) applies.36.	None
Clause 22 of the 1948 Cotton Textiles Control Order provides that the Textile Commissioner may specify the maximum prices, exfactory, wholesale and retail, at which any class or specification of cloth or yarn may be sold or the principles on which and the manner in which such maximum prices may be determined by a manufacturer and the markings to be made by a manufacturer or dealer on any clause or specification of cloth or yarn manufactured or sold by him and the time and manner of making such markings.	None
The 1948 Order was amended by Cotton Textiles (Control) Amendment Order, 1972.	None
As a result of the amendment clause 30 of the 1948 Order was substituted by clause 30 in 1972 Order.	None
The amended clause 30 (a) is that the Textiles Commissioner may, with a view to securing proper distribution of cloth or yarn and with a view to securing compliance with the provisions of this Order, direct any manufacturer or dealer, class of manufacturers or dealers (a) to sell or deliver specified quantities of cloth or yarn to specified persons, (b) not to sell or deliver cloth or yarn of specified description except to specified persons and subject to such conditions as the Textile Commissioner may specify.	None
The amended clause further provided that the manufacturers or dealers shall comply with the directions and the Textile Commissioner in making orders shall have regard to the requirements of categories of persons mentioned in subclause (a), the availability of cloth or yarn of different descriptions and the requirement of any local area.37.	None
Clause 36 of the 1948 Order provided that any person aggrieved by an order of the Textile Commissioner may prefer an appeal to the Central Government within thirty days of the date of communication of such order and the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final.38.	None
The 1948 Order continued under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	None
Cotton yarn is included in cotton textiles.	None
It was, therefore, not necessary to issue any notification declaring cotton yarn as an essential commodity under Section 2 (a) (xi) of the 1955 Act.	None
The notification dated 13th March 1973 required an explanation to say that yarn for the purpose of the notification shall mean all cotton yarn except sewing thread and industrial yarn like type cord.	None
This explanation was necessary to include all cotton yarn because the decentralised sector was facing severe yarn shortages.39.	None
The third contention on behalf of the petitioners is that on a true construction of Section 3 of the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1955 (sic) the power to issue orders in respect of essential commodities having been conferred to ensure their availability at fair prices such orders cannot validly confer arbitrary powers on the executive to fix prices of essential commodities unrelated to the cost of production and reasonable margin of profit.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that clause 22 of the Cotton Textiles Control Order, 1948 which is continued by the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 cannot be construed as authorising the Textile Commissioner to fix an arbitrary price for essential commodities.40.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fourth contention is that if the provisions of the Cotton Textiles Control Order confer arbitrary power on the Textile Commissioner of fix prices for yarn unrelated to the cost of production and reasonable profits to the producer then the provisions become void by reason of infringement of Articles 19 (1) (f) and (g) and 31 as well as Article 301 of the Constitution.41.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fifth contention is that if the said Order does not authorise fixation of price of cotton yarn arbitrarily and without reference to relevant factors such as cost of production and reasonable return, the impugned notifications which fix a price for yarn below the cost of production of the mills are ultra vires the Cotton Textiles (Control) Order, 1948 inasmuch as the prices fixed under the said notifications are not based on relevant considerations such as cost of production, reasonable return, but are wholly arbitrary and based on irrelevant considerations.42.	Arguments of Petitioner
These three contentions turn on the question as to whether controlled price fixed under the impugned notifications has been fixed arbitrarily and it constitutes an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental rights of the petitioners and Article 301.	None
The question of fair price of cotton textile in the sphere of trade engaged the attention of the Government in 1960.	None
The Government appointed a Tariff Commission to consider several aspects.	None
The recommedations of the Tariff Commission on cotton textiles and prices were these.	None
Control must be comprehensive Cotton should embrace the entrant range from producer of cloth and yarn to the ultimate consumers.	None
Any system of control which fixes fair prices only for the industry cannot really protect the consumers because of dealers and middlemen and high prices of substitute products from the decentralised sector.	None
Where control is imposed in conditions of scarcity, the price should encourage growth of output.	None
This is to maintain equilibrium of demand and supply.	None
Price must be fair to the producer to cover his costs.	None
Price must be attractive to sustain growth of output and capital resources, return element, profit motive.43.	None
The recommendation concerning price control is that cost factors which are beyond the control of the producer as well as factors within the control of the producer like efficiency, productivity, appropriation of profits are all to be considered and on an overall estimate a return of 12 per cent of capital is reasonable for the industry.44.	None
Raw cotton counts for about 50 per cent of the value of the finished product.	None
Price of raw cotton should be attractive to the grower in order to raise his output and good quality.	None
The costs of conversion of cotton into finished product are neither stable over a period of time nor uniformly steady in mills.	None
Mills have different equipments and efficiencies.	None
Therefore, it is not possible to establish an invariable set of prices for the products of the industry for a long period.45.	None
Adjustment of future prices may be necessary to cover changes in variable items of cost of production.	None
Raw cotton figures prominently as one such item.	None
It is said that there should be quarterly revision of prices on the basis of changes in the prices of raw cotton.	None
Conversion charges of raw cotton like labour, freights, fuel, power and stores are also to be considered.	None
Labour costs depend on statutory alterations as well as Wage Board Awards or negotiated settlements.	None
The impact of prices of stores is indefinite.	None
In the structure of processing costs an allowance has been included for contingencies in order to meet the cost of stores, power fuel and to prevent inflation only on those items.	None
Price of particular counts of yarn will have to be determined on the basis of fair average of cost of production with due regard to the cotton mix in each producing establishment Mixes vary from mill to mill as also from time to time.	None
The range of variation of mixes can be brought to a degree of certain technical limits and on the basis of that average cost of raw material can be determined.46.	None
Another recommendation of the Tariff Commissioner emphasised distribution chain.	None
A margin of 18 per cent which includes freights charges on exmill prices of cloth which had been applied under the system of voluntary control needed no revision.	None
As regards sales of yarn handloom weavers needed protection.	None
It was, therefore, suggested that a maximum of 1 1/2 per cent on exmill prices of yarn for sale plus actual freight to the main consuming centres would be adequate.	None
The recommendations of the Tariff Commission were studied.	None
The Government introduced control over price and production namely, control over manufacture and sale of certain varieties of mill made cloth of mass consumption in the month of October, 1964.	None
The prices were worked out after taking into account the costs of production under the particular heads of cotton, labour and other material charges etc.	None
Prices were stamped on the piece of cloth as the exmill price.	None
The retail price of cloth, the excise duty, the category and description of the cloth, the tax mark, of the mill and the words controlled cloth were also stamped on the cloth The fixation of price of cloth took into account the recommendations of the Tariff Commission on the prices of cotton yarn.47.	None
The Report of the commodity Control Committee, 1953 dealt with three main types of price control.	None
The first is the ceiling or maximum price.	None
The second is fixed price The third is ceiling and floor price.	None
The impugned notifications in the present case adopted the first, viz, fixing ceiling or maximum price.	None
With regard to ceiling or maximum price it has to be balanced between a reasonable margin over and above cost of producer on the one hand on the other the interest and protection of the consumer because a liberal ceiling will ordinarily not encourage sales it below the maximum price though there is no bar to sales below the maximum price.	None
In some instances what is known as the cost plus formula has been adopted This formula means cost either of the importer or of the manufacturer as the basis and the addition of a reasonable margin of profit to cover the wholesaler and the retailers The periodic revision of prices is also noticed with the warning that frequent change in price may cause difficulties to producers who are in possession of large stocks In the case of imported goods the control is the margin of profit.	None
In the case of manufactured goods control of price of raw materials is required in order to have a control of price for the finished article.	None
If the price of raw material is controlled but not of the commodity which can be produced in place of that raw material there would be danger of production being diverted to channels over which there is no control.	None
In the last analysis it is said that effectiveness of measures of control lies in the reasonableness of prices fixed.	None
The prices must be fair not only from the point of view of consumer but also of the producer and the distributor.	Reasoning
These are the recommendations of the Commodity Control Committee.48.	None
The recommendations of the Tariff Board on the cotton yarn and cloth prices in 1948 and of the Tariff Commission on the Cotton Yarn and Cloth Prices in 1962 covered all economic aspect of the industry which have an impact on the exmill prices of cloth and yarn.	None
The Government acted upon the Tariff Board formula of price fixation of cloth and yarn from 1949 to 1952.	None
Under that formula fair prices were arrived at by taking into account the main elements of the costs of production and those prices were revised every quarter.	None
The Voluntarily Scheme of price control introduced in 1964 adopted the basis of price of cloth and yarn prevalent in August 1959 and certain percentage of increase on account of raw materials, stores and Wage Board Awards.	None
The Tariff Commission view was that the prices should be fair to the producer to cover costs, upkeep of his production apparatus and return of 12 per cent.	None
The control over manufacture and sale of mill made cloth of mass consumption from the year 1964 adopted the formula of cost of production taking into account costs, labour material charges and adjustments from time to time in fluctuations of the cost elements.49.	None
No control over the production and sale of yarn was imposed until 13 March, 1973 when the impugned notifications were issued.	None
Until then the yarn pool scheme in respect of yarn of counts upto 40s continued from 1 February, 1971 to 31March, 1973.	None
The other was the voluntary price and Distribution Scheme in respect of yarn of counts 60s and above introduced on 1 August, 1972.	None
The voluntary price and distribution scheme applied to 50 per cent of the free yarn and the producers were free to sell the rest in the open market.	None
Because of cornering, hoarding, speculation, unauthorised despatch to foreign countries, prices of yarn were rising though the production in 1972 rose to 468 million kgs.	None
For yarn upto counts 40s and below there was no price rise upto December, 1972 over the period of preceding 10 months.	None
For counts of 60s and above, the regulated price with effect from 1 August 1972, with 6 per cent increase took into consideration power cut changes in the price of cotton since August, 1972, increase in labour costs and 40 per cent import duty on imported cotton.	None
The real challenge on the part of the petitioners is that yarn price control has not followed the pattern of price control for cloth by providing for periodic changes in the control price to allow the fluctuations in cost elements.50.	None
The petitioners contend that the price fixed is arbitrary for the following reasons.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fluctuation in the price of cotton is not taken into consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Raw materials, wages and profits are not considered.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nothing has been done with regard to those who have suffered electricity cut in other States.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cost of production and reasonable profit have not been taken into consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
The price fixed is December, 1972 rate.	None
December, 1972 rate is not the rate for March, 1973.	None
Therefore, there is basic variation between December and March in cotton (sic).	None
Irrespective of the fact whether it is yarn manufactured before December or after December it shall be sold at that price.	None
No reason in disclosed for fixing the price.	None
No norms for fixing the prices are given.	None
There is total nonapplication of mind to arrive at the price by an alternative method.	None
Those who are producing counts 40s and below are producing counts to get price irrespective of any aspect of electricity.	None
It is, therefore, said that the alternative method is that which is fixed by the Tariff Commission.	None
The industry must have reasonable return and fair price will take in cost of production.	None
There should be guidelines in fixing prices.	None
The price fixation which does not fix a price above the cost of production is unreasonable restriction because it poses before the producer the two alternatives between closure and sale below the price.	None
The only guideline is the recommendation of the Tariff Commission.	None
It is a reasonable return of 12 per cent.	None
The price fixed under the impugned orders is for a long time.	None
It is for all times to come.	None
There is no computation of cost.	None
The protection is for handloom weavers and powerloom weavers.	None
If cloth was to be obtained at fair price, the price of cloth should be controlled.	None
The industry was facing steep rise in the cost of production from 1965 and profits appeared for the first time in 197273.	None
All these factors are, according to petitioners not taken into consideration in fixing the price.51.	None
In 1972 there were 670 textile mills.	None
Out of these 291 were composite mills which also consumed yarn produced by them.	None
Out of 18010 spindles 12260 are located in composite mills.	None
Out of 972 million kgs.	None
of yarn produced 448 million kgs is civil consumption.	None
By civil consumption is meant habdloom and powerloom weavers and hosiery.	None
There are 72 lakhs of handloom weavers.	None
4 lakhs are powerloom weavers 50,000 persons are employed in hosiery industry.	None
The total cloth produced in the country is 8200 million meters.	None
The share of handloom and powerloom is 3777 million metres.	None
The mills produce 4245 million meters.	None
The powerloom and handloom sectors produce 47.1 per cent of the total cloth production of the country Handloom and powerloom sector depends for the supply of raw material yarn on textile mills.	None
Twothirds of the total yarn produced come from composite mills.	None
The composite mills compete with handloom and powerloom sectors in the production of cloth.	None
Handloom and powerloom industry requires protection.	None
Control over price and distribution of yarn is, therefore, in the interest of the general public.52.	None
There is a provision of appeal to the Central Governement against the order of the Textile Commissioner.	None
That is clause 36 of the Order.	None
This relief by representation to the relevant authorities is always available to the petitioners.53.	None
In Diwan Sugar and General Mills v. Union of India (1959) Supp.	None
(2) SCR 132 (AIR 1959 SC 626 ) this Court considered Sugar Export Promotion Ordinance, 1958.	None
Prices of sugar went up by a rupee per maund during MayJune, 1958 in expectation of the Ordinance.	None
Though the industry assured sale of sugar at prices prevalent before the Export Policy was announced, there was no fall in prices.	None
Notifications were issued under the Sugar Control Order fixing controlled price below the level of prices at the end of May and in the week preceding 17 June, 1958.	None
This Court repelled the contention that the prices were below the cost of production.	None
The sugar crushing season begins about the end of October and finishes about the end of May.	None
The fixation of prices in July, 1958 was on the basis of the 195758 season and the market prices were available at the time of the notification.	None
In an unreported decision in Sri Krishna Rice Mills v. Joint Director (Food), Vijayawada (Civil Appeal Nos. 10261031 etc. of 1963 D  2711965 (SC) this Court held that Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act sufficiently specifies the principles on the basis of which price should be fixed.	None
The Central Government fixed the maximum price for sale of rice of certain quantities.	None
The rice millers contended that notification fixing fair price violated Articles 14, 10 (1) (f), (g) and 31 (2) of the Constitution, and therefore, they were entitled to the rates prevailing in the market.	None
The contentions on Art 19 (1) (f) and (g) were repelled on the rulings of this Court in Hari Shankar Bagla v. State of Madhya Pradesh reported in (1955)	None
SCR 380 (AIR 1954 SC 465 ) and Union of India v. Bhanamal Gulzarimal reported in (1960) 2 SCR 627 (AIR 1960 SC 475 1960 Cri LJ 664).54.	None
In Sri Krishna Rice Mills case, Civil Appeal Nos. 10261031 of 1963.	None
D  2711965 (SC) (supra) the rice was procured after 30 December, 1957 at the rate of maximum price fixed by the Government by notification dated 30 December, 1957.	None
The appellants there contended that they had paid higher prices than fixed by the notification.	None
This Court held that unless it could be shown that the reduction of price was not fair, it could not be said that the procurement after 30 December, 1957 based on the prices fixed in the notification of that date was in any manner against the provisions of the Act or was hit by Article 19 (1) (f).	None
The Court found that the prices fixed were fair, because the reason for the reduction of prices of December, 1957 was that new crop came into the market from November, 1957 and the market prices of rice fell.	None
When prices fall, traders who had made purchases at higher prices have to sell at the reduced rates and therefore, they cannot complain against rise and fall of prices due to economic factors in an open market.	None
Just as the industry cannot complain of rise and fall of prices due to economic factors, in an open market they cannot similarly complain of increase or reduction of prices as a result of notification under Section 3 (1) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 because that increase of reduction is also based on economic factors.55.	None
In State of Rajasthan v. Nathmal, (1954)	None
SCR 982 (AIR 1954 SC 307 ), the authorities were allowed to freeze any stock of foodgrains and no person could dispose of any foodgrains out of the stock so freezed (sic) without the permission of the authority.	None
The order was held to be relatable to the object of the Act, namely securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.	None
The ceiling price of the commodity was Rupees 1718.	None
The Government procurrement price was Rs. 9 per maund.	None
The Court held that it was an unreasonable restriction because the Government was free to sell at a higher price and make a profit.	None
The ceiling price was higher than the fixed price at which the stocks were requisitioned but after requisition, the Government would sell at the higher price.	None
Therefore, that was an unreasonable restriction.56.	None
In (1960) 2	None
SCR 627 (AIR 1960 SC 475 1960 Cri.	None
LJ 664) (supra) clause 11B of the Iron and Steel (Control of Production and Distribution) Order, 1941 which conferred power on the Controller to fix maximum price from time to time was challenged on the ground that cl.	None
11B should have referred to the prices of some specified year as basic prices and should have directed the Controller to prescribe maximum prices by reference to the basic prices.	None
This Court did not accept contention.	None
The special features of the object which the Control Order is said to achieve are an important consideration.	None
Maximum prices in respect of iron and steel would depend on a rational evaluation from time to time of all factors.	None
This Court will not substitute its determination for that of the discretion of the authority in fixing the fair prices.	None
The Controller with a view to fixing maximum price of iron and steel made a flat reduction of Rs.30/ per ton from the earlier maximum price.	None
The price for sale by registered producers of untested articles was Rs.333/ per ton whereas the price for sale by controlled stock holders was Rs. 363/ per ton and the price at which the respondents could sell was Rs.378/ per ton and as a result of the deduction of Rs. 30/ the respondents were required to sell at Rs. 348/ per ton.	None
It was alleged that the respondents had purchased commodity at then rate of Rs. 363/ per ton from the controlled stockholders and they were compelled to sell at a reduced price.	None
This Court held that losses in respect of particular transactions would not to be decisive because the general effect of the notification is on all the classes of dealers as a whole.	None
If it is shown that in a large majority of cases, if not all, the impugned notification would adversely affect the fundamental right of the dealers guaranteed under Art, 19 (1) (f) and (g) that may constitute a serious infirmity in the validity of the notification.57.	None
In Narendra Kumar v. Union of India, (1960) 2	None
SCR 375 (AIR 1960 SC 430 )	None
this Court emphasised that the test of reasonableness meant the nature of evil that was sought to be remedied, the ratio of the harm caused to the individual citizen by the proposed remedy and the beneficial effect reasonably expected to result to the general public.	None
Clauses 3 (1) of the Nonferrous Metal Control Order 1958 which provided that no person shall sell or offer to sell any nonferrous metal at a price which exceeds the amount represented by an addition of 3 1/2 per cent of its landed cost and which provided that no person shall purchase or offer to purchase from any person nonferrous metal at a price higher than at which it is permissible for that other person to sell to him under subsection (i) was challenged.	None
This Court held that an addition of 31/2 per cent of the landed cost was intended to enable the importers to earn a margin of profit and that this would be the minimum price at which the importers would sell.	None
Any dealer would have to pay at the rate of landed cost plus 31/2 per cent in getting the supply of copper from the importer anything more than the landed cost plus 31/2 per cent thereof (sic).	None
As a result of this any actual consumer of the commodity would have to get id direct from the importer and the channel of distribution through the dealer would disappear.	None
This Court held that the evil sought to the remedied was rise in price and some fixation of price being essential to keep prices within reasonable limits was reasonable restriction.58.	None
The balance between freedom to carry on business and special control under reasonable restrictions is required In Dwarkar Prasad Laxmi Narain v. State of U. P. (1954)	None
SCR 803 (AIR 1954 SC 224 ) the exclusion of incidental charges from the cost items for allowing 10 per cent profit in fixing the controlled prices of coal was attacked to be unfair and discriminatory.	None
This Court held that the omission would only lower the margin of profit.	None
The fixation of price was in the interest of public.	None
In considering the provisions of U. P. Coal Control Order, 1953 this court said thata law or order which confers arbitrary and uncontrolled power up on the executive in the matter of regulating trade or business in normally available commodities cannot be held to be unreasonable.59.	None
The two decisions on which the petitioners relied are Panipat Cooperative Sugar Mills v. Union of India (AIR 1973 SC 537 ) and Anakapalle Cooperative Agricultural and Industrial Society Ltd. v. Union of India (AIR 1973 SC 734 ) which are on the application of subsection (3C) of Section 3 of the 1955 Act.	None
That subsection relates to sugar and there are special features for fixing of price.	None
In Panipat Sugar Mills case, AIR 1973 SC 537 (supra) it is said that fair price of sugar is to be determined ensuring to the industry a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing sugar but the Government cannot fix any arbitrary price or fix it on extraneous considerations or fix such price that it does not secure a reasonable return on the capital employed in the industry.	None
Panipat Sugar Mills case, AIR 1973 SC 537 (supra) is governed by subsection (3C) of Section 3 of the 1955 Act, and has, therefore, no relevance to the present case.60.	Reasoning
The case of Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Union of India (1972) 2 SCR 526 (AIR 1972 SC 1690 ) is on Section 18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951.	None
The provisions of Section 18G are that the Central Government for securing the equitable distribution, availability at fair prices of any article relatable to any scheduled industry may provide for regulating the supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.	None
In subsection (2) of Section 18G it is stated that without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subsection (1) a notified order made thereunder may provide for controlling the price at which any such article was bought or sold.	None
In Premier Automobiles case, (1972) 2 SCR 526 (AIR 1972 SC 1690 ) (supra) this Court said thatthe concept of fair price fixed under Section 18G takes in all the elements to make it fair for the consumer leaving a reasonable margin of profit to the manufacturer without which no one will engage in any manufacturing activity.	None
These observations were made on the basis of the agreement of the parties there that irrespective of technical or legal points the Court should base its judgement on examination of correct and rational principle and should direct deviation from the report of the Commission of Inquiry appointed by it with the concurrence of the parties only when it shown that there has been a departure from the established principles or the conclusions of the Commission are shown to be demonstrably wrong or erroneous.	None
The Premier Automobiles (1972) 2 SCR 526 (AIR 1972 SC 1690 ) (supra) decision does not consider that the concept of fair prices varies with circumstances in which and the purposes for which the price control is sought to be imposed.	None
This decision because of the special agreement there does not consider that the fixation of fair price with a view to holding the price line may be stultified by allowing periodic increase in price.61.	None
If fair price is to be fixed leaving a reasonable margin of profit, there is never any question of infringement of fundamental right to carry on business by imposing reasonable restrictions.	Reasoning
The question of fair price to the consumer with reference to the dominant object and purpose of the legislation claiming equitable distribution and availability at fair price is completely lost sight of it profit and the producers return are kept in the forefront.	Reasoning
The maintenance or increase of supplies of the commodity or the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices are the fundamental purposes of the Act.	Reasoning
If the prices of yarn or cloth are fixed in such a way as to enable the manufacturer or producer to recover his cost of production and secure a reasonable margin of profit, no aspect of infringement of fundamental right can be said to arise.62.	Reasoning
In determining the reasonableness of a restriction imposed by law in the field of industry, trade or commerce, it has to be remembered that the mere fact that some of those who are engaged in these are alleging loss after the imposition of law will not render the law unreasonable.	Reasoning
By its very nature, industry or trade or commerce goes through periods of prosperity and adversity on account of economic and some times social and political factors.	Reasoning
In a largely free economy when control have to be introduced to ensure foodstuff, cloth and the like at a fair price it is an impracticable proposition to require the Government to go through the exercise like that of a Commission to fix the prices.	Reasoning
The Tariff Board and the Tariff Commission did not deal with the question of fixing prices with a view only to holding price line and in the circumstances that justify giving preeminent preference to the interest of the consumer or general public over that of the producers of the commodity and the dealers.	Reasoning
Even these Commissions cannot always make a correct estimate of a price which is fair to all because there are intricacies of the trade of all profit making enterprises which a Commission may not be able to probe.	Reasoning
As an illustration, the Tariff Commission Report points out that many textile mills use cotton mixes with a view to reducing cost and the result of such mixes is difficult to discern.63.	Reasoning
When available stocks go underground and the Government has to step in to control distribution and availability in public interest fixing of price can, therefore, be only empirical.	None
Market prices at a time when the goods did not go underground and were freely available, the general rise in prices, the capacity of the consumer specially in case of consumer goods like foodstuff, cloth etc.	None
the amount of loss which the industry is able to absorb after having made huge profits in prosperous years, all these enter into the calculation of a fair price in an exigency created by artificial shortages.	None
In this context, the observations of this court in Chintaman Rao v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1950) SCR 759 (AIR 1951 SC 118 ) are that the phrase reasonable restriction connotes that the limitation imposed on a person in enjoyment of the right should not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature beyond what is required in the interest of the public.64.	None
In Secretary of Agriculture v. Central Roig Refining Co. (1950) 94 Law Ed.	None
381 338 U. S. 604620 the Sugar Act of 1948 which allotted to specified domestic sugarproducing areas, some within and some without the continental United States, an annual quota of sugar, specifying the maximum number of tons which might be marketed on the mainland from each those areas was challenged.	None
The challenge was based on the Due Process clause of the Fifth Amendment because of alleged discriminatory character and the oppressive effects of the refined sugar quota established by the Act.	None
The Act established limits on the tonnage of refined sugar which might be marketed annually on the mainland from the offshore areas as part of their total sugar quotas.	None
The Act did not subject mainland refiners to quota limitations upon the marketing of refined sugar.	None
The Secretary was authorised to allot the refined sugar quota of a particular area among those marketing the sugar on the mainland from an offshore area to provide a fair distribution of the quota by considering three factors, namely, first processing of sugar to which proportionate shares, determined pursuant to the provisions of the Act pertained second, past marketing, and, third, ability to market the amount allotted.65.	None
It was held there that the Congress instructed the Secretary to make allotments in such manner and in such amounts as to provide a fair, efficient and equitable distribution.	None
The Secretary was given discretion commensurate with the legislative goal.	None
Allocation of quotas to individual marketers was deemed an essential part of the regulatory scheme.	None
The complexity of problem affecting raw and refined sugar in widely separated and economically disparate areas, accentuated by the instability of the differentiating factors must have persuaded Congress of the need for continuous detailed administrative supervision.	None
The Court, therefore, held that the Secretarys judgement would not be replaced to that of the Court by holding on the record that the Secretary acted arbitrarily in reaching the conviction that the years 193541 furnished a fairer measure of past marketings than the war years.	None
It was also saidSuffice it to say that since Congress fixed the quotas on a historical basis it is not for this Court to reweigh the relevant factors and perchance substitute its notion of expediency and fairness for that of Congress.	None
This is so even though the quota thus fixed may demonstrably be disadvantageous to certain areas or persons.	None
This Court is not a tribunal for relief from the crudities and inquities of complicated experimental economical legislation.	None
In the present case the legislative measures have left the question of resolving the economic problems of increasing supplies, equitable distribution and availability of essential commodities at fair prices to the judgement of the statutory authorities.66.	None
The main plank of the petitioners contention that fair price means a determination with regard to the cost of raw material, manufacturing cost and reasonable return on the capital employed in the business was founded on the construction that subsections (3), (3A), (3B) and (3C) of Section 3 of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 constitute a single scheme and what is implicit in subsection (3) is made explicit in subsection (3C).67.	None
The power to fix controlled price is in Section 3 (2) (c) read with Section 3 (1) and not in Section 3 (3) of the 1955 Act.	None
In subsection (2) (c) of Section 3, it is stated that the order may provide for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold The dominant words in Section 3 (1) are that if the Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient to provide for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices the Government may, by order, provide as mentioned therein.68.	None
Subsection (3) provides that where an order under Section 3 (2) (f) of the Act is made requiring any person holding any stock to sell to the Government of any officer or to any class of person, the price under subsection (3) can be fixed (a) by an agreement consistent with controlled price or (b) if there is no agreement with reference to controlled price or (c) the market price where neither of the two courses is possible.	None
Subsections (3A), (3B) and (3C) deal with specific cases of foodstuff, foodgrains, edible oilseeds, edible oil and sugar respectively.	None
Subsection (3A) of Section 3 is in exception of subsection (3).	None
Subsection (3A) applies when there is a notification in the Official Gazette that notwithstanding anything contained on subsec.	None
(3), the price shall be regulated in the case of foodstuff in accordance with the provisions of subsection (3A).	None
In, subsection (3B) it is stated that where either there is no notification under subsection (3A) or any such notification has ceased to remain in force by efflux of time, the contingencies mentioned therein will happen.	None
Again, in subsection (3C) the matters contemplated are similar to subsection (3B)69.	None
The differences between subsections (3) and (3A) on the one hand and subsections (3B) and (3C) on the other are these Subsections (3) and (3A) speak of fixing price by agreement consistent with or with reference to controlled price or failing both market rate prevailing in the locality during these months preceding the date of the notification Subsection (3B) speaks either of controlled price or where no such price is fixed the price prevailing or likely to prevail during the post harvest period in the area to which the order applies.	Reasoning
In subsection (3C) which relates to sugar price is to be calculated with reference to minimum price of sugarcane, manufacturing cost of sugar, duty or tax, and a reasonable return and different prices may be provided for different areas or factories or different kinds of sugar.	Reasoning
Therefore controlled price fixed under Section 3 (1) read with Section 3 (2) (c) is different from price under subsection (3A), (3B) and (3C).70.	None
The control of prices may have effect either on maintaining or increasing supply of commodity or securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.	None
The controlled price has to retain this equilibrium in the supply and demand of the commodity.	Reasoning
The cost of production, a reasonable return to the producer of the commodity are to be taken into account.	Reasoning
The producer must have an incentive to produce.	Reasoning
The fair price must be fair not only from the point of view of the consumer but also from the point of view of the producer.	Reasoning
In fixing the prices, a price line has to be held in order to give preference or predominant consideration to the interest of the consumer or the general public over that of the producers in respect of essential commodities.	Reasoning
The aspect of ensuring availability of the essential commodities to the consumer equitably and at fair price is the most important consideration.71.	Reasoning
The producer should not be driven out of his producing business.	Reasoning
He may have to bear loss in the same way as he does when he suffers losses on account of economic forces operating in the business.	Reasoning
If an essential commodity is in short supply or there is hoarding, cornering or there is unusual demand, there is abnormal increase in price.	Reasoning
If price increases, it becomes injurious to the consumer.	Reasoning
There is no justification that the producer should be given the benefit of price increase attributable to hoarding or concerning or artificial short supply.	Reasoning
In such a case if an escalation in price is contemplated at intervals, the object of controlled price will enable both the consumer and the producer to tide over difficulties.	Reasoning
Therefore, any restriction in excess of what would be necessary in the interest of general public or to remedy the evil has to be very carefully considered so that the producer does not perish, and the consumer is not crippled.72.	Reasoning
The Petitioners contended that the control over prices of yarn in relation to exmill prices would not serve the purpose of control because there is no control over retail prices.	Arguments of Petitioner
The notification dated 31 March 1973 confers power on the Deputy Commissioner and the District Commissioner and the District Collector to specify maximum prices at which yarn may be sold by the dealer in their respective jurisdiction.	None
In spe cifying the maximum price, the factors to be taken into consideration are (a) invoiced of yarn (b) incidental charges including transport and local taxes (c) such reasonable margin of profit not exceeding two per cent of the invoiced price as may be determined in each case, and (d) any other relevant factor.73.	None
In the case of counts of 59s and below, the controlled price fixed is the highest exmill price or the highest contract price as the case may be for deliveries effected in December, 1972 with 6 per cent increase in the case of yarn producers situated in the States of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry.	None
In counts of yarns of 40s and below, there was no increase of price for 10 months ending December, 1972 It means free market price.	None
It reflects costs of production and reasonable return.	None
The normal conditions of supply and demand are indicated.74.	None
The prices fixed for counts of 59s and below include appreciation in prices in 197071 when cotton crop was low and the prices in 197172 which in spite of bumper crop and fall in price of cotton did not decrease but were higher than the Pool prices of the distribution scheme, Cotton prices represent 70 per cent of the cost of production of the yarn.	None
In December, 1972 the price of cotton fell by 24 points from 209 to 185 whereas the prices of yarn appreciated by 29 points from 174 to 203.	None
Thus the controlled price fixed for yarn is much more than fair price to the cotton yarn producer.	None
In December, 1972 prices of yanr were favourable to the yarn producer.	None
This is established in Writ petition in Bihar Cotton Mills.	None
It is stated that then in 1972 favourable market conditions enabled the cotton mills to improve its profit and wipe out 2/3rd of the accumulated losses amounting approximately Rs. 9,30,000/.75.	None
In the case of counts of 60s and above, the regulated yarn prices adopted for individual producers of yarn are the difference between the highest contract price for the relevant count on 1 June, 1972, or the nearest date of case no sale was effected on 1 June, 1972 and the highest contract price for the relevant count during January 1972 and allowing one half of the difference to be reduced from June, 1972 price.	None
On this price a 6 per cent increase has been allowed in addition where there is no electricity power cut.	None
The 6 per cent increase appears to be for allowing changes in the prices of cotton since August, 1972 increase in labour costs and the impact of 40 per cent import duty on imported cotton.	None
January, 1972 is selected as base because it was since January 1972 that the prices of yarn of superfine counts of 60s and above went up.	None
Price went up at that time on account of strike, in Coimbatore mills during February March 1972 unauthorised despatch to foreign countries, power cut in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu Therefore, January 1972 was the time when normal market forces were in operation The benefit of onehalf of the price increases which took place between January June, 1972 on account of factors which do not enter into determining the cost of production have also been taken into consideration.76.	None
The mere suggestion that no provision is made for adjustment on account of changes in the cost of production does not amount to infringement of fundamental right to carry on business and to hold and dispose of property.	Reasoning
There is no material to show that increase in yarn prices was on account of cost of production The fixing of controlled price is much more than a fair price to the producer on the date it is fixed.	Reasoning
The prices of new cotton crop, i.e., for September, 1973 to August, 1974 are not known at the time of the fixation of the price.	Reasoning
Even when they are known the petitioners will have to show with reference to the different types of mixed used in producing yarn, the impact of cotton prices on the cost of production of that category of yarn.	Reasoning
Further, even if there is increase in the cotton prices, the petitioners can absorb it because the controlled price fixed is more fair to the producer.	Reasoning
If he sustains alleged losses for some time, it will be a reasonable restriction because the object of the price control is to hold the price line or revert the prices to normal levels and make available cotton yarn to the handloom and powerloom weavers at a fair price which will enable them to withstand competition from mill made cloth.	Reasoning
It is not shown here that the controlled price is, so grossly inadequate that it not only results in huge losses but also is threat to the supply position of yarn.	Reasoning
The controlled price is in the interest of the country as a whole for just distribution of basic necessities The distribution price is neither arbitrary nor an unreasonable restriction.77.	Reasoning
The sixth contention turned on what is described as channelisation of yarn distribution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The impugned orders are made in exercise of powers conferred by clause (1) (a) of the Cotton Textile Order 1948.	None
The producers of yarn are prohibited from selling or delivering yarn to any person other than the five channels mentioned in the order.	None
The five channels are (a) the nominees of the State Government.	None
(b) the Handloom Export Promotion Council.	None
Madras.	None
(c) the Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council, Bombay.	None
(d) Federation of Hosiery Manufacturers Association and (e) Any other person as may be nominated by the Textile Commissioner.78.	None
By an order dated 21 June, 1973 counts 17s and below were excepted from the operation of the order By another order dated 4 August, 1973 counts 40s and below were excepted from the order.	None
The position of yarn supply is under constant review of the Government The Press Statement of 21 June, 1973 shows that the control over distribution of yarn upto counts 17s is relaxed because the quantities are adequate to meet the demand.	None
Similarly by subsequent notification, control over distribution of yarn upto counts 40s has been relaxed.79.	None
The impugned orders as they stand require the producers to sell to these five channels on the basis of directions issued by the Textile Commissioner.	None
The dealers are required to sell or deliver yarn to (a) nominees of the State Government, and (b) any other person as may be nominated by the Textile Commissioner in such quantities as may be determined by the Deputy Commissioner or District Collector.	None
The prices for such sale are on consideration of (a) invoiced price of yarn (b) incidental charges including transport and local taxes, (c) such reasonable margin of profit not exceeding two per cent of the invoiced price as the Deputy Commissioner or the District Collector may determine in each case and any other relevant factor.	Reasoning
There is thus price control as well as distribution control to meet the problems of availability of goods at reasonable prices.80.	Reasoning
The seventh contention of the petitioners as well as the interveners was that the impugned orders requiring the producer to deliver yarn only to the five channels of distribution mentioned therein created monopoly in favour of specified persons, and, therefore, there was violation of Articles 19(1)(f) and (g) and 301 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also said that there was no obligation on the distribution channels to buy from the mills.81.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel on behalf of the traders who intervened submitted that there was no justification for canalisation of the goods because it was not in public interest and it was a total ban on traders.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also said that there would be neither equitable distribution nor availability of goods because the order did not provide that it would reach the weavers and the order also did not provide that the agencies were to sell at specified rates.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fifth channel of distribution, viz., any other person as may be nominated by the Textile Commissioner was attacked on the ground that there was no classification and it conferred arbitrary power of choice.82.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Cotton Textiles Control Order, 1948 confers power by cl.30 to impose control over distribution of yarn.	Reasoning
The order states that such power is required to be exercised with a view to securing proper distribution of cloth or yarn.	None
The Textiles Commissioner with a view to securing compliance with the directions issued by him shall have regard to (a) requirements of various categories of persons specified in clause 30 (b) availability of cloth or yarn of different descriptions and (c) requirements of any local area.83.	None
Handloom weavers are the bulk consumers of yarn of counts of 40s and below.	None
There is no control over distribution of this yarn.	None
Therefore, it is said that traders in this class of yarn are free to charge any price whereas control is imposed on the producers.	None
The Government excepted counts 40s and below from the operation of the order when availability was ensured.	None
Further, traders in this category of counts 40s and below cannot sell at any price they like because the maximum retail price has to be prescribed by the Deputy Commissioners or the District Collectors and no trader can sell at a price higher than that price.	None
The price specified by the Deputy Commissioner or the District Collectors takes into consideration the reasonable margin of profit not exceeding 2 per cent of the invoiced price.	None
Maximum retail price is specified for all counts.	None
Therefore, profiteering in the sale of yarn of all counts is eliminated.84.	None
The distribution channels are contended to be monopolies in favour of specified persons.	Reasoning
The traders say that they are substituted by the distribution channels as middlemen.	Reasoning
The nominees of the State Government under the distribution channel could be any dealer chosen and favoured by the Deputy Commissioner or the District Collector.	Reasoning
It is said that freedom of trade is violated.	Reasoning
These contentions are unsound for these reasons.	Reasoning
The channels of distribution are agencies of the State for distribution purposes.	Reasoning
Further the Handloom Export Promotion Council, Madras, the Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council, Bombay and the Federation of Hosiery Manufacturers Association are associations of users of cotton yarn.	Reasoning
They can demand service charges.	Reasoning
If middlemen be totally excluded the control scheme does not become unreasonable just because a part of the ban in regard to counts of 40s and below is relaxed.87 per cent of the total yarn marketed is in counts 40s and below.	Reasoning
Traders are permitted to carry on trade in them though prices are specified for such counts.	Reasoning
The balance 13 per cent of yarn is in counts of 40s and above.	Reasoning
The requirement not to sell yarn at a price above the maximum price operates on all distributing channels.	Reasoning
Even if an ordinary dealer is chosen by the Government within the fifth category of distribution channel, viz., any other person as may be nominated by the Textile Commissioner such person could also be actual consumer of yarn.	Reasoning
The notification No. CER/20/73 dated 31 March, 1973 states that the nominees can be any dealer carrying on business of selling yarn.	Reasoning
The distribution control is intended to ensure availability of yarn at reasonable or fair price.	Reasoning
Profiteering, hoarding, cornering are the evils to be eliminated.	Reasoning
It is not that all dealers in yarn have been denied the right to carry on trade.	Reasoning
It is only those whose carrying on trade in yarn would not in the opinion of the Textile Commissioner ensure availability of yarn to actual consumers at the fair price.	Reasoning
Black marketing as the expression goes is to be weeded out in this manner.	Reasoning
The selection of traders is made on the basis of ensuring availability of yarn at a fair price.	Reasoning
Elimination of persons who have hoarded or cornered or are unscrupulous in distribution is intended in public interest.	Reasoning
This is a reasonable restriction in the interest of the general public and is contemplated in Article 19 (6) of the Constitution.85.	Reasoning
In Rashbihari Panda v. State of Orissa (1969) 3 SCR 374 (AIR 1969 SC 1081 )	None
the Government invited offers for advance purchases of Kendu Leaves but restricted the invitation to those individuals who had carried out contracts in the previous year without default and to the satisfaction of the Government.	None
The scheme was held by this Court to be discriminatory and unreasonable restriction upon the rights of persons other than the existing contractors and the scheme of selected purchasers was not protected by Article 19 (6) (ii).	None
In the present case, the traders cannot make any profit they like because of specified prices.	None
In Bhatnagars and Co. v. Union of India 1957	None
SCR 701 (AIR 1957 SC 478 )	None
the importers resorted to malpractices leading to speculation and fluctuation in prices.	None
The Government, therefore, canalised distribution of the goods by inviting tenders for the grant of import licences.	None
This Court held that it was open to the Government in national interest to intervene and regulate the distribution in a suitable manner.86.	None
The power to regulate sale through licensed vendors to whom quotas are allotted and who are permitted to sell yarn at fixed prices has been upheld in M s. Dwarka Prasad Laxmi Narain case, 1954 SCR 803 (AIR 1954 SC 224 ) (supra).	Reasoning
But a note of possible mischief was indicated in instances where no rule or principle to guide them was stated or where no check or control by higher authority was intended.	Reasoning
The Textile Commissioner in the present case is guided by the provisions of clause 30 of the Order as well as by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act.	Reasoning
The rules or principles for guidance are first equitable distribution, and, second availability at fair price.	Reasoning
Prices are fixed with limited profit to traders.	Reasoning
Furthr, an aggrieved person can appeal to the Central Government.87.	None
In Mannalal Jain v. State of Assam (1962) 3 SCR 936 (AIR 1962 SC 386 ) the Assam Foodgrains (Licensing and Control) Order, 1961 conferred power on the authority to have regard to Cooperative Societies in the grant of licences.	None
This Court held that such preference did not create a monopoly.	None
The Cooperative Societies in villages were held to be in a better position for maintaining or increasing supplies and for securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices in accordance with village economy.	None
The question is whether prohibition of others doing the business is reasonable under Article 19(6).88.	None
Canalisation orders have been upheld by this Court as reasonable within Article 19 (6) of the Constitution.	None
The recent unreported decision in M s. Daruka and Co. v. Union of India, Writ Petn.	None
No. 94 of 1972, D  3181973 (reported in AIR 1972 SC 2711) referred to the earlier decisions of Glass Chaton case, (1962) 1	None
SCR 862 (AIR 1961 SC 1514 ), Daya son of Bhimji Gohil case, (1963) 2	None
SCR 73 (AIR 1962 SC 1796 ) and upheld the distributing channels of imports and exports of different commodities and goods.89.	None
The petitioners contend that though the order obliges producers of yarn to sell to persons named there is no obligation on those persons to buy, and therefore, it is an unreasonable restriction.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners supported this contention by instances where those persons or bodies failed to lift the stock of yarn.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that producers, therefore, suffered losses.	Arguments of Petitioner
There were cases where the allottees did not lift the goods when the voluntary scheme was in operation.	None
The allotment order on record shows that the allotment of yarn is made subject to the conditions that the allotted yarn would be lifted within 15 days of receipt of intimation from the mill after making necessary payments.	None
If any portion of the yarn is not paid for and lifted within the stipulated time, the State Government may intimate the same to the Cotton Corporation of India and the mills concerned.	Reasoning
The Cotton Corporation will effect payment and take charge of the yarn.	Reasoning
The Textile Commissioner on receipt of such intimation will issue the reallotment orders and in respect of such reallotted yarn the allottee State Government will make necessary payments to the Cotton Corporation of India.	Reasoning
The conditions of allotment ensure lifting of yarn by the nominees of the State Government within a reasonable time.	Reasoning
In the past at the initial stages of the voluntary control scheme the State Government nominees were not adequately financially equipped and that is why there were cases of nonlifting of yarn.	Reasoning
It cannot happen now.	Reasoning
The Distribution Control Scheme does not impose an unreasonable restriction on the producers right to carry on his business.90.	None
It was said on behalf of the State that the petitions were not maintainable because of the proclamation of emergency.	Arguments of Respondent
During the proclamation of emergency Article 358 does not apply to executive action taken during the emergency if the same is a continuance of a prior executive action or an emanation of the previous law which is otherswise violative of Art. 19 or is otherwise unconstitutional.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioners challenged the action or previous law to the violative of fundamental rights.	None
This Court in Bennett Coleman and Co. case (1972) 2 SCC 788 (AIR 1973 SC 196) saidDuring the proclamation of emergency Article 19 is suspended.	None
But it would not authorise the taking of detrimental executive action during the emergency affecting the fundamental rights in Article 19 without any legislative authority or in purported exercise of power conferred by any preemergency law which was invalid when enacted.	None
Therefore, if it can be shown that the executive action taken during the emergency has no authority as a valid law its constitutionality can be challenged.	None
The Cotton Textiles Order 1948 was continued by Essential Commodities Act, 1955.The impugned orders are made under preemergency Cotton Textiles Control Order.	Reasoning
The validity of the impugned orders is challenged under Article 19 (1) (f) and (g) of the Constitution on the ground that it is a preemergency executive order which could have been challenged under Article 19 (1) (f) and (g) before the proclamation of emergency.	Reasoning
From the point of view the petitions are competent though the challenge is insupportable on all grounds.91.	Reasoning
For these reasons, the petitions are dismissed.	Decision
The parties will pay and bear their own costs.92.	Decision
Petitions dismissed.	None
