 Sarkar, J. (for himself and J. C. Shah J.)1.	None
We think that these appeals should be allowed.2.	Facts
The appeals relate to the assessment to incometax of the income of the life insurance business of the Bharat Insurance Co., Ltd. now merged in the Life Insurance Corporation Ltd.	Facts
The assessment years concerned are 195253, 195354 and 195455.	Facts
The Incometax Act, 1922 makes special provision for assessment of the income of insurance business.	Facts
The Incometax Officer in making the assessment orders made some adjustments in the accounts which the appellant contends, he has no power to do under these provisions.	Facts
The question in these appeals is whether he had the power to make these adjustments.3.	Facts
Subsection (7) of S. 10 of the Act makes the special provision for the assessment of the income of insurance business and that is in these terms Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Ss. 8, 9, 10, 12 or 18, the profits and gains of any business of insurance and the tax payable thereon shall be computed in accordance with the rules contained in the Schedule to this Act.	Facts
Rule 2 in the Schedule lays down in cls.	None
(a) and (b) two different methods for calculating the profits and gains of a life insurance business and provides that whichever of these two methods results in larger profits being arrived at, has to be adopted.	Facts
The relevant portion of R. 2 is in these terms Rule 2.	None
The profits and gains of life insurance business shall be taken to be either(a) the gross external incomings of the preceding year from that business less the management expenses of that year, or(b) the annual average of the surplus arrived at by adjusting the surplus or deficit disclosed by the actuarial valuation made in accordance with the Insurance Act, 1938 (IV of 1938) in respect of the last intervaluation period ending before the year for which the assessment is to be madeso as to exclude from it any surplus or deficit included therein which was made in any earlier intervaluation period and any expenditure other than expenditure which may under the provisions of Section 10 of this Act be allowed for in computing the profits and gains of a business, whichever is the greater.	Facts
Then follows a proviso which sets out a certain limit for management expenses to be allowed but that is not material for this judgment.	None
It is not in dispute that the method laid down in cl.	Facts
(b) would in the present cases produce the larger income and had, therefore, to be followed.	Facts
The relevant part of R. 3 of the Schedule on which the arguments in these cases turn may now be set out.	Facts
Rule 3.	None
In computing the surplus for the purpose of R. 2(a) (b) any amount either written off or reserved in the accounts or through the actuarial valuation balance sheet to meet depreciation of or loss on the realisation of securities or other assets shall be allowed as a deduction and any sums taken credit for in the accounts or actuarial valuation balance sheet on account of appreciation of or gains on the realisation of the securities or other assets shall be included in the surplus Provided that if upon investigation it appears to the Incometax Officer after consultation with the Controller of Insurance that having due regard to the necessity for making reasonable provision for bonuses to participating policyholders and for contingencies, the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies is materially inconsistent with the valuation of the securities and other assets so as artificially to reduce the surplus, such adjustment shall be made to the allowance for depreciation of, or to the amount to be included in the surplus in respect of appreciation of, such securities and other assets, as shall increase the surplus for the purposes of these rules to a figure which is fair and just.	Facts
No other rule in the Schedule was referred to at the bar.4.	None
What had happened was this.	Facts
The assessee had debited a sum of Rs.	Facts
18,75,000/ to its Consolidated Revenue Account and credited it to the Investment Reserve Fund.	Facts
There is no dispute that the assessee had to maintain the Investment Reserve Fund.	Facts
The transfer had been made because the assessee thought that the securities in respect of which the Investment Reserve Fund had been constituted having depreciated the fund had become inadequate.	Facts
By this transfer the assessees surplus, on which the tax had to be assessed under R. 2, was reduced.	Facts
The Incometax Officer thought that this transfer made the balance in the Investment Reserve Fund exceed the deficit disclosed on the book values of the securities in that fund by Rs.	Facts
30,420/.	Facts
He also checked up the market value of the securities and came to the conclusion that they had been undervalued in the books by the assessee.	Facts
In his view, the Investment Reserve Fund was for the aforesaid reasons actually in excess by Rs. 1,89,185/ of the amount which it should have had to its credit.	Facts
He, therefore, directed that the transfer from the Revenue Account to the Investment Reserve fund be reduced by Rs. 1,75,000/.	Facts
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and he directed that the transfer to the Investment Reserve Fund be reduced by Rs. 1,45,000/ instead of Rs. 1,75,000/.	Facts
On a further appeal by the assessee to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, it was held that the adjustment could only be made under the proviso to R. 3 (b) of the Schedule and that that rule required a prior consultation with the Controller of Insurance, and as that had not been made, the adjustment was wholly illegal.	Facts
The Tribunal, therefore, ordered that the transfer of Rs.	Facts
18,75,000/ made by the assessee as aforesaid had to be accepted as a whole.5.	Facts
The Commissioner then applied to the Tribunal under S. 66(1) to state a case but that having been rejected he moved the High Court of Punjab for an order on the Tribunal to state a case under S. 66(2) of the Act.	Facts
The High Court made an order on the Tribunal and the latter thereupon stated a case setting out the facts earlier mentioned and referring the following question to the High Court for its decision Whether upon the facts found by the Tribunal, the Incometax Officer had in this case jurisdiction to proceed to make adjustment in terms of R. 3(b) of the Schedule to the Indian Incometax Act.6.	Facts
The High Court took the view that the matter did not come within R. 3(b) of the Schedule and, therefore, no question of consultation with the Controller of Insurance arose.	Facts
In the High Courts opinion the Incometax Officer had not been deprived of the authority of correcting errors of the kind that had been detected in these cases and the proviso was not intended to cover those cases where, as in the present, the assessee in order to evade incometax, undervalued his securities.	Facts
The High Court, therefore, answered the question in the affirmative.	Facts
The present appeals are against this judgment of the High Court.7.	Facts
It seems to us that the decision of the High Court is clearly erroneous.	None
Under R. 2 of the Schedule the Incometax Officer has to compute the profits and gains of a life insurance company at the greater of the two methods of assessments mentioned in cls.	None
(a) and (b).	None
There may be no restriction upon his jurisdiction in the computation of profits and gains under cl.	None
(a) but under cl.	None
(b) the computation can be made within a limited field.	None
He has to accept the annual average of the surplus disclosed by the actuarial valuation made in accordance with the Life Insurance Act in respect of the last intervaluation period, so as to exclude therefrom any surplus or deficit included therein which was made in the earlier inter valuation period, and expenditure not allowable under S. 10 in computing the profits.	None
This is made explicit by R. 3 which makes it obligatory upon the Incometax Officer to make the computation of the surplus for the purpose of R. 2 according to the scheme provided in cls.	None
(a), (b) and (c) of R. 3.Under R. 2(b) of the Schedule the Incometax Officer has, therefore no power to change the figures in the account of the assessee.	None
He has to take the surplus as disclosed by the actuarial valuation made by the assessee under the Insurance Act and, then to arrive at the average mentioned in the rule.	None
He has the power to exclude any surplus or deficit included in the actuarial valuation in respect of an earlier intervaluation period and any expenditure other than an expenditure which may under S. 10 of the Act be allowed.	None
What the Incometax Officer in the present case did does not come within R. 2(b).	None
This is not disputed.8.	None
It is furthermore not in dispute that apart from the provisions in Rule 3 of which only cl.	None
(b) is relevant for our purpose, there is no other provision in the Schedule which authorises an Incometax Officer to make adjustments in the actuarial valuation made by the assessee.	None
When we come to R. 3(b) we find that the first part of it lays down that it shall be obligatory on the Incometax Officer to allow certain amounts written off or reserved by the assessee as a deduction and to include in the surplus any sums for which credit has been taken on account of appreciation or gains on the realisation of the securities or other assets.	None
This part of the rule only compels the Incometax Officer to allow certain amounts as deductions and to include certain amounts for which credit had been taken in the accounts of the assessee.	None
It, therefore, does not warrant what the Incometax Officer did, namely, to adjust the accounts on the basis of a revaluation made by him.9.	None
Then we come to the proviso in R. 3 (b).	Reasoning
It says that if it appears to the Incometax Officer having regard to certain matters to which it is not necessary to refer here in detail, that the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies is materially inconsistent with the valuation of the securities and other assets so as artificially to reduce the surplus, then he would have the power to make certain adjustments after consultation with the Controller of Insurance.	Reasoning
Quite clearly the adjustment made in the present case by the Incometax Officer was not of the variety mentioned in the proviso.	Reasoning
He does not say that he made the adjustment because he found that any rate of interest was inconsistent with the valuation of securities or other assets.	Reasoning
The adjustment made by him had nothing to do with any rate of interest.	Reasoning
It was made only because he thought that the securities had been undervalued.	Reasoning
This he had no power to do under the proviso.	Reasoning
This again is not in dispute.10.	Reasoning
The result, therefore, is that we find nothing in the rules justifying the adjustment made by the Incometax Officer in the present cases.	Reasoning
We have set out the relevant provisions and we think that they do not contemplate any other adjustment of the figures in the accounts of the insurance companies apart from what they expressly provide for.	Reasoning
We have shown that the present adjustment does not fall within those so expressly provided for.11.	Reasoning
The only other question is, is there a general right to correct the errors in the accounts of an insurance company when assessing the incometax ?	Issue
The High Court thought there was.	None
We are wholly unable to agree with this view.	None
The assessment of the profits of an insurance business is completely governed by the rules in the Schedule and there is no power to do anything not contained in it.	None
The reason may be that the accounts of an insurance business are fully controlled by the controller of Insurance under the provisions of the Insurance Act.	None
They are checked by him.	None
He has power to see that various provisions of the Insurance Act are complied with by an insurer so that the persons who have insured with it are not made to suffer by mismanagement.	None
A tampering with the accounts of an insurer by an Incometax Officer may seriously affect the working of insurance companies.	None
But apart from this consideration, we feel no doubt that the language of S. 10(7) and the Schedule to the Incometax Act makes it perfectly certain that the Incometax Officer could not make the adjustment that he did in these cases.12.	None
It may be pointed out that the question referred was confined to the powers of the Incometax Officer under R. 3(b) of the Schedule.	Reasoning
Indeed learned counsel for the assessee did not contend to the contrary.	Reasoning
The High Court, as may have been noticed, held that the proviso to R. 3(b) was not intended to cover cases like the present.	Reasoning
It would appear, therefore, that the High Court thought that the Incometax Officer had no power under the rule to make the adjustment.	Reasoning
It however nonetheless answered the question in the affirmative.	Reasoning
Obviously what was meant was that the Incometax Officer had the power quite apart from the rule, to make all adjustments to prevent evasion of tax.	Reasoning
The High Court in fact expressly said that the rule did not deprive the Incometax Officer of the power to do this.	Reasoning
It is clear that the High Court had travelled beyond the question.	Reasoning
No objection having been taken at the bar to this procedure, we have dealt with the matter from this point of view also.	Reasoning
The question framed has to be answered in the negative.13.	None
We would for this reason allow the appeals with costs.	Decision
HIDAYATULLAH, J. 14.	None
I agree but would like to add the following.15.	None
These are three appeals by certificate granted by the High Court of Punjab under S. 66(A) of the Incometax Act against its judgment dated March 2, 1960.	None
The appellant is the Life Insurance Corporation (Unit Bharat Insurance Company Ltd.  original appellant).	None
The appeals relate to assessment years 195253, 195354, and 195455, and the corresponding years of account were the calendar years 1951, 1952 and 1953.	None
The assessment was made on the original appellant Bharat Insurance Co., Ltd. by the Incometax Officer, Companies Circle, New Delhi under the rules framed for assessment of insurance companies pursuant to S. 10 subs.	None
(7) of the Incometax Act, on the basis of the annual average of the surplus of the insurance company as found by actuarial valuation in the last intervaluation period of four years ending on December 31, 1951 and accepted by the Controller of Insurance under the Insurance Act, 1938.	None
In this quadrennium, the Bharat Insurance Co. Ltd. had debited a sum of Rs.	None
18,75,000/ in the consolidated revenue account from January 1, 1948 to December 31, 1951 and had transferred the same to the investment reserve fund to meet an alleged depreciation in the value of securities.	None
The Incometax Officer compared the book value and the market value of the stocks and shares and found that that insurance company had undervalued certain shares and securities by Rs. 1,58,756/ in the aggregate, and increased the investment reserve fund by a sum of Rs. 30,420/ which was not required.	None
The Incometax Officer disallowed Rs. 1,75,000/ from the total amount of Rs. 1,89,186/ and added it to the surplus for calculating tax.	None
He held at the same time that in his opinion the balance left over provided adequate cover as contemplated by R. 3 (b) of the rules under S. 10(7) of the Insurance Act.	None
On appeal, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner reduced the figure of Rs. 1,89,186/ to Rs. 1,61,770/.	None
He also reduced the amount of Rs. 1,75,000/ to Rs. 1,45,000/.	None
With this modification (among some others) he dismissed the appeal.	None
Against the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner appeals were filed respectively by the Incometax Officer, Companies Circle (1), New Delhi1 and the Bharat Insurance Co. Ltd.	None
There were thus six appeals in respect of the three assessment years.	None
The Tribunal held by its order dated October 23, 1956 as follows The Incometax Officer objects to the relief given by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner while the assessee objects to the adjustments which were made by the Incometax Officer in toto.	None
The proviso to Rule 3(b) of the Schedule appended to S. 10(7) clearly lays down that the Incometax Officer has to consult the Controller of Insurance before he becomes competent to make any adjustments to the actuarial surplus disclosed by the valuation.	None
In this case no consultation with the Controller of Insurance appears to have been made.	None
The adjustments made by the Incometax Officer on this account are, therefore, set aside.	None
The assessments will be modified accordingly.	None
The Commissioner of Incometax Delhi and Rajasthan then moved the Tribunal for a reference to the High Court suggesting for a decision on the question Whether the proviso to Rule 3(b), Schedule to Indian Incometax Act, 1922 was applicable and whether the Incometax Officer was bound to consult the Controller of Insurance in this case where no question arose about the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies ?	None
The Tribunal drew up a consolidated statement of the case for the three assessment years and referred the following question for the decision of the High Court Whether upon the facts found by the Tribunal the Incometax Officer had in this case jurisdiction to proceed to make adjustments in terms of Rule 3(b) of the Schedule to the Indian Incometax Act ?	Facts
In the High Court, the Commissioner made an application under S. 66(2) of the Incometax Act for an order directing the Tribunal to refer the former question but that application was disposed of along with the reference and the High Court by its order under appeal answered the latter question against the assessee and dismissed the application under S. 66 (2) of the Incometax Act.	None
Khosla, C. J. and Grover, J. who disposed of the above reference, observed that the question which they were answering comprehended the other question.	None
The High Court in disposing of the reference held that the Incometax Officer had the jurisdiction to deal with the matter in the manner employed by him and was not obliged to consult the Controller of Insurance before he corrected the valuation of the securities.	None
It may be mentioned that while the reference was pending in the High Court a Government Administrator took over the insurance company.	None
Subsequently, the Life Insurance Corporation, by virtue of a notification of the Government of India under S. 45 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, took over from July 6, 1960 the assets and liabilities of the insurance company in respect of the controlled business as defined in S. 2(3) of the Corporation Act.	None
The Corporation, in the circumstances, was substituted as the appellant in place of the insurance company under S. 9 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act.	None
In these appeals, it is contended that the High Court was in error in the conclusion it reached and the answer to the question should have been in favour of the Life Insurance Corporation and against the Department.16.	None
Before dealing with this case, a reference in brief to the scheme of the Insurance Act and to the rules framed under S. 10(7) of the Incometax Act for assessment of insurance companies is necessary.	None
By S. 11 of the Insurance Act, every insurer in India and every foreign insurer in respect of the insurance business transacted by him in India is required to prepare at the expiration of each calendar year with reference to that year (a) a balance sheet, (b) a profit and loss account and (c) a revenue account.	None
Special forms are prescribed and the schedules to the Act provide by Regulations what should be shown in these accounts.	None
The balance sheet, profit and loss account, revenue account including accounts which the other provisions require the insurer to prepare, must then be audited by an auditor.	None
By S. 13 of the Insurance Act, every insurer, carrying on life insurance business, is required, at intervals of not less than 3 years, to cause an actuarial investigation to be made into the financial condition of life insurance business carried on by him, including a valuation of its liabilities in respect of that business.	None
An abstract of the report of the actuary must then be prepared according to prescribed regulations.	None
These accounts and the abstract, together with other statements etc. must be submitted to the Controller of Insurance.	None
The Controller may ask for further information and, if he so desires, take evidence and order a revaluation causing at the same time an investigation to be made.	None
The Insurance Act further requires that every insurer must invest and at all times keep invested, assets equivalent to the liabilities on matured claims or on the policies in the life business maturing for payment.	None
Sections 27 and 27A indicate the kinds of investments in which the insurer must invest or keep invested the assets and the controlled fund.17.	None
The balance sheet of life insurance business must always be prepared as a separate document.	None
The regulations enjoin that a statement in Form AA showing the market value and the book value of the assets in India must be appended to the balance sheet.	None
The accounts must be signed and certified and in particular, a certificate must be appended explaining how the values as shown in the balance sheet of the investment of stocks and shares have been arrived at and how the market value thereof has been ascertained for the purpose of comparison with the values so shown.	None
There has been further to be another certificate that the items in respect of reversions and life interests have been valued as on the date of the balance sheet by an actuary and the assets shown under the heading investments have not been valued at amounts exceeding the realisable or market value.	None
This precaution is necessary otherwise there may not be adequate cover for the liabilities.	None
For this purpose, Form AA which has to be annexed to the balance sheet must show a classified summary of the assets on the date of the balance sheet and it must show in particular(a) the value for which credit is taken in the balance sheet for each of the above mentioned classes of assets(b) the market value of such of the above mentioned classes of assets as has been ascertained from published quotations after deduction of accrued interest included in market prices in those cases where accrued interest is included elsewhere in the balancesheet(c) how the value of such of the abovementioned classes of assets as has not been ascertained from published quotations has been arrived at.	None
The revenue account has to be prepared in four forms of which Form D shows the revenue account applicable to life insurance business in respect of the year and the other three documents are statements of life insurance policies for the same year (Form DD), the additions to and deductions from policies (Form DDD) and particulars of policies forfeited or lapsed in the year (Form DDDD).	None
The Regulations for the preparation of the abstract of the report of the actuary are to be found in the fourth schedule to the Insurance Act.	None
This schedule is in two parts.	None
The second part lays down inter alia that every abstract shall show the average rates of interest yielded by the assets, whether invested or uninvested, constituting the life insurance fund for each of the years covered by the valuation period and Regulation 3 of part I lays down how the average rate of interest yielded in any year by the assets constituting the life insurance fund must be calculated.	None
This is a complicated calculation which it is unnecessary to describe here.	None
The abstracts must explain the specific manner in which the said average rate of interest has been calculated.	None
The consolidated revenue account has to be shown in Form G and a final valuation balance sheet is required to be prepared in Form I which compares the net liability under business as shown in the summary and valuation of the policies on the one hand with the balance of life insurance fund as shown in the balance sheet on the other and this discloses the surplus or the deficiency as the case may be.	None
As investments depreciate, an investment reserve fund is maintained to which amounts are transferred to make up for the shortfall.	None
The Insurance company is thus required to maintain an insurance fund sufficient to cover its liabilities in investments and depreciation in the value of the investments must be specially provided for by making other investments which are kept in the investment reserve fund.	None
We are now in a position to understand the provisions of the Incometax Act which include references to these documents.18.	None
To begin with, it must be remembered that insurance companies are assessed some what differently from other business organisations.	None
Normally sections 8, 9, 10 and 12 of the Incometax Act apply to the assessment of business organisations but the rules for assessment contained in those sections do not apply to the assessment of an insurance company.	None
Section 10 of the Incometax Act deals with the head profits and gains of business etc.	None
Subsection (7), however, says that notwithstanding to contrary contained in Ss. 8, 9, 10, 12 or 18 the profits and gains of any business of insurance and the tax payable thereon shall be computed in accordance with the rules contained in a schedule to the Act.	None
These rules provide the mode of computing the profits and gains of life insurance business.	None
Under R. 2, the profits and gains of life insurance business are taken to be either(a) the gross external incomings of the preceding year from that business less the management expenses of that year, or(b) the annual average of the surplus arrived at by adjusting the surplus or deficit disclosed by the actuarial valuation made in accordance with the Insurance Act, 1938 (IV of 1938), in respect of the last intervaluation period ending before the year for which the assessment is to be made so as to exclude from it any surplus or deficit included therein which was made in any earlier intervaluation period and any expenditure other than expenditure which may under the provisions of section 10 of this Act be allowed for in computing the profits and gains of a business whichever is greater.xx xx	Facts
xIn this case the second method was applicable.	None
Rule 3 (in so far as it is relevant for our purpose) then provides as follows(a) xx	None
xx x(b)	None
any amount either written off or reserved in the accounts or through the actuarial valuation balance sheet to meet depreciation of or loss on the realisation of securities or other assets shall be allowed as a deduction, and any sums taken credit for in the accounts or actuarial valuation balance sheet on account of appreciation of or gains on the realisation of the securities or other assets shall be included in the surplusProvided that if upon investigation it appears to the Incometax Officer after consultation with the Controller of Insurance thathaving due regard to the necessity to making reasonable provision for bonuses to participating policyholders and for contingencies, the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies is materially inconsistentwith the valuation of the securities and other assets so as artificially to reduce the surplus, such adjustment shall be made to the allowance for depreciation of, or to the amount to be included in the surplus in respect of appreciation of, such securities and other assets, as shall increase, the surplus for the purposes of these rules to a figure which is fair and just(c) xx	Facts
xx	None
xRule 2 shows what shall be taken to be the profits and gains of the insurance company.	None
Rule 3 shows what changes can be made in the annual average of the surplus.	None
The purport of Rule 3, in the context of this case, may now be stated in simple language.	None
It provides in its main part that amounts reserved in the accounts or through the actuarial valuation balance sheet to meet depreciation of securities shall be allowed as a deduction and e converso any sums taken credit for in the accounts or actuarial valuation balancesheets on account of appreciation of securities shall be included in the surplus.	None
In short, the amount by which the value of securities depreciates is allowed as a deduction from the surplus and the amount of appreciation of securities is included in the surplus.	None
There is no question here of appreciation and the latter part of the main rule may, therefore, be ignored.	None
This case is concerned only with the depreciation of the securities in the reserves as shown in the accounts and through the actuarial valuation balance sheets.	None
If such depreciation in fact takes place, it is open to the insurance company to claim that it be allowed as a deduction from the surplus and it must be allowed.	None
But by undervaluing the stocks and shares, it is always possible artificially to reduce the surplus by making a part of it go into the reserve to take the place of the amount by which the stocks and shares are alleged to have, but have not in fact, depreciated.	None
The proviso, which is annexed to the main rule, takes note of the existence of such a possibility and provides that if the Incometax Officer on investigation finds (after consultation with the Controller of Insurance) that the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies is materially inconsistent with the valuation of the securities and other assets so as artificially to reduce the surplus, he may make such adjustments to the allowance for depreciation as shall increase the surplus to a figure which is fair and just.	None
The proviso further says that in doing so, the necessity for making reasonable provision for bonuses to participating policyholders and for contingencies must be taken into consideration.	None
Put in simple language, it means that the Incometax Officer can, after investigation and consultation with the Controller of Insurance, increase the surplus to a figure which is fair and just.	None
But this action is open to him only if the valuation of the securities and other assets has been artificially manipulated to reduce the surplus by making the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies inconsistent with the valuation of the securities.	None
Further, the Incometax Officer, before he makes any change, must pay due attention to the necessity for making reasonable provision for bonuses to participating policyholders and contingencies.19.	None
The power which is conferred on the Incometax Officer under the proviso clearly has its limitations, and is hedged in by conditions.	None
In the present case, the Incometax Officer admittedly did not consult the Controller of Insurance.	None
Nor did he consider the necessity for making reasonable provision for bonuses to participating policyholders and for contingencies.	None
Nor did he establish that the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies was materially inconsistent with the valuation of the securities or other assets.	None
What he did was to find out the market value of stocks and shares and to compare that value with the valuation actually made and on finding that they were undervalued, to add a certain amount to the surplus for tax purposes.	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner differed about that market value of the stocks and shares and reduced the amount which was added but did no more.	None
The Tribunal, which reversed these orders went merely by the failure of the Incometax Officer to consult the Controller of Insurance.	None
The two questions (that proposed by the Commissioner and that actually referred) bring into relief respectively the actions of the Incometax Officer and the order of the Tribunal.	None
The question as answered refers to the Incometax Officers decision while the other was limited to the Tribunals order.	None
The Department did not seek to place its case under the proviso either before the High Court or before us, perhaps, because the conditions in the proviso (whether they be directory or mandatory), had not been followed at all.	None
The Department claimed that the matter fell to be governed by the main rule without the assistance of the proviso and this contention appears to have been accepted by the High Court.20.	None
As has been shown above, Form G is the consolidated revenue account.	None
The Bharat Insurance Company had, during the quadrennium commencing on January 1, 1948 and ending on December 31, 1951, transferred to the investment reserve fund a sum of Rs.	None
18,75,000/ and shown it in	None
Form G.	None
The balance of life fund thus stood at Rs.	None
5,45,88, 286110 as against the net liability of Rs. 5,19,42,924	None
and there was a surplus.	None
The valuation balancesheet in Form I as on December 31, 1951 thus wasRs.	None
Rs.	None
Net liability under business as shown in the summary and Valuation Balance of life Assurance Fund as shown in the balance sheet5,19,42,924 5,45,88,286Surplus 26,45,3625,45,88,286 5,45,88,286The valuation abstract prepared under the fourth schedule showed that the actuary had assumed the rate of interest at 3 per annum and he found that the average rate of interest earned on the mean life fund in each year was as follows Year ending 31st December, 1948 3.5 per cent 1949 3.27 1950 3.27 1951 3.26 The Income tax Officer did not concern himself with the rate of interest employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies.	None
He considered the valuation of stocks and shares held in the life fund with a view to ascertaining whether the sum of Rs.	None
18,75,000/ transferred to the investment reserve fund to balance an alleged depreciation in the value of stocks and shares was justified or not.	None
He examined for this purpose the details of the alleged depreciation amounting to Rs.	None
22,64,733/ which had been worked out by the assessee company and observed that after the transfer of Rs.	None
18,75,000/ to the investment reserve fund the balance to the credit of the fund was Rs.	None
22,95,154/ when it need not have been more than Rs.	None
22,64,733/ and this showed an excess of Rs.	None
30,420/.	Facts
This excess he disallowed.	None
He then found out the market rate of stocks and shares in the fund and came to the conclusion that some of these were undervalued by a sum of Rs. 1,58,756/.	None
He held that an excess of Rs. 1,89,186/ was transferred to the investment reserve fund from the surplus.	None
According to him, the surplus of Rs.	None
26,45,362/ shown in form I required to be adjusted and he added a lump sum of Rs. 1,75,000/ to the surplus.	None
In other words, the total depreciation claimed under Rule 3(b) as an allowance was not accepted.	None
The sum of Rs. 1,75,000/ was reduced by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to Rs. 1,45,000/	None
and it was altogether cancelled by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.21.	None
The learned Judges of the High Court in dealing with this matter observed that the excess of Rs.	None
30,420/ was not an actual depreciation and no provision need have been made in the reserve fund for this sum.	None
They also held that the Incometax Officer had rightly held that some of the stocks and shares had been deliberately undervalued.	None
They accepted the proposition that the making of an adjustment in the surplus on a finding that the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability in respect of outstanding policies and other assets was materially inconsistent with the valuation of the securities and other assets, and the making of adequate provision for bonuses to participating policy holders and contingencies was a matter for a specialist and that the Incometax Officer, if he made an adjustment, should procure the advice of the Controller of Insurance before making any change on the basis of his own knowledge.	None
But they held that the proper valuation of the securities did not require a specialist and that any person could get market quotations and find out the value of the securities.	None
According to the learned Judges, although the proviso enjoined upon the Incometax Officer the duty to consult the Controller of Insurance and also to make adjustments in a particular way, the main rule allowed the Incometax Officer to fix the amounts of permissible deductions on the basis of a correct valuation of the securities and the Incometax Officers jurisdiction in this respect was not in any way controlled.	None
According to them, the fixing of the correct value of the assets was not the sort of adjustment which was contemplated by the proviso therefore, neither was prior consultation necessary nor were the conditions precedent as laid down in the proviso applicable.	None
They referred to the decision of the Bombay High Court in Western India Life Insurance Co. Ltd In re, 19386 ITR 44 (AIR 1938 Bom 345 ) and observed that such action was held permissible under Rule 30 of the superseded rules which they held was in pari materia with the main Rule 3(b), and to the decision in Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay, Sind and Baluchistan v. Indian Life Assurance Co. Ltd. 194614 ITR 347 (AIR 1946 Sind 25) in which the dictum of the High Court was applied by the Sind Chief Court.	None
They concludedIt is therefore, clear that the proviso does not apply to a case where the Incometax Officer has to see whether the securities have been correctly valued or not.	None
He must satisfy himself without any reference to the Controller of Insurance that the securities which are being transferred to the reserve fund are no more than necessary to meet depreciation or loss that has actually been suffered, and to determine this he must have the correct valuation of the securities.	None
In the result, they held that the Incometax Officer had full jurisdiction to deal with the matter in the manner employed by him.22.	None
Mr. Setalvad on behalf of the Life Insurance Corporation pointed out that the actuarial valuation balancesheet in Form I had determined the surplus by deducting from the Life Insurance fund as on the valuation date the net liability under the life insurance business.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that in working out this liability the actuary had assumed the rate of interest at 3 per cent per annum and to arrive at this figure, he had taken into consideration the average interest yield for the four years covered by the valuation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The interest yield thus was obtained by properly following the procedure laid down by Regulation 3 of Part 1 of the fourth schedule to the Insurance Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that if the interest yield were found to be lower by reason of the reduction of the amount of depreciation, the liability for the policies, as calculated in the accounts, would be disturbed and the liability would increase.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that Rule 30 of the previous rules was amended by the addition of a proviso in the new Rule 3(b) to make it incumbent that an adjustment in respect of depreciation of securities in the actuarial balance sheet should only be made after complying with certain conditions.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that action could only be taken under the proviso and in accordance with its strict terms.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that by merely reducing the amounts transferred to the investment reserve fund the Incometax Officer could not increase the surplus, for in doing so, he reduced the cover and thus seriously disturbed the provision for liability under the policies and the provision for bonuses to participating policyholders and contingencies, and that such action of the Incometax Officer was without jurisdiction.23.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the Department, Mr. Gopal Singh contended that there was a general power in the Incometax Officer derived from the main Rule 3(b) and independent of the proviso to make such an adjustment.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Gopal Singh did not rely upon the proviso and contended that the Incometax Officer could find out from the market quotations the value of stocks and shares and if he found a disparity, he could make adjustments by refusing to allow the deduction which was claimed under Rule 3(b).	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, it was not necessary to go to the proviso at all and in any event, consultation with the Controller of Insurance was not absolutely necessary and what he did was within his jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Incometax Officer had jurisdiction to decide what was just and proper and had done so under his general power flowing from the main Rule 3(b) without the aid of the proviso.24.	Arguments of Respondent
It is clear that the Incometax Act contemplates that the assessment of insurance companies should be carried out not according to the ordinary principles applicable to business concerns as laid down in S. 10, but in quite a different manner.	None
Insurance companies do not compute their profits in the ordinary way because premiums cover risks which run into future years and loss includes losses from previous years.	None
The method prescribed ensures that by taking the average of several years a fair and reasonable conclusion is reached.	None
Actuarial estimation plays an important part and surplus only results when there is an excess of the fund over the liability after all other charges are met.	None
The rules which have been quoted lay down two different methods of ascertaining profits.	None
Rule 2(a) merely compares the gross external incomings of the preceding year with the management expenses.	None
Rule 2(b) contemplates the annual average of the surplus of deficit disclosed by actuarial valuation.25.	None
In the present case the first limb of Rule 2 did not apply.	None
So the annual average of the surplus found by the actuary had to be taken and from it the surplus of the last intervaluation period had to be deducted as also expenditure allowable under S. 10 of the Incometax Act.	None
This is the basic calculation and they were followed.	None
Certain special limitations indicated in the proviso to Rule 2 and Rule 3(a) are not relevant for the present case.	None
Under the main part of Rule 3(b) certain special deductions and additions must be made to the annual average of the surplus determined under the second rule.	None
Since the life fund is held in securities and the price of stocks and shares fluctuates, provision has been made in Rule 3(b) to make adjustments.	None
Rule 3(b) in its main part speaks of adjustments on the basis of the accounts and amounts as entered in the accounts determine what must be added to or deducted from the surplus.	None
The Incometax Officer must deduct from the annual average of the surplus for purposes of Rule 2 any amount entered in the account to cover depreciation of the securities and assets and add any amount taken credit for on account of appreciation.	None
The Incometax Officer here follows the accounts and gives effect to the entries such as they are.	None
The provision is mandatory and the Incometax Officer has no discretion.26.	None
If the Incometax Officer doubts the accounts, his powers are defined by the proviso.	None
Rule 3(b) which allows the Incometax Officer to deduct from or add to the surplus amounts shown in the accounts for depreciation and appreciation of securities as the case may be, does not confer on him a power to disturb the annual average of the surplus at his sweet will.	None
No doubt, the perception of discrepancy between what is entered in the accounts and what is fact, is not something which is or can be made the subject of rules.	None
Rules can only provide how the Incometax Officer must proceed in the matter if he finds an inaccuracy.	None
The entire subject of such disparity between fact and actual entries is comprehended in the proviso.	None
If the Incometax Officer accepts the accounts he must reduce or increase the surplus by the amounts actually shown for depreciation or appreciation in the accounts.	None
His powers under the main rule end there.	None
If he discovers a discrepancy (not de minimis) he must proceed under the proviso.	None
The proviso requires him to consult the Controller of Insurance and to bear in mind that reasonable provision has to be made for bonuses to participating policyholders and for contingencies, and he can act only where the rate of interest or other factor employed in determining the liability under the policies is materially inconsistent with the valuation of securities and this results in the artificial reduction of the surplus.	None
It is clear that the proviso negatives the existence of a separate general power.	None
Action has to be taken in the manner laid down in the proviso or not at all.27.	None
In the present case, the Incometax Officer did not follow the proviso at all.	None
The Department did not rely upon the proviso in the High Court and even before us did not seek to justify the action of the Incometax Officer with reference to the proviso.	None
No doubt, an attempt was made before us to limit the generality of the question debated in the High Court to the specific point decided by the Tribunal and outlined in the question suggested by the assessee.	None
But the gist of the matter is the same whichever way one looks at it.	None
The adjustment of the surplus in the matter of the appreciation and depreciation of securities not on the basis of the accounts but on the basis of the Incometax Officers discretion can only be done in the manner laid down in the proviso.	None
Such power is not available under the main rule which merely allows book entries to be worked into the surplus.28.	None
I find it impossible to endorse the view of the High Court that the Incometax Officer had any general power to make adjustments independently of the proviso.	None
If he detected any discrepancy he had to proceed under the proviso.	None
To hold otherwise would make the proviso entirely redundant, and it is quite clear that such could not be the intention.	None
Cases under the former Rule 30 cannot be used as precedents because the present Rule 3(b) has been materially altered by the addition of the proviso.	None
Formerly the rule tried to serve both the objects by using the word may but the word may which gave a discretion to the Incometax Officer could lead to arbitrary actions and the rule is now in two parts the main rule leaving no discretion and the proviso conferring a power subject to certain conditions.29.	None
In the result, I disagree with the High Court in the answer which it gave to the question.	None
The proper answer was in the negative.	None
I agree therefore, that the appeals be allowed with costs on the respondent here and in the High Court.30.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
