 Lalit Mohan Shrama, J. This appeal under Section 55 of the monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) is directed against the decision of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practice Commission dated November 13, 1987 in the Unfair Trade Practices Enquiry No. 76 of 1985 passed under Section 36D (1) of the Act forbidding the appellant Company from issuing certain type of advertisements as indicated in the order.	None
The commission issued a show cause notice under Section 36B of the Act to the appellant Company informing it that a proceeding had been instituted for making an inquiry whether the Company was indulging in certain unfair trade practices prejudicial to public interest within the meaning of Section 36 A. A copy of the notice has been attached to the petition of appeal as Annexure C, wherein it was alleged that, although the Company was manufacture Novino batteries in collaboration with M s Mitsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd. and not with National Panasonic of Japan, it was issuing advertisements announcing that Novino batteries are manufactured in collaboration with National Panasonic of Japan using National Panasonic techniques, and(ii) the representation that Novino batteries are manufactured by joint venture or collaboration with National Panasonic was false and misleading and thereby causing joss or injury to the consumers.	Facts
In its reply the Company (appellant before us) denied to have made any wrong representation in the advertisements.	None
It was asserted that the company has actually entered into a collaboration agreement with M s Mitsushita Electric Industrial Ltd., of Japan for the manufacture of dry cell batteries, and was adopting the process for manufacturing Novino batteries as is employed by Mitsushita Ltd.	Facts
The agreement has been duly approved by Ministry of Industry, Government of India.	Facts
It is further stated that the Mitsushita Ltd, of Japan is better known by its products described by the names National and Panasonic and there is no question of misleading anybody by the description of the Japanese Company by its products.	Facts
Rejecting the appellants explanation, the Commission passed the impugned order.3.	Facts
As is clear from the show cause notice, it has been assumed that the appellant Company is manufacturing Novino batteries in collaboration with Mitsushita Ltd., but the question is whether, in the circumstances, it can claim that it is making batteries in collaboration with National Panasonic of Japan, and further whether the act, complained of will be covered by the provisions of Section 36B and 36D of the Act authorising the respondent Commission to make an enquiry and issue appropriate directions.	None
The expression unfair trade practice has been defined in Section 36A as a trade practice which adopts any or more of the practices enumerated in the section.	None
It has been contended before us by the learned counsel for the respondent, and the judgment under appeal also holds, that the case is covered by clauses (i) and (v) of Section 36A (1) of the Act.	Facts
The relevent portion of Section 36A is reproduced below 36A Definition of unfair trade practice.	Facts
In this part, unless the context otherwise requires, Unfair Trade Practice means a trade practice which, for the purpose of promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods or for the provision of any services, adopts one or more of the following practices and thereby causes loss or injury to the consumers of such goods or services, whether by eliminating or restricting competition or otherwise, namely(1)	Facts
The practice of making any statement, whether orally or in writing or by visible representation which,(i) falsely represents that the goods are of a particular standard, quality, grade, composition, style or model (v) represents that the seller or the supplier has a sponsorship or approval of affiliation which such seller or supplier does not have.	Facts
It is the admitted position that National and Panasonic are the names given by the Mitsushita Ltd., to some of its products and are not the names of the manufacturing company itself.	None
The advertisement therefore, do not state correctly when they claim that the appellant Company is working in collaboration with National and Panasonic.	None
Instead, they should have mentioned the Company by its correct name in the advertisements.	None
The question is as to whether the advertisements come within the scope of clauses (i) and (v).	Facts
The Commission in the impugned judgment has said It is true that the Director (Research) has not carried out any practical research to discover how far the National Panasonic Batteries of Japan and the Novino Batteries manufactured by the respondent company vary in or conform to quality, benefits and durability and to what extent the use of the names Panasonic and National to signify collaboration has been confusing for the customer in his choice of Novino Battery.	Facts
Yet I do feel that bearing in mind the Indian conditions the use of National and Panasonic to signify collaboration will have a misleading effect on the mind of the common class of customers, particularly when Novino Battery is projected in the setting of advertisement Ex.	Facts
A1/a side by side the National, Panasonic and Techics Batteries.	Facts
The show cause notice served on the appellant does not take any exception to the use of the word collaboration in the advertisement in question.	None
The grievance is against the use of the names of the product National and Panasonic in place of the Company which is manufacturing them.	None
The issue thus is confined by the charge in the show cause notice which is very limited in its scope.	Facts
The Commission has taken note of the case of the appellant that since National and Panasonic are wellknown names in India while their manufacturing company, the Mitsusbita Ltd., is not, the advertisements have mentioned the brand name instead of the manufacturing company but has refused to accept this plea as a good defence.	Facts
We do not agree.6.	Facts
The Act as it originally stood did not contain any, provision for protection of consumers against false or misleading advertisements or other similar and unfair trade practices.	Facts
By providing for measures against restrictive and monopolistic trade practices, it was perhaps assumed that the consumers also, as a result, will get a fair deal.	Facts
However, experience indicated otherwise, and following the recommendations of a Committee, it was considered necessary to amend the Act.	Facts
In the fast changing modern world of today advertising goods is a wellrecognised marketing strategy, The consumers also need it, as the articles which they require for their daily life are of a great variety and the knowledge of an ordinary man is imperfect.	Facts
If the manufactures make available, by proper publicity, necessary details about their products, they come as great help to the man in the street.	None
Unfortunately, some of the advertisements issued for this purpose make exaggerated and sometime baseless representations about the quality, standard and performance, with an object of attracting purchasers, It was therefore considered necessary to have statutory regulations insisting that, while advertising the seller must speak the truth.	Facts
Accordingly sections 36A to 36B in part B were inserted in Chapter V of the Act by an amendment in 1984.	Facts
However, the question in controversy has to be answered by construing the relevant provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
The definition of unfair trade Practice in Section 36A mentioned above is not inclusive or flexible, but specific and limited in its contents.	None
The object is to bring honesty and truth in the relationship between the manufacturer and the consumer.	Reasoning
When a problem arises as to whether a particular act can be condemned as an unfair trade practice or not, the key to the solution would be to examine whether it contains a false statement and is misleading and further what is the effect of such a representation made by the manufacturer on the common man?	Reasoning
Does it lead a reasonable person in the position of a buyer to a wrong conclusion?	Reasoning
The issue cannot be resolved by merely examining whether the representation is correct or incorrect in the literal sense.	Reasoning
A representation containing a statement apparently correct in the technical sense may have the effect of misleading the buyer by using tricky language Similarly a statement, which be inaccurate in the technical literal sense can convey the truth and sometimes more effectively than a literally correct statement.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, necessary to examine whether the representation, complained of, contains the element of misleading the buyer.	Reasoning
Does a reasonable man on reading the advertisement form a belief different from what the truth is?	Reasoning
The position will have to be viewed with objectivity, in an impersonal manner.	Reasoning
It is stated in Halsburyst Laws of England (Fourth Edition, paragraphs 1044 and 1045) that a representation will be deemed to be false if it is false in substance and in fact and the test by which the representation is to be judged is to see whether the discrepancy between the fact as represented and the actual fact is such as would be considered material by a reasonable represented.	Reasoning
Another way of stating the rule is to say that substantial falsity is, on the one hand, necessary, and, on the other, adequate, to establish a misrepresentation and that where the entire representation is a faithful picture or transcript of the essential facts, no falsity is established, even though there may have been any number of inaccuracies in unimportant details.	None
Conversely, if the general impression conveyed is false, the most punctilious and scrupulous accuracy in immaterial minutiae will not render the representation true.	None
Let us examine the relevant facts of this case in this background.8.	None
The Mitsushita Ltd. is not a popular name in this country while its products National and Panasonic are.	Reasoning
An advertisement mentioning merely Mitsushsita Ltd. may, therefore, fail to convey anything to an ordinary buyer unless he is also told that it is the same Company which manufactures products known to him by the names National and Panasonic.	Reasoning
If such were the position, there would not have been any scope for objection.	None
However, in our view the same effect is produced by the impugned advertisements, it has to be remembered that there is no other company with the name of National and Panasonic and there is no scope for any confusion on that scope.	Reasoning
Where the reference is being made to the standard, of the quality, It is not material whether the manufacturing Company is indicated by its accurately correct name or by its description with reference to its products.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the erroneous description of the manufacturing Company in the advertisements in question does not attract Section 36A of the Act, although we would hasten to add that it would be more proper for the appellant Company to give the full facts by referring to Mitsushita Ltd. by its correct name and further stating that its products are known by the names National and Panasonic.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the respondent Commission suggested that the appellant was not entitled to claim collaboration with the Japanese Company on the basis of the agreement mentioned earlier.	Reasoning
As the appellant Company is only getting technical knowledge and assistance under the agreement it is not permissible to claim Novino batteries as the product of joint venture.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument was rightly repelled on behalf of the appellant on the ground that this aspect cannot be examined in the present case in view of the limited scope of the charges as mentioned in the show cause notice quoted above.	Reasoning
If so advised, the Commission will have to hold a fresh inquiry after issuing another show cause notice if it desires to pursue this aspect.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the appellant also raised several other points in support of the appeal, one of them being that from the facts and circumstances of the case it cannot be held that the impugned advertisements are capable of causing any loss or injury to the consumers.	Reasoning
In view of our decision, as mentioned earlier, it is not necessary to deal with the other arguments.11.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned above the impugned judgment is set aside and the appeal is allowed, but, in the circumstance, without costs.	Decision
