 Ray, J.1.	None
The petitioner made an application under Article 32 of the Constitution requiring the respondent to show cause as to why the petitioner should not be released.2.	Issue
At the conclusion of the hearing of this petition on 15 October, 1969 we directed the release of the petitioner and stated that the reasons would be given later on.	Facts
We are stating our reasons for the order.3.	Facts
On 5th June, 1969 the District Magistrate 24Parganas, West Bengal made an order under Section 3 (2) of the Preventive Detention Act, 1950 (hereinafter called the Act) for the detention of the petitioner.	Facts
On 7th June 1969 the petitioner was arrested and on the same day grounds of detention were served on the petitioner.	Facts
On 9th June, 1969 information was given to the State Government.	Facts
On 14th June, 1969 the Governor was pleased to approve the order of detention and on the same day the Governor sent the report to the Central Government under Section 3 (4) of the Act together with the grounds of detention.	Facts
On 23rd June, 1969 the petitioner made a representation to the State Government.	Facts
On 1st July, 1969 the State Government placed the case of the petitioner before the Advisory Board under Section 9 of the Act together with the said representation.	Facts
On 13th August, 1969 the Advisory Board after consideration of the materials placed before it was of the opinion that there was sufficient cause for the detention of the petitioner.	Facts
On 19th August, 1969 the State Government is alleged to have rejected the petitioners representation.	Facts
By an order dated 26th August, 1969 Governor was pleased to confirm the order of detention of the petitioner.4.	Facts
The only contention on behalf of the petitioner was that though the petitioner made the representation on 23rd June, 1969 the Government did not consider the said representation with reasonable and proper expedition.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the State of West Bengal it was contended first that the matter was referred to the Advisory Board along with the petitioners representation and the State Government considered the report of the Advisory Board and, secondly the affidavit of Bathindra Nath Sen Gupta affirmed on 19th September, 1969 will show that enquiries were made after the petitioner had made the representation and the Government therefore considered the representation.6.	Arguments of Respondent
The affidavit of Rathindra Nath Sen Gupta is of little value.	None
The deponent stated first that he caused further enquiries to be made through the Superintendent Railway Police after he had received the representation of the petitioner from the State Government, secondly, that the Superintendent, Railway Police took a little time to submit a report, thirdly, the deponent after being satisfied about antisocial activities of the petitioner informed the State Government on 12th August 1969 to the effect that he did not recommend the release of the petitioner, and, fourthly that the State Government on 19th August, 1969 rejected the petitioners representation.	None
There is no affidavit by the Superintendent of Police, Sealdah who is alleged to have made further enquiries.	None
One will look in vain into the affidavit of the deponent to find out as to when the deponent entrusted the said enquiry to the Superintendent, Railway Police and further as to what time was taken for enquiry and report.	None
The Court in entitled to know the time and the steps taken along with the nature of the enquiry.	None
The importance of the matter lies in the fact that it is a case of preventive detention and the personal liberty of a citizen is under consideration of the State Government.	None
The State Government is, therefore, bound to give the utmost information to this Court.7.	None
The Preventive Detention Act confers powers on the Central Government or the State Government to make an order for detention of a person.	None
The order of detention can be passed by the District Magistrate or the Additional District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police or the Collector.	None
When an order is made by any of these Officers he shall forthwith report the fact to the State Government to which he is subordinate together with the grounds and no such order shall remain in force for more than 12 days after the making of the order unless it is approved by the State Government.	None
The State Government shall, as soon as may be, report the fact to the Central Government.	None
Under Section 7 of the Act grounds of order of detention are to be disclosed to the persons affected by the order not later than 5 days from the date of detention and the Act further requires to afford the person affected by the order the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order to the appropriate Government.	None
In the present petition, we are concerned with the scope and intent of Section 7 of the Act in regard to the representation made by the petitioner.8.	None
Section 8 of the Act contemplates constitution of Advisory Boards.	None
Section 9 requires the appropriate Government within 30 days from the date of detention to place the grounds and the representation, if any, before the Advisory Board.	None
The Advisory Board under Section 10 is to consider the material and if the Board considers it essential to hear the person concerned who desired to be heard, the Board will hear the person and make the report.	None
Section 11 of the Act states that the Government may confirm the detention order if the Advisory Board gives an opinion to the effect.	None
Under Section 13 of the Act the State Government may revoke an order passed by its officers and the Central Government may revoke an order made by the State Government.9.	None
Counsel on behalf of the State of West Bengal contended that the matter was referred to the Advisory Board along with the representation of the detenu dated 23rd June, 1969 and the State Government on 10th August, 1969 rejected the representation of the petitioner and thus discharged its duty.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention has to be examined in the light of Article 22 of the Constitution and the provisions of the Act.10.	None
There have been five recent decisions of this Court on the provisions of this act particularly in regard to the right of the detenu to have his representation considered by the appropriate Government and the obligation of the appropriate Government in that behalf.	None
In Sk.	None
Abdul Karim v. The State of West Bengal, W. P. No. 327 of 1968, D  3111969 (AIR 1969 SC 1028 )	None
this Court held that the appropriate Government cold not be said to discharge the obligation merely by forwarding the representation of the detenu to the Advisory Board.	None
Article 22 of the Constitution guarantees the right of a detenu to have a proper consideration of the representation by the appropriate authority.11.	None
In the case of Pankaj Kumar Chakarabarty v. State of West Bengal, W. P. No. 377 of 1968, D  151969 (AIR 1970 SC 97 )	Reasoning
this Court put in the forefront the distinction between the twin obligations of the appropriate authority under Sections 7 and 8 of the Act.	None
The appropriate Government is to consider the representation of the detenu inasmuch as Section 7 of the Act speaks of affording the detenu the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order of detenu.	None
The obligation of the appropriate authority to consider the representation of the detenu under Section 7 of the Act is entirely independent of any action of the Advisory Board or any consideration by the said Board of the representation of the detenu.	Reasoning
In the case of Pankaj Kumar Chakrabarty, W. P. No. 377 of 1968, D  151969 (AIR 1970 SC 97 ) (supra) this Court observed The peremptory language in clause (5) of Article 22 of the Constitution and Section 7 of the Act would not have been necessary if the Board and not the Government had to consider the representation.12.	None
There is another reason why the appropriate Government is required to consider on its own the representation of the detenu.	None
If the consideration of the representation of the detenu by the Board sufficed the constitutional guarantee Section 7 of the Act would be robbed of its content.	None
In Pankaj Kumar Chakrabartys case, W. P. No. 377 of 1968, D  151969 (AIR 1970 SC 97 ) (supra) this Court emphasised the aspect that the representation was addressed to the Government and not directly to the Advisory Board and it was for the reason that the appropriate authority was to exercise its opinion and judgment in an independent and honest manner.13.	None
It, therefore, follows that the appropriate authority is to consider the representation of the detenu uninfluenced by any opinion or consideration of the Advisory Board.	Reasoning
In the case of Khairul Haque v. State of West Bengal, W. P. No. 246 of 1969, D  1091969 (reported in 19692 SCWR 529)	Reasoning
this Court observed thatit is implicit in the language of Article 22 that the appropriate Government, while discharging its duty to consider the representation cannot depend upon the views of the Board on such representation.	Reasoning
The logic behind this proposition is that the Government should immediately consider the representation of the detenu before sending the matter to the Advisory Board and further that such action will then have the real flavour of independent judgment.14.	Reasoning
In the case of Shyamal Chakravarty v. Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, W. P. No. 102 of 1969 D  481969 (AIR 1970 SC 269 ) one of the contentions was that the detenus representation was not considered by the Government.	None
There the facts were these.	None
The detenu was arrested on 13th November, 1968.	None
On 8th January, 1969 the Governor was pleased to confirm the order of detention after the Advisory Board had given opinion that there was sufficient cause for detention of the petitioner.	Facts
The detenu thereafter on 13th or 16th January, 1960 made a representation.	None
On 1st April, 1969 the Commissioner of Police informed the Home Department that he did not recommend the release of the petitioner.	None
On 28th March, 1969 notice was issued under Article 32 of the Constitution to the Commissioner of Police and to the State Government to show cause why the petitioner should not be set at liberty.15.	None
It is curious that even when Shyamals case, W. P. No. 102 of 1969, D  481969 W. P. No.	None
SC 269) (supra) was heard in this Court on 4th August, 1969 the representation of the petitioner could not be traced.	None
This Court did not accept the contention of the petitioner that there was any breach of Section 7 of the Act on consideration of the facts that the detenu did not choose to make a representation till after the Advisory Board had dealt with the matter and further that the State Government was in the process of dealing with the representation and the detenu did not state that the grounds of detention were false.	None
This Court concluded in the case of Shyamal Chakravarty, W. P. No. 102 of 1969, D  481969 (AIR 1970 SC 269 ) (supra) by stating that the State Government would deal with the representation and pass a suitable order.16.	None
When the present Writ Petition came up for hearing on 30th September, 1969 before the Bench consisting of Sikri, Mitter and Reddy, JJ., the matter was referred for decision by a larger Bench to consider as to what would be the question of period within which the Government could dispose of the representation of the detenu because it was felt that there was an apparent conflict between the cases of Shyamal Chakravarty, W. P. No. 102 of 1969, D  481969 (AIR 1970 SC 269 ) and Khairul Haque, W. P. No. 246 of 1969, D  1091969 (reported in 19692 SCWR 529) (supra).17.	None
In view of the fact that there is a fundamental right of the detenu to have the representation considered by the appropriate Government such right will be rendered meaningless if the Government will not deal with the matter expenditiously but at its own will and convenience.	None
In the case of Khairul Haque, W. P. No. 246 of 1969, D  1091969 (reported in 19692 SCWR 529) (supra) the petitioner made a representation on 23rd June, 1969.	None
The Advisory Board made its report in 11th August, 1969 on 12th August, 1969 the Governor confirmed the order of detention.	Facts
On 29th August, 1969 the Governor rejected the petitioners representation.	Facts
The delay was not explained in that case.	None
The disposal of the representation by the Government after the receipt of the Report of the Advisory Board was found by this Court to raise a doubt there whether the Government considered the representation in an independent manner.	None
This independent consideration by the appropriate Government is implicit in Article 22 of the Constitution.18.	None
In the case of Durga Show, W. Ps. Nos. 198, 205 of 1969, D  291969 (reported in 19692 SCWR 439) three petitioners were set at liberty.	None
There the representation of one detenu was received on 29th May, 1969, and was rejected on 11th August.	None
In another case the representation of the detenu was received on 18th June, 1969 and was rejected by the Government on 16th August, 1969.	None
In the third case the representation of the detenu was received on 28th June, 1969 and was rejected on 14th July, 1969.	None
In the case of Durga Show, W. P. Nos. 198, 205, 206 of 1969, D  291969 (reported in 19692 SCWR 439) (supra) the opinion of this Court in the case of Sk.	None
Abdul Karim, W. P. No. 327 of 1968, D  3111969 (AIR 1969 SC 1028 ) (supra) was restated by emphasising the legal obligation of the appropriate Government to consider the representation of the detenu as soon as it is received by it.19.	None
It is established beyond any measure of doubt that the appropriate authority is bound to consider the representation of the detenu as early as possible.	Reasoning
The appropriate Government itself is bound to consider the representation as expeditiously as possible.	Reasoning
The reason for immediate consideration of the representation is too obvious to be stressed.	Reasoning
The personal liberty of a person is at stake.	Reasoning
Any delay would not only be an irresponsible act on the part of the appropriate authority but also unconstitutional because the Constitution enshrines the fundamental right of a detenu to have his representation considered and it is imperative that when the liberty of a person is in peril immediate action should be taken by the relevant authorities.20.	Reasoning
No definite time can be laid down within which a representation of a detenu should be dealt with save and except that it is a constitutional right of a detenu to have his representation considered as expeditiously as possible.	Reasoning
It will depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case whether the appropriate Government has disposed of the case as expeditiously as possible for otherwise in the words of Shelat.	Reasoning
J. who spoke for this Court in the case of Khairul Haque, W. P. No. 246 of 1969, D  1091969 (reported in 19692 SCWR 529) (supra)it is obvious that the obligation to furnish the earlier opportunity to make a representation loses both its purpose and meaning.21.	Reasoning
Broadly stated, four principles are to be followed in regard to representation of detenus.	Reasoning
First, the appropriate authority is bound to give an opportunity to the detenu to make a representation and to consider the representation of the detenu as early as possible.	Reasoning
Secondly, the consideration of the representation of the detenu by the appropriate authority is entirely independent of any action by the Advisory Board including the consideration of the representation of the detenu by the Advisory Board.	Reasoning
Thirdly, there should not be any delay in the matter of consideration.	Reasoning
It is true that no hard and fast rule can be laid down as to measure of time taken by the appropriate authority for consideration but it has to be remembered that the Government has to be vigilant in the governance of the citizens.	Reasoning
A citizens right raises a correlative duty of the State.	Reasoning
Fourthly, the appropriate Government is to exercise its opinion and judgment on the representation before sending the case along with the detenus representation to Advisory Board.	Reasoning
If the appropriate Government will release the detenu the Government will not sent the matter to the Advisory Board.	Reasoning
If however the Government will not release the detenu the Government will sent the case along with the detenus representation to the Advisory Board.	Reasoning
If thereafter the Advisory Board will express an opinion in favour of release of the detenu the Government will release the detenu.	Reasoning
If the advisory Board will express any opinion against the release of the detenu the Government may still exercise the power to release the detenu.22.	Reasoning
In the present case, the State of West Bengal is guilty of infraction of the constitutional provisions not only by inordinate delay of the consideration of the representation but also by putting off the consideration till after the receipt of the opinion of the Advisory Board.	Reasoning
As we have already observed there is no explanation for this inordinate delay.	Reasoning
The Superintendent who made the enquiry did not affirm an affidavit.	Reasoning
The State has given no information as to why this long delay occurred.	Reasoning
The inescapable conclusion in the present case is that the appropriate authority failed to discharge its constitutional obligation by inactivity and lack of independent judgment.23.	Reasoning
The petition is, therefore, allowed.	Decision
The petition is set at liberty.24.	None
Petition allowed.	None
