 Vaidialingam, J.1.	None
These two appeals, by special leave, are directed against the judgment and order dated 2512621969, of the Bombay High Court in Miscellaneous Petition No. 75 of l967, quashing the orders of the Central Government as well as certain other orders equating the post of Sales Tax Officer of old Madhya Pradesh with the post of Sales Tax Officer, Grade II, of old Bombay.	Issue
Civil Appeal No. 2303 of 1969 is by the Union of India and Civil Appeal No. 2304 of 1969 is by some of the Sales Tax Officers of the old Madhya Pradesh State.	Issue
They are also respondents in the Unions appeal.	Issue
The appellants, in the latter appeal, support the Union Government in all respects.	Issue
In the course of the judgment, we will refer to the array of parties as in Civil Appeal No. 2303 of 1969.2.	Issue
Respondents 8 to 13 and 15, along with six others, were serving as Sales Tax Officers in the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
On the reorganisation of States as from November 1, 1956, these 13 officers were allotted to the bilingual State of Bombay.	Facts
By Notification Dated November 16, 1957, the State Government issued an order for equation of the various posts.	Facts
The Sales Tax Officers from Madhya Pradesh were equated with Sales Tax Officers Grade III of Bombay.	Facts
At this stage it may be mentioned that in Bombay there were three Grades of Sales Tax Officers, being Grades I, II and III.	Facts
On the basis of the equation adopted by the State Government, a seniority list was published on May 21, 1959.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the Sales Tax Officers allotted from Madhya Pradesh, not satisfied with the decision of the State Government equating them with Grade III officers of Bombay, had made representations to the Central Government.	Facts
Their grievance was that they should have been equated with Grade II officers of Bombay.	Facts
The Central Government, having due regard to the principles formulated earlier in consultation with the State Governments and after consulting the Central Advisory Committee constituted for the purpose, accepted the representation of the erstwhile Madhya Pradesh Officers and equated them with the Sales Tax Officers, Grade II, in the reconstituted Bombay State.	Facts
This decision was conveyed by the Central Government to the State authorities by its letter dated April 23, 1960.	Facts
The State Government gave effect to the decision of the Central Government by its Resolution dated April 27, 1961 and on that basis published also a seniority list on October 10, 1963, and invited representations and objections from all the officers.	Facts
In this seniority list, the erstwhile Sales Tax Officers of the Madhya Pradesh State were equated with Grade II officers of the Maharashtra State and they were also given suitable ranks.	Facts
From the records it is seen that only the first respondent, who was already a Sales Tax Officer in the Bombay State, filed a representation.	Facts
His representation was rejected by the Central Government.3.	Facts
Respondents I to 7 and one G. S. Kochrekar (since deceased) filed Miscellaneous Petition No. 75 of 1967 in the High Court, under Article 226 challenging the decision of the Central Government and the State equating the Sales Tax Officers of the erstwhile Madhya Pradesh State with the Sales Tax Officers, Grade II, of the Bombay State.	Facts
Their main ground or attack appears to have been that in arriving at the decision the Central Government did not give an opportunity to the Bombay Officers to make their representations and that the decision has been arrived at taking into consideration irrelevant and extraneous matters.	Facts
The Writ Petition was opposed by the Madhya Pradesh Officers.	Facts
The Central Government was also added as a party at a later stage of the proceedings before the High Court.	Facts
On behalf of the Central Government, an affidavit was filed by the Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, detailing the reasons for passing the order of April 23, 1960.	Facts
The proceedings were adjourned by the High Court to enable the Central Government to consider the representations that may be made by the concerned officers.	Facts
Ultimately the Central Government, by its order dated February 15, 1969, expressed the view that the equation already made was correct.4.	Facts
The High Court has quashed the decisions of the Central Government dated April 23, 1960 and February 15, 1969 as also the Resolution dated April 27, 1961 and the seniority list published by the State Government.	Facts
The two grounds on which the High Court has quashed these orders and Notification are (1) if the matters relevant to be considered for the purpose of equation, are taken into account, the equation made by the Central Government is not a rational one and(2) in equating the Sales Tax Officers of Madhya Pradesh with S. T. Officers, Grade II, of Bombay, the Central Government have taken into account irrelevant and extraneous matters.5.	Facts
It is now necessary to advert to the relevant provisions of the statute, as also the various orders passed by the Central and State Governments.	Facts
The States Reorganisation Act, 1956 (hereinafter to be referred to as the Act) was passed on August 31, 1956.	Facts
Under Section 2 (a), 1st of November, 1956, is the appointed day.	Facts
Part X contains provisions as to services.	Facts
Section 114 deals with all India Services.	Facts
Section 115 contains provisions relating, to other services.	Facts
The provision relevant in this section is subsection 5, clause (b) which is as follows115 (5).	Facts
Provisions relating to other services.	Facts
The Central Government may by order establish one or more Advisory Committees for the purpose of assisting it in regard tox x x x(b) the ensuring of fair and equitable treatment to all persons affected by the provisions of this section and the proper consideration of any representation made by such person.	Facts
Section 117, which confers power on the Central Government to give directions, is as follows117.	None
Power of Central Government to give direction.	None
The Central Government may at any time before or after the appointed day give such directions to any State Government as may appear to it to be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the foregoing provisions of this part and the State Government shall comply with such directions.	None
In the affidavit of the Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, filed before the High Court it has been stated that conferences were held in May 1956, between the representatives of the State Governments and the Government of India in New Delhi and it was unanimously agreed that in determining the equation of posts, the following factors should be borne in mind(1) the nature and duties of a post,(2) the responsibilities and powers exercised by the officer holding a post the extent of the territorial or other charge held or responsibilities discharged(3)	Facts
the minimum qualifications, if any, prescribed for recruitment to the post and(4) the salary of the post.That such a decision was taken is also clear from the circular of the State Government dated December 11. 1957.	Facts
This circular was published for the information of the officers that the general principles to be borne in mind and referred to earlier, were to be followed in the equation of posts.	Facts
Those principles, it is further stated were settled at a conference convened by the Government of India in May 1956 which was attended, among others, by the representatives of the former States of Bombay, Madhya Pradesh, Hyderabad, Saurashtra and Kutch.	Facts
It is further stated that the factors decided upon were also considered by the Integration Committee of Ministers and were found suitable and that the State Government was making equation of posts having due regard to these factors.6.	Facts
The State Government, by its Resolution dated November 16, 1957, equated the Sales Tax Officers of Madhya Pradesh with Sales Tax Officers Grade III of Bombay.	Facts
This led to representations being made by the Madhya Pradesh Officers to the Central Government.	Facts
In the affidavit of the Deputy Secretary, it is stated that under the provisions of Section 115 (5) of the Act, the Central Government had constituted the Central Advisory Committee for the purpose of assisting it in giving proper consideration to the representations that are made by officers of gazetted cadres.	Facts
The Committee consisted of the Chairman of the Union Public Service Commission as its Chairman, Shri P. N. Sapru, Member, Rajya Sabha and a retired Judge of the Allahabad High Court and Shri K. Y. Bhandarkar, retired Law Secretary to the Government of India.	Facts
It is further stated that the representations received from the exMadhya Pradesh Sales Tax Officers claiming equation with Grade II officers of Bombay were referred to the said Advisory Committee for their consideration and advice.	Facts
It is further stated that after taking into consideration the points raised by the officers in their representations, the comments of the State Government, the recommendations of the Advisory Committee and other relevant factors, the Central Government decided that the post of Sales Tax Officer, Madhya Pradesh (Rupees 225600) was to be equated with the post of Sales Tax Officer, Grade II Bombay (Rs. 300650).	Facts
It is further stated in the affidavit that this decision was conveyed to the State of Bombay by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, in its letter dated April 23, 1960.	Facts
A perusal of the order dated April 23, 1960, of the Central Government also bears out the above facts.7.	Facts
On April 27, 1961, the State Government amended its previous Resolution of 1957 so as to accord with the decision of the Central Government as contained in its letter dated April 23. 1960.	Facts
On the basis of this equation, the State Government also published a seniority list on October 10, l963, and called for objections.	Facts
The only representation dated January 9, 1964, received from the first respondent, who pressed his claim to be put in Grade II, was rejected ultimately by the Central Government and this led to the filing of the Writ Petition by the first respondent as well as certain other officers of the Bombay State.8.	Facts
The High Court has discussed at great length the setup and the scheme of the Sales Tax Officers in the two States, the nature of the duties and powers exercised by them as well as their salary, method of recruitment.	Facts
chances of promotion and other matters.	Facts
The High Court took the four factors, which have been directed to be borne in mind as a result of the conference held between the representatives of the State Governments and the Central Government, and has come to the conclusion that these factors, if correctly applied, will not justify the equation of the Madhya Pradesh Officers, with the Sales Tax Officers, Grade II, of Bombay.	Facts
In fact the view of the High Court is that on an overall assessment, the Sales Tax Officers in Madhya Pradesh area were in an inferior position and that even the Sales Tax Officers, Grade III, of old Bombay State are superior to the Sales Tax Officers of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
In another context, the learned Judges observe that no satisfactory material has been made available to the Court to show the superiority of the Sales Tax Officers of Madhya Pradesh over the Sales Tax Officers, Grade III, of Bombay.	Facts
The sum and substance of the reasoning of the High Court is that as the salary of the old Madhya Pradesh Officers is assured by the Act they should be satisfied if they are equated with Sales Tax Officers, Grade III, of Bombay State.	Facts
The orders were finally struck down on the ground that the relevant factors for equation have not been properly considered and that irrelevant matters have been taken into account.9.	Facts
It is seen from the judgment of the High Court that on March 19, 1968, the proceedings were adjourned to enable the Central Government to consider the representations of the Bombay Officers.	Facts
The order of the High Court dated March 19, 1968, states that the counsel for the Union Government made a representation that it was willing to review the equation of posts of Sales Tax Officers from the erstwhile State of Madhya Pradesh after hearing the affected officers from the various integrating areas.	Facts
The Government of India passed an order on February 15, 1969 in and by which the original decision dated April 23, l960, equating the Madhya Pradesh Officers with Sales Tax Officers Grade II of Bombay, was allowed to stand.10.	Facts
There is a reference in the judgment that this letter dated February 15, 1969, was given to the learned Judges and that it was also agreed to be shown to the counsel for the Writ Petitioners.	Facts
That the High Court has looked into this letter is also clear from the fact that it says that outside matters, like the hierarchy of the revenue officers under the Land Revenue Code, have been taken into account by the Central Government.	Facts
There is no other indication in the judgment as to what attack was made on this decision on behalf of the Bombay Officers.	Facts
This order of the Central Government also has been quashed by the High Court.11.	Facts
On behalf of the Union the learned Additional Solicitor General has urged that the High Court has grossly misappreciated the nature of the jurisdiction that it was exercising in such matters.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pressed before us that the Central Government, having due regard to the principles that have been laid down for the purpose of equation of posts and after a proper consideration of the representations of the officers and the recommendations of the Advisory Committee, have equated the Madhya Pradesh Sales Tax Officers with the Sales Tax Officers, Grade II, Bombay.	Arguments of Petitioner
In arriving at this decision, it is pointed out that no irrelevant factor has been taken into account and the decision is the only possible one that could be arrived at in the circumstances.	Arguments of Petitioner
The representations made by the officers concerned have been properly considered as is mandatory under the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Central Government has acted according to the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under those circumstances, the learned Additional Solicitor General urged that the order of the High Court quashing the orders in question was not justified.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S. J. Deshpande, learned counsel for the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 2304 of 1969 and Mr. B. D. Sharma, learned counsel, for the State of Bombay in both these matters have adopted the arguments of the Additional Solicitor General.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. K. K. Singhvi, learned counsel for the Bombay Officers, has pointed out that the orders of the Central Government have been passed in violation of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as no opportunity given to the officers concerned to make their representation and they were not given a personal hearing before the Central Government decided against them.	Arguments of Respondent
Even the decisions arrived at, as pointed out by the High Court, are based on a consideration of irrelevant and extraneous factors.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that the principles formulated by the Central Government, in consultation with the State Government, for equation of posts have not been given due regard.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel further urged that the equation made by the Central Government, if allowed to stand, will work great hardship to the Sales Tax Officers of Bombay, as it will materially affect their chances of promotion.	Arguments of Respondent
He further pointed out that the State Government has, in accordance with the decision of the High Court, modified the decision equating the Madhya Pradesh Officers with Sales Tax Officers, Grade II, of Bombay and therefore, these appeals have become infructuous.13.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion.	Reasoning
the contentions of the learned additional Solicitor General are well founded.	Reasoning
The Central Government, under Sec.	Reasoning
115 of the Act, has to determine the principles governing equation of posts and prepare a common gradation list by integration of services.	Reasoning
To assist it in the task of integration of services and for a proper consideration of representations, the Central Government is empowered to establish Advisory Committees.	Reasoning
The Central Government is bound to ensure a fair and equitable treatment to officers in the matter of integration of services and preparation of gradation lists.	Reasoning
It has also to give a full and fair opportunity to the parties affected to make their representations and the Central Government has also to give a proper consideration to those representations.	Reasoning
So long as the Central Government has acted properly according to the provisions of the Act, we are of the view, that a Court cannot go into the merits or otherwise of equation of posts which is a matter within the province of the Central Government.14.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that the Central Government must have due regard to the principles enunciated by it in consultation with the States for the purpose of equation of posts.	Reasoning
It must not only give an opportunity to the concerned officers to make representations, but it must also give those representations a proper consideration.	Reasoning
It is not within the province of the Courts to lay down what are the principles to be adopted for purposes of equation.	Reasoning
That falls within the purview of the statute concerned and the authorities charged with such duty.	Reasoning
The power of the Courts is only to see that an authority has acted properly in accordance with the statute.	Reasoning
If that is established, the decision of the authorities concerned will have to stand.	Reasoning
If a particular decision is male fide or arrived at on totally irrelevant and extraneous considerations, such a decision can be interfered with by Courts.	Reasoning
In this case, no male fides are alleged.	Reasoning
As to whether any extraneous or irrelevant factors have been taken into account will be dealt with later.15.	None
The High Court is of the view that the question settled by the Central Government affects prejudicially the officers of Bombay.	None
By Madhya Pradesh Officers being equated with Grade II Officers of Bombay State, the High Court observes that (a) Bombay Officers acting in Grade II have to revert to Grade III(b) Madhya Pradesh Sales Tax Officers have got large jumps in salary and(c) even the little chance of promotion is lost to the Bombay officers till all the 13 officers from Madhya Pradesh retire or are exhausted.16.	None
In our view, the High Court has grossly erred.	Reasoning
In the case of equation of posts, especially among officers who are allotted from other States, it cannot be done with any mathematical accuracy.	Reasoning
There will be some hardship or other caused to the Officers of one particular region or other.	Reasoning
That is inevitable when the service conditions of the officers coming from different regions vary.	Reasoning
When the Central Government was impleaded as a party in the Writ Petition before the High Court, an affidavit of the Deputy Secretary, Home Affairs, was filed.	Reasoning
That affidavit very exhaustively deals with the circumstances under which the Sales Tax Officers of Madhya Pradesh were equated with Sales Tax Officers, Grade II, of Bombay by the Central Governments order dated April 23, .1960.	Reasoning
The Central Government had constituted the Central Advisory Committee as is required under subsection (5) of S. 115 of the Act.	Reasoning
The composition of the Committee has been referred to earlier.	Reasoning
It was, after taking into account the views of the Central Advisory Committee and having due regard to the comments of the State Governments, and the representations made by the officers concerned that the Central Government took the decision.	Reasoning
The factors which had to be taken into account as per the decision taken at the conference held in May, 1956, were all duly stated to have been considered by the Central Government.	Reasoning
We do not find that any irrelevant or extraneous matters have influenced the decision of the Central Government.17.	Reasoning
It is true that a decision taken by the Central Government without giving an opportunity to the officers affected to make representations, is not a valid one.	None
It has been so held by this Court in Union of India v. R. K. Roy, (1968) 2	None
SCR 186 (AIR 1968 SC 850 ).	None
The jurisdiction and powers of the Central Government under the Act have also been laid down in N. Subba Rao v. Union of India, (1972) 2 SCC 862 (AIR 1973 SC 69 ) and D. Rajiah Raj v. Union of India, (1973) 1 SCC 61 (1973 Lab IC 84).	None
One of the points that has been stressed by Mr. Singhvi is that the decision of the Central Government dated April 23, 1960, is opposed to the principles of natural justice inasmuch as the Bombay Officers had no opportunity of making any representations before the said order was passed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have already referred to the fact that originally the State Government equated the Madhya Pradesh Officers with Sales Tax Officers Grade III, of Bombay.	Facts
The Madhya Pradesh Officers filed representations to the Central Government against this equation.	Reasoning
It is not clear from the records whether any counter representations were received by the Central Government from the Bombay Officers.	Reasoning
Nor is it clear whether the Central Government called upon the Bombay Officers to offer their comments or views on the claims made by the Madhya Pradesh Officers.	Reasoning
Anyhow the order came to be passed on April 23, 1960.	Reasoning
This order has been struck down by the High Court, not on the ground that the Bombay Officers have not been given an opportunity to make representations, but on other grounds.18.	Reasoning
Assuming that the Central Government did not give an opportunity to the Bombay Officers to make their representations before passing the order of April 23, l960, the defect in this regard stands rectified by the fresh order passed on February 15, 1969.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the fact that during the hearing of the Writ Petition, after the Central Government was impleaded, a representation was made on its behalf that the Union Government was willing to review the equation of posts of Sales Tax Officers from the erstwhile State of Madhya Pradesh after hearing the affected officers from the various integrating areas.	Reasoning
This representation was incorporated in an order of Court dated March 19, 1968 and the proceedings stood adjourned.	Reasoning
There is no controversy that all the officers concerned, including the Bombay Officers made representations to the Central Government.	Reasoning
The Bombay Officers wanted the order of April 23, 1960, to be modified by equating the Madhya Pradesh Officers with the Sales Tax Officers, Grade III, of Bombay, as was originally done by the State Government.	Reasoning
The Madhya Pradesh Officers, on the other hand, reinforced their claim to sustain the order of April 23, 1960.	Reasoning
The Central Government passed the order on February 15, 1969, which was made known to the learned Judges hearing the Writ Petition.	Reasoning
In fact this is also one of the orders that has been struck down by the High Court.	Reasoning
When the order has been struck down, it is quite reasonable to infer that the Court and all parties were fully aware of the very elaborate reasons given by the Central Government for equating the Madhya Pradesh Sales Tax Officers with the Sales Tax Officers, Grade II of Bombay.	Reasoning
There was no attack, so far as we could see levelled by the Writ Petitioners against this order of the Central Government excepting that a personal hearing was not given to them by the Central Government.	Reasoning
The High Court brushed aside this order by a mere statement that the additional matters that was considered by the Central Government related to the hierarchy of revenue officers under the Land Revenue Code and that the said matter is outside those to be considered according to the minutes of the joint conference of the representatives of the State and the Central Governments.19.	Reasoning
The order dated February 15, 1 1969, passed by the Central Government together with the enclosures, is a very lengthy one.	None
It clearly shows that they had taken into account the representations made by the Officers both in the former State of Madhya Pradesh and the State of Bombay, the various affidavits and counteraffidavits filed in the High Court, the representations made by the Bombay Officers, the comments of the State Government on those representations and the recommendations of the Central Advisory Committee.	None
It is after a consideration of these matters that the Central Government decided to equate the Sales Tax Officers of old Madhya Pradesh with Sales Tax Officers, Grade II. of old Bombay	Arguments of Petitioner
A copy of the explanatory, memorandum to the recommendations, of the Central Advisory Committee has also been forwarded by the Central Government to the State Government.	None
The entire proceedings resulting in the order of February 15, 1969 leave doubt in our minds that Central Government have considered only very relevant factors and the decision has also been taken in conformity with the provisions of the Act.	None
They also show that the Central Government has given a proper consideration to the representations made by the Bombay and Madhya Pradesh Officers.	None
The order deals with every one of the points raised in both sets of representations and it also gives elaborately the reasons for rejecting the representations of the Bombay Officers and for accepting those of the Madhya Pradesh Officers.20.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General pointed out that it is only necessary that the authorities concerned should bear in mind the four factors, referred to earlier, in the matter of equation of posts.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, when once these factors have been properly taken into account, the mere fact that certain other additional or incidental matters relevant to the question have also been considered, will not vitiate the orders passed by the Central Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection the learned Additional Solicitor General drew our attention to the decision of the Judicial Committee in Ryots of Garabandho v. Zemindar of Parlakimedi, 70 Ind App 129 (AIR 1943 PC 164)	Arguments of Petitioner
The provision that the Judicial Committee had to consider was contained in subsection (2) of Section l68 of the Madras Estates Land Act 1908, that in settling rents the collector shall have regard to the provisions of this Act.	None
The Judicial Committee held that these provisions only require that they must be taken into consideration by the Officers concerned and it is impossible to say that there is a duty on the part of Officers to keep rigidly within the limits imposed by these provisions.	None
Based upon this decision, the contention of the learned Additional Solicitor General was that even if certain other additional matters relevant to the question have been taken into account by the Central Government, its order cannot be considered to be erroneous.	None
In our view, the earlier order dated April 23, l960 as well as the latter order dated February 15, l969 have both passed by the Central Government having due regard to the principles settled for purposes of equation of posts.	None
In this view, it is not necessary for us to consider the point raised by the learned Additional Solicitor General based upon the decision of the Judicial Committee.21.	Reasoning
This order of February 15, l969, has not, in our view, received due consideration at the hands of the High Court.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the High Court has dealt mainly with the order dated April 23,1960, as well as the consequential orders passed by the State Government.	Reasoning
As we are satisfied that the order of February 15, 1969, has been passed by the Central Government on a proper consideration of all relevant factors and materials, it is not necessary for us to deal elaborately with the reasons given by the High Court for striking down the previous order, except to say that the High Courts view in respect of those matters is not justified.	Reasoning
Even the grievance that the Bombay Officers did not have an opportunity to make any representation before the order dated April 23, 1960 was passed, has now been removed by the Central Government furnishing the said opportunity before it passed the order of February 15, 1963.	Reasoning
Even before us, the learned counsel for respondents 1 to 7, has not been able to point out infirmities, if any, in this order.22.	Reasoning
The criticism of Mr. Singhvi learned counsel, levelled against the order of February 15, 1969 that the Central Government did not give a personal hearing to the Bombay Officers before, passing the order, need not detain us long.	Reasoning
Though such a grievance was made faintly during the arguments in the Writ Petition, the High Court has not struck down even this order on this ground.	Reasoning
The High Court, in the judgment, has stated that the proceedings were adjourned on March 19, 1968, to enable the Central Government to consider the representations of the Writ Petitioners.	Reasoning
Therefore the High Court, which passed the order of March 19, l968, adjourning the proceedings had understood that the object of the said adjournment was to enable the Writ Petitioners to make representations and that the Central Government should properly consider the same.	Reasoning
Admittedly, representations were made by the Writ Petitioners and as stated earlier by us, they have been dealt with by the Central Government in its order dated February 15, 1969.	Reasoning
Section 115 (5) (b) refers to a proper consideration of any representation made by any officer.	Reasoning
This is satisfied in this case.	None
Mr. Singhvi, learned Counsel, drew our attention to the decision of this Court in N. Subba v. Union of India, (1972) 2 SCC 862 (AIR 1973 SC 69 ), and urged that it is implicit in the said decision that there is an obligation on the Central Government to give a personal hearing to the Officers concerned under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
We have gone through the decision carefully and we do not find any basis for this contention.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is no substance in this criticism of Mr. Singhvi.23.	None
Mr. Singhvi learned counsel, then referred us to the fact that after the judgment of the High Court the State Government has passed an order on March 19, 197l, the effect of which is to equate the Sales Tax Officers of the erstwhile Madhya Pradesh State with the Sales Tax Officers, Grade III, of Bombay.	Arguments of Respondent
This order, in our opinion, has been passed by the State Government only to comply with the directions given by the High Court.	None
It was made during a period when the appeal against the judgment was pending in this Court.	Reasoning
The fact that the State Government took steps to comply with the directions of the High Court cannot lead to the inference that the appeal by the Union of India has become infructuous.24.	Reasoning
In the result the judgment and order dated 25/26th February l969, of the High Court are set aside and Civil Appeals Nos. 2303 and 2304 of 1969 are allowed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in both the appeals.25.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
