 	None
P. Jeevan Reddy, J.	None
In this appeal preferred against the judgment of the Delhi High Court, two questions arise, viz., whether the malt and malt extract produced by the respondent, Barmalt (India) Private Limited (Barmalt), falls within the expression food product in Exemption Notification No. 55 of 1975 dated March 1, 1975 and whether the respondent is entitled to refund ofthe excess duty paid by him pending the decision of the High Court.	Facts
The Assistant Collector took the view that malt and malt extract cannot be treated as food products and, therefore, not entitled to the benefit of the said Notification.	Facts
On a writ petition being filed, the Delhi High Court upheld the respondents plea and also held that it is entitled to the benefit of the said Exemption Notification.	Facts
On the second issue, the Delhi High Court has overruled the Revenues plea based on the theory of unjust enrichment.	Facts
When this appeal came up for hearing on an earlier date, we held that the High Court was right in saying that malt and malt extract do qualify as food products and, therefore, the respondent has been rightly held entitled to the benefit of the aforesaid Notification.	Facts
But then the question arose about the respondents right to refund.	Facts
On this aspect, we posted the matter for further hearing because of the peculiar situation arising in this matter, to which we shall now advert.	Facts
Consequent upon the decision of the High Court, Mr. Harish Salve, learned Counsel for the respondent says, the respondent, Barmalt, became entitled to refund of Rs. 2,67,00, 983.16p.	Arguments of Respondent
which was the amount of duty paid by it.	Arguments of Respondent
Pursuant to the impugned judgment of the High Court, it is stated, an amount of Rs. 2,41,53,497.92p. has been refunded to it.	Arguments of Respondent
The balance amount of Rs. 25,47,485.24p. is still refundable to it.	Arguments of Respondent
On these facts, in the ordinary course, we would have disposed of the matter in terms of Mafatlal Industriesv.	Arguments of Respondent
Union of India, 1996 (9) SCALE 457 , and the format order, which we have devised pursuant to the said judgment but Mr. Harish Salve brought to our notice certain facts on the basis of which he asks for certain specific directions.	Arguments of Respondent
The facts stated by him are the following The respondent, Barmalt, is one of the three major producers of malt and malt extract in the country.	Facts
The other two being Malt Company of India Limited and A.K. Malt (Private) Limited.	Facts
The malt and malt extract produced by these units is purchased by certain specified industries only.	Facts
The industries purchasing malt and malt extract fall under two categories, (i) industries engaged in the manufacture of beverages, like Bournvita and Horlicks etc., and (ii) the breweries and distilleries engaged in manufacturing Indian Made Foreign Liqours.	Facts
One of the category (i) industries is H.M.M. Limited, now known as Smith Kline Beecham Consumer Health Care Limited, respondent in the connected appeal.	Facts
Like other purchasers in category (i), H.M.M. Limited took proforma credit of the duty paid by it on the purchase of malt malt extract in terms of Notification No. 201 of 1979, which was in force at the relevant time.	Facts
Other purchasers in category (i) also did the same.	Facts
So far as category (ii) purchasers, i.e., distilleries and breweries are concerned, Mr. Salve says that they were not entitled to and did not avail of any proforma credit for the duty paid by them when they purchased malt malt extract from the respondent or the other two units, as the case may be.	Facts
But when the Delhi High Court held, under the judgment impugned herein, that no duty was payable on the clearance removal of malt and malt extract by virtue of Exemption Notification No. 55 of 1975, the Revenue was obliged to refund the duty collected back to Barmalt.	Facts
Having done that, the Revenue served notices upon the purchasers of malt and malt extract H.M.M. Limited and others calling upon them to reverse the proforma credit taken by them and pay or adjust the duty payable accordingly.	Facts
This put the purchasers like H.M.M. Limited in peril.	Facts
They had already paid the duty to Barmalt and other two producers while purchasing the malt malt extract and now they were being asked to pay the same duty over again to the State on the ground that the State has refunded the duty to Barmalt and the other two producers pursuant to the judgment of the High Court.	Facts
When this demand was raised against H.M.M. Limited, it disputed the same on several grounds including limitation and the Tribunal appears to have accepted its claim only on the ground of limitation.	Facts
As already stated, there are other purchasers, like H.M.M. Limited, falling in the first category mentioned above.	Facts
Mr. Salve suggests that this problem can be solved in the following manner.	Arguments of Respondent
Barmalt will pay over the entire duty to H.M.M. Limited and other similar purchasers who have availed of the proforma credit.	Arguments of Respondent
There are only three purchasers in the first category.	Arguments of Respondent
As a matter of fact, out of the sum of Rs. 2,41,53,497.92p, Barmalt has already refunded an amount of Rs. 1,28,87,580.34p.	Arguments of Respondent
to H.M.M. Limited and other similar purchasers.	Arguments of Respondent
The payment to H.M.M. Limited is stated to be in the sum of Rupees eight lakhs.	Arguments of Respondent
Barmalt will pay over the rest of the amount received by them by way of refund to the respective purchasers.	Arguments of Respondent
Even the amount of Rs. 25,47,485.24p.	Arguments of Respondent
will also be paid over to the respective purchasers as soon as it is received from the Revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
In this manner, Barmalt would have paid over the entire amount received by them by way of refund to their purchasers in which case no question of unjust enrichment would arise in the case of Barmalt.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as purchasers are concerned, they would also not stand to lose in any manner.	Arguments of Respondent
They would get the money from Barmalt and would then pay over adjust the amount to Revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
If these two steps are completed, neither the Revenue stands to lose nor would the purchasers stand to lose and Barmalt would also not be unjustly enriched.	Arguments of Respondent
The solution suggested by Mr. Salve sounded attractive when suggested and accordingly notices were directed to the other two producers of malt and malt extract, viz., Malt Company of India Limited and	Reasoning
A.K. Malt (Private) Limitedand then we discovered the several difficulties in the way of accepting the suggestion of Mr. Salve.	Reasoning
They are (a) While the Revenue has filed the appeal against the decision of the Delhi High Court in favour of Barmalt against the order impugned herein, no appeals have been preferred by the Revenue against similar orders in favour of other two producers aforesaid.	Reasoning
Those two producers have taken the refund and the orders in their favour are said to have become final.	Reasoning
Their Counsel stated that they are not willing to abide by or implement the said suggestionor formula, if we can call it oneand that there is no reason why they should pay over the amounts which they have received by way of refund when the orders of refund in their favour have become final.	Reasoning
(b) The purchasers like H.M.M. Limited have not purchased exclusively from Barmalt.	Reasoning
They have purchased from all the three producers.	Reasoning
The other purchasers are not before us.	Reasoning
Only the H.M.M. Limited is before us.	Reasoning
It is the respondent in connected appeal, viz., Civil Appeal Nos. 338788 of 1992.	Reasoning
An undertaking has been filed on behalf of H.M.M. Limited stating that they are agreeable to the said formula provided the formula is applied uniformly to other two producers viz., Malt Company of India Limited and A.K. Malt (Private) Limited also.	Reasoning
Mr. Lakshmi Kumaran, learned Counsel for the H.M.M. Limited, no doubt stated that if this formula is applied and implemented uniformly, H.M.M. Limited would be prepared to reverse the proforma credit equal to the amount received by them from the said three producers notwithstanding the fact that H.M.M. Limited has already succeeded before the Tribunal on the ground of limitation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel stated that though according to law, H.M.M. Limited is not obliged to reverse the credit by virtue of the decision of the Tribunal in their favour, they are yet prepared to reverse the credit if the formula suggested by Mr. Salve is applied uniformly in case of all the purchasers of malt and malt extract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Besides the purchasers in category (i), there are a large number of purchasers in category (ii), who are also not before us.	None
Faced with these difficulties, it was suggested by Mr. Lakshmi Kumaran and by Mr. Salve that if the other two producers, Malt Company of India Limited and A.K. Malt (Private) Limited refuse to abide by the said formula, this Court should, in the interest of justice, invoke its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution and direct them to abide by and implement the said formula.	Reasoning
We have considered the said suggestion but we think that it would not be feasible or possible to work out the said formula in the facts and circumstances brought to our notice.	Reasoning
Neither the other two producers are before us nor are all the purchasers before us.	Reasoning
It would be an endless and a highly complicated exercise which we do not think advisable to undertake.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, we have no alternative but to dispose of the appeal as they stand.	Reasoning
So far as Civil Appeal No. 960 of 1986 (Barmalt) is concerned, we directin view of the admitted fact that it has passed on the burden of duty to its purchaserthat Barmalt should refund to the State the amount received by them by way of refund pursuant to the impugned judgment of the Delhi High Court except a sum of Rupees eight lakhs.	Decision
In view of the fact that H.M.M. Limited is now before us and it has admittedly received the said sum of Rupees eight lakhs from.	Decision
Barmalt, the H.M.M. Limited is directed to reverse the credit taken by it to the extent of Rs. 8,00,000 Rupees eight lakhs only and pay it over to the State.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 960 of 1986 is allowed in the above terms.	None
No order as to costs.	Decision
C.A.	None
Nos 24447/89, 338788/92 and 9947/95	None
No separate arguments were addressed in these appeals in view of the debate regarding the formula suggested in Civil Appeal No. 960 of 1986.	None
List these appeals accordingly for disposal on merits next week.	Decision
