 MOHAN This appeal by special leave arises under the following circumstances The first respondent is a voluntary Consumer Organisation in Kerala, registered under the Scientific, Literary and Charitable Societies Registration Act.	None
Dr. P. Kamalasanan, Ram Nivas (Gayathri), Sasthamcotta is a member and Secretary of the 1st respondent.	Facts
He had taken L.P.G. Connection through M s. Karthika Gas Agency who is the authorised distributor of the appellant.	Facts
The said Karthika Gas Agency is the 2nd respondent.	Facts
The 2nd respondent committed several irregularities in giving gas connection and in providing refills of L.P.G. cylinders to him.	Facts
The Gas Agency had given more connections than authorised by the appellant, the Indian Oil Corporation.	Facts
That amounted to deficiency in their service.	Facts
The 2nd respondent is the authorised Agent of Indian Oil Corporation.	Facts
However, the appellantCorporation did not take adequate care to ensure that the Agency would not cheat the consumer.	Facts
Notwithstanding the fact that the appellant was aware of the misconduct of the 2nd respondent, it did not take any effective steps to put a stop to the irregularities committed by the 2nd respondent.	Facts
Dr. Kamalasanan, the affected consumer, took up the matter with the appellantCorporation.	Facts
It was replied by the Corporation on 23rd of March, 1990 admitting the fact that the irregularities were committed by the 2nd respondent.	Facts
On 21st January, 1987 Dr. Kamalasanan paid an amount of Rs. 2, 036.65 towards the charges for getting an L.P.G. connection.	Facts
That included the price of the gas stove and the necessary deposit towards the L.P.G. connection.	Facts
On the said date a consumer number was also accorded for which a sum of Rs. 61.65 was paid.	Facts
Having regard to the irregularities committed by the 2nd respondent the appellant suspended the agency.	Facts
However, the agency came to be revived later on.	Facts
The 2nd respondent gave Dr. Kamalasanan a new registration for the connection and started the regular supply of gas cylinder.	Facts
Such registration was accorded on 20th June, 1988.	Facts
The registration number was 1624.	Facts
Cylinder was supplied regularly till May 1990.	Facts
When the consumer requested for regularisation of his gas connection the appellant refused the same.	Facts
According to the consumer this would amount to a deficiency of service by the Indian Oil Corporation, the appellant since the 2nd respondent is the authorised Agent of the Indian Oil Corporation.	Facts
On these allegations he preferred a complaint before the Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Kollam claiming regularisation of his gas connection and a compensation of Rs.	Facts
500/.	None
The District Forum accepted the case of the complainant.	Facts
The appellantCorporation was directed to regularise the connection given by the 2nd respondent to 1st respondent on 21.1.87 and issue a subscription voucher and also pay Rs. 100/ as cost.	Facts
Against the said order, an appeal was filed before the Kerala State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission in Appeal No. 32 of 1991.	Facts
By order dated 10th June, 1992 the appellants plea that there was no privity of contract between the 1st respondent and the appellant as per clause 2(1)(g) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and further the complainant was having unauthorised or illegal gas connection and that could not be regularised, was not accepted.	Facts
Accordingly the appeal was dismissed.	Facts
The revision filed before the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi also suffered the same fate since by an order dated 17th of March, 1993 the same was dismissed.	Facts
Hence, the present appeal.	Facts
The contentions on behalf of the appellant are as under It is not open to the complainant to seek remedy under clause 2(1)(g) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 as there is no privity of contract between the complainant and the appellantCorporation.	None
A person becomes an L.P.G. customer of the Corporation only on signing a subscription voucher.	None
That voucher contains the terms and conditions governing the loaning of gas cylinders and pressure regulator.	Arguments of Petitioner
Where, therefore, the cylinder and regulator are possessed without a subscription voucher it would tantamount to illegal act as contemplated in Section 3(2) of Liquified Petroleum Gas (Regulation of Supply and Distribution) Order, 1988.	Arguments of Petitioner
In so far as Dr. Kamalasanan had failed to furnish a subscription voucher he cannot raise any claim as against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case there is no deficiency of service.	Arguments of Petitioner
On such an enquiry it was found that M s. Karthika Gas Agency has committed several irregularities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Alternative arrangements came to be made through another dealer where the 2nd respondent, Karthika Gas Agency has issued several unauthorised connections which would amount to a criminal breach of trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
No liability can be fastened on the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 17 of the L.P.G. distributorship agreement clearly postulates the distributor to act as principal and not as an agent.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the complainant was informed under letter dated 23rd of March, 1990 as to the correct position.	Arguments of Petitioner
In these circumstances, if there is no legal obligation to regularise the connection the complaint ought to have been thrown out.	Arguments of Petitioner
The authorities below erred in their approach.	Arguments of Petitioner
In opposition to this, the learned counsel for the respondent would contend that the subscription voucher is not the sole evidence to establish the existence of an authorised connection.	Arguments of Respondent
Possession of L.P.G. gas cylinder, pressure regulator and regular supply and refill of cylinders would constitute enough evidence to establish consumership since no other person can possess these items as they are monopoly items available with L.P.G. producing companies only.	Arguments of Respondent
The letter dated 8.12.89 establishes the fact that the appellant was aware of the unauthorised acts of dealer from 1989 onwards where for the unauthorised act of 2nd respondent his agency came to be terminated.	None
There was no justification whatever to revive the same.	None
Besides, how the appellant allowed the 2nd respondent to give continuous supply of gas cylinder is not explained.	None
Therefore, the presumption is that the appellant had ratified the unauthorised acts of the respondent.	None
In order to decide this question it is necessary for us to look at clause 1(a) of Exb.	None
R2.	None
That is the memorandum of agreement between Indian Oil Corporation and M s. Karthika gas Agency.	None
That establishes the relationship between Indian Oil Corporation, the appellant and Karthika Gas Agency as Distributor of the Corporation, on principal to principal basis.	Issue
Clause 17 of the agreement is as under In all contracts or engagements entered into by the Distributor with the customers for sale of LPG and or the sale and or installation and or repairs of appliances and or connections thereof with LPG Cylinders (filled or empty) and or refills and or pressure regulators and or attached equipment the Distributor shall act and shall always be deemed to have acted as a principal and not as an agent or on account of the Corporation, and the Corporation shall not in any way be liable in any manner in respect of such contracts and or engagements and or in respect of any act or omission on the part of the Distributor, his servants, agents and workmen in regard to such installation, sale, distribution, connections, repairs or otherwise.	None
The Distributor shall be bound to inform the customers in writing of this provision, through correspondence or at the time of enrolment, of the customer.	None
Thus, it is clear that the relationship is one of principal to principal basis.	Reasoning
The reliance by the authorities below that the circumstances, documents and conduct of parties proved the relationship as of principal and agent is difficult to understand.	Reasoning
This is a case in which the 2nd respondent Karthika Gas Agency has given an unauthorised connection.	Reasoning
If it was a legal connection nothing would have been easier than to produce the subscription voucher.	Reasoning
Such a voucher as rightly pointed out by the learned counsel for the appellant, is important and will bind the appellantCorporation.	Reasoning
The authorities below have not given due importance to the subscription voucher.	Reasoning
Section 3(2) of the LPG Control Order reads as under No person shall possess or use liquified petroleum gas filled in cylinder or in bulk form unless he has received supply thereof from a distributor or from an Oil Company.	Reasoning
The possession of an L.P.G. gas cylinder by Dr. Kamalasanan in this case has not been proved to be authorised.	Reasoning
Therefore, on the strength of obtaining possession by means of an unauthorised connection it is not open to the 1st respondent to foist a contract on the Corporation.	Reasoning
The letter dated 23rd of March, 1990 to Dr. Kamalasanan is as under Indian Oil Corporation Limited LPG 104 23.3.90 Dr. P. Kamalasanan Consumer Protection Council of Kerala TC 5/96, Perurkada, Trivandrum 695 005.	Reasoning
Dear Sir, Sub LPG distribution at Karunagapally.	None
We make reference to your letter dated 8.1.90 on the subject.	None
On enquiry it is understood that M s. Karthika Gas Agencies, Karunagapally, has released a number of cylinders and regulators unauthorisedly to various persons in Karunagapally.	Reasoning
It is also understood that for such releases a receipt in the name of the Karthika Gas Enterprises has been issued and not in the name of Karthika Gas Agencies, who are our authorised distributors.	Reasoning
This appears to be a clear unauthorised action entailing criminal breach of trust.	Reasoning
However, in so far as we are not provided with a valid document such as receipt of subscription voucher issued by M s. Karthika Gas Agencies who are our authorised distributors we may not be in a position to take any action in regularising the connection.	None
In regard to the supply of refills we are taking up the matter suitably with our Manager, Trivandrum to further streamline the existing arrangement of supplies ex Haripad.	None
Thanking you, Yours faithfully, for Indian Oil Corpn.	None
Ltd. sd  Area Manager	None
This puts the position beyond doubt.	Reasoning
It should have made the consumer aware of his legal rights.	Reasoning
Further, in this case for the unauthorised acts of 2nd respondent, it is distributorship came to be cancelled.	Reasoning
The fact that it was revived is of no consequence if due regard is to be had to clause 17 of the agreement which has been extracted above.	Reasoning
Section 2(1)(g) of the Consumer Protection Act states as follows (g) deficiency means any fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, nature and manner of performance which is required to be maintained by or under any law for the time being in force has been undertaken to be performed by a person in pursuance of a contract or otherwise in relation to any service In so far there is no privity of contract between the appellant and the consumer no deficiency as defined under Section 2(1)(g) (quoted above) arises.	Reasoning
Therefore, the action itself is not maintainable before the Consumer Forum.	Decision
For all these reasons, we set aside the judgments of the authorities below.	Decision
Civil Appeal will stand allowed.	Decision
However, in the circumstances of the case there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
