 K. Thakker, J. Leave granted.	None
The present appeals are directed against the judgment and order dated October 06, 2004 passed by the High Court of Gujarat in Criminal Miscellaneous Application NOs.	Issue
3331 and 5302 of 2003.	Issue
By the said order, the High Court dismissed the bail applications filed by the appellant.	Issue
It is not necessary to narrate the prosecutioncase in detail in view of the fact that the matter relates to criminal prosecution and default in making payment by the appellant but the matter is settled between the parties and the amount has already been paid by the appellant as per the settlement.	Facts
Briefly stated, the case of the prosecution is that the appellant herein is engaged in the business of construction and he is a Director and majority shareholder of M s	Facts
Abhishek Estates Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
(M s AEPL for short).	Facts
On May 01, 2000, the appellant requested Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC for short), Surat allotment of land for the purpose of development of Housing Zone.	Facts
The land was allotted and permission was granted by Surat Urban Development Authority (SUDA) for construction of houses.	Facts
An application made by M s AEPL to the Diamond Jubilee Cooperative Bank Ltd., Surat (in liquidation), respondent NO. 4 herein to advance a loan was granted and substantial amount was paid by respondent No. 4 to M s AEPL.	Facts
The Bank was ordered to be closed as per the direction of the Reserve Bank of India.	Facts
Respondent No.4 Bank filed Lavad Case NO.1180 of 2002 against M s. AEPL and others for recovery of more than Rs.51 crores.	Facts
Criminal proceedings were also initiated for various offences under the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and the appellant herein was arrested in connection with those offences.	Facts
The appellant remained in jail for quite some time.	Facts
He made applications for release on bail.	Facts
When the matters came up before the High Court of Gujarat, a prayer was made to enlarge the appellant on temporary bail.	Facts
The Court granted the prayer by an interim order, dated July 25, 2003 on certain terms and conditions.	Facts
One of the conditions imposed on the appellant reads thus The petitioners shall file and undertaking on oath in this court within a period of one week from today giving copies of the learned Public prosecutor and the administrator of the complainant bank, to undertake that he shall facilitate, assist and cooperative in the earliest possible disposal of all the properties pledged to the bank by himself or his family members of the company in which either of them was one of the directors of, members as per the agreement and understanding recorded in this order.	Facts
List with exact details and approximate market value of the seven other immovable properties which were stated to be available as recorded hereinabove shall be annexed to the undertaking and the undertaking shall state that the petitioner shall not, directly or indirectly, alienate, transfer, encumber, let out or in any way deal with any of those properties or allow such dealing till recovery of full amount due to the bank and that those properties shall also be available for being sold by the Administrator of the complainant bank in case of any deficit after sale of the properties pledged to the bank.	Facts
If any of the aforesaid properties are held or standing in the name of any of the family members of the petitioners, such family member shall also file similar undertaking in respect of the particular property.	Facts
The petitioners shall also undertake, as stated before the court, that the petitioners shall sign the necessary documents, make the necessary applications in the pending legal proceedings regarding the properties to be put up for sale and cooperative in every manner and be available at all times for implementation and execution of the arrangement arrived at as above for the purpose of discharging his debts.?	Facts
The appellant was accordingly enlarged on bail during the pendency of the petition.	Facts
At the final hearing, however, the High Court dismissed the petitions and vacated interim relief which was granted earlier.	Facts
Resultantly, the relief which was granted in favour of the appellant came to an end and he was taken in custody again.	Facts
The appellant approached this Court.	Facts
Notice was issued and the matter was heard from time to time.	Facts
On July 22, 2005, a threeJudge Bench granted relief to the appellant by observing as under Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, we are of the view that it would be in the interest of justice to grant prayer of the petitioners.	Facts
As stated in the petition itself, the order passed by the High Court is subject matter of challenge and Special Leave Petitions are pending before this Court.	Facts
It has also come on record that earlier prayer for temporary bail was granted by this Court pursuant to which the petitioners were enlarged on bail, no doubt for a temporary period.	Facts
It is not even the allegation of the respondents that the petitioners have violated terms and or conditions of the said order passed by this Court.	Facts
When the petitioners have shown their willingness to pay the amount and the Special Leave Petitions are pending, this Court will consider all aspects when the matters will be taken up for hearing.	Facts
But in view of the fact that an order was passed by this Court temporarily releasing them on bail is over and Special Leave Petitions await hearing and as stated by learned counsel for the petitioners, the petitioners intend to enter into meaningful negotiations with the respondents and to do all the necessary acts for payment of loan amount, it would be in the interest of justice to enlarge them on bail so as to enable them to make arrangements for such payment.	Facts
For the foregoing reasons, the application deserves to be allowed and is accordingly allowed.	None
The petitioners are ordered to be enlarged on bail till further orders on their each furnishing a personal bond in an amount of Rs.1,00,000/ (Rupees one lakh only) with two solvent sureties of the like amount to the satisfaction of the Sessions Court, Surat, on the same terms and conditions on which they were released on bail by this Court on March 7, 2005.	Facts
As is clear, we are allowing bail to the two petitioners persuaded by very peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, and guided mainly by the consideration that their retention in jail would be adverse to the interest of the several investors depositors of the bank while the latter are likely to be benefited by the release of the petitioners on temporary bail, it is hoped that the petitioners shall make a genuine effort making use of their liberty to clear the debts.	Facts
If the petitioners are found to have failed in discharging this obligation or misusing their liberty in any way, the order of bail shall be liable to be recalled.	Facts
Pursuant to the above order, the appellant was released on bail.	Facts
The learned counsel for the appellant stated that the appellant made sincere efforts and has entered into One Time Settlement (OTS) with the respondent Bank and fully repaid the amount as per the said settlement.	Facts
Respondent No. 4Bank addressed a letter to the appellant in the capacity of Director of M s AEPL which reads thus This is to certify that the abovementioned account No.ODODR011 has been fully repaid as per your application under Special One Time Settlement Scheme (18507) approved by the High Level Committee meeting held on 2582008.	Facts
The matter was thereafter placed before a twoJudge Bench on September 19, 2006 and the following order was passed It is stated by Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner(s) that the parties have settled their disputes in terms whereof out of Rs.68 crores, 25 of which would come to Rs.17 crores would be paid by the petitioner(s).	Facts
It is stated that the petitioner(s) have deposited a total amount of Rs.12 crores by now.	Facts
The diamond Jubilee Cooperative Bank Ltd. in terms of its letter dated 14.9.2006 has allowed the petitioner(s) to pay balance amount of Rs.5 crores by 4.10.2006.	Facts
Mr. Tulsi states that petitioner(s) shall pay the balance amount of Rs.5 crores within the aforementioned period.	Facts
The respondent No. 4Bank is in liquidation and Official Liquidator is managing the affairs of the Bank who has filed Lavad Case No. 1180/2002 in the Court of Board of Nominees at Surat.	Facts
He has also informed the Board of Nominees that the defendants in the Lavad Suit (M s AEPC Ors.) had fully paid up the full amount under OTS Scheme and the plaintiff (Bank) did not want to proceed with the matter and accordingly it sought permission to withdraw the suit.	Facts
The said application reads thus The defendant of this matter has fully paid up the full amount under the OTS Scheme, which has been agreed in the meeting dated 25.8.2008 of High Level Committee (Gandhinagar), this plaintiff does not want to proceed in this suit and on today withdraw the same unconditionally, which is declare to this honourable court.	Facts
For, this suit has been withdrawn whatever refund for it is required to be paid, same shall have to be paid in the name of the bank.	None
Necessary permission was granted by the Board of Nominee for withdrawal of the suit and the Lavad Case is no more pending.	Facts
We have also heard the learned counsel for the State.	None
On behalf of the State it was stated that the entire amount which was required to be paid by M s AEPC has already been paid and an appropriate order may be passed granting relief in favour of the appellant and the State has no objection if such prayer is granted.	Arguments of Respondent
From the above facts, it is clear that the amount which was required to be paid by M s AEPC has already been paid by the appellant herein under OTS.	Reasoning
The Bank has, vide its communication dated September 19, 2008 referred to above, accepted the above fact.	Reasoning
Again, the Bank which had filed Lavad Case through Official Liquidator in the Court of Board of Nominees, Surat has also withdrawn the said suit in view of settlement and receipt of payment under OTS.	Reasoning
The State has also no objection to the said settlement.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant now prays that in view of full payment under OTS, nothing requires to be done by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The condition imposed by the High Court in the interim order referred to above does not survive and his properties may be ordered to be released from attachment and be made available to him by relieving him of the undertaking given by him.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the appellant is entitled to the relief sought.	Reasoning
In view of full settlement between the parties and payment made by the appellant under OTS now nothing is due and payable by the appellant to the respondent No.4Bank.	Decision
Accordingly, the properties are ordered to be released.	Decision
Title Deeds and documents, if any, pertaining to the said property be handed over and returned to the appellant by respondent No.4Bank.	Decision
The appellant is also relieved of the undertaking given to the Court.	Decision
The appeals are allowed to the above extent.	Decision
