 ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J. The appellant before us is the owner of a premises comprising of a shop room, numbered 3 in the ground floor of Sabari Complex, Residency Road, Richmond Town, Bengaluru 560025.	Facts
This premises is the subject of dispute in this appeal.	Facts
The suit, out of which this appeal arises, was instituted by ?	Facts
Sri Sabari Corporation?	Facts
styled as a co ownership firm comprising of seventeen individuals.	Facts
All these individuals were also described as plaintiffs (a) to (q) in the suit in the capacity of coowners.	Facts
They shall be referred to later in this judgment as the ?original plaintiffs?.	Facts
The mother of the sole respondent was inducted as the lessee of the subjectpremises on 10 th May, 1978.	Facts
At that point of time, the owner of the premises was a partnership firm with the same trade name.	Facts
Admitted position is that on his mother?s death in the year 1996, the respondent became the tenant of the subject premises.	Facts
The original plaintiffs through their learned Advocates issued a notice terminating the lease in terms of Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act on 25/27 th September, 2006.	Facts
In this notice, the nature of occupation has been interchangeably used as ?tenancy?	Facts
and ?lease?, but that factor is not of much significance for determining the rights of the parties in this appeal.	Facts
The suit was instituted in the Court of the XII City Civil Judge, Bangalore on 15 th November 2006 claiming, interalia, delivery of vacant possession of the subject premises and mesne profit.	Facts
We shall subsequently refer to the respondent as defendant.	Facts
The original plaintiffs claim to have had derived their right, title and interest to the subject premises from the partnership firm after its dissolution.	Facts
It has been contended on their behalf that some of them are the erstwhile partners and others are their relatives and they came to own the subject premises as residue property in accordance with Section 48 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.	Facts
The Trial Court decreed the suit for possession as well as mesne profit from the date of service of notice of termination.	Facts
The defendant was given six months?	Facts
time to vacate the subjectpremises.	Facts
The defendant, however, was successful in his appeal before the High Court and the judgment of the Trial Court was reversed.	Facts
The present appellant is the successorininterest of the seventeen individuals who had instituted the suit in the name of joint proprietary firm.	Facts
This appellant claims to have had purchased the subject premises from the original owners.	Facts
His substitution in this appeal was allowed by this Court by an order passed on 7 th January, 2010.	None
The main question which arises for determination in this appeal is as to whether the original plaintiffs had the locus to institute the suit or not.	Issue
The suit was resisted by the defendant on the ground that the said plaintiffs could not have had terminated the tenancy as they did not have jural relationship with the defendant to initiate the action.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been urged in support of this contention that there was no attornment in this case and no public notice was issued on dissolution of the firm as per the provisions of Section 45(1) of the 1932 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The original plaintiffs?	Arguments of Respondent
stand on devolution of the subject premises has been contested by the defendant.	Arguments of Respondent
It is his contention that if the devolution came through at all, the process of such devolution was through conveyance of immovable property but without effecting registration on payment of proper stamp duty.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the defendant submitted that for this reason, the instruments through which such devolution is sought to be established ought not to be taken cognizance of in a judicial proceeding.	Arguments of Respondent
The other issues which have been raised are ancillary to this main question.	None
Before we proceed to examine this question of law, we shall have to refer to certain facts from which the present controversy originates.	None
At the time the lease was created, the partnership firm comprised of seven partners and a minor beneficiary.	None
The original lease was for five years.	None
The arrangement however continued even after lapse of the five year period.	None
The defendant continued in possession on paying rent and the plaintiffs?	Arguments of Petitioner
case before the Trial Court has been that the defendant had remained in the subject premises as a tenant.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the plaintiffs, the firm stood dissolved with effect from 7 th December, 1978.	Facts
In the plaint, there is no specific pleading showing the manner in which the plaintiffs derived title or interest to the subjectpremises.	None
The defendant contested the suit by filing written statement.	Facts
Proper service of termination notice was also denied and certain other points were raised, but the suit was mainly contested on the issue of lack of jural relationship between the original plaintiffs and defendant.	Facts
The Trial Court, upon going through a Deed of Co ownership, marked as exhibit ?	Facts
P5? came to the finding that there was no transfer of the subjectpremises to any third party.	Facts
This instrument carries the title ?	None
COOWNERSHIP DEED OF SRI SABARI CORPORATION BANGALORE AGREEMENT DECLARING INDIVIDUAL INTEREST IN CO OWNERSHIP PROPERTY?and is dated 5 th May 2007.	None
The Trial Court found formation of the coownership to be only a family arrangement.	Facts
Finding of the Trial Court on the issue of attornment of tenancy was that such exercise would have been required in case there was transfer of property but constitution of coownership was on the basis of mutual understanding among the erstwhile partners and their relatives.	Facts
The Trial Court also held that the defendant was aware of Sri Sabari Corporation coming into existence as a coownership concern from a notice issued by the plaintiffs to the defendant in the year 2004.	Facts
We shall deal with this aspect of the controversy in subsequent paragraphs of this judgment.	Facts
The case run by the plaintiffs before the Trial Court was that the partnership firm stood dissolved with effect from 7 th December, 1978.	Facts
The notice of the dissolution of the firm, however, was given to the Registrar of Firms on 7 th June, 1995.	Facts
After dissolution of the firm, an agreement was entered into among the erstwhile partners and their family members and some of the family members of the erstwhile partners were recognised as coowners of the properties of the dissolved partnership firm and a delineated portion of the property of the firm was given to the coowners.	Facts
An agreement was registered as coownership agreement.	Facts
The subject premises comes within the scope of the assets given to the coowners.	Facts
In the intervening period, mother of the defendant passed away and the defendant was allowed to continue as the tenant.	Facts
Before the Trial Court, dispute was raised as to whether the notice of termination was properly served or not.	Facts
The defendant however had replied to the notice of termination on 29 th November, 2006 casting doubt on locus of the individuals on whose behalf the notice to terminate the tenancy was issued.	Facts
The same defence has been taken in written statement to the suit.	Facts
As regards service of the termination notice, the Trial Court on fact did not find any defect on service of the notice.	Facts
In appeal by the defendant, the High Court reversed the finding on the point of locus of the original plaintiffs.	Facts
It was held by the High Court  ?	None
13.Sabari Corporation was registered as per Ex.P1.	None
Seven partners were its partners for the purpose of its business and if they had to dissolve, the plaintiffs should have taken pleadings in their suit.	Facts
No such pleadings have been taken in the plaint.	Facts
After the dissolution of the firm, the property of the firm has been devolved as it is stated by the plaintiff by its members of the partnership firm.	Facts
From the registration of the firm as per Ex.P1, 7 persons were partners however there are as many as 18 plaintiffs who represent the Coownership.	Facts
On the dissolution of the firm, its business cease to operate and in case of transfer of its properties of its partners, there should have been pleading in the plaint.	Facts
Nature of partition among the partners and how these strangers have come into picture as the coowners of the properties of the partnership firm should have been narrated.	Facts
It is the contention of the defendant that u a 40C of the Karnataka Stamp Act, while the property is being partitioned among strangers, there shall have been stamp duty paid to the Government.	Facts
In the instant case, no such thing has been done.	Facts
In response to the same, the respondents counsel submitted that no transfer has been effected by virtue of the dissolution of the firm and what has been done is only a partition of the partnership property among its members and the newcomers are their brothers, sons and wives of the partners.	Facts
Under Section 243 of the Indian Contract Act, widow or child of deceased partner receive share out of the profits is not a partner.	Facts
In view of the said provision while transferring the property of the partnership firm to the non partners of the firm, it is nothing but conveyance for which necessary stamp duty should have been paid.	Facts
However, there is no such things coming out from the plaint.	Facts
Hence it is held that the partnership firm has not properly conveyed its properties on the plaintiffs through the procedure known to law.	Facts
The court below has framed issues relating to jural relationship.	Facts
The Trial Court came to the conclusion that partition of the firm?s property is only a family arrangement and there is no transfer of any right, title or interest in favour of the third parties.	Facts
It is only an internal arrangement made by coowners of the Sabari Corporation.	Facts
It is further referred that legal notice Ex.P9 was issued in the name of coowners of the property and the defendant has been paying rent to the plaintiff continuously.	Facts
Therefore, the plaintiffs have been declared as landlords of the suit schedule property and the defendant is the tenant.	Facts
In view of the fact that the court has held that there is no transfer of property, application of attornment of tenancy was also denied.	Facts
The court has not answered the question raised in respect of the jural relationship between the parties.	Facts
When the lease agreement entered into between the parties is Sabari Corporation partnership firm with the defendant?s mother and till the filing of the suit, the existence of Sabari Corporation, co ownership has not been declared and no notice was issued to the defendant or even to the public and exhibits referred above show the name of Sabari Corporation as a firm.	Facts
Therefore, am of the view that the court below has not properly answered the question of jural relationship properly.	Facts
Consequent upon the dissolution of the partnership firm, the partners should have issued notice to the public and also to the persons who involved in the business of the partnership firm.	Facts
Notice u s 45(v) of the Partnership Act will help the third parties that the firm who had no notice of dissolution and on the other it also seeks to protect the partners of a dissolved firm from liability to third parties for acts of the other partners subsequent to dissolution.	Facts
Post dissolution activities of the partners and its business will cease to affect by virtue of the dissolution.	Facts
In such case, where notice is issued, it made clear to the public and also to the customers for the purpose of their transactions.	Facts
In the instant case, no notice has been produced by the plaintiff and no averment to substantiate this dissolution has been made.	Facts
In view of the above, the plaintiffs have no legal authority to pose themselves as Coownership of Sabari Corporation.	Facts
As it already referred, the LRs.	Facts
cannot become the part of the partnership firm.	Facts
At the most, they are entitled for the profits and benefit out of it.	Facts
Without assigning proper reasons the court below has held that the Sabari Corporation, a partnership firm has been transferred into coownership firm, hence the plaintiffs have got legal right to file the suit.	Facts
Hence the said finding of the Trial Court on issue No.1 is not proper.	Facts
Accordingly Point No.1 is answered in the negative.?	None
The High Court had sustained the plea of the defendant that there was improper stamping of the deed of coownership.	Facts
The defendant?s case on this point has been that birth of the coownership firm was not on the basis of distribution of assets after dissolution of a partnership firm but there was conveyance of the assets of the firm.	Facts
For this purpose, registration of the instrument of conveyance on proper payment of stamp duty was not effected.	Facts
The High Court accepted the defendant?s stand that the plaintiffs could not establish their locus standi to institute suit for recovery of possession.	Facts
Finding of the High Court on this count is that the property of the partnership firm, on dissolution, stood partitioned among seventeen persons, including persons who were not members of the firm.	Facts
On the question of proper issue of the termination notice as contemplated in Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act, the finding of the Trial Court has not been upset by the High Court.	Facts
The judgment under appeal does not deal with this point.	Facts
We accept the plaintiffs?	Reasoning
stand that the principle of estoppel bars a tenant from questioning the title landlords.	Reasoning
This is incorporated in Section 116 of the Evidence Act.	Reasoning
But this principle cannot be made applicable in the present case straightaway as the main defence set up by the tenant is that he had acknowledged the said partnership firm as the landlord but questioned the locus standi of the plaintiffs, who operated under the same trade name.	Reasoning
In absence of attornment or public notice of dissolution, the defendant had no way of having knowledge of change of landlord of the subjectpremises from partnership firm to a co ownership concern.	Reasoning
The coownership firm admittedly was not the defendant?s landlord at the time of commencement of the lease.	Reasoning
Thus, identity of the landlord stood altered, though the seventeen individuals continued to operate under the same trade name.	Reasoning
For this reason, the very fact that rent was continued to be paid to Sri Sabari Corporation cannot constitute acceptance of the original plaintiffs as the landlord by the defendant.	Reasoning
On the question of attornment, learned counsel for the appellants have argued before us that title could be acquired in terms of Section 109 of the Transfer of Property Act and in such a situation, attornment would not be necessary.	None
The said provision reads Rights of lessor?s transferee.	None
If the lessor transfers the property leased, or any part thereof, or any part of his interest therein, the transferee, in the absence of a contract to the contrary, shall possess all the rights, and, if the lessee so elects, be subject to all the liabilities of the lessor as to the property or part transferred so long as he is the owner of it but the lessor shall not, by reason only of such transfer cease to be subject to any of the liabilities imposed upon him by the lease, unless the lessee elects to treat the transferee as the person liable to him Provided that the transferee is not entitled to arrears of rent due before the transfer, and that, if the lessee, not having reason to believe that such transfer has been made, pays rent to the lessor, the lessee shall not be liable to pay such rent over again to the transferee.	None
The lessor, the transferee and the lessee may determine what proportion of the premium or rent reserved by the lease is payable in respect of the part so transferred, and, in case they disagree, such determination may be made by any Court having jurisdiction to entertain a suit for the possession of the property leased.?	None
It has been held by a two Judge bench of this Court in the case of Bismillah Be(Dead) by Legal Representatives Vs.	None
Majeed Shah 2017 2 SCC 274  ?	None
24.	None
Law relating to derivative title of the landlord (Lessor) and challenge, if made, to such title by the tenant (Lessee) during subsistence of tenancy in relation to demised property is fairly well settled.	None
Though by virtue of Section 116 of the Evidence Act, 1872, the tenant is estopped from challenging the title of his landlord during continuance of the tenancy, yet the tenant lessee is entitled to challenge the derivative title of an Assignee Vendee of the original landlord (Lessor) of the demised property in an action brought by the Assignee Vendee against the tenant for his eviction from the demised property under the Rent laws.	None
This right of a tenant is, however, subject to one caveat that the tenant lessee has not attorned to the Assignee Vendee.	None
In other words, if the tenant lessee pays rent to the Assignee Vendee of the tenanted property then it results in creation of an attornment between the parties which, in turn, deprives the tenant lessee to challenge the derivative title of an Assignee Vendee in the proceedings.?	None
This authority has been followed in a later case, Appollo Zipper India Limited Vs.	None
W. Newman and Company Limited (2018) 6 SCC 744 .	None
It has been held in this case ?42	None
Similarly, the law relating to derivative title to the landlord and when the tenant challenges it during subsistence of his tenancy in relation to the demised property is also fairly well settled.	None
Though by virtue of Section 116 of the Evidence Act, the tenant is estopped from challenging the title of his landlord, yet the tenant is entitled to challenge the derivative title of an assignee of the original landlord of the demised property in an action brought by the assignee against the tenant for his eviction under the rent laws.	None
However, this right of a tenant is subject to one caveat that the tenant has not attorned to the assignee.	None
If the tenant pays rent to the assignee or otherwise accepts the assignee?s title over the demised property, then it results in creation of the attornment which, in turn, deprives the tenant to challenge the derivative title of the landlord.?	None
The defendant?s stand on this point is that since it continued to pay rent in favour of the same landlord by the same trade name, notice of the change of ownership cannot be attributed to him.	Arguments of Respondent
On this count, argument has been advanced on behalf of the original plaintiffs before the Trial Court that on 17 th May, 2004 a termination notice was issued to the defendant by them.	None
Though the said notice was not ultimately given effect to, the defendant from the said notice must have had acquired knowledge of plaintiffs having become owner of the subject premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
This issue has been dealt with by the Trial Court in Paragraph 11 of the judgment in the following manner ?	None
11The plaintiff has also produced Xerox copy of notice dated 17.5.2004 issued to defendant by the present plaintiffs.	None
Issue of this notice has been admitted by the Defendant herein.	None
On perusal of this notice, which is not marked, however not denied by the defendant, it clearly goes to show that it was brought to the notice of the defendant in the year 2004 itself, that Sri Sabari Corporation came to be converted into a coownership concerned and all the names of plaintiffs herein are mentioned in the said notice.	None
Therefore, now the defendant cannot contend that he is not aware of formation of Sri Sabari Coownership.	None
The learned counsel for the plaintiff also argued that Sri Sabari Corporation partnership firm came to be dissolved and notice of the same was recorded on 7.6.1985 with effect from 7.12.1978 as per form No.A.1, issued by the Registrar of Firm as per Ex.	None
P6.	None
It is not denied by the Defendant.	None
Therefore, it is clear that Sri Sabari Corporation came to be dissolved with effect from 7.12.1978 and the notice of the same was given to the concerned authority.	None
The names of 7 partners are mentioned in Ex.P8 and after dissolution of the partnership firm, a coownership was constitute.	None
Therefore, there is no question of transfer of any right, title or interest over the schedule property to others.	None
Because it is only an internal arrangement.	None
Therefore, for the reasons stated above, I am of the opinion that the plaintiffs are entitled to recover possession of schedule premises from the defendant and hence, my findings on issue No.3 is also in the affirmative.?	None
(quoted verbatim)	None
The receipt of the notice dated 17 th May, 2004 has been accepted by the defendant in paragraph 7 of his written statement in the following terms The defendant humbly submits that on an earlier occasion namely on 17 th May 2004 Sri Sabari Corporation has attempted to terminate the tenancy, defendant?s mother opposed the termination notice.	None
Thereafter Sri Sabari Corporation has demanded a sum of Rs.2,00,000/ (as additional advance) from defendant, since there was a threat of eviction, defendant has paid of sum of Rs.2,00,000/ (Rs.T wo lakhs) to Sri Sabari Corporation.	None
After receiving a sum of Rs.2,00,000/ from the defendant Sri Sabari Corporation has withdrawn the notice dated 17 th May, 2004, assured him that it will not terminate the tenancy and allowed him to continue to carry the business as per the agreement of lease dated 10.5.1978.	None
On the assurance of the plaintiff that it will not terminate the tenancy, he has borrowed a sum of Rs.7,00,000/ and spent for the interiors as well as the furnitures in the schedule premises.	None
Plaintiffs? argument on law is that in an eviction suit, title need not to be proved in a manner required in a suit for declaration of title.	Arguments of Petitioner
On this count, the following passage from the case of Apollo Zipper (supra) has been cited ?	None
40	None
It is a settled principle of law laid down by this Court that in an eviction suit filed by the landlord against the tenant under the rent laws, when the issue of title over the tenanted premises is raised, the landlord is not expected to prove his title like what he is required to prove in a title suit.?	None
Two earlier authorities, Sheela vs. firm Prahlad rai Premm Prakash (2002) 3 SCC 375 and Boorugu Mahadev sons vs. Srigiri (2016) 3 SCC 343 broadly lay down the same principle of law.	None
It is not the law that in a landlordtenant suit the landlord cannot be called upon at all to prove his ownership of a premises, but onus is not on him to establish perfect title of the suit property.	None
The other limb of defence of the tenant related to admissibility of Exhibit P5, which in substance is a modification instrument of an earlier coownership agreement of the year 1993.	Reasoning
Exhibit P5 however, is a document that came into existence after the suit was instituted on 15 th November, 2006.	Reasoning
This document is dated 5 th May, 2007.	Reasoning
There is reference in this document to an earlier coownership agreement effected on 10 th March, 1993.	Reasoning
The necessity of executing Exhibit P5 appears to be demise of two of the coowners, who were parties to the aforesaid document of 1993 and their shares were transferred to their respective widows.	Reasoning
But the suit cannot turn solely on the basis of this document.	Reasoning
Neither this document per se establishes plaintiffs? ownership of the subject property.	Reasoning
The plaint, exhibits and deposition of the plaintiffs? witness do not adequately explain the journey of the subject premises from the erstwhile partnership firm, which had inducted mother of the present defendant as a tenant, to the seventeen individuals operating as a coownership firm.	Reasoning
What has been argued on behalf of the appellant is that upon dissolution of the firm, there was sharing of residue assets thereof under Section 48 of the Partnership Act 1932 among the partners or their legal representatives.	Reasoning
On the controversy of inadequate payment of stamp duty, it was argued on behalf of the appellant, relying on a decision of this Court in the case of S.V. Chandra Pandian Vs. S. V. Sivalinga Nadar (1993) 1 SCC 589 that in such cases of sharing of residual assets of a partnership firm, payment of stamp duty equivalent to that of transfer or conveyance of property is not necessary.	None
It has been held in this case ?	None
16 From the foregoing discussion it seems clear to us that regardless of its character the property brought into stock of the firm or acquired by the firm during its subsistence for the purposes and in the course of the business of the firm shall constitute the property of the firm unless the contract between the partners provides otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the dissolution of the firm each partner becomes entitled to his share in the profits, if any, after the accounts are settled in accordance with Section 48 of the partnership Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus in the entire asset of the firm all the partners have an interest albeit in proportion to their share and the residue, if any, after the settlement of accounts on dissolution would have to be divided among the partners in the same proportion in which they were entitled to a share in the profit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus during the subsistence of the partnership a partner would be entitled to a share in the profits and after its dissolution to a share in the residue, if any, on settlement of accounts.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mode of settlement of accounts set out in Section 48 clearly indicates that the partnership asset in its entirety must be converted into money and from the pool the disbursement has to be made as set out in clause (a) and subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) and thereafter if there is any residue that has to be divided among the partners in the proportions in which they were entitled to a share in the profits of the firm.	Arguments of Petitioner
So viewed, it becomes obvious that the residue would in the eye of the law be movable property i.e. cash, and hence distribution of the residue among the partners in proportion to their shares in the profits would not attract Section 17 of the Registration Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Viewed from another angle it must be realised that since a partnership is not a legal entity but is only a compendious name each and every partner has a beneficial interest in the property of the firm even though he cannot lay a claim on any earmarked portion thereof as the same cannot be predicated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, when any property is allocated to him from the residue it cannot be said that he had only a definite limited interest in that property and that there is a transfer of the remaining interest in his favour within the meaning of Section 17 of the Registration Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Each and every partner of a firm has an undefined interest in each and every property of the firm and it is not possible to say unless the accounts are settled and the residue or surplus determined what would be the extent of the interest of each partner in the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, however, clear that since no partner can claim a definite or earmarked interest in one or all of the properties of the firm because the interest is a fluctuating one depending on various factors, such as, the losses incurred by the firm, the advances made by the partners as distinguished from the capital brought in the firm, etc., it cannot be said, unless the accounts are settled in the manner indicated by Section 48 of the Partnership Act, what would be the residue which would ultimately be allocable to the partners.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that residue, which becomes divisible among the partners, every partner has an interest and when a particular property is allocated to a partner in proportion to his share in the profits of the firm, there is no partition or transfer taking place nor is there any extinguishment of interest of other partners in the allocated property in the sense of a transfer or extinguishment of interest under Section 17 of the Registration Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, viewed from this angle also it seems clear to us that when a dissolution of the partnership takes place and the residue is distributed among the partners after settlement of accounts there is no partition, transfer or extinguishment of interest attracting Section 17 of the Registration Act.?	Arguments of Petitioner
The documents through which the plaintiffs claim to have come to own the property were not adequately stamped and for that reason, such document could not be relied upon.	Reasoning
T o this argument of the defendant, stand of the plaintiffs has been that once a document has been admitted without objection, in view of Section 35 of the Karnataka Stamp Act (a provision similar to Section 36 of the Indian Stamp Act 1899)	Reasoning
such objection could not be taken at the appellate stage.	Reasoning
The case of Dr. Chiranji Lal (D) (supra)	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
Haridas 2005 SCC 746 was cited on behalf of the defendant.	Reasoning
But we need not enter into this controversy while examining the rival claims in this appeal as the document which was effectively made exhibit and relied upon, is exhibit P5.	Reasoning
This document came into existence after filing of the suit.	Reasoning
We are to determine the position as it subsisted prior to the institution of the suit and existence of this document in isolation does not have any impact on the case of either of the parties.	Reasoning
An application, registered as I.A. No. 1/2009 has been taken out by the plaintiffs in connection with the present Civil Appeal, through which the appellant seeks to introduce to the present proceeding the following documents partnership deed dated 10.10.1975 constituting firm by Name Sri Sabari Corporation (ii) Deed of dissolution dated 7.12.1978 dissolving the firm by name Sri Sabari Corporation.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iii) Coownership agreement dated 7.12.1978 (iv) copy of registered agreement declaring interest in co ownership property dated 19.3.1993 (v) Income T ax returns of V. Sivagupta wherein income from suit scheduled property is shown as HUF income.	Arguments of Petitioner
(vi) Income T ax returns of S. Giridhar wherein income from suit scheduled property is shown as HUF income.	Arguments of Petitioner
These documents, however, would have to be proved to enable the plaintiffs to show the journey path of the title of the subject premises.	Reasoning
At this stage, we do not think we can enter into that exercise, which would call for proving of these documents.	Reasoning
We have to examine the respective claims without reverting to the documents annexed to this application.	Reasoning
The permission to file these documents was given by this Court on 16 th January, 2009.	Reasoning
Upon going through the application however we decline to permit the appellant to adduce fresh evidence before this Court at this stage of the proceeding.	Reasoning
Without the aid of these documents annexed to the aforesaid interlocutory application, the Trial Court found plaintiffs had established title superior to that of the tenant in respect of the subject premises.	Reasoning
The Trial Court has proceeded on a principle akin to admission by the defendant of plaintiffs? position as that of the landlords of the subjectpremises.	Reasoning
That is the underlying reasoning of the Trial Court?s judgment.	Reasoning
According to the original plaintiffs, the defendant entered into negotiation with them, for which paragraph 7 of the written statement has been relied upon.	Reasoning
The said notice of 2004, however, was not made exhibit.	Reasoning
The High Court, in the judgment under appeal has not dealt with finding of the Trial Court on this aspect of the suit.	Reasoning
This is a point which could have material impact on adjudication of the rival claims.	Reasoning
We hold so because the defendant?s defence on derivative title would not survive if the appellant can establish that from the notice of 17 th May 2004 the ownership of seventeen original plaintiffs could be established.	Reasoning
In that event, Section 116 of the Evidence Act, 1872 would become applicable.	Reasoning
The defendant?s continued payment of rent thereafter would constitute acknowledging the said plaintiffs as his landlord.	Reasoning
This would result in creation of attornment, as held in the cases of Bismilla Be (supra) and Apollo Zippers (supra).	Reasoning
T o conclude this part of the controversy, factual enquiry is necessary which the High Court exercising its appellate jurisdiction has not gone into.	Reasoning
We have already opined that sufficient material was not there before the first two Courts to establish the original plaintiffs?	Reasoning
claim of ownership of the subject premises on the basis of a family arrangement after dissolution of the firm.	Reasoning
The appellant?s attempt to adduce additional documents to establish his stand on that point has been rejected by us at this stage.	Reasoning
The ratio of the judgment in the case of S.V.Chandra Pandian (supra) cannot be applied in the present proceeding as there is no material before us from which we could conclude that the original plaintiffs?	Reasoning
title to the subjectpremises came from residue assets of the dissolved firm.	Reasoning
In a landlordtenant suit, the landlord is not required to prove his title in the subject property as in a titlesuit.	Reasoning
But when the landlord?s derivative title is challenged, the same has to be established in some form.	Reasoning
On this point the original plaintiffs have failed before the first two Courts.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, for the reasons already indicated, we set aside the judgment under appeal and remand the matter to the High Court for readjudicating the rival claims and defence.	Decision
Before the High Court the appellant shall be at liberty to file appropriate application for producing additional evidence and if such an application is filed, the same shall be considered on its own merit.	Decision
Since substantial time has lapsed after the suit was instituted, we request the High Court to decide the appeal on remand as expeditiously as possible.	Decision
The appeal stands allowed in the above terms.	Decision
As we are remanding the matter, we do not consider it necessary to make a detailed analysis of title of the original plaintiffs or their successor.	Decision
