 Gopala Gowda, J. Civil Appeal No. 1801 of 2015 by special leave has been filed against the impugned judgment and order dated 31.7.2014 passed in Writ Appeal No. 1565 of 2013 by the High Court of Judicature at Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur, whereas C.A. Nos. 18021803 of 2015 by special leave have been filed against the impugned judgment and order dated 31.7.2014 passed in Writ Appeal Nos. 1550 of 2013 and 1563 of 2013 by the same High Court.	None
In both the matters, the dispute relates to the fixation of the price of the under construction 36 Duplex Triplex HIG Houses, situated in Riviera Towne, Bhopal, by the appellantMadhya Pradesh Housing and Infrastructure Development Board (for short the appellantBoard) and the method adopted by them for fixing the price of the properties in dispute and linking the cost price of the land with the Collectors guidelines on the date of completion of the project in the case of Self Financing Scheme.	Issue
The High Court dismissed the writ appeals filed by the appellantBoard and quashed the enhanced final demand for price fixation of land by the appellantBoard.	Issue
The brief facts of the case are stated hereunder to appreciate the rival legal contentions urged on behalf of the partiesAn advertisement was published on 9.11.2007 in the local daily newspaper Dainik Bhaskar regarding the Housing Scheme which was floated by the appellantBoard for the allotment of 36 residential houses for the employees of the State Government and the State Public Sector Undertaking under the name of Riviera Towne in Bhopal with the following terms and conditions  Application forms for residential houses in Riviera Towne, Bhopal can be purchased at a cost of Rs.250/ from the Punjab National Bank, R.S.S. Market Panch Bus Stop, Bhopal on all working days between 21.11.2007 and 7.12.2007 and Registration Amount Bankers Cheque Demand Drafts can be deposited in the above bank on all working days till 7.12.2007.2.	Facts
In case the number of applications are more than the number of premises advertised for sale, the registration will be done through a system of lottery which will be held at 4.00 pm on 14.12.2007 in the office of Estate Officer.3.	Facts
Preference in registration will be given to those who pay the total estimated amount in one lump sum.4.	Facts
Apart from the sale price, other charges and maintenance fee shall be payable as per the Board rules.5.	Facts
Once registration is sanctioned under Self Financing Scheme, the applicants have to pay the balance amount in instalments as per the intimation given by the Board.6.	Facts
Costs of the houses shown in this advertisement are totally provisional and the final fixation of the price will be done after completion of the Scheme.	Facts
Allottees have to pay the difference of tentative cost and final sale price in fixation of final cost on intimation within the time stipulated.7.	Facts
Other taxes and lease rent shall be payable as per rules.8.	Facts
Applications for registration are invited from the officers and employees of various departments of the Madhya Pradesh Government and undertakings Institutions.	Facts
Reservation of houses will be in accordance with the rules.9.	Facts
Even after publication of two advertisements for registration of the house, if some houses still remain available, then application will be invited from General Category as per rules.10.	Facts
Other terms and conditions apply.	Facts
Type No.	Facts
Approx.	Facts
Approx.	Facts
Estimated Regn. of carpet plot area Cost (in Amount House area in in Sq. lakhs) (in Sq. mtrs.	Facts
mtrs.	Facts
lakhs)Nice 18 184.57 150 40.00 4Duplex sq.mtrs.	Facts
Nice 14 228.25 150 45.00 4.50Triplex sq.mtrs.	Facts
Nice 4 223.51 223 53.00 5.50Duplex sq.mtrs.	Facts
CornerXXX XXX	None
The appellantBoard held the draw of lots for the allotment of the said houses in dispute and the successful applicants were notified by the appellantBoard vide communication letter dated 20.12.2007 about the allotment of the said houses in their favour.	Facts
The appellantBoard also took the administrative approval on 3.1.2008 for the construction of 36 houses of the disputed properties.	Facts
The appellantBoard also constituted a Price Fixation Committee in its 199th meeting for the fixation of the rational price for the said houses.	Facts
They also issued two Circulars dated 30.9.2008 and 24.10.2008 relating to the fixation of cost of the said properties in dispute.4.	Facts
The Price Fixation Committee worked out the prices of the said 36 residential houses as mentioned below Total Flats18 Total Flats14 Total Flats4Plot area 150 sq.	Facts
Plot area150 sq. Plot area223mts.	Facts
mts.	Facts
sq. mts.	Facts
Built up area Built up area Built up area184.57 sq.mts.	Facts
228.25 sq. mts.	Facts
223.51 sq. mts.	Facts
Cost  CostRs.55,91,000/ CostRs.66,17,00Rs.49,53,000/  0/Upon getting the tentative cost of construction of the houses and on the basis of the revised calculations and price determination of the said properties in dispute and after the receipt of tender, the demand letters were issued on 18.6.2009 to the respondentallottees requesting them to submit their consent or dissent to the enhanced estimated cost in writing within 15 days from the date of the issuance of the letter.5.	Facts
The construction of the houses started from 30.6.2009 and almost 90 of the allottees gave their consent to the revised cost of the properties in dispute as determined by the appellantBoard on the report of the Price Fixation Committee.6.	Facts
The appellantBoard, vide letter dated 7.7.2009, sought for consent from the remaining allotteesrespondents, who had not given their consent with regard to the revised fixation of prices on the said disputed properties, stating thereby that if they fail to do so, they will not be allotted the houses and the registration amount that they had earlier given towards the allotment of the houses will be refunded to them with interest as per the rules of the Madhya Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 (hereinafter called as the Societies Act) and Madhya Pradesh Cooperative Societies Rules, 1962(hereinafter called as the Rules).7.	Facts
On 7.10.2009, the appellantBoard had informed that all the allotments that were made to the respondents subsequent to the issuance of the circulars dated 30.9.2008 and 24.10.2008, will be final and they will be bound by the said circulars.	Facts
The draw of lots was conducted on 22.12.2009 for the allocation of house numbers to the eligible applicants.	Facts
In the meeting held on 2.12.2011, it was decided by the appellantBoard that all the allotments made to the respective applicants will be governed by the notifications circulars regarding the cost of fixation of the properties in dispute and also according to the appellantBoard.8.	Facts
The Price Fixation Committee in its meeting held on 9.12.2011 and in its report dated 15.12.2011, fixed the cost with regard to the houses to be allotted under the said Riviera Towne Scheme.	Facts
In the report, the commencement of the Scheme is to be considered to be from the date of the Work Order and not from the date of the advertisement.	Facts
Thereafter, taking into consideration the final cost determined by the Price Fixation Committee, the final demand letters were issued to the successful allottees on 24.12.2011.9.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the action of the appellantBoard, the respondents filed Writ Petition No.15983 of 2012 before the learned single Judge of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, challenging the decision of the Price Fixation Committee, whereby the appellantBoard has directed the respondents to deposit the price for the said houses allotted to them at a highly enhanced rate which is 300 more than the original price of the said properties in dispute.	Facts
The grievance of the respondents was that they had applied for the said Scheme and had been allotted houses in the year 2007 at the price prevalent at the relevant period of time, subject to reasonable escalation.	Facts
But at the time of the delivery of possession of the said properties in dispute the appellantBoard has demanded the price of Rs.30,000/ instead of Rs.9,000/ per sq. mtr.	Facts
Which is highly unjustified on its part.	Facts
The respondents have further contended that the appellantBoard has wrongly taken into consideration the subsequent guidelines and notifications issued by the Collector, notifying the price of the land for registration and the stamp duty which is contrary to the law laid down by this Court in a catena of cases.10.	Facts
The learned single Judge disposed of the said writ petition on 24.9.2012, and directed the appellantBoard to consider the representation of the respondents and the legal opinion obtained by them and decide the matter in accordance with the decisions of this Court in a catena of cases, after giving the respondentallottees due opportunity of being heard.11.	Facts
Though various representations were filed before the appellantBoard by the allottees with regard to the fixation of the cost of the properties in dispute, the Commissioner of the appellantBoard by order dated 8.3.2013, after considering the representations of the respondentallottees and by referring to the various circulars regarding the cost fixation, rejected the representations of the allottees.12.	Facts
The said action of the Commissioner of the appellantBoard led the respondents to file Writ Petition No.5690 of 2013 and connected writ petitions before the learned single Judge of the High Court.	Facts
During this period 3 applicants did not make the initial payment of Rs.4 lakhs i.e. 10 of the advertised tentative cost which resulted in the cancellation of their registration to the said properties and their duplex houses were put to auction.13.	Facts
The learned single Judge of the High Court disposed of the Writ Petition No.5690 of 2013 along with the other connected writ petitions vide its common order dated 21.11.2013.	Facts
The learned single Judge allowed the writ petitions of the respondents and directed the appellantBoard to fix the price of the land as it existed on the date of issuance of the allotment letter and consequently quashed the land price determined by the appellantBoard which was based on the guidelines of the Collector.14.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the order dated 21.11.2013, the appellantBoard filed Writ Appeals before the Division Bench of the High Court which were dismissed vide its common order dated 31.7.2014.	Facts
The Division Bench upheld the findings of the learned single Judge, thereby quashing the enhanced final demand raised by the appellantBoard.	Facts
Hence, these appeals have been filed by the appellantBoard, urging various legal grounds and contentions and prayed to set aside the impugned order passed by the High Court.	Facts
Mr. Sunil Gupta, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantBoard has relied upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Delhi Development Authority v. Pushpendra Kumar Jain (1994)	Arguments of Petitioner
Supp (3) SCC 494), in support of his case, wherein this Court has held that the allottee was bound to make the deposit at the enhanced rate as per the demand raised by the D.D.A. if he wanted to secure the flat.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further held that an allottee gets an indefeasible right to allotment only on the date of communication of allotment and not on the date of draw of lots which is only a process to identify or select the persons for allotment and not the allotment itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further held that when the cost was enhanced prior to the allotment letter, demand of the enhanced rate was justified.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel has contended that the impugned order of the High Court was not right as the same is contrary to the case of Delhi Development Authority (supra), which is squarely applicable to the fact situation of the instant case and the High Court has failed on its part by ignoring the same and passing the order against the appellantBoard.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been further contended by the learned senior counsel that the High Court has gravely erred in determining the price of the properties in dispute at a rate prevalent during the period 20072008 or 20082009, as the appellantBoard has sold and executed the sale deeds of 1718 flats and 302 plots as per the guidelines of the Collector issued from time to time which would become applicable to the allottees as well.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel has further contended that the fixation of the cost of the properties in dispute has been done in accordance with the Scheme, the rules and the policy of the appellantBoard and the socalled allotment made in favour of the allottees is not an allotment but only a registration granted to them which the High Court has misconstrued as allotment of the said land.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents has sought to justify the impugned judgment and order contending that the judgment of the High Court is perfect and justified.	Arguments of Respondent
He has contended that on the issue of fixing the price of the land, the High Court has rightly held that the price or cost of the said land should be in accordance with the price or the cost of land which existed on the date of allotment.19.	Arguments of Respondent
He has further contended that the High Court has rightly held that the date of allotment is the date on which the offer of the respondents was accepted and their applications were registered and the allotments to the land were made accordingly, which is clear from a bare perusal of the letters indicating the acceptance of registration in allotment.20.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned senior counsel has further contended that the main dispute is with regard to the difference of the amount of the cost of the land that is being demanded by the appellantBoard as per the Collectors guidelines prevailing in the year 201112 and the actual cost that existed on the date of allotment of the said land.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicants have already paid the entire cost as per the demand of the appellantBoard and have in fact paid 10 extra towards the cost of the said property and despite the same, the property has not been handed over to them which is a grave miscarriage of justice and the respondents have been suffering for a long time.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard both the parties.	None
On the basis of the aforesaid rival legal contentions urged on behalf of the parties and on perusal of the findings recorded by the High Court in its impugned judgment and order, we have to answer the points of dispute on the basis of the evidence produced on record.	None
We record our reasons hereunder	None
The contentions urged on behalf of the respondents that once the appellantBoard has made the allotment of the said plot of land, it is debarred from raising the cost of construction or claiming enhanced prices for the said land, is wholly untenable in law in view of the clauses contained in the advertisement published in the newspaper Dainik Bhaskar dated 09.11.2007, which read that the cost of the houses shown in this advertisement are totally provisional and the final fixation of the price will be done after the completion of the Scheme.	None
Therefore, the allottees will have to pay the difference between the tentative cost and the final sale price of the land which is based on the fixation of the final cost of the land, within the stipulated time.	Facts
Therefore, in view of the aforesaid clause, the allotment of the said plot of land in favour of the respondentallottees is only provisional in nature and the same would be subject to the final fixation of the price of the land that will be done after the completion of the Scheme as the said clause is binding upon the respondent allottees.	None
Further, the said clause is also traceable to Section 50 of the Madhya Pradesh Griha Nirman Mandal Adhiniyam, 1972 (in short the Act, 1972), wherein the appellantBoard is empowered to retain, lease, sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of any land, building or other property vesting with it, situated in the area comprised in any housing Scheme or in any adjoining area.	None
The Madhya Pradesh Housing Board Accounts Rules, 1991, ( in short the Rules, 1991) were framed in this regard, the relevant provisions of which are necessary to be extracted hereunder 5.4.SALE PRICESale price of sites and buildings shall be separately determined in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Board.	None
But where yield a sale price for any reason different from cost price determined under Rule 5.3.2 and 5.3.3 (e.g. due to adoption of different rates of overheads for different income groups, charging premium from higher income groups for appreciation in land value, grant of concessions to Boards employees adoption of average expenditure on project instead of year wise expenditure for calculating overheads on interest, adoption of uniform rate of interest of the entire construction period instead of varying rates of interest for separate years), sales may be brought to account in the revenue section of project accounts without prejudice to the operation of Rules 5.3.2 and 5.3.3 (These rules deal with account adjustment in the expenditure section of project account upto the state of recording under the account head cost of Sales).	None
Accordingly account adjustment regarding capitalization of overheads, transfer of assets from Divisions to Estate Management and incorporation of costs in the account Cost of Sales in the ledgers of Estate Management shall be carried out immediately on completion of project and not held up till sale price approved by the Competent Authority.5.7 LAND5.7.1 Land acquired shall be brought to account on accrual basis, land made over to the Board free of cost shall be brought to account at nominal price.	None
XXX XXX XXX5.7.4	None
For the purpose of assessing the cost of a project, i.e., debiting Cost of Sales as well for the purpose of valuation of closing stock in Final Accounts, appreciation in land value shall be ignored.	None
The Board may, however, take it into account for the purpose of determination of sale price.	None
The final sale price which is fixed and intimated to the allottees is in accordance with the provisions of the Act 1972, the Rules, 1991 and the clause of the advertisement which is binding on the respondent allottees.	Reasoning
Therefore, the High Court has committed an error in law by quashing the demand notice of the appellantBoard for the payment of the final sale price and allowing the writ petitions of the respondentallottees without considering the terms and conditions of the advertisement and the statutory provisions of the Act and the Rules towards the fixation of the cost of the land.	Reasoning
On this ground, the impugned judgments of both the learned single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court are liable to be quashed and set aside.	Reasoning
The learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellantBoard has rightly pointed out the concurrent findings recorded in the impugned judgment of the Division Bench, which has referred to the judgment of the learned Single Judge, wherein he has held that once the allotment of the said plot of land is made, the appellantBoard is denuded of its power to seek enhanced cost of land based on the Collectors guidelines, as erroneous in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has also relied on the principles that have been laid down in various cases of this Court including the cases of Tamil Nadu Housing Board v. Service Society Anr (2011) 11 SCC 13 ) and Delhi Development Authority (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
He has rightly pointed out that the said conclusions of both the learned single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court are erroneous in law and the same is a perverse finding of fact for the reason that they have misconstrued the registration of the applications and the allotments made with respect to the land in dispute which is in accordance with the clause published in the advertisement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has been placed in the case of Delhi Development Authority (supra) which reads thus 8No provision of law also could be brought to our notice in support of the proposition that mere draw of lots vests an indefeasible right in the allottee for allotment at the price obtaining on the date of draw of lots.	None
In our opinion, since the right to flat arises only on the communication of the letter of allotment, the price or rates prevailing on the date of such communication is applicable unless otherwise provided in the Scheme.	None
If in case the respondent is not willing to take or accept the allotment at such rate, it is always open to him to decline the allotment.	None
We see no unfairness in the above procedure.	None
The conditions stipulated in the advertisement inviting applications from the applicants and the provision provided under Section 50 Rule (5)(iv) of the Act of 1972 and Rules 5.7.1 and 5.7.4 of the Rules, 1991 would make it clear that the law laid down in the Delhi Development Authority (supra) case is aptly applicable to the fact situation of the instant case.	Reasoning
The same has not been considered by the High Court while passing its impugned order.	Reasoning
On this ground also, the impugned judgment is liable to be set aside.	None
The learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellantBoard has rightly pointed out that the determination of the sale price of the flats allotted in favour of the respondentallottees is based on the cost price fixed as per the guidelines provided by the Collector from time to time for the relevant year for the final allotment.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has further pointed out that the total number of allottees who have applied to the advertisement through the procedure of drawing the lottery for the allotment of flats in their favour are 2531.	Arguments of Petitioner
The allottees who have accepted the final cost are 1472.	Arguments of Petitioner
The allottees who have not accepted the final cost and filed a petition against the same are 84.	Arguments of Petitioner
There are 975 applicants who have vacant houses and are awaiting the decision of the courts in other cases but they have neither accepted nor refused the final cost fixation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from the said factual position, about 700 HIG MIG and 1500 LIG and EWS housing units would be further affected by the impugned judgment of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The legal issue that is present for our determination is, whether the demand of the final sale price which has been fixed by the appellantBoard in terms of the conditions stipulated in the advertisement with regard to the land in dispute for the year 20102011 which has been done on the basis of the Market Price Guiding Principles, District, Bhopal by the Collector under Section 47(a) of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Act NO. 2 of 1899), read with Section 75 of the Madhya Pradesh Preparation and Revision of Market Value Guidelines Rules, 2000 (hereinafter called as the Rules, 2000), framed by the State Government for the determination of the market price of immoveable property and the tier review under Rule 4(b) of Rules, 2000, the proposal of rates of market price for the year 20112012, submitted by the subDistrict Valuation Committee before the District Valuation Committee is legal and valid?	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisos issued by the Central Valuation Board vide letter No. 713/Ga.La./2011 Bhopal dated 29.03.2011 for the implementation of the rates of plots of land, buildings and agricultural land in Rule 3(2) of the Rules, 2000 and the after approval of the rate of the market price proposed by District Valuation Committee Guiding Principles (Guidelines) for the year 20112012 for reckoning the market price of the immovable property (plots of land, building and agricultural land) situated in District Bhopal under Rule 4(2)(c) of the Rules, 2000, are forwarded by the SubRegistrar of the Districts for the purpose of issuing directions under Section 47A, subSection (1) of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.	Reasoning
The said valuation fixed by the District Valuation Committee under the Chairmanship of the District Collector of Bhopal is not under challenge by either the allottees or any other person.	Reasoning
Therefore, the guiding principles for the determination of the final sale price of the plots in favour of the allottees cannot be termed as either erroneous or error in law.	None
Further, the learned senior counsel for the appellantBoard has placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the cases of BSEB v. Suresh Pd.	None
Sinha (2009) 8 SCC 483 ) and State Of U.P. v. Synthetics Chemicals Ltd. (1991) 4 SCC 139 ) in support of the proposition of law upon the principal of binding precedents, wherein this Court has held that any declaration or conclusion arrived at without application of mind or preceded without any reason cannot be deemed to be declaration of law or authority of a general nature and the same cannot been deemed as a precedent.	None
The learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellantBoard has further rightly placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Tamil Nadu Housing Board (supra) in support of his legal submission wherein, this Court has held thus There is no term or provision in the contract that if the Board does not determine the final price within three years from the date of allotment, the Board would lose the right to determine the final price thereafter or that the tentative price would become the final price.	None
If on account of delay in determination of compensation for land acquisition or delay on the part of the contractors in completing the development works or construction, or if there are any encroachments or if there are pending claims of contractors regarding development or construction, the Board would not be able to determine the final cost within three years.	None
But that did not mean that the tentative cost would become the final cost in the absence of such a provision in the letter of allotment or leasecumsale agreement.20.	None
Clause 17 states that except the fixation of price with reference to the compensation finally awarded by the courts, the Board should fix the price of the LIG house after taking into consideration the development charges, cost of amenities and cost of buildings within three years from the date of allotment.	None
If the final price is so fixed, thereafter what could be increased is only the land cost component on account of any increase in compensation that may be awarded by the courts.	None
If the Board had earlier fixed the final price, the Societys contention might have merited acceptance as the component of price with reference to cost of development and amenities and cost of building would have attained finality on account of such final determination and only the increase on account of award of compensation for land could be demanded after such determination of final price.	None
But where the final price has not been determined at all, for whatsoever reason, and the final cost was being determined for the first time, the allottee cannot contend that only the increase on account of the land, and not the increase on account of development cost and construction cost, could be demanded.	None
Where the final price has not been fixed, the Board could, after ascertainment of various costs, determine the final price even after three years, and the finality in regard to cost of development and amenities and the cost of construction, referred under Clause 17, would not apply.30.	None
Whenever allotments are made even before the completion of the development of land and construction, necessarily the cost that is shown by the authority or the Board will be tentative.	None
In regard to the land cost, there may be claims for enhancement of compensation before the Reference Court with appeals to the High Court and this Court.	None
Sometimes the entire process may take 10 to 15 years and till that process is concluded the final cost of the land cannot be determined.	None
An allottee cannot therefore say that the authority cannot increase the cost after 12 years.32.	None
Therefore, an allottee cannot contend that the increase, if any, should be determined within three years and if the increase is not so determined, the tentative cost would itself become the final cost.	None
Such an interpretation of Clause 17 would be illogical and unreasonable.	None
If the Board is able to show that there was sufficient cause for the delay in deciding the final price and that it was beyond its control to determine the final cost earlier (or within three years)	None
it will be entitled to final cost even if the claim is delayed by a few years.	None
The allottee cannot refuse to pay it merely on the ground of delay.37.	None
We find that the allottees Society do not dispute that the cost of the land increased considerably on account of enhancement of compensation.	None
The Board showed that the total cost of land inclusive of interest up to 3131987 was Rs. 35,02,727 for 8 acres and 16,422 sq ft.	None
The said figure was broadly accepted by the Society, in its calculation sheet.	None
The Society arrived at the cost of a plot measuring 1040 sq ft as Rs. 3500 (paid as deposits) plus Rs. 8634 which aggregates to Rs. 12,134.	None
But as noticed above, this is the proportionate cost worked out for 1040 sq ft out of the total cost of an extent of 33,64,902 sq ft (8 acres and 16,422 sq ft).	None
It is not possible for the allottee to contend that he will pay only the proportionate actual cost of his plot.	None
If the cost of the plot has to be worked out, the cost relating to proportionate share in the common service areas (roads, parks, playgrounds, etc.) should be added.	None
That means at least addition of another 40 to the price worked out for the actual extent of the plot.	None
With reference to the cost worked out by the Society, if 40 is added, the increased cost of plot would be around Rs. 16,987.60.	None
According to the Society the original tentative cost for the plot was Rs. 3000.	None
Therefore the increase in cost would be around Rs. 14,000.	None
What is demanded as additional amount is Rs. 16,770.	None
The difference is hardly Rs. 2770 which may be attributable to the increase in the cost of development construction.	None
It cannot therefore be said that the amount claimed under the demand notice dated 2151988 is excessive or unreasonable.	None
Neither party has given the full data or facts or accounts.	None
The allotment was made 35 years back.	None
No purpose would be served by remitting the matter for reexamination.	None
In the facts and circumstances, we are satisfied that the demand is not open to challenge.	None
In view of the aforesaid decisions of this Court, both the learned single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court have misconstrued the terms and conditions stipulated in the advertisement and have erroneously applied the same to the fact situation of the present case and came to the erroneous conclusion by placing reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the case of M.P. Housing Board v. Anil Kumar Khiwani (2005) 10 SCC 796 ), wherein this Court by referring to the observations made by the Division Bench in its judgment at paras 6,7,8,9,10,11,12, 16 and 17 held that the Board was not entitled to raise the price of 71 lakhs particularly, when it was guilty of delaying the project.	None
The strong reliance placed upon the aforesaid judgment by both the learned single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court in holding that the appellantBoard is not empowered to determine the final cost of the properties in dispute is wholly erroneous in law as the said judgment does not deal with the role and the power of the appellantBoard to determine the final price of the allotted plot which power is in conformity with the provisions of Section 50 of the Act of 1972 and the relevant rules referred to supra and the terms and conditions of the advertisement.	None
Therefore, the said judgment does not have the binding precedent for the proposition of law that the appellantBoard does not have the power to redetermine the final price of the allotted properties after the applications of the allottees were registered.	None
In this regard, the learned senior counsel for the appellantBoard has rightly placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the case of State of U.P. v. Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. (supra), the relevant paras of which read thus Does this principle extend and apply to a conclusion of law, which was neither raised nor preceded by any consideration.	None
In other words can such conclusions be considered as declaration of law?	None
Here again the English courts and jurists have carved out an exception to the rule of precedents.	None
It has been explained as rule of subsilentio.	None
A decision passes subsilentio, in the technical sense that has come to be attached to that phrase, when the particular point of law involved in the decision is not perceived by the court or present to its mind In Lancaster Motor Company (London) Ltd. v.	None
Bremith Ltd.	None
the Court did not feel bound by earlier decision as it was rendered without any argument, without reference to the crucial words of the rule and without any citation of the authority.	None
It was approved by this Court in Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Gurnam Kaur.	None
The bench held that, precedents subsilentio and without argument are of no moment.	None
The courts thus have taken recourse to this principle for relieving from injustice perpetrated by unjust precedents.	None
A decision which is not express and is not founded on reasons nor it proceeds on consideration of issue cannot be deemed to be a law declared to have a binding effect as is contemplated by Article 141.	None
Uniformity and consistency are core of judicial discipline.	None
But that which escapes in the judgment without any occasion is not ratio decidendi.	None
In B. Shama Rao v. Union Territory of Pondicherry it was observed, it is trite to say that a decision is binding not because of its conclusions but in regard to its ratio and the principles, laid down therein.	None
Any declaration or conclusion arrived without application of mind or preceded without any reason cannot be deemed to be declaration of law or authority of a general nature binding as a precedent.	None
Restraint in dissenting or overruling is for sake of stability and uniformity but rigidity beyond reasonable limits is inimical to the growth of law.42.	None
Effort was made to support the conclusion, indirectly, by urging that the State having raised same objections by way of review petition and the same having been rejected it amounted impliedly as providing reason for conclusion.	None
Law declared is not that can be culled out but that which is stated as law to be accepted and applied.	None
A conclusion without reference to relevant provision of law is weaker than even casual observation.	None
In the order of Brother Thommen, the extracts from the judgment of the Constitution Bench quoted in extenso demonstrate that the question of validity of levy of sales and purchase tax was neither in issue nor was it raised nor is there any discussion in the judgment except of course the stray argument advanced by the learned Attorney General to the following	None
effectBut alcohol not fit for human consumption are not luxuries and as such the State legislatures, according to Attorney General, will have no power to levy tax on such alcohol.	None
Sales tax or purchase tax under Entry 54 is levied on sale or purchase of goods.	None
It does not contemplate any distinction between luxury and necessity.	None
Luxuries are separately taxable under Entry 62.	None
But that has nothing to do with Entry 54.	None
What prompted this submission is not clear.	None
Neither there was any occasion nor there is any constitutional inhibition or statutory restriction under the legislative entry nor does the taxing statute make any distinction between luxuries and necessities for levying tax.	None
In any case the bench did not examine it nor did it base its conclusions on it.	None
In absence of any discussion or any argument the order was founded on a mistake of fact and, therefore, it could not be held to be law declared.	None
The bench further was not apprised of earlier Constitution Bench decisions in Hoechst Chemicals v. State of Bihar and Ganga Sugar Mill v. State of U.P. which specifically dealt with the legislative competence of levying sales tax in respect of any industry which had been declared to be of public importance.	None
Therefore, the conclusion of law by the Constitution Bench that no sales or purchase tax could be levied on industrial alcohol with utmost respect fell in both the exceptions, namely, rule of subsilentio and being in per incuriam, to the binding authority of the precedents.	None
Further reliance has been placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Bihar School Examination Board v. Suresh Prasad Sinha, (supra), the relevant paras of which read thus18.	None
The courts should guard against the danger of mechanical application of an observation without ascertaining the context in which it was made.	None
In CIT v. Sun Engg.	None
Works (P) Ltd.39.	None
It is neither desirable nor permissible to pick out a word or a sentence from the judgment of this Court, divorced from the context of the question under consideration and treat it to be the complete law declared by this Court.	None
The judgment must be read as a whole and the observations from the judgment have to be considered in the light of the questions which were before this Court.	None
A decision of this Court takes its colour from the questions involved in the case in which it is rendered and while applying the decision to a later case, the courts must carefully try to ascertain the true principle laid down by the decision of this Court and not to pick out words or sentences from the judgment, divorced from the context of the questions under consideration by this Court, to support their reasonings.19.	None
It is also necessary to keep in mind the following principles laid down in Govt.	None
of Karnataka v. Gowramma	None
with reference to precedential value of decisions10.	None
12.	None
Reliance on the decision without looking into the factual background of the case before it, is clearly impermissible.	None
A decision is a precedent on its own facts.	None
Each case presents its own features.	None
It is not everything said by a Judge while giving a judgment that constitutes a precedent.	None
The only thing in a Judges decision binding a party is the principle upon which the case is decided and for this reason it is important to analyse a decision and isolate from it the ratio decidendi.	None
According to the wellsettled theory of precedents, every decision contains three basic postulates (i) findings of material facts, direct and inferential.	None
An inferential finding of facts is the inference which the Judge draws from the direct, or perceptible facts (ii) statements of the principles of law applicable to the legal problems disclosed by the facts and (iii) judgment based on the combined effect of the above.	None
A decision is an authority for what it actually decides.	None
What is of the essence in a decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein nor what logically flows from the various observations made in the judgment.	None
The enunciation of the reason or principle on which a question before a court has been decided is alone binding as a precedent.	None
(See State of Orissa v. Sudhansu Sekhar Misra and Union of India v. Dhanwanti Devi.)	None
A case is a precedent and binding for what it explicitly decides and no more.	None
The words used by Judges in their judgments are not to be read as if they are words in an Act of Parliament.	None
In Quinn v. Leathem the Earl of Halsbury, L.C. observed that every judgment must be read as applicable to the particular facts proved or assumed to be proved, since the generality of the expressions which are found there are not intended to be the exposition of the whole law but governed and qualified by the particular facts of the case in which such expressions are found and a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.11. 15.	None
Courts should not place reliance on decisions without discussing as to how the factual situation fits in with the fact situation of the decision on which reliance is placed.	None
Observations of courts are neither to be read as Euclids theorems nor as provisions of the statute and that too taken out of their context.	None
These observations must be read in the context in which they appear to have been stated.	None
Judgments of courts are not to be construed as statutes.	None
To interpret words, phrases and provisions of a statute, it may become necessary for Judges to embark into lengthy discussions but the discussion is meant to explain and not to define.	None
Judges interpret statutes, they do not interpret judgments.	None
They interpret words of statutes their words are not to be interpreted as statutes.	None
18.	None
The following words of Lord Denning in the matter of applying precedents have become locus classicusEach case depends on its own facts and a close similarity between one case and another is not enough because even a single significant detail may alter the entire aspect.	None
In deciding such cases, one should avoid the temptation to decide cases (as said by Cardozo) by matching the colour of one case against the colour of another.	None
To decide therefore, on which side of the line a case falls, the broad resemblance to another case is not at all decisive.	None
Precedent should be followed only so far as it marks the path of justice, but you must cut the dead wood and trim off the side branches else you will find yourself lost in thickets and branches.	None
My plea is to keep the path to justice clear of obstructions which could impede it.20.	None
In Sarva Shramik Sanghatana (KV) v. State of Maharashtra this Court cited the following passage from Quinn v. Leathem with approval Now, before discussing Allen v. Flood and what was decided therein, there are two observations of a general character which I wish to make, and one is to repeat what I have very often said before, that every judgment must be read as applicable to the particular facts proved, or assumed to be proved, since the generality of the expressions which may be found there are not intended to be expositions of the whole law, but are governed and qualified by the particular facts of the case in which such expressions are to be found.	None
The other is that a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.	None
I entirely deny that it can be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.	None
Such a mode of reasoning assumes that the law is necessarily a logical code, whereas every lawyer must acknowledge that the law is not always logical at all.	None
Applying the guideline rates in relation to the valuation of the land in accordance with Circular No. 21 of 2008 dated 24.10.2008, for the determination of the cost of the L.I.G. E.W.S. buildings, the Board has passed the following resolution Following decision has been taken by the competent authority in connection with the buildings of all the categories of E.W.S. L.I.G. in all the districts of Madhya Pradesh whose registration has been carried out before 19th of December, 2011 and whose final determination of the value is effected the Circular No.21/2008 dated 24.10.2008(i) From the date of coming into force of the Circular of the Board vide No. 21/08 dated 24.10.2008 and in between the period of coming into force of the Circular No.15/11 dated 19.12.2011 the cost of the land in the final valuation of the buildings of E.W.S L.I.G. duly advertised, the value taken in the initial determination of the value, be determined.(ii)	None
In the final determination of the value of the aforesaid E.W.S. L.I.G. buildings, following shall be the criteria ingredients(a)	None
The cost of the land which was determined at the time of the registration.(b) Actual development expenditure incurred on the plot since after the registration.(c) Total construction cost.(d) Supervision fees (At the rate prevalent at the time of the registration).(e) Penal interest against the remaining instalments as per the rules of the Board (at the rate prevalent from time to time).(f) Other charges as per the rules of the Board The said guidelines have been laid down by the Development Board during the pendency of this proceeding.	None
The submission made by the learned senior counsel on behalf of the allottees is that the said benefit may be extended to these allottees involved in these proceedings.	None
The rates with regard to the cost of flats as on the date of the publication of the advertisement in November, 2007, the cost of the flats fixed in the year June, 2009 and the total final demand for the cost of the flats in December, 2011 are furnished in the table which are extracted herein below for our perusal Type of Advt.	None
Cost Cost as Total Final House (In Lakhs) told in Demand in In November, June, Dece., 2011 2007 2009 (In (In Lakhs) Lakhs)	None
Nice 40.00 49.53 81.73 Duplex	None
Nice 45.00 55.91 88.97 Triplex Nice Duplex 53.00 66.17 120.44 Corner Dr. Rajeev Dhawan, the learned senior counsel for the respondentallottees in C.A. Nos. 18021803 of 2015, has placed strong reliance upon Article 14 of the Constitution of India and upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Coimbatore District Central Coop.	None
Bank v. Employees Association (2007) 4 SCC 669 ), in support of the proposition of law that the appellantBoard while exercising its power to fix the final rates of the allotted plots by invoking the clause contained in the notification issued by it for inviting applications, wherein it has retained its right to determine the final price of the allotted plot, must pass the test of the doctrine of proportionality in determining the final price of the plot.	None
He has placed strong reliance in support of his case upon the following decisions of this Court in the cases of Coimbatore District Central Coop.	None
Bank (supra), Teri Oat Estates (P) Ltd. v. U.T. Chandigarh (2004) 2 SCC 130 ), Om Kumar v. Union of India (2001) 2 SCC 386 ) and State of U.P. v. Sheo Shanker Lal Srivastava (2006) 3 SCC 276 ) and has contended that the same have to be applied to the fact situation of the present case with regard to the legal principle of doctrine of proportionality.	None
The relevant paras of the above mentioned judgments are stated hereunder In Coimbatore District Central Coop.	None
Bank (supra), this Court has held thus So far as the doctrine of proportionality is concerned, there is no gainsaying that the said doctrine has not only arrived in our legal system but has come to stay.	None
With the rapid growth of administrative law and the need and necessity to control possible abuse of discretionary powers by various administrative authorities, certain principles have been evolved by courts.	None
If an action taken by any authority is contrary to law, improper, irrational or otherwise unreasonable, a court of law can interfere with such action by exercising power of judicial review.	None
One of such modes of exercising power, known to law is the doctrine of proportionality.18.	None
Proportionality is a principle where the court is concerned with the process, method or manner in which the decisionmaker has ordered his priorities, reached a conclusion or arrived at a decision.	None
The very essence of decisionmaking consists in the attribution of relative importance to the factors and considerations in the case.	None
The doctrine of proportionality thus steps in focus true nature of exercisethe elaboration of a rule of permissible priorities.19.	None
de Smith states that proportionality involves balancing test and necessity test.	None
Whereas the former (balancing test) permits scrutiny of excessive onerous penalties or infringement of rights or interests and a manifest imbalance of relevant considerations, the latter (necessity test) requires infringement of human rights to the least restrictive alternative.	None
Judicial Review of Administrative Action (1995), pp. 60105, para 13.085 see also Wade Forsyth Administrative Law (2005), p. 366.20.	None
In Halsburys Laws of England (4th Edn.), Reissue, Vol. 1(1), pp. 14445, para 78, it is statedThe court will quash exercise of discretionary powers in which there is no reasonable relationship between the objective which is sought to be achieved and the means used to that end, or where punishments imposed by administrative bodies or inferior courts are wholly out of proportion to the relevant misconduct.	None
The principle of proportionality is well established in European law, and will be applied by English courts where European law is enforceable in the domestic courts.	None
The principle of proportionality is still at a stage of development in English law lack of proportionality is not usually treated as a separate ground for review in English law, but is regarded as one indication of manifest unreasonableness.	None
In Teri Oat Estates (P) Ltd. (supra), it was held as under46.	None
By proportionality, it is meant that the question whether while regulating exercise of fundamental rights, the appropriate or least restrictive choice of measures has been made by the legislature or the administrator so as to achieve the object of the legislation or the purpose of the administrative order, as the case may be.	None
Under the principle, the court will see that the legislature and the administrative authority maintain a proper balance between the adverse effects which the legislation or the administrative order may have on the rights, liberties or interests of persons keeping in mind the purpose which they were intended to serve.49.	None
Ever since 1952, the principle of proportionality has been applied vigorously to legislative and administrative action in India.	None
While dealing with the validity of legislation infringing fundamental freedoms enumerated in Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India, this Court had occasion to consider whether the restrictions imposed by legislation were disproportionate to the situation and were not the least restrictive of the choices.	None
In cases where such legislation is made and the restrictions are reasonable yet, if the statute concerned permitted administrative authorities to exercise power or discretion while imposing restrictions in individual situations, question frequently arises whether a wrong choice is made by the administrator for imposing the restriction or whether the administrator has not properly balanced the fundamental right and the need for the restriction or whether he has imposed the least of the restrictions or the reasonable quantum of restrictions etc.	None
In such cases, the administrative action in our country has to be tested on the principle of proportionality, just as it is done in the case of main legislation.	None
This, in fact, is being done by the courts.	None
Administrative action in India affecting the fundamental freedom has always been tested on the anvil of the proportionality in the last 50 years even though it has not been expressly stated that the principle that is applied is the proportionality principle.50.	None
In Om Kumar, however, this Court evolved the principle of primary and secondary review.	None
The doctrine of primary review was held to be applicable in relation to the statutes or statutory rules or any order which has the force of statute.	None
The secondary review was held to be applicable inter alia in relation to the action in a case where the executive is guilty of acting patently arbitrarily.	None
This Court in E.P. Royappa v. State of T.N. noticed and observed that in such a case Article 14 of the Constitution of India would be attracted.	None
In relation to other administrative actions as for example, punishment in a departmental proceeding, the doctrine of proportionality was equated with Wednesbury unreasonableness.52.	None
In Edore v. Secy. of State for the Home Deptt.	None
the appellant was a citizen of Nigeria who had entered the United Kingdom and remained back after her visa had expired.	None
She had two children, born to a British citizen.	None
The children were emotionally dependent on him and he was a stabling influence on their lives.	None
If the appellant and her children were returned to Nigeria, their relationship with their father would end.	None
The Court trying to resolve the conflict at hand opinedWhere the essential facts were not in doubt or dispute, the adjudicators task was to determine whether the decision under appeal was properly one within the decisionmakers discretion, namely, that it was a decision which could reasonably be regarded as striking a fair balance between the competing interests in play.	None
If it were, then the adjudicator could not characterize it as a decision not in accordance with the law and so, even if he personally would have preferred the balance to have been struck differently, he could not substitute his preference for the decision in fact taken.	None
However, there would be occasions where it could properly be said that the decision reached was outside the range of permissible responses open to him, in that the balance struck was simply wrong.	None
In Om Kumar v. Union of India (supra), this Court has held thus28.	None
By proportionality, we mean the question whether, while regulating exercise of fundamental rights, the appropriate or leastrestrictive choice of measures has been made by the legislature or the administrator so as to achieve the object of the legislation or the purpose of the administrative order, as the case may be.	None
Under the principle, the court will see that the legislature and the administrative authority maintain a proper balance between the adverse effects which the legislation or the administrative order may have on the rights, liberties or interests of persons keeping in mind the purpose which they were intended to serve.	None
The legislature and the administrative authority are, however, given an area of discretion or a range of choices but as to whether the choice made infringes the rights excessively or not is for the court.	None
That is what is meant by proportionality.67.	None
But where an administrative action is challenged as arbitrary under Article 14 on the basis of Royappa (as in cases where punishments in disciplinary cases are challenged), the question will be whether the administrative order is rational or reasonable and the test then is the Wednesbury test.	None
The courts would then be confined only to a secondary role and will only have to see whether the administrator has done well in his primary role, whether he has acted illegally or has omitted relevant factors from consideration or has taken irrelevant factors into consideration or whether his view is one which no reasonable person could have taken.	None
If his action does not satisfy these rules, it is to be treated as arbitrary.	None
In G.B. Mahajan v. Jalgaon Municipal Council, Venkatachaliah, J. (as he then was) pointed out that reasonableness of the administrator under Article 14 in the context of administrative law has to be judged from the stand point of Wednesbury rules.	None
In Tata Cellular v. Union of India (SCC at pp.	None
67980), Indian Express Newspapers Bombay (P) Ltd. v. Union of India (SCC at p. 691), Supreme Court Employees Welfare Assn. v. Union of India (SCC at p. 241) and U.P. Financial Corpn.	None
v. Gem Cap (India) (P).	None
Ltd.	None
(SCC at p. 307) while judging whether the administrative action is arbitrary under Article 14 (i.e. otherwise then being discriminatory), this Court has confined itself to a Wednesbury review always.68.	None
Thus, when administrative action is attacked as discriminatory under Article 14, the principle of primary review is for the courts by applying proportionality.	None
However, where administrative action is questioned as arbitrary under Article 14, the principle of secondary review based on Wednesbury principles applies.71.	None
Thus, from the above principles and decided cases, it must be held that where an administrative decision relating to punishment in disciplinary cases is questioned as arbitrary under Article 14, the court is confined to Wednesbury principles as a secondary reviewing authority.	None
The court will not apply proportionality as a primary reviewing court because no issue of fundamental freedoms nor of discrimination under Article 14 applies in such a context.	None
The court while reviewing punishment and if it is satisfied that Wednesbury principles are violated, it has normally to remit the matter to the administrator for a fresh decision as to the quantum of punishment.	None
Only in rare cases where there has been long delay in the time taken by the disciplinary proceedings and in the time taken in the courts, and such extreme or rare cases can the court substitute its own view as to the quantum of punishment.	None
In the case of State of U.P. v. Sheo Shanker Lal Srivastava (supra), this Court has held thus23.	None
In V. Ramana v. A.P. SRTC this Court upon referring to a large number of decisions held (SCC p. 348, para 11)11.	None
The common thread running through in all these decisions is that the court should not interfere with the administrators decision unless it was illogical or suffers from procedural impropriety or was shocking to the conscience of the court, in the sense that it was in defiance of logic or moral standards.	None
In view of what has been stated in Wednesbury case the court would not go into the correctness of the choice made by the administrator open to him and the court should not substitute its decision for that of the administrator.	None
The scope of judicial review is limited to the deficiency in decisionmaking process and not the decision.24.	None
While saying so, we are not oblivious of the fact that the doctrine of unreasonableness is giving way to the doctrine of proportionality.25.	None
It is interesting to note that the Wednesbury principles may not now be held to be applicable in view of the development in constitutional law in this behalf.	None
See, for example, Huang v. Secy. of State for the Home Deptt.	None
wherein referring to R. v. Secy.	None
Of State of the Home Deptt.	None
, ex p Daly it was held that in certain cases, the adjudicator may require to conduct a judicial exercise which is not merely more intrusive than Wednesbury, but involves a fullblown merit judgment, which is yet more than ex p.	None
Daly requires on a judicial review where the court has to decide a proportionality issue.	None
The respondentallottees have concurred with the fact that the appellantBoard has the right to redetermine the final cost price of the plots allotted on the basis of the escalation of rates with regard to both the land as well as the building materials used for the construction of the buildings of the allotted plots in favour of the respondentallottees.	None
However, while exercising that power their decision in determining the final price of the property must pass the test of reasonableness and fairness which are the cardinal principles of law as enunciated by this Court in the catena of cases referred to supra upon which the learned senior counsel for the respondents has placed strong reliance in support of his contention that the determination of the final price of the allotted plot which has been done on the basis of the Collectors guidelines, for the financial year 201112, was fixed at Rs.30,000/ per sq. mtr.	Reasoning
as per the Circular No.1842, dated 30.9.2008 which is arbitrary, unreasonable and unfair.31.	Reasoning
We have in the earlier paragraphs held that the appellantBoard is entitled to fix the final cost of the land and the same is legal and valid.	Reasoning
We however, agree with the learned senior counsel for the respondentallottees that the same has been done arbitrarily, unreasonably, unfairly and without applying the principle of the doctrine of proportionality.	Reasoning
The determination for the final price of the plots allotted to the allottees must be on the basis of the appellantBoard Rules read with the relevant aspects namely, the Collectors Guidelines, the Act, 1972 and the Rules, 1991, for the purpose of determination of the market value of the land.	Reasoning
A statutory duty is cast upon the appellantBoard which is governed by the provisions of the Act and Rules and the appellantBoard being the statutory Board is amenable to Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
The determination of the final cost of the land in dispute must be in consonance with the doctrine of proportionality but not on the basis of the market price, i.e. fixed by the Committee for the determination of guidance value of the immovable property in the District which would be arbitrary, unreasonable and unfair.	Reasoning
As could be seen from the letter dated 18.6.2009, by the officers of the appellantBoard addressed to Mr. B.S.S. Parihar and Mrs. Raina Singh that as per the advertisement published by the appellantBoard, the estimated cost of the House of HIG was Rs.40 lakhs and in view of the approved minimum bid rates, the costs of the aforesaid type of houses were likely to increase by Rs.9.53 lakhs and therefore, the consent or dissent of the allottees for the enhanced estimated cost for the land was sought for, as the same was necessary before the allotment of land.	None
The said value is for the final determination of the revised estimated cost of house which is taken into consideration by applying the Collectors guidelines, the same will be arbitrary and unreasonable.	None
Therefore, the doctrine of proportionality must come into play for the determination of the final price of the allotted plot, keeping in view the relevant factors namely, the escalation of the cost of the building materials and the cost of land which are redetermined as the land is acquired by the State Government in favour of the appellantBoard and the State Government will have to pay the enhanced compensation of the land to the land owners.	None
The relevant factor to be borne in mind for the purpose of redetermination of the cost of the land is that the relevant period from the date of advertisement in the year 2007 to 2010 should be taken into consideration.	None
The demand made by the appellantBoard from the allottees after the cost of the land was determined at Rs.30,000/ per sq. mtr. is near about double the cost of the developed plots for the Duplex and Triplex houses which were earlier fixed at Rs.16,500/ as per the Rules of the Board.	Reasoning
There is no justification on the part of the appellantBoard to fix the price of the land at Rs.30,000/ per sq. mtr.	Reasoning
and placing the said demand on the constructed HIG houses, from the respondentallottees would be most unreasonable and unfair.	Reasoning
Therefore, this Court has tried to maintain the balance between the figure Rs.16,500/ per sq. mtr.	Reasoning
fixed in relation to the cost of the developed plot by the appellantBoard, as per the Board Rules and Rs.30,000/ per sq. mtr.	Reasoning
fixed on the basis of the Collectors guidelines for the financial year 201112.	None
It would be just and proper to take into consideration the cost of the developed plots at Rs.16,500/ per sq. mtr.	Reasoning
and take the escalation at the rate of 10 for every year from 2007 to 2011 and ask the respondentallottees to pay simple interest on the said sum which would do complete justice to both the parties.	Reasoning
The same would be in conformity with the doctrine of proportionality and it will pass the test of reasonableness and fairness.34.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons, we partly accept the submissions made on behalf of the appellantBoard as well as the submission made on behalf of the respondentallottees, particularly, the submission made by Dr. Rajeev Dhawan on the principle of doctrine of proportionality, and applying the constitutional principles of reasonableness and fairness in fixing the cost of the developed plots allotted in favour of the respondentallottees.	Reasoning
Therefore, to that extent his submission is well founded and the same must be accepted as it is in conformity with the law enunciated by this Court in the catena of cases upon which he has rightly placed reliance.	None
Therefore, to that extent, we have to modify the impugned judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court.	Reasoning
We accordingly pass the following order  	None
The appeals are partly allowed and the impugned judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
II.	Decision
We modify the demand notice served upon the respondentallottees and fix the cost of the developed plots for the year 2009 at Rs.16,500/.	Decision
The same may be revised by adding 10 to the provisional cost every year upto the date of the demand made upon the said amount which is payable by the respondentallottees.	None
The interest at the rate of 9 per annum may be added on such enhanced revised value amount from the date of demand till the date of payment in modification of the demands to the aforesaid extent from the respondentallottees.	None
III.	Decision
The orders dated 24.11.2014 granting stay in C.A. No. 1801 of 2015 and the order dated 16.1.2015 granting stay in C.A. Nos. 18021803 of 2015 shall stand vacated.	None
The applications for direction in C.A. Nos. 18021803 of 2015 are disposed of.	Decision
