 KHANNA, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by Shiv Charan Singh against the judgment of the Rajasthan High Court whereby election petition filed by the appellant to question the election of Brijendra Pal respondent from the Karauli constituency to the Rajasthan Assembly was dismissed.2.	Issue
The appellant and the respondent were the main candidates in the election to the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly from the Karauli constituency.	Facts
The result of the election was declared on March 12, 1972 and the respondent was declared elected.	Facts
The appellant challenged the election of the respondent on the ground that the respondent and his election agent Jagdish Pal published and got published statements of fact in relation to the personal character and conduct of the appellant which were false and which they believed to be false or did not believe to be true and which statements were reason ably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the appellants election.	Facts
The second ground on which the election of the respondent was assailed was that the respondent and his election agent deliberately failed to maintain regular and correct account of expresses incurred by them in connection with the election and that they incurred or authorised expenditure in contraction of section 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.	Facts
As regards the first ground, it was stated that the respondent and his election agent got published news item Ex.	Facts
I in Kronch, a Hindi weekly dated February 25, 1972 published and printed in Jaipur Radhey Shyam Sharma was the editor of that weekly.	Facts
The aforesaid news item was stated to cont ain false defamatory statements of fact in relation to the personal character and conduct of the appellant.	Facts
It was added that the respondent and his election agent and Radhey Shyam Sharma believed those statements, which were calculated to prejudice the prospects of the appellants election, to be false and did not believe them to be true.	Facts
Radhey Shyam Sharma was also stated to have addressed an election meeting of the respondent on February 27, 1972 at Chogan in Karauli city and read out news item Ex. 1.	Facts
Copies of the aforesaid issue of Kronch were also stated to have been distributed in that meeting in the presence of the respondent and his election agent.	Facts
According further to the appellant, Radhey Shyam Sharma got publish ed pamphlet Ex. 2 printed at the instance of and with the consent of the respondent and his election agent.	Facts
This pamphlet was also as objectionable as news item Ex. 1.	Facts
The pamphlet was stated to have been distributed by the respondent, his election agent and Radhey Shyam Sharma at an election meeting at Bhudara on March 2, 1972.	Facts
Radhey Shyam Sharma was further alleged to have published another issue Ex. 3 of Kronch containing defamatory statements of fact against the appellant.	Facts
These statements were also stated to be objectionable in the same manner as those contained in news item Ex. 1.	Facts
As regards the election expresses, it was stated.	Facts
the respondent had not shown the expanses actually incurred by him in the matter of hiring of vehicles, purchase of petrol, arrangement of a procession and employment and entertainment of his workers.	Facts
The respondent, it was claimed had incurred an expense to the extent of at least Rs. 35, 000 over and above the amount shown by him in the return of election expenses.	Facts
The petition was resisted by the respondent and he denied the various allegations made by the appellant.	Facts
According to the respondent, Radhey Shyam Sharma was hostile to the appellant and had as long ago as October 15, 1970 bitterly criticised the activities of the appellant in an issue of Kronch.	Facts
The respondent denied that he had anything to do with the publication by Radhey Shyam Sharma of the different issues of Kronch and pamphlet.	Facts
It was also denied that the issues of Kronch or the pamphlet in question were distributed in the meetings of the respondent.	Facts
The allegation that the issues of Kronch and the pamphlet in question contained statements of fact which were false and which the respondent believed to be false or did not believe to be true and that those statements were calculated to prejudice the prospect of the appellants election was likewise denied.	Facts
According to the respondent, the allegations contained in the impugned issues of Kronch and the pamphlet had earlier been made m some other papers and on the floor of the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly.	Facts
They had also been made by one Babulal Sharma, Convenor of Yuvak Congress Mandal, Karauli.	Facts
As regards the election expenses, the respondent stated that he had maintained a proper and correct statement of account and had not incurred any expenditure over and above the amount of Rs. 8, 665.69 shown in his return.3.	Facts
in the election petition ?	None
1. Did the respondent and his election agent Mr. Jagdish Pal publish the statement of fact in relation to the personal character or conduct of the petitioner as alleged in paragraphs 14? 16, 18, 19 and 20 of the petition ?	Facts
2. Was Mr. Radhey Shyam Sharma engaged by the respondent to carry on his propaganda and was he in charge of the respondents publicity and did he publish the news item in Kronch and read them out and the petition ?	Facts
distribute the news items and the pamphlet as stated3.	Facts
(a) Were the statements referred to in issue No. 1 false, and did the respondent or h is election agent or Mr. Radhey Shyam Sharma believe them to be false.	Facts
Or did not believe them to be true?(b)	Facts
Were those statements reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the petitioners election ?	Facts
4. Have the respondent and his election agent deliberately failed to maintain a regular and correct return of the expenses incurred by them in connection with the election of the respondent ?	Facts
5. Have the respondent and his election agent incurred or authorised expenditure in contravention of section 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, as alleged in the election petition ?issues (1) and (2) were decided against the appellant.	Facts
The view of the findings on issue Nos. 1 and 2, issue No. 3 was held not to arise.	Facts
All the same the High Court was into the matter and held that neither the respondent or his election agent nor Radhey Shyam Sharma had reason to believe the impugned statements published in Kronch and the pamphlet in question to be false and not to be true.	Facts
Issues (4) and (5) too were decided against the appellant.	Facts
In the result the election petition was dismissed.4.	Facts
At the hearing of the appeal Mr. D. P. Singh on behalf of the appellant has assailed the findings of the High Court on the different issues.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the election expenses, it has been conceded by Mr. Singh that even if they were not maintained in the prescribed manner, that fact would not constitute a corrupt practice.	Arguments of Petitioner
According however to the learned counsel, that fact taken with other evidence might justify a conclusion that the respondent had suppressed some items of expenditure.	None
So far as this question is concerned, we find that the High Court has considered the evidence brought on record and has held on appraisement of that evidence that there was no cogent material to show that the respondent had incurred any expenditure over and above what had been shown in his return.	Reasoning
After having been taken through the material on record, we find no cogent ground whatsoever to interfere with the appraisement of the evidence by the High Court.	None
Reference was made to the expenses for the purchase of petrol.	None
According to return Ex. 6 filed by the respondent, he spent Rs. 3, 253.27 on petrol.	None
The correctness of that above figure is vouchsafed by the statement of accounts filed by Karauli Auto Stores The petrol pump which supplied petrol for the respondent belonged to that concern.	None
Although the said concern was a family concern of the respondent, nothing has been brought to our notice as to why the statement of account filed by that concern be not accepted.	None
During the pendency of the trial on application filed by the appellants the High Court directed that the account books maintained by the respondent as well as the account books, cash book and the credit and cash vouchers of Karauli Auto Stores might be shown to the appellants counsel.	None
In spite of that order the appellant or his counsel could not examine those account books and documents.	None
Nothing was consequently brought on record to question the correctness of the entries in the account books.	None
It has also been urged that the appellant engaged certain vehicles is for a number of days but the expenses incurred on that account were not correctly shown.	None
As against that, the case of the respondent is that only those vehicles were hired by him which were shown in the documents filed by him.	Arguments of Respondent
According further to him, the number of days for which those vehicles were hired was also correctly shown.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant produced oral evidence of a couple of witnesses in support of the stand taken by him.	None
The High Court declined to accept that evidence.	None
After hearing the learned counsel for the appellant, we are not inclined to take a contrary view.	None
The evidence adduced by the appellant was not only not supported by any documents it ran counter to the documents which were produced by the respondent and some of which had been signed by the witnesses produced by the appellant It is well established that in an election appeal this Court should not interfere with a finding of fact recorded by the High Court based upon the appraisement of evidence unless such finding is vitiated by some glaring infirmity.	Reasoning
No such infirmity has been brought to our notice.5.	None
Mr. Singh has then submitted that the daily hiring charges of a truck was about Rs. 100 but the respondent in his return showed the daily hiring charge for the truck to be Rs. 35.	Arguments of Petitioner
The case of the respondent in that respect is that the was charged Rs. 35 as daily hiring charges because he prevented the requisitioning of those trucks by making a representation that they were needed for his election campaign.	None
Evidence was also produced in support of the above stand of the respondent.	None
The High Court found the above explanation of the respondent to be plausible.	None
Nothing cogent has been brought to our notice as to why we should take a contrary view.	None
The fact that there are suspicious features in the respondents case about his election expenses would not justify interference with the finding of the High Court because suspicion cannot take the place of proof.	None
Coming to the question of the impugned issues of Kronch and pamphlet Ex. 2, we find that there is no cogent evidence on the record to show that Radhey Shyam Sharma published those issues and the pamphlet at the instance of or with the consent of the respondent or his election agent.	Reasoning
It is indeed evident from the issue of Kronch dated October 15, 1970 that Radhey Shyam Sharma was hostile to the appellant and had been criticising him since 1970, about 14 months before the election.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, nothing to rule out the possibility, as stated by the respondent, that Radhey Shyam Sharma published the impugned issues and pamphlet at his own and without the consent of the respondent or his election agent.6.	Reasoning
The allegation that the impugned issues of Kronch and the pamphlet were distributed in the election meetings of the respondent remains unsubstantiated.	None
The appellant got produced reports Ex.15 and 16 of the two election meetings of the respondent held on February 27, 1972 and March 2, 1972.	Reasoning
According to these reports, Radhey Shyam journalist addressed those meetings and asked those present to vote for the respondent.	Reasoning
There is no mention in these reports of Radhey Shyam having said anything against the appellant.	Reasoning
There is also no reference to the distribution of any pamphlets or issues of Kronch in those meetings.	None
Our attention has been invited by the learned counsel for the appellant to the statement of Nurul Hasan constable (PW 4), according to whom some documents were distributed in a meeting held on March 2, 1972.	Arguments of Petitioner
The witness added that he did not know as to what were the contents of those documents because he saw the whole thing from a distance.	None
The evidence of Nurul Hasan, in our opinion, is too slender a basis for re cording a finding that the impugned pamphlet and issues of Kronch were distributed in the meeting of the respondent.	Reasoning
It is in the evidence of SubInspector Bhopal Ram (PW 18) that if any newspaper is distributed in an election meeting and a copy of it becomes easily available to the constable present in that meeting, he sends it along with his report.	Reasoning
The witness also produced some pamphlets which were distributed in an election meeting against the respondent.	Reasoning
If as is the case of the appellant, the impugned issues of Kronch and pamphlet in question were widely distributed in the election meetings of the respondent, it is not clear as to why the policeman on duty in those meetings could not secure even one copy of those issues or pamphlets.	Reasoning
The fact that no such copy was sent with any of the police reports shows that the allegation of the appellant in this respect is not wellfounded.	Reasoning
In view of our finding that it is not proved that Radhey Shyam got published the impugn ed issues of Kronch and pamphlet at the instance of or with the consent of the respondent or his Section agent and in view of our further finding that it is not proved that the copies of the impugned issues of Kronch or pamphlet were distributed in the election meetings of the respondent, we need not go into the question as to whether the finding of the High Court on issue No. 4 is correct or not.	Reasoning
We consequently neither affirm nor disaffirm the finding of fact or law under this issue.7.	Reasoning
The appeal fails and is dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.8.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
