 Sikri, J. 1.	None
These are appeals by the Commissioner of Incometax on certificates granted by the Rajasthan High Court under S. 66A (2) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), hereinafter referred to as the Act, against the judgment of he high Court in a consolidated reference under Section 66 (1) of the Act.	Facts
The High Court answered the question, reproduced below, in the affirmative.	Facts
The reference was made by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal in the following circumstances.	Facts
2.	None
The respondent, Anant Rao B. Kamat, hereinafter referred to as the assessee, had received in the previous years (19501 and 19512) dividends from two companies, Associated Stone Industries (Kotah) Ltd., and Rajputana Mining Agencies Ltd.	Facts
For the assessment years 19512 and 19523, the assessee claimed before the Incometax Officer that the dividends received by him should be grossed up under S. 16 (2) of the Act, without taking into consideration the rebate allowed to the said companies under the Part B States (Taxation Concessions) Order, 1950, hereinafter called the Concession Order.	Facts
According to the assessee, on a true construction S. 16 (2) of the Act, the rate applicable to the total income of the said companies was the rate prescribed by the relevant Indian Finance Acts.	Facts
The Incometax Officer disallowed the grossing up at the Indian rate but allowed at the State rate, defined by paragraphs 3 (v) of the Concession Order.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner upheld the order of the Incometax Officer, but the assessee succeeded before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
On the application of the Commissioner of Incometax, the Tribunal referred the following question to the High CourtWhether the appropriate portion of the dividend received by the assessee from either of the said two companies in the financial year 195051/195152 is to be increased at the rate applicable to the total income of the respective companies for the financial year 195051/195152 and without regard to any benefit conferred by the T. C. Order 1950 that the companies would get in the matter of payment of tax by them on their profits accruing or arising to them in a Part B State and assessable for the assessment year 195051/195152 ?	Facts
The High Court, after asking for a supplementary statement of the case, answered, as we have already said, in favour of the assessee.	Facts
3.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant has contended before us that the rate applicable to the total income of the said companies was the rate as finally applied after taking into consideration the effect of the Concession Order.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has further urged that the word rebate occurring in S. 16 (2) does not include the relief given to the said companies under the Concession Order for the Concession Order is not concerned with granting rebate but is concerned with the determination of the tax payable.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, he relied on S. 60A of the Act under which the Concession Order was made, and said that this section enabled the Central Government to make an exemption, reduction in rate or other modification in respect of incometax but not to grant a rebate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondent controverted these arguments and supported the judgment of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
(3a) Before addressing ourselves to the contentions at the Bar, it is necessary to reproduce the relevant statutory provisions.	None
These read thusSection 16 (2)For the purposes of inclusion in the total income of an assessee any dividend shall be deemed to be income of the previous year in which it is paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have been paid, credited or distributed to him, and shall be increased to such amount as would, if incometax (but not super tax) at the rate applicable to the total income of the company (without taking into account any rebate allowed or additional incometax charged) for the financial year in which the dividend is paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have been paid, credited or distributed, were deducted therefrom, be equal to the amount of the dividend Provided that when the sum out of which the dividend has been paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have been paid, credited or distributed includes (i) any profits and gains of the company not included in its total income, or (ii) any income of the company on which incometax was not payable, or (iii) any amount attributable to any allowance made in computing the profits and gains of the company, the increase to be made under this section shall be calculated only upon such proportion of the dividend as the said sum after deduction of the inclusions enumerated above bears to the whole of that sum.	None
Section 18 (5)Any deduction made and paid to the account of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of this section and any sum by which a dividend has been increased under subs.	None
(2) of S. 16 shall be treated as a payment of incometax or super tax on behalf of the person from whose income the deduction was made or of the owner of the security or of the shareholder, as the case may be, and credit shall be given to him therefor on the production of the certificate furnished under subsection (9) or section 20 as the case may be, in the assessment, if any, made for the following year under this Act Provided S. 60A. Power to make exemption, etc. in relation to merged territories or to the territories which immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in any Part B State.	None
If the Central Government considers it necessary or expedient so to do for avoiding any hardship or anomaly, or removing any difficulty, that may arise as a result of the extension of this Act to the merged territories or to the territories which immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in any Part B State, the Central Government may, by general or special order, make an exemption, reduction in rate or other modification in respect of incometax in favour of any class of income, or in regard to the whole or any part of the income of any person or class of persons Provided that the power conferred by this section shall not be exercisable in the case of merged territories and the territories which immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in Part B States other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir, after the 31st day of March, 1955, and, in the case of the State of Jammu and Kashmir after the 31st day of March, 1959, except for the purpose of rescinding an exemption, reduction or notification already made.	None
Para 3 (iii) of the Concession OrderThe expression Indian rate of tax means the rate determined by dividing the amount of incometax and supertax payable in the taxable territories on the total income for the year in question in accordance with the rates prescribed by the relevant Finance Act of the Central Government, by the amount of such total income.	None
Para 3 (v) of the Concession OrderThe expression State rate of tax means the rate determined by dividing the amount of incometax and supertax payable on the total income according to the rates of tax in force in the State immediately before the appointed day, or for the year in question, as the case may be, by the amount of such total income and where under any State law, the rates of tax in force in the State are prescribed with reference to the total income including agricultural income, the State rate of tax shall be the rate determined by dividing the amount of incometax and supertax on the total income including the agricultural income without taking into account any reduction of tax allowed on the agricultural income by the State law by the amount of such total income Explanation.	None
Where there was no State law relating to charge of incometax and supertax the rates of incometax and supertax in force in that State immediately before the appointed day shall, for the purposes of this clause, be deemed to be the rates specified in the Schedule.	None
Para 6 of the Concession OrderIncome of a previous year which does not fall under paragraph 5 The income, profits and gains of any previous year ending after the 31st day of March, 1949, which does not fall within paragraph 5 of this Order shall be assessed under the Act for the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1951, or on the 31st day of March, 1952, as the case may be, and the tax payable thereon shall be determined as hereunder In respect of so much of the income, profits and gains included in the total income as accrue or arise in any State other than the States of Patiala and East Punjab States Union and TravancoreCochin (i) the tax shall be computed (a) at the Indian rate of tax and (b) at the State rate of tax in force immediately before the appointed day (ii) where the amount of tax computed under subclause (a) of clause (i) is less than or is equal to the amount of tax computed under subclause (b) of clause (i), the amount of the firstmentioned tax shall be the tax payable (iii) where the amount of tax computed under subclause (a) of the clause (i) exceeds the tax computed under subclause (b) of clause (i) the excess shall be allowed as a rebate from the first mentioned tax and the amount of the firstmentioned tax so as reduced shall be the tax payable.	None
Para 6A of the Concession OrderIncome, profits and gains chargeable to tax in the assessment year 195253, 195354 and 195455.	None
The income, profits and gains of any previous year which is a previous year for the assessment for the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1953, 1954 and 1955, shall be charged to tax at the Indian rates tax provided that from the tax so computed, there shall be allowed in each year, rebate at this percentage thereof specified there under In respect of so much of the income, profits and gains as accrue or arise (a)	None
In the States of Saurashtra, Madhya Bharat or Rajasthan, to any assessee, at the rate of 40 percent, 20 percent and 10 percent, respectively for the assessment for the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1953, 1954 and 1955 4.	None
The scheme underlying S. 16(2) and S. 18(5) seems to be this.	Reasoning
Under S. 16(2)	Reasoning
the dividends are grossed up and under S. 18(5) any sum by which a dividend is increased under S. 16(2) is treated as payment of incometax on behalf of the shareholder.	Reasoning
In this setting, let us examine what is the true construction of S. 16(2) of the Act.	Reasoning
It is common ground that grossing up has to be effected in this case.	Reasoning
The real point of controversy between the parties is regarding the rate at which it is to be done.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the appellant relying on the decision of this Court in Rajputana Agencies Ltd. v. Comm. of Incometax, (1959) 35 ITR 168 (AIR 1959 SC 265 ), urged that the same meaning should be attributed to the expression rate applicable to the total income of the company in S. 16(2) as was attributed by this Court to the same expression occurring in subclause (b) of Cl.	Reasoning
(ii) to the second explanation to proviso to paragraph B of Part I of the First Schedule to the Indian Finance Act, 1951.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this argument.	Reasoning
It is true that the same expression occurs in S. 16(2) and the subclause above referred to, but as pointed out by the High Court, the words without taking into account any rebate allowed or additional incometax charged occur in S. 16(2) and not in the said subclause, and effect must be given to these words.	Reasoning
If we ignore these words, we would be rewriting S. 16(2).It will be noticed that S. 16(2) applies the rate of the year in which the dividend is paid, etc., and not of the year when the profits were made by the company.	Reasoning
The legislature has devised a mechanical test which has to be applied regardless of the hardship or the benefit which may accrue to an assessee.	Reasoning
Therefore, we agree with the High Court that though the rate applicable is the rate which is actually applied, rebate if any allowed to a company has to be, as directed by S. 16(2), taken into account.	Reasoning
5.	None
This takes us next to the point that benefit given by the Concession Order is not a rebate at all.	None
We cannot accept this contention.	None
The Concession Order itself uses the word rebate in paras 5, 6 and 6A. In deed, though it may be possible to urge something while dealing with para 6, no argument is possible regarding para 6A, for it expressly says that there shall be allowed in each year rebate at the percentage there of specified hereunder.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant laid great stress on the language of para 6 of the Concession Order.	None
He said that clause (i) directed the computation of tax and clause (iii) was equally directing computation of tax, and that in this context the word rebate has been loosely used.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to say that the word rebate has been loosely used.	None
In para 6A the meaning is clear and the word rebate must have the same meaning in both paras.	Reasoning
Further, but for the provision of the Concession Order, the said companies would have been taxed at the rates prescribed by the relevant Finance Act.	Reasoning
The Concession order remits what would otherwise be the proper tax leviable under the Finance Act, read with Indian Income Tax Act.	Reasoning
The word rebate is an apt word to use in respect of a remission.	Reasoning
6.	None
That a rebate as such can be directed to be allowed under S. 60A of the Act seems clear to us.	Reasoning
The words exemption or other modification are wide enough to enable the Central Government to give rebate such as has been allowed under the Concession Order.	Reasoning
7.	None
During the course of the hearing of the connected Civil Appeal in Maganlal Sankalchand v. Commr. of Income Tax New Delhi, Civil Appeal No. 703 of 1963, D  851964 (SC), the learned counsel for the Commissioner of Income Tax raised two additional arguments.	None
First, he urged that the word rebate in S. 16(2) only related to rebate granted under the Indian Finance Act and not any rebate granted under the Concession Order.	None
He further referred us to R. 14 of Indian Income Tax Rules, which prescribes the certificate to be furnished by the principal officer of a company under S. 20 of the Act.	None
The relevant portion of the certificates is as follows1.	None
We certify (A) (1) that the Company estimates that out of the said period (a) per cent, is chargeable at full Indian rate (b) per cent, is chargeable at the reduced rate of (Name of Part B State) and 8.	None
Regarding his first contention, we are unable to limit the meaning of the word rebate to rebate granted under the Indian Finance Act.	Reasoning
The word rebate is not qualified and is wide enough to include any rebate which may be granted by other statutory orders.	Reasoning
The form of the certificate referred to us which mentions reduction of rate cannot change the meaning of the word rebate.	Reasoning
9.	None
In the result, we agree with High Court that the answer to the question referred should be in the affirmative.	Decision
The appeals accordingly fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One set of hearing fees.	Decision
10.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
