 KHANNA, J.1.	None
This appeal on certificate is against the Full Bench judgment of the Calcutta High Court whereby on petition under article 226 of the Constitution of India filed by the respondent that court by majority quashed notice under section 148 of the Incometax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) issued by appeallant No. 2 (Incometax Officer E Ward, Hundi Circle, Calcutta) (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) for the purpose of reopening assessment of the income of the respondent for the assessment year 195859.2.	Facts
The respondent was assessed for the assessment year 195859 under section 23(3) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 on June 14, 1960.	None
His total income was assessed to be Rs. 37, 872.	Facts
While making the assessment the Incometax Officer allowed deduction of a sum of Rs. 15, 991 by way of expenses claimed by the respondent.	Facts
The expenses included Rs. 10, 494/4 As/3 Pies by way of interest.	Facts
According to the respondent, he produced through his authorised representative all books of accounts, bank statements and other necessary documents in connection with the return.	Facts
On March 14, 1967 the respondent received notice dated March 8, 1967 issued by the appellant under section 148 of the Act stating that the appellant had reason to believe that the respondents income which was chargeable to tax for the assessment year 195859 had escaped assessment within the meaning of section 147 of the Act and that the notice was being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of Incometax.	Facts
The respondent was called upon to submit within 30 days from the date of the service of the notice a return in the prescribed form of his income for the assessment year 195859.	Facts
On May 2, 1967 the respondent through his lawyer stated that there was no material on which the appellant had reason to believe that the respondents income had escaped assessment and, therefore, the condition precedent for the assumption of jurisdiction by the appellant had not been satisfied.	Facts
The appellant was said to have no competence or jurisdiction to reopen the assessment under section 147 of the Act on a mere change of opinion.	Facts
The appellant was also called upon to furnish all the materials on which he had reason to believe that income had escaped assessment.	Facts
As, according to the respondent, there was no satisfactory response from the appellant, he filed petition under article 226 of the Constitution for quashing the impugned notice.	Facts
It was denied in the affidavit on behalf of the appellant that all materials relevant and necessary for the assessment of the respondents income for the assessment year 195859 had been produced before the Incometax Officer at the time of the original assessment.	Facts
It w as further statedSubsequent to the assessment for the assessment year 195859, it was discovered, inter alia, that some of the loans shown to have been taken and interests alleged to have been paid thereon by the petitioner during the relevant assessment year were not genuine.	Facts
The Incometax Officer had reason to believe and bona fide believed that the said alleged loans and the interest alleged to have been paid thereon are not genuine.	Facts
If necessary, I crave leave to produce before the honble Judge hearing the application, the relevant records on the basis of which the said Incometax Officer had reason to believe that the income of the petitioner escaped assessment as aforesaid at the hearing of the application.3.	Facts
During the pendency of the proceedings the High Court directed that a copy of the report made by the appellant to the Commissioner of Incometax for obtaining latter s sanction under section 147 be produced.	None
The report was accordingly produced, and the same reads as underThere are hundi loan credits in the name of Narayan singh Nandalal, D. K. Naraindas, Bhagwandas Srichand, etc., who are known namelenders, and also hundi loan credit in the name, Mohansingh Kanayalal, who has since confessed he was doing only namelending.	Facts
In the original assessment these credits were not investigated in detail.	Facts
As the information regarding the bogus nature of these credits is since known, action under section 147 (a) is called for to reopen the assessment and assess these credits as the undisclosed income of the assessee.	Facts
The assessee is still claiming that the credits are genuine in the assessment proceedings for 196263.	Facts
Commissioners sanction is solicited to reopen the assessment for 195859, under section 147(a).All the three Judges who constituted the Full Bench found that the assessee was not being charged with omission to disclose all facts he was charged for having made an untrue disclosure because the assessee had stated that he had received certain sums of money from certain persons as loans when, in fact, he had not received any sum at all from these persons.	Facts
It was also stated by the assessee at the time of the original assessment that he had paid interest to certain persons when, in fact, he had not, if t he information received later was true.	Facts
The duty of the assessee, it was held, was not only to make a full disclosure of all material facts, his duty was also to make a true disclosure of facts and not to mislead the assessing officer by disclosing certain things which did not represent facts.	Facts
The High Court accordingly held that once an assessee infringes this rule, any subsequent discovery of fact by the assessing officer which would raise a resonable belief in his mind that the assessee had not made a true and correct disclosure of the facts and had thereby been responsible for escapement of his income from assessment would attract section 147 of the Act.	Facts
Two of the learned Judges, A. K. Mukherjea and S. K. Mukherjea JJ., however, took the view that the conditions precedent for the exercise of jurisdiction by the Incometax Officer under section 147 of the Incometax Act were not fulfilled in the case as the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissione r for sanction under section 147(a) was defective.	Facts
The defects in the report, in the opinion of the High Court, were the same as had been pointed out by this Court in the case of Chhugamal Rajpal v. S. P. Chaliha.(1)	Facts
The Commissioner, while according permission for taking action under section 147, it was observed, acted mechanically because the Commissioner had not expressly stated that he was satisfied that this was a fit case for the issue of notice under section 148.	Facts
As against the majority, Sabyasachi Mukherji J. held that notice under section 148 of the Act was valid and did not suffer from any infirmity.	Facts
It was also observed that the Commissioner of Incometax had not acted improperly in giving sanction.	Facts
In t he result, by majority the High Court quashed the notice issued by the appellant to the respondent.4.	Facts
In appeal before us Mr. Sharma on behalf of the appellants has assailed the judgment of the majority of the learned Judges in so far as they have held that the report submitted by the Incometax Officer to the Commissioner of Incometax for sanction was defective.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against that, Dr. Pal on behalf of the assesseerespondent has canvassed for the correctness of the view taken by the majority regarding the defective nature of the report.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Pal has in his own turn assailed the finding of all the three learned Judges of the High Court in so far as they have held that the assessee was being charged with omission to disclose true fa cts.	Arguments of Respondent
Contention has also been advanced by Dr. Pal that the material on the basis of which the Incometax Officer initiated these proceedings for reopening the assessment did not have a rational connection with the formation of the belief that the assessee had not made a true disclosure of the facts at the time of the original assessment.5.	Arguments of Respondent
Before dealing with the points of controversy, it would be useful to reproduce the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
Sections 147 and 148 which deal with income escaping assessment and issue of notice where income has escaped assessment read as under147.	None
Income escaping assessment.	None
If(a) the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that, by reason of the omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Incometax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year, or(b) notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned in clause (a) on the part of the assessee, the Incometax officer has in con sequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year,he may, subject to the provisions of section 148 to 153, assess or ressess such income or recompute the loss or the depreciation allowance, as the case may be, for the assessment year concerned (hereinafter in sections 148 to 153 referred to as the relevant assessment year).Explanation	None
1.For the purposes of this section, the following shall also be deemed to be cases where income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment, namely(a) where income chargeable to tax has been under assessed or(b) where such income has bee n assessed at too low a rate or(c) where such income has been made the subject of excessive relief under this Act or under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922) or(d) where excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed.	None
Explanation 2.Production before the Incometax Officer of account books or other evidence from which material evidence could with due diligence have been discovered by the Incometax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure within the meaning of this section.148.	None
Issue of notice where income has escaped assessment.(1) Before making the assessment, reassessment or recomputation under section 147, the Incometax Officer shall serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under subsection (2) of section 139 and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that subsection.(2)	None
The Incometax Officer shall, before issuing any notice under this section, record his reason for doing so.	None
Subsection (1) of section 149 prescribes the time limit for notice and reads as under(1)	None
No notice under section 148 shall be issued(a) in cases falling under clause (a) of section 147(i) for the relevant assessment year, if eight years have elapsed from the end of that year, unless the case falls under subclause (ii)(ii) for the relevant assessment year, where eight years, but not more than sixteen years, have elapsed from the end of that year, unless the income chargeable to tax which has escaped assessment amounts to or is likely to amount to rupees fifty thousand or more for that year(b) in cases falling under clause (b) of section 147, at any time after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year.	None
Section 151 pertains to the sanction for issue of notice and reads as under151.	None
Sanction for issue of notice.(1)	None
No notice shall be issued under section 148 after the expiry of eight years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Board is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Incometax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice.(2)	None
No notice shall be issued under section 148 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Commissioner is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Incometax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice.	None
The provisions of sections 147 to 153 of the Act correspond to those of section 34 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	None
There have been some points of departure from the old law, but it is not necessary for the purpose of the present case to refer to them.6.	None
It would appear from the perusal of the provisions reproduced above that two conditions have to be satisfied before an Incometax Officer acquires jurisdiction to issue notice under section 148 in respect of an assessment beyond the period of four years but within a period of eight years from the end of the relevant year, viz., (1) the Incometax Officer must have reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment, and (2) he must have reason to believe that such income has escaped assessment by reason of the omission or failure on the part of the assessee (a) to make a return under section 139 for the assessment year to the Incometax Officer, or (b) to disclose fully and truly material facts necessary for his assessment for that year.	None
Both these conditions must coexist in order to confer jurisdiction on the Incometax Officer.	None
It is also imperative for the Incometax Officer to record his reasons before initiating proceedings as required by section 148(2).	None
Another requirement is that before notice is issued after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment years, the Commissioner should be satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Incometax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice.	None
We may add that the duty which is cast upon the assessee is to make a true and full disclosure of the primary facts at the time of the original assessment.	Facts
Production before the Incometax Officer of the account books or other evidence from which material evidence could with due diligence have been discovered by the Incometax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure contemplated by law.	None
The duty of the assessee in any case does not extend beyond making a true and full disclosure of primary facts.	None
Once he has done that his duty ends.	None
It is for the Incometax Officer to draw the correct inference from the primary facts.	None
It is no responsibility of the assessee to advise the Incometax Officer with regard to the inference which he should draw from the primary facts.	None
If an Incometax Officer draws an inference which app ears subsequently to be erroneous, mere change of opinion with regard to that inference would not justify initiation of action for reopening assessment.	None
The grounds or reasons which lead to the formation of the belief contemplated by section 1 47(a) of the Act must have a material bearing on the question of escapement of income of the assessee from assessment because of his failure or omission to disclose fully and truly all material facts.	None
Once there exist reasonable grounds for t he Income tax Officer to form the above belief, that would be sufficient to clothe him with jurisdiction to issue notice.	None
Whether the grounds are adequate or not is not a matter for the court to investigate.	None
The sufficiency of grounds which induce the Incometax Officer to act is, therefore, not a justiciable issue.	None
It is, of course, open to the assessee to contend that the Incometax Officer did not hold the belief that there had been such nondisclosure.	None
The existence of t he belief can be challenged by the assessee but not the sufficiency of reasons for the belief.	None
The expression reason to believe does not mean a purely subjective satisfaction on the part of the Incometax Officer.	None
The reason must be held in good faith.	None
It cannot be merely a pretence.	None
It is open to the court to examine whether the reasons for the formation of the belief have a rational connection with or a relevant bearing on the formation of the belief and are not extraneous or irrelevant for the purpose of the section.	None
To this limited extent, the action of the Incometax Officer in starting proceedings in respect of income escaping assessment is open to challenge in a court of law see observations of this Court in the cases of Calcutta Discount Co. Ltd. v. Incometax Officer and S. Narayanappa Ors.	None
v. Commissioner of Incometax while dealing with corresponding provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.7.	None
Keeping the above principles in view, we may now turn our attention to the facts of the present case.	None
Two grounds were mentioned in the report made by the Incometax Officer for reopening the assessment of the assessee respondent with a view to show that his income had been under assessed because of his failure to disclose fully and truly material facts necessary for the assessment.	None
One was that Mohansingh Kanayalal, who was shown to be one of the creditors of the assessee, had since confessed that he was doing only namelending.	None
The other ground was that Narayansingh Nandalal, D. K. Naraindas, Bhagwandas Srichand, etc., whose names too were mentioned in the list of the creditors of the assessee, were known namelenders.	None
So far as the second ground is concerned, neither the majority of the Judges of the High Court nor the learned Judge who was in the minority relied upon that ground.	None
Regarding that ground, the learned Judge who was in the minority observed that no basis had been indicated as to how it be came known that those creditors were known namelenders and when it was known.	None
The majority while not relying upon that ground placed reliance upon the case of Chhugamal Rajpal (supra).	None
In that case the Incometax Officer while submitting a report to the Commissioner of Incometax for obtaining his sanction with a view to issue notice under section 148 of the Act statedDuring the year the assessee has shown to have taken loans from various parties of Calcutta.	None
From D. I.s Inv.	None
No.	None
A P Misc.	None
(5) D.I./6364/5623 dated August 13, 1965, forwarded to this office under C.I.T., Bihar and Orissa,	None
Patnas letter No.	None
Inv.	None
(Inv.)	None
15/65 66/19532017 dated Patna September 24, 1965 it appears that these persons are namelenders and the transactions are bogus.	None
Hence, proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary.	None
The names of some of the persons from whom money is alleged to have been taken on loan on hundis are1.	None
Seth Bhagwan Singh Sricharan2.	None
Lakha Singh Lal Singh3.	None
Radhakissen Shyam SunderThe amount of escapement involved amounts to Rs. 1, 00, 000.In dealing with that report this Court observedFrom the report submitted by the Incometax Officer to the Commissioner, it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessees omission to disclose fully and truly all material f acts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year, nor could it be said that he, as a consequence of information in his possession, had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.	None
We are not satisfied that the Incometax Officer had any material before him which could satisfy the requirements of either clause (a ) or clause (b) of section 147.	None
Therefore he could not have issued a notice under section 148.8.	None
Reference to the names of Narayansingh Nandalal, D. K. Naraindas, Bhagwandas Srichand, etc., in the report of the Incometax Officer to the Commissioner of Incometax in the instant case does not stand on a better footing than the reference to the three names in the report made by the Incometax Officer in the case of Chuugamal Rajpal.	None
We would, therefore, hold that t he second ground mentioned by the Incometax Officer, i.e., reference to the names of Narayansingh Nandalal, D. K. Naraindas, Bhagwandas Srichand, etc., could not have led to the formation of the belief that the income of the respondent assessee chargeable to tax had escaped assessment for that year because of the failure or omission of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts.	None
All the three learned Judges of the High Court, in our opinion, were justified in excluding the second ground from consideration.	None
We may now deal with the first ground mentioned in the report of the Incometax Officer to the Commissioner of Incometax.	None
This ground relates to Mohansingh Kanayalal, against whose name there was an entry about the payment of Rs. 74 Annas 3 as interest in the books of the assessee, having made a confession that he was doing only namelending.	None
There is nothing to show that the above confession related to a loan to the assessee and not t o someone else, much less to the loan of Rs. 2, 500 which was shown to have been advanced by that person to the assesseerespondent.	None
There is also no indication as to when that confession was made and whether it relates to the period from April 1, 1 957 to March 31, 1958 which is the subjectmatter of the assessment sought to be reopened.	None
The report was made on February 13, 1967.	None
In the absence of the date of the alleged confession, it would not be unreasonable to assume that the confession was made a few weeks or months before the report.	None
To infer from that confession that it relates to the period from April 1, 1957 to March 31, 1958 and that it pertains to the loan shown to have been advanced to the assessee, in our opinion, would be rather farfetched.9.	None
As stated earlier, the reasons for the formation of the belief must have a rational connection with or relevant bearing on the formation of the belief.	Reasoning
Rational connection postulates that there must be a direct nexus or live link between the material coming to the notice of the Incometax Officer and the formation of his belief that there has been escapement of the income of the assessee from assessment in the particular year because of his failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that the court cannot go into the sufficiency or adequacy of the material and substitute its own opinion for that of the Incometax Officer on the point as to whether action should be initiate d for reopening assessment.	Reasoning
At the same time we have to bear in mind that it is not any and every material, howsoever vague and indefinite or distant, remote and farfetched, which would warrant the formation of the belief relating to escapement of the income of the assessee from assessment.	Reasoning
The fact that the words definite information which were there in section 34 of the Act of 1922 at one time before its amendment in 1948 are not there in section 147 of the Act of 1961 would not le ad to the conclusion that action cannot be taken for reopening assessment even if the information is wholly vague, indefinite, farfetched and remote.	Reasoning
The reason for the formation of the belief must be held in good faith and should not be a mere pretence.	Reasoning
The powers of the Incometax Officer to reopen assessment though wide are not plenary.	Reasoning
The words of the statute are reason to believe and not reason to suspect.	Reasoning
The reopening of the assessment after the lapse of many years is a serious matter.	Reasoning
The Act, no doubt, contemplates the reopening of the assessment if grounds exist for believing that income of the assessee has escaped assessment.	Reasoning
The underlying reason for that is that instances of concealed income or other income escaping assessment in a large number of cases come to the notice of the incometax authorities after the assessment has been completed.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Act in this respect depart from the normal rule that there should be, subject to right of appeal and revision, finality about orders made in judicial and quasi judicial proceedings.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, essential that before such action is taken the requirements of the law should be satisfied.	Reasoning
The live link or close nexus which should be there between the material before the Incometax Officer in the present case and the belief which he was to form regarding the escapement of the income of the assessee from assessment because of the latters failure or o mission to disclose fully and truly all material facts was missing in the case.	Reasoning
In any event, the link was too tenuous to provide a legally sound basis for reopening the assessment.	Reasoning
The majority of the learned Judges in the High Court, in our opinion, were not in error in holding that the said material could not have led to the formation of the belief that the income of the assessee respondent had escaped assessment because of his failure or omission to disclose fully and truly all material facts.	Reasoning
We would, therefore, uphold the view of the majority and dismiss the appeal with costs.10.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
