 UDAY UMESH LALIT.	None
J. This appeal arises out of order dated 21.6.2019 passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission ( National Commission for short) at New Delhi in First Appeal No.797 of 2015.	Issue
In respect of an accident which had occurred in the night intervening 1st/2nd June, 2009 in which a truck owned by the appellant was damaged in fire, a claim was raised by the appellant.	Facts
The claim was however, repudiated by the respondentinsurance company vide letter dated 9.9.2009 on the basis of a report of a Surveyor Investigator that the fire was not natural.	Facts
In the circumstances, Consumer Complaint No.81/2010 was filed by the appellant before the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission ( State Commission for short), Lucknow, U.P. alleging deficiency on part of the respondent.	Facts
The principal prayer made in the complaint was That a direction may be issued to the opposite party no.1 for repudiating the insurance claim of the complainant amounting to Rs.13,50,000/ in his favour	Facts
The appellant also claimed compensation and costs.	Facts
In its counter affidavit the stand taken by the respondent was as under That the respondent appointed independent surveyor Shri S.K. Tiwari for spot survey on intimation of the alleged fire loss of the insured Truck.	Facts
The Surveyor submitted spot report dated 23.6.2009 after inspecting the spot and vehicle on 3.6.2009.	Facts
The spot surveyor in its report apart from pointing out the damages to the insured truck due to alleged fire, specifically gave observations to the effect that it is the case of manipulations and fabrication.	Facts
It needs further investigation.	Facts
The spot surveyor also submitted zerox copy of newspaper (Dainik Jagaran Daily) dated 3.6.2009.	Facts
The observation of the spot surveyor to the effect that green grass and leaves etc. surrounding the burnt parts was well in order i.e. smiling, is very significant.	Facts
That in the light of observations and recommendation made by Spot Surveyor, the answering respondent got the matter investigated and through Sri Prabhakar Rai, Advocate who submitted is detailed report dated 31.8.2009.	Facts
The investigator also categorically concluded in his report based upon various facts, statements and circumstances that the said incident of accident and fire is doubtful.	Facts
The matter was considered by the State Commission and by its order dated 11.8.2015.	Facts
The State Commission rejected the case set up by the respondent that there was no natural fire and the vehicle was set afire.	Facts
It was, therefore concluded as under It is established from the evidence produced by the opponent insurance company that the truck of the complainant was found in burnt condition at the place of accident on the next day of alleged incident.	Facts
In these circumstances, we are of the view that the opponent insurance company is deficient in services by repudiating the insurance claim of the complainant.	Facts
The insured value of the Truck in question is admittedly Rs.13 Lakh 50 Thousand.	Facts
Therefore, we are of the view that the complainant is entitled to this amount with interest from the opponent insurance company.	None
The claim of the appellant was accepted and following directions were issued The opponent insurance company is hereby directed to pay the complainant 13,50,000 with 9 interest from the date of institution of the complaint till its payment within a period of one month.	Facts
The opponent will also pay a Rs.10,000/ to the complainant as litigation expenses within the fixed period.	Facts
If the above amount is not paid within the time fixed then the opponent will be liable to pay interest at the rate of 12 on the entire amount to the complainant.	None
Both the parties will bear their own litigation expenses.	None
The respondent being aggrieved, filed First Appeal No.797 of 2015 before the National Commission.	Facts
It was observed that the incident occurred during the night of 1st/2nd June, 2009 but the intimation to the respondent was given only on 3.6.2009 and as such there was infraction on part of the appellant.	Facts
Relying on the decision of this Court in Amalendu Sahu vs. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. (2010) 4 SCC 536 , the National Commission quantified the claim at 60 of IDV of the vehicle.	Facts
The matter was considered by the National Commission as under I have given a thoughtful consideration to the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties.	None
Though it has been argued by the learned counsel for the appellant that the truck was deliberately put on fire to get the insurance claim, but no independent proof has been filed by the appellant to prove that the damage was stage managed.	Facts
Even the statements of the reporter as well as of the sales man of the petrol pump relied upon by the investigator have not been filed because those persons have refused to give any statement in writing.	Facts
This appeals to logic that if a truck is purchased only 23 months back, why the truck owner will put the truck into fire, because in any case the insurance claim can be awarded to the value of IDV at the most.	Facts
Learned counsel for the Insurance Company has not been able to pin point any purpose behind the deliberate action of the owner of the truck to put the truck on fire.	Facts
Clearly there is delay in giving intimation to the police and no proper justification has been given by the complainant.	Facts
Though, it is true that it is not a case of theft where immediate intimation to the police is required yet the role of FIR in such a case cannot be minimised.	Facts
In the present case, the truck body has been burned as stated by surveyor investigator, still the matter could not be investigated by the police properly as information was given to the police on 06.06.2009 with delay of 4 days.	Facts
It is also important to note that the intimation to the Insurance Company has been given on 03.06.2005 whereas the condition No.1 of the policy requires that in case of accident immediate notice will be given to the Insurance Company to enable the Insurance Company to appoint a surveyor to have the spot inspection as quickly as possible.	Facts
Here, the surveyor could only be appointed on 03.06.2005 who could not verify the recovery of truck by the crane which is a crucial factor in the present case.	Facts
Definitely the respondent complainant has violated the condition of the policy by not immediately giving information to the Insurance Company.	Facts
The State Commission has not given any importance to this delay and has allowed the insurance claim for full IDV of the vehicle.	Facts
Clearly, the delay in giving intimation to the Insurance Company is an important factor, which should be taken into consideration while deciding the insurance claim.	Facts
As observed above, the accident of the vehicle and consequently the vehicle catching fire are the proved facts, respondent complainant is entitled to insurance claim.	Facts
Honble Supreme Court in Amalendu Sahu vs. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd.	Facts
II(2010) C.P.J. 9 (S.C.), has observed In this connection reference may be made to a decision of National Commission in the case of New India Assurance Company Limited v. Narayan Prasad Appaprasad Pathak, reported in (2006) CPJ 144 (NC).	Facts
In that case also the question was, whether the insurance company can repudiate the claims in a case where the vehicle carrying passengers and the driver did not have a proper driving licence and met with an accident.	Facts
While granting claim on nonstandard basis the National Commission set out in its judgment the guidelines issued by the Insurance Company about settling all such nonstandard claims.	Facts
The said guidelines are set out below table Relying upon the above guidelines given by the Honble Supreme Court, it is seen that in the present matter one of the policy conditions has been clearly violated and that being an important condition, I deem it appropriate to allow the insurance claim 60 of the IDV of the vehicle.	Facts
On the basis of the above discussion, the first appeal No.797 of 2015 is partly allowed and the order of the State Commission is modified to the extent that instead of full IDV Rs.13,50,000/, the appellant Company shall be liable to pay 60 of the IDV i.e. Rs.8,10,000/ (rupees eight lakh ten thousand only).	Facts
This amount shall be paid by the Insurance Company along with 7 p.a. interest from the date of filing of the complaint.	Facts
The litigation expenses of Rs.10,000/ awarded by the State Commission is maintained.	Facts
The appellant is directed to comply with the order within 45 days from the date of service receipt of this order.	Facts
In this appeal questioning the correctness of the decision of the National Commission, Mr. Ajay Kumar, learned advocate for the appellant submitted that the intimation was given as early as possible and there was no delay on part of the appellant that reliance on the decision in Amalendu Sahu was not quite correct and that the National Commission ought not to have reduced the claim amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Meenakshi Midha, learned advocate appearing for the respondent supported the decision of the National Commission and submitted that there was delay in intimating the Insurance Company and as such there was breach of warranty condition of Policy.	Arguments of Respondent
She also submitted that the intimation to Police was given only on 6.6.2009 and therefore, the National Commission was justified in reducing the claim amount.	Arguments of Respondent
We have gone through the policy in question.	None
Under the caption conditions which are part of the Policy, the relevant condition states Notice shall be given in writing to the Company immediately upon the occurrence of any accidental loss or damage in the event of any claim and thereafter the insured shall give all such information and assistance as the Company shall require.	None
Every letter claim writ summons and or process or copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Company immediately on receipt by the Insured.	None
Notice shall also be given in writing to the Company immediately the Insured shall have knowledge of any impending prosecution, inquest or fatal inquiry in respect of any occurrence which may give rise to a claim under this Policy.	None
In case of theft or criminal act which may be the subject of a claim under this Policy the Insured shall give immediate notice to the police and cooperate with the Company in securing the conviction of the offender.	None
The aforesaid condition has two limbs Notice shall be given in writing to the Company immediately upon the occurrence of any accidental loss or damage and ii)	None
In case of theft or criminal act which may be the subject of a claim under this Policy, the Insured shall give immediate notice to the police.	None
The second limb contemplates issuance of immediate notice to the police only in cases of theft or criminal act.	None
In the event of an occurrence of any accidental loss or damage, the condition does not contemplate issuance of any notice to the police.	Reasoning
The case that the appellant came up with was of an accidental loss, and, therefore, if no immediate notice was issued to the police, there was no infraction on part of the appellant.	None
The accident had occurred during the night of 1 st and 2 nd June, 2009 and the intimation was given to the respondent on 3 rd of June, 2009.	None
In our view, the notice was not delayed on any count and did satisfy the requirements contemplated by the conditions in the policy.	None
The decision of this Court in Amalendu Sahoo (supra) had dealt with fact situation where, in violation of the terms of the policy, the vehicle in question was being used for hire and, therefore, the guidelines, as set out in para 8 of the order impugned herein were referred to and relied upon.	None
As there was no violation on part of the appellant, the principle on the basis of which the admissible claim could be reduced, does not apply.	None
In our view, there was thus no reason for the National Commission to hold that there was any violation of the requisite conditions on part of the appellant and there was no justification to reduce the claim to the extent of 60 of the IDV of the vehicle.	Reasoning
The conclusions drawn and the directions issued by the State Commission, in our view, were quite correct and did not call for any interference.	Reasoning
We, therefore, allow this appeal, set aside the view taken by the National Commission and restore the order dated 11.08.2015 passed by the State Commission.	Decision
The appeal is thus allowed without any order as to costs.	Decision
