 	None
We have considered the above Report filed by EPCA.	None
2.	None
On 2nd May, 2017, learned amicus curiae had briefed us on the Report.	Issue
It was pointed out on that day that use of Furnace Oil and PetCoke is prohibited in Delhi.	Facts
It was further stated that the States of U.P., Haryana and Rajasthan had no objection if the ban is placed on the use of Furnace Oil and PetCoke.	Issue
These State Governments were, therefore, permitted to place such a ban.	Facts
3.	None
Almost four months have gone by and we are told that none of these three State Governments have taken any action in this matter.	Reasoning
To make the situation worse, there is no representation on behalf of the State of U.P. nor is there any representation from the State of Rajasthan.	Reasoning
Learned counsel appearing for the State of Haryana wants us to wait for two minutes so that he can get instructions from the State Government.	Reasoning
We are not inclined to wait for two minutes so as to enable learned counsel to get instructions.	Reasoning
Instructions should have been obtained well before the date of hearing.	Reasoning
4.	None
Since the State Governments of U.P., Haryana and Rajasthan have no objection and they have not taken any positive action, keeping the pollution level in NCR and particularly in Delhi, we have no option but to place a ban on use of Furnace Oil and PetCoke in the States of U.P., Haryana and Rajasthan.	Decision
The ban will come into effect from 1 s t November, 2017.	Decision
We expect the State Governments to issue appropriate notification immediately.	Decision
Even if they do not issue such notification then in compliance with the order of this Court, the ban will take effect from 1st November, 2017 in any case.	Decision
5.	None
The issue for our consideration today is fixing standards for 34 industries with regard to the SO2, NOX and SOX emissions.	Issue
6.	None
On 2nd May, 2017, we had directed the Union of India as well as the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to fix the standards for the 34 industries mentioned in the order dated 2nd May, 2017.	Facts
7.	None
We had further directed that the standards should be fixed on or before 30th June, 2017.	Facts
We had given opportunity to the CPCB and the Union of India to move an application for reasonable extension of time.	Facts
We had also cautioned the above industries, as submitted by learned amicus curiae, and agreed to by the learned Additional Solicitor General, that necessary steps would have to be taken by these industries to ensure that the pollution standards that are fixed by the CPCB are adhered to by 31.12.2017 as far as possible.	Facts
The above industries should, therefore, start making their plans with immediate effect since sufficient notice is being given to them in this regard.	Facts
8.	None
The matter was again taken up by us on 20th July, 2017.	Facts
9.	None
On that date, we had noted the submissions of learned Solicitor General that some more time is required to fix the standards of NOX and SOX and perhaps some other emissions and effluents.	Facts
Learned Solicitor General had stated that he will file an affidavit during the course of the day.	Facts
10.	None
Several applications were also listed before us on that day and learned counsel for the applicant(s) had stated that they did not press these applications since they have instructions to assure this Court that the industry would abide by whatever standards are fixed by the CPCB by 31st December, 2017.	Facts
The assurance was taken on record.	Facts
11.	None
Today, learned Additional Solicitor General has brought to our notice that an affidavit was in fact filed by learned Solicitor General on behalf of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on 20th July, 2017.	Arguments of Respondent
In that affidavit, it was stated that insofar as 9 industries are concerned, SO2, NOX and SOX standards had already been fixed.	Arguments of Respondent
This is confirmed by learned amicus curiae.	Arguments of Respondent
12.	None
It is also brought to our notice that emission standards for SO2, NOX and SOX are not required to be fixed in respect of two industries, viz., electroplating industries and stone crushing units since there is no emission of SO2, NOX and SOX.	Arguments of Respondent
13.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have been told by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the CPCB that draft standards were fixed by the CPCB in respect of 16 industries and these were communicated to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on 27.06.2017.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are told by learned counsel that in respect of these 16 industries, the standards were communicated to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on 27.06.2017.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are told by learned Additional Solicitor General that with regard to 5 more industries, the draft standards were sent subsequently.	Arguments of Respondent
16.	None
We are quite distressed that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has been sitting over 16 recommendations at least since 27.06.2017, that is, almost about three months without apparently showing any concern whatsoever for the pollution in Delhi and in NCR.	Reasoning
17.	None
Learned Additional Solicitor General further informs us that the draft notification with regard to these industries was issued on 23rd October, 2017 inviting objections and in terms of Section 5 of the Environment Protection Rules, 60 days time is required to be given for inviting objections.	Arguments of Respondent
This period would expire on or about 23rd December, 2017 when hopefully notifications would be issued.	Arguments of Respondent
18.	None
In any event, since the draft notifications have been issued and since the industry had assured us on 20.07.2017 that they would abide by the standards fixed by the CPCB, we expect the industries to live up to the assurance given to us by the industry even though the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change does not seem to be concerned about the entire issue.	Reasoning
19.	None
With regard to two remaining industries, i.e., nitric acid industry and fertilizer industry, we are told that the standards in this regard were sent to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change by the CPCB on 14th February, 2014.	Reasoning
Three and half years have gone by, but the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has not done anything about it.	Reasoning
20.	None
This is a completely disgusting state of affairs and this is hardly the way in which the Ministry ought to function if it is expected to perform its duties sincerely, honestly and with dedication.	Reasoning
21.	None
Learned Additional Solicitor General informs us that necessary steps will be taken (after a lapse of three and half years) to issue a draft notification and needful will be done within one month from today, meaning thereby, the deadline of 31st December, 2017 will be crossed by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.	Arguments of Respondent
22.	None
We record our unhappiness at the attitude of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, but we expect the industry to abide by the assurance that has already been given to us and particularly since they are aware of the standards proposed by the CPCB, maybe for the last couple of years at least.	Decision
23.	None
We make it clear that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change is bound by the statement made by learned Additional Solicitor General that the draft notification for the two industries would be issued within one month from today.	Decision
24.	None
Seeing the totally insensitive attitude of the Ministry, We are inclined and we do impose costs of Rs. 2,00,000/ (Rupees two lakhs only) on the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change so that at least they now wake up to the problem relating to environment.	Decision
The amount be deposited in the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee within four weeks from today for utilization of juvenile justice issues.	Decision
25. List the Report No.72 on 11th December, 2017.	Decision
26.	None
Liberty is granted to the Union of India to file additional affidavit.	Decision
IA No. 104664/2017 (Application For Directions on Behalf of Indraprastha Gas Limited) 27.	Decision
Issue notice.	None
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. K.V. Mohan, learned counsel accepts notice and seeks some time to file reply.	Decision
29. List the application on 16th November, 2017 with other connected applications.	None
30.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the meanwhile, learned counsel for the petitioner has placed before us a letter dated 12th October, 2017 which has been issued by the State of Haryana through the office of the Executive Engineer, HUDA, Division No.1 Gurugram pursuant to the minutes of the meeting held on 8th September, 2017.	Arguments of Petitioner
31.	Arguments of Petitioner
The letter has seriously been objected to not only by learned counsel for the petitioner, but also by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the above, until then, the letter dated 12th October, 2017 and the minutes of the meeting dated 8th September, 2017 will be kept in abeyance only as far as M s. Indraprastha Gas Limited is concerned.	Decision
33.	Arguments of Petitioner
We had already directed that the I.As.	Decision
on different subjects should be listed separately.	Decision
We see no reason why the Registry has listed the matter relating to allocation of natural gas to M s. IGL with Report No.72.	Decision
Similarly, in other matters also, all the I.As in the same matter are being listed together, even though they pertain to different subject matters.	Decision
34.	None
A copy of this direction be communicated to the Secretary General of the Registry for compliance.	Decision
