 S. PATHAK C. J. I.	None
These appeals, by special leave, are directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Madras dismissing the writ petitions filed by the appellant against the refusal of the first respondent to rectify an assessment order and pass consequential directions Shri Anantharamakrishnan, a reputed industrialist in Tamil Nadu, died intestate in Madras on April 18, 1964.	Issue
He left behind his widow, Valli, his two sons, Sivasailam and Krishnamoorthy and two daughters, Kalyani and Seetha.	Issue
Some time after his death, Sivasailam, as an accountable person, rendered the estate duty account.	Issue
All the heirs, other than Shri Sivasailam, who were also the accountable persons wrote to the Assistant Controller of Estate Duty on December 15, 1964, that, as accountable persons, they agreed to abide by the accounts rendered by Sri Sivasailam and any explanation furnished by him with regard to the estate duty case would be binding on them.	None
Messrs. Amalgamations P. Ltd. (shortly referred to as Amalgamations) is a company which holds shares in most of the companies including Simpson and Co. Ltd. (shortly referred to as Simpson) of the group.	Facts
By letter dated April 27, 1965, Amalgamations informed the assessing authority that the deceased had transferred property in the form of shares in Simpson to it and that the deceased had a controlling interest in that company at the time of his death.	Facts
On September 13, 1965, the assessing authority wrote to Amalgamations that the deceased had transferred 80, 377 shares of Simpson, and, therefore, Amalgamations was a controlled company within the meaning of section 17 of the Estate Duty Act.	Facts
By virtue of section 19(1) of the Estate Duty Act, the controlled company had to be regarded as one of the persons accountable for the estate of the deceased.	Facts
Amalgamations was required to submit an account of the estate.	Facts
Amalgamations filed a return before the Assistant Controller.	Facts
No objection was raised by the heirs of the deceased or by Amalgamations to the latter being treated as an accountable personAfter due enquiry, the assessment of estate duty was completed on January 27, 1970, and the duty payable by the estate was determined at Rs. 1, 67, 74, 697.58, of which provisional duty had been paid in the amount of Rs. 65, 50, 452.73 leaving a balance of Rs. 1, 02, 24, 244.85.	Facts
The assessment order was addressed to Amalgamations as well as to Sri Sivasailam as accountable persons.	Facts
The Assistant Controller of Estate Duty proceeded on the basis that Amalgamations was a controlled company and the deceased had control over its affairs, and, therefore, valuation of the shares held by the deceased in the company had to be made in the manner laid down in rule 15 framed by the Board under section 20(1)(e) of the Estate Duty Act.	Facts
The principal value of the assets was determined at Rs. 2, 12, 29, 998 and the duty was computed at Rs. 1, 67, 74, 697.58.	Facts
There was no appeal against the assessment by any of the accountable persons.	None
Kalyani Sundaram, one of the daughters of the deceased and the appellant before us, became entitled on the death of Anantharamakrishnan to fifth share in his estate under the Hindu Succession Act.	None
Her husband, K. S. Sundaram, as her agent constituted by power of attorney, wrote on June 11, 1974, to the Assistant Controller seeking certain clarifications regarding the assessment.	Facts
The Assistant Controller replied on June 25, 1974, referring to the specific agreement of the accountable persons to abide by the accounts rendered by Sri Sivasailam and to be bound by any explanation given by him.	Facts
The Assistant Controller referred to the fact that all subsequent proceedings had been completed after discussion with Sri Sivasailam and Amalgamations and as the assessment had by then become final, it was not possible to enter into any discussion concerning it.	None
On January 2, 1975, the appellants husband, as agent, filed an application under section 61 of the Estate Duty Act contending that the assessment order was vitiated by several errors inasmuch as rule 15 prescribed only the method of valuation of shares and debentures of the controlled company and the rule was an appendage to sections 36 and 37 of the Act, that unless property was transferred without consideration by the deceased to Amalgamations and some benefit accrued to the deceased from the company, section 17(1) of the Act would not be attracted, that decision to treat Amalgamations as an accountable person because of the transfer of shares rested on the transfer of shares made by the deceased, that on number of aspects of the case, the assessment order did not show any detail, and, therefore, a rectification order should be made indicating the exact amount included under section 17(1) of the Act as the property passing on the death of the deceased.	Facts
He required this information, he said, to enable him to work out the amount which his principal had to pay to Amalgamations by way of reimbursement of the duty.	Facts
If the apportionment of the duty had been effected by the order itself, he said, the need for rectification would not have arisenSection 61 empowers the Controller to rectify any mistake apparent from the record at any time within five years from the date of the order passed by him.	Facts
On January 25, 1975, the Assistant Controller passed an order declaring that he was unable to discover any mistake which called for rectification in the assessment order and, therefore, he declined to act under section 61 of the Act.	Facts
This order was challenged by writ petitions out of which the present appeals arise.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the writ petitions.	None
Sethuraman J. held that there was no apparent error, and, therefore, no reason for invoking section 61 of the Act and Balasubrahmanyan J., in a concurring judgment, held likewise and also dealt with other aspects of the case.	Facts
Both learned judges were of the view that the proceeding reflected a private dispute between the appellant and other members of the family, and that the forum and remedy selected by the appellant were not appropriate for that purpose.	Facts
The fundamental question in these appeals is whether the appellant is right in invoking section 61 of the Act.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the heirs of the deceased on whom the estate devolves are liable to pay estate duty attributable to the property which falls to their respective shares and that if an accountable person pays any part of the estate duty in respect of any property not passing to him, he is entitled to reimbursement by the person entitled to such property.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, says learned counsel has no application in respect of the duty payable by virtue of section 17 of the Act, which provides that the slice of the assets of a controlled company shall be deemed to pass on the death of the deceased for the purposes of estate duty and the slice will be included in the property passing on his death if the deceased made a transfer of that property to the controlled company and benefit accrued to the deceased in the three years ending on his death.	Arguments of Petitioner
The slice of the assets of the controlled company does not come to any heir therefore, no heir is called upon to pay the amount of estate duty attributable to the inclusion of that slice in the chargeable estate.	Arguments of Petitioner
By section 19, the controlled company itself is liable to pay the corresponding amount of estate duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the present case, however, learned counsel urges, no slice of the assets of Amalgamations has been included in the estate of the deceased by the assessing authority as property deemed to pass on the death of the deceased and, therefore, the demand issued to the controlled company constitutes a mistake apparent from the record.	Arguments of Petitioner
The application of rule 15 is also contested and this, according to learned counsel, is clear mistake committed by the Controller.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that there is a mistake apparent from the record in the directions requiring Amalgamations to pay the entire amount of estate dutyIt seems to us that all the heirs other than Sivasailam had agreed that, as accountable persons, they would abide by the accounts rendered by Sivasailam, and any information furnished by him with regard to the estate duty matter would be binding on them.	None
The appellant cannot be heard now to dispute the quantum of liability and the basis on which the liability was computed.	None
Nor is it open to her to contend that it is not Amalgamations which is liable to pay the duty, but that the duty is payable by the heirs of the deceased.	Reasoning
The assessment has become final and no appeal against it has been attempted.	Reasoning
It was for the benefit of the heirs that there was general agreement to have the assessment made on Amalgamations and indeed when the assessment was completed and finalised, no objection was taken.	Reasoning
The appellant acquiesced wholly and completely in the assessment to estate duty being made on Amalgamations.	Reasoning
No separate assessment was made on the appellant nor on the other heirs.	Reasoning
The assessment was completed in 1970 and the entire estate duty has now been paid up.	Reasoning
It was only after the entire estate duty was paid that the appellant filed the application for rectification on January 2, 1975.	None
It was contended by learned counsel for the private respondents that the appellant enjoyed no locus standing order to maintain the application under section 61 and these appeals thereafter, but we do not propose to enter into this question.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it appears that this litigation is woven around a private dispute among the family members.	Reasoning
That is hardly any justification for invoking section 61 of the Act.	None
We have carefully perused the reasons given individually by the two learned judges of the High Court and we are in complete agreement with them that there is no mistake apparent on the recordIn support of the contention that there was a mistake apparent on the record, learned counsel has referred us to Harz Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmed Ishaque 1955 1 SCR 1104 , Hind Trading Co. v. Union of India 1969 2 SCR 533 , M. K. Venkatachalam, ITO v. Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co.	None
Ltd.	None
1958 34 ITR 143 (SC) and CIT v. V. MR.	None
P. Firm, Muar 1965 56 ITR 67 (SC), but having regard to the facts of the case before us, we do not find anything in those cases which can be of assistance to the appellant.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant states that having regard to the terms of the order granting special leave to appeal, the appellant is justified in requesting the court to consider the issues on merits.	None
We are unable to spell out such intent of the court from the terms of the order granting special leave to appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think that the observations of the court in Thungabhadra Industries Ltd. v. Government of Andhra Pradesh 1964 5 SCR 174 , 180, affect the position before us.	Reasoning
The real question is whether the assessment was justified on Amalgamations or it should have been taken against the heirs of the deceased.	None
In our opinion, that question stands concluded now and, upon all the facts and circumstances of the case, we do not think it permissible for the appellant to have recourse to section 61 of the Act in order to reopen the case.	Decision
The appeals are dismissed there is no order as to costs.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
