 MAHAJAN, J. 1.	None
This appeal is directed against a remand order of a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court by which the decree of Subordinate Judge of the Fourth Court of Zilla 24Parganas at Alipore in Original Suit No. 30 of 1942 was set aside.	Issue
2. Shortly stated, the facts are that on the 24th February, 1933, one Mrs. D. J. Hill effected a mortgage of premises Nos. 19 and 20, Ekbalpore Lane, Kidderpore, 24 Parganas, in favour of Rai Ramtaran Banerjee Bahadur in the sum of Rs. 10, 000.	Facts
An additional amount of Rs. 2, 000 was borrowed on 8th June, 1933, on the same security.	Facts
On the 21st June, 1939, a suit was instituted to recover the amount due at the foot of these two transactions.	Facts
A final decree was passed in the suit on the 12th April, 1940, for a sum of Rs. 19, 755150.	Facts
Execution was then taken out and the mortgaged property was sold for Rs. 43, 300 on the 19th July, 1940.	Facts
The price fetched at the auction satisfied the amount due on the decree to the extent of Rs. 20, 518146 and the balance was deposited in Court in the account of the judgmentdebtor.	Facts
The sale was confirmed on the 21st August, 1940, and possession to the auction purchaser was delivered on the 24th August, 1940.	Facts
The amount deposited in Court was withdrawn by the judgmentdebtor and her creditors on the 3rd September, 1940, and the execution case was dismissed as finally satisfied on the 9th September, 1940.	Facts
3.	None
It is thus clear that all essential proceedings in execution of the decree terminated before the 1st September 1940, when the Bengal Money Lenders Act came into force.	Facts
It is further apparent that the suit was instituted after the 1st January, 1939, the date fixed by the Act as a terminus a qua for application of some of the provisions of the Act.	Facts
On the 30th August, 1941, Mrs. Hill filed the suit out of which this appeal arises for relief against excess interest included in the final decree in contravention of the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The suit was dismissed by the Subordinate Judge on the finding that decrees passed after the 1st January, 1939, could not be reopened under sec.	Facts
36 of the Bengal Money Lenders Act and the reliefs provided for in that section were only available with respect to decrees passed before that date, provided these had not been fully satisfied till then.	Facts
The High Court on appeal reached a contrary conclusion and held that the reliefs allowed by the section were available to the Plaintiff in the case and there was nothing in sec.	Facts
36 which took away the Courts jurisdiction to grant them.	Facts
4.	None
The question to decide in the appeal is whether a decree passed after 1st January, 1939, can be reopened under sec.	Issue
36 of the Act and relief given to the judgmentdebtor in respect of excess interest included in it against the provisions of the Act.5.	Issue
It was argued that decrees passed after 1st January, 1939, could not be reopened under sec.	Arguments of Petitioner
36 of the Act inasmuch as the section had exempted all decrees from its scope except those passed in suits to which the Act applied provided they had not been satisfied before that date.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that decrees passed before 1st January 1939, could alone be satisfied before that date and such were the only decrees within the contemplation of the section and no others.	Arguments of Petitioner
Decrees passed after 1st January, 1939, could not be satisfied before that date and consequently they were outside the exception contained in the proviso.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that the reliefs provided for in section 36 being available to the borrower in the suit itself there was no necessity to touch the decrees passed in such suits and these were protected from attack by the rule of res judicata.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards decrees passed between 1st January, 1939 and 1st September 1940, the date of the coming into force of the act, it was said that the legislature had by oversight failed to legislate about them.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question canvassed in this Court was not seriously argued before the High Court.	None
The learned counsel appearing for the Respondents in that Court made no attempt to support the decision of the Subordinate Judge on this point.	Arguments of Respondent
In such a situation we might have declined to go into this matter but as the point was ably argued and may have to be decided hereafter, we consider at proper to pronounce finally on it even though we have not the advantage of a considered decision of the High Court on it.	None
6.	None
The relevant provisions of the Bengal Money Lenders Act concerning this issue are contained in sec.	None
2, clauses (21) and (22) and secs.	None
30 and 36.	None
Sec. 2 is the interpretation section and clauses (21) and (22) run thus  (21) suit includes an appeal (22) suit to which this Act applies means any suit or proceeding instituted or filed on or after the 1st day of January, 1939, or pending on that date and includes a proceeding in execution  (a) for the recovery of a loan advanced before or after the commencement of this Act (b) for the enforcement of any agreement entered into before or after the commencement of this Act, whether by way of settlement of account or otherwise, or of any security so taken, in respect of any loan advanced whether before or after the commencement of this Act or (c) for the redemption of security given before or after the commencement of this Act in respect of any loan advanced whether before or after the commencement of this Act.	None
7.	None
Retrospective effect has been expressly given to the Act by including within its scope loans advanced before its enforcement.	Reasoning
So far as loans advanced after the coming into force of the Act are concerned, they are obviously within the ambit of a suit to which the Act apples.	Reasoning
The definition includes within its scope proceedings in execution and by way of appeal.	Reasoning
Briefly summarized, the dennition contemplates the existence of the following classes of decrees  (1) Those passed before 1st January, 1939, regarding which an execution proceeding may be pending.	Reasoning
(2) Those passed before 1st January, 1939, an appeal against which is pending or is filed on that date or after that date.	Reasoning
(3)	None
Those passed after 1st January, 1939, and before 1st September, 1940, in suits instituted or filed on or after that date or pending then.	Reasoning
(4) Those passed after 1st September, 1940, the date of commencement of the Act, on loans advanced before or after that date.	Reasoning
8.	None
It is apparent therefore that our of the four kinds of decrees that would be in contemplation of the legislature in the definition of the expression A suit to which this Act applies only classes (1) and (2) could be in existence before 1st January, 1939, and classes (3) and (4) could only come into existence after 1st January, 1939 and 1st September, 1940.	Reasoning
Some decrees in classes (1) and (2) could be such as may have been satisfied by payment even though proceedings in execution or appeal were pending.	Reasoning
The definition also includes within its scope  A proceeding in respect of any application relating to the admission or amount of proof of a loan advanced before or after the commencement of this act in any insolvency proceedings.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, or in any agreement, (1) no borrower shall be liable to pay after the commencement of this Act  (a) any sum in respect of principal and interest which together with any amount already paid or included in any decree in respect of a loan exceeds twice the principal of the original loan, (b) on account of interest outstanding on the date up to which such liability, a sum greater than the principal outstanding on such date, (c) interest at a rate per annum exceeding in the case of (i) unsecured loans, ten per centum simple, (ii) secured loans, eight per centum simple, whether such loan was advanced or such amount was paid or such decree was passed or such interest accrued before or after the commencement of this Act (2) no borrower shall after the commencement of this Act, be deemed to have been liable to pay before the date of such commencement in respect of interest paid before such date or included in a decree passed before date, interest at rates per annum exceeding those specified in subclause (c) of clause (1) 9.	None
Under this section no borrower is liable to pay after 1st September 1940 interest at a rate exceeding eight per cent on secured loans, even if included in a decree passed before that date (191940).	Reasoning
This is the substantive law on the question of a debtors liability.	Reasoning
In express terms in subsection (2) it is stated that on decrees passed before 191940 interest has to be reduced to the rate allowed by the section, whether these decrees came into existence before 1139 or after 1139.	Reasoning
Decrees passed after 191940 are obviously governed by the provisions of this section.	Reasoning
Section 36 (1) (c) and (d) provides as follows  The Court shall exercise all or any of the following powers as it may consider appropriate, namely, shall  (c) release the borrower of all liability in excess of the limits specified in clauses (1) and (2) of section 30 (d) if anything has been paid on allowed in account on or after the first day of January, 1939, in respect of the liability referred to in clause (c), order the lender to repay any sum which the Court considers to be repayable in respect of such payment or allowance in account as aforesaid.	None
10.	None
Excess interest paid after 1st January 1939 and before 1st September 1940 and included in a decree is made refundable.	Reasoning
It cannot be therefore argued that the legislature failed to provide for a relief regarding excess interest included in decrees passed between 111939 and 111940.	Reasoning
Qua these it provided a larger relief (i.e. of refund) than provided for elsewhere in the Act.	Reasoning
The present case falls within section 30 (2) because the decree was made before the commencement of the Act, namely, 1st September 1940, and excess interest is included in it which is not allowed by the Act.	Reasoning
To determine the amount of the excess it is necessary to reopen it.	Reasoning
Section 36 is in these terms  (I) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, if in any suit to which this Act applies, or in any suit brought by a borrower for relief under this section whether heard ex parte or otherwise the Court has reason to believe that the exercise of one or more of the powers under section will give relief to the borrower, it shall exercise all or any of the following powers as it may consider appropriate, namely, shall  (a) reopen any transaction and take an account between the parties (b) notwithstanding any agreement, purporting to close previous dealings and to create new obligations, reopen any account already taken between the parties, (c) release the borrower of all liability in excess of the limits specified in clauses (1) and (2) of section 30 (d) (e) set aside either wholly or in part or revise or alter any security Provided that in exercise of these powers the Court shall not  (i) (ii) do anything which affects any decrees of a Court, other than a decree in a suit to which this Act applies which was not fully satisfied by the first day of January, 1939, or anything which affects an award made under the Bengal Agricultural Debtors Act, 1935.	None
Explanation  A decree shall not, for the purposes of this section be deemed to have been fully satisfied so long as there remains undisposed of an application by the decreeholder for possession of property purchased by him in execution of the decree.(2)	None
If in exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1) the Court reopens a decree, the Court  (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (3) (4) (5) (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force,  (a) the Court which, in a suit to which this Act applies, passed a decree which was not fully satisfied by the first day of January, 1939, may exercise the powers conferred by subsections (1) and (2) (i) in any proceedings in execution of such decree, or (ii) on an application for review of such decree made within one year of the date of commencement of this Act, and the provisions of rules 2 and 5 of order XLVII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, shall not apply to any such application (b) any Court before which an appeal is pending in respect of a decree referred to in clause (a) may either itself exercise the like powers as may be exercised under subsections (1) and (2), or refer the case to the Court which passed the decree directing such Court to exercise such powers, and such Court shall, after exercise thereof return the record with the additional evidence, if any taken by it and its findings and the reasons therefor to the Appellate Court and thereupon the provisions of rule 26 of Order XLI of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, shall apply.	None
11.	None
This section indicates the reliefs a Court can grant where a judgment debtor has been made liable on a contract for interest in excess of that provided for in this Act.	Reasoning
It confers jurisdiction on Court to reopen a transaction and take an account between the parties and release the borrower of all liabilities for excess interest.	Reasoning
It further confers powers on the Court in certain cases to direct refund of the amount of excess interest.	Reasoning
The Court is also empowered to revise a contract made between the parties.	Reasoning
The proviso to the section prohibits the doing of anything which affects any decree of the Court, other than a decree in a suit to which this Act applies and which was not fully satisfied by 1st January, 1939.	Reasoning
The words of the proviso which was not fully satisfied by 1st January, 1939 have furnished a plausible argument to the appellant in so far as the contends that as no decree passed after 1st January 1939 could possibly be satisfied by that date, such decrees are outside the scope of exception to the proviso.	Reasoning
The language of the proviso in plain terms means, (1) that there is no jurisdiction to reopen decrees passed in suits to which this Act does not apply, and (2) that decrees passed in suits to which the Act applies dan be reopened.	Reasoning
Such decrees are of four classes, as already indicated, and all of them are within the exception to the proviso, barring those that have not only been passed before 111939 but have also been satisfied before then.	Reasoning
The words of the proviso which was not fully satisfied by 111939 are in the nature of an exception to an exception and this exception also is of a very limited nature.	Reasoning
Out of decrees passed in suits to which this Act applies, a few may have been passed and satisfied before 111939, and an immunity was given to them from the provisions of section 36 otherwise it would have affected all of them.	Reasoning
The language used in the proviso on its first reading creates a little hesitation as to its correct meaning but when read with the interpretation clause and in the light of section 30(2) and section 36 (5) and (6), the doubt disappears.	Reasoning
Once it is held that all decrees passed in suits to which the Act has application are outside the proviso, then the only decrees that remain within it in such suits are those which may have been passed before 1st January, 1939, and were fully satisfied by that date.	Reasoning
The general exception contained in the proviso concerned decrees in all other kinds of suits.	Reasoning
In other words, there is one general exception provided for in the proviso qua decrees in suits other than those to which the Act applies and then there is a limited exception provided therein for certain decrees passed in suits to which the Act applies.	Reasoning
Subsection (6) of sec.	Reasoning
36 provides a summary and an alternative remedy regarding decrees passed but not satisfied by 1st January, 1939.	Reasoning
Instead of a resort to a regular suit, in such cases relief can be claimed in execution or by preferring a review within one year or by raising the question before the Court of appeal, it an appeal is pending.	Reasoning
The legislature in its anxiety to give relief to debtors provided facilities to obtain in all possible ways, and the power to review was also enlarged with this object.	Reasoning
It seems to me that any other interpretation of the section would produce strange results and would result in anomalies.	Reasoning
The words of the section which were not fully satisfied by 1st January, 1939.	Reasoning
if interpreted in the manner suggested by the Appellants learned counsel, would exclude all decrees passed in suits pending on 1st January, 1939, or instituted after that date from the scope of the exception to the proviso, because decrees which can be satisfied by 1st January, 1939, can only be those passed antecedent to that date.	Reasoning
This construction would produce a repugnancy between the two parts of the same section, the latter part providing that only decrees that came into existence before 1st January, 1939, are within it and the earlier part saying that decrees passed in suits filed after 1st January, 1939, are also included in it.	Reasoning
Such a construction has to be avoided and if it is not possible to avoid it, then these words have to be ignored because otherwise the enactment qua decrees passed in suits to which the Act applies becomes, to all intents and purposes, useless.	Reasoning
Any reference to decrees passed in suits to which the Act applies would have been unnecessary in suits to which Act applies would have been unnecessary in the section.	Reasoning
The construction suggested by the Appellants also creates an anomaly inasmuch as the result or it is that older decrees can be reopened under sec.	Reasoning
30.	Reasoning
If not satisfied, while more recent ones in which excess interest against the law is included become immune from attack.	Reasoning
In a statute framed to relieve debtors from excessive interest, such a construction is unsustainable.	Reasoning
The words of a remedial statute must be construed so far as they reasonably admit so as to secure that the relief contemplated by the statute shall not be denied to the persons intended to be relieved.	Reasoning
At one time in the Calcutta High Court some doubts were expressed as to the true meaning of the proviso, but the matter was clarified in Sailabala v. Harish Chandra (1).	None
It was there rightly held that sec.	Reasoning
36 (a) (1) of the Bengal Money Lenders Act applied to a case where the decree was passed subsequent to 1st January, 1939, in a suit to which that Act applied.	Reasoning
12.Reference was made to a decision of their Lordships of the Privy Council in Renula Bose, Sreemati v. Rai Manmatha Nath Bose.	None
That case concerned an assignee and no relief could be claimed against him by reason of subsec.	Reasoning
(5) of sec.36.	Reasoning
Emphasis was laid on the following passage in that judgment  It will be observed that the subsection does not specifically, mention a judgment or decree as one of the matters which the Court may reopen, but it is abundantly clear that it is intended to give the Court that power.	Reasoning
The drafting of the section is unfortunate and obscure, but inasmuch as by the second proviso to subse.	Reasoning
1 it is enacted that in the exercise of its powers the Court shall not do anything which affects any decree of a Court.	Reasoning
Other than a decree in a suit to which this Act applies which was not fully satisfied by the 1st January, 1939, and as subsec.	Reasoning
2 contains a variety of provisions as to what the Court may and may not do on reopening a decree it is clear that the legislature intended that the power of reopening or reopening a transaction should extend to reopening a decree obtained by a lender which had not been fully satisfied by 1st January, 1939, Their Lordships are also unable to agree with the opinion of the learned Judge as to sec.	Reasoning
30 having no retrospective effect.	Reasoning
In one sense this is true, because, as already pointed out in this judgment, all that the section by itself does not is to give the borrower a defence as to quantum when sued.	Reasoning
But when that section is read with sec.	Reasoning
36 it appears to their lordships to be clear that the relief given by the section can be granted where relief under the Act is sought by a judgmentdebtor in respect of a decree which had not been fully satisfied by 1st January, 1939, and which musts therefore, have been obtained before the Act came into force.	Reasoning
This quotation does not help the contention of the Appellants on the other hand, it negatives it, as indicated by the words underlined by me.	Reasoning
From this passage it cannot be inferred that the Privy Council ruled that no relief could be given regarding decrees passed after 1st September, 1940.	Reasoning
13.	None
The result therefore is that the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
MUKHERJEA, J.  14.	None
I agree that this appeal should be dismissed and I would like to say a few words, indicating briefly the reasons which have weighed with me in holding the decision of the High Court to be correct.	None
The material facts of the case lie within a short compass, and are not in dispute, and as they have been set out fully in the judgment of my learned brother Mahajan, J., it is not necessary for me to state them over again.	None
15.	None
The appeal arises out of a suit commenced by the mortgagor plaintiff, who is the Respondent before us, for reopening of a mortgage decree against her, and for other consequential reliefs under sec.	Issue
36 of the Bengal Money Lenders Act and the whole controversy between the parties, so far as this Court is concerned, centres round the point as to whether on a proper construction of the language of proviso (ii) to sec.	Issue
36 (1) Bengal Money Lenders Act, the decree in question is liable to be reopened under the provisions of the Act.	Issue
The High Court has decided the question in favour of the Plaintiff, overruling the contrary view taken by the trial judge, and the sole point for our consideration is whether the interpretation put by the learned Judges of the High Court upon the language of the proviso, mentioned above, is correct.	Issue
16.	None
The Bengal Money Lenders Act, as its preamble shows, was passed to regulate and control moneylenders and moneylending transactions in Bengal.	None
The reliefs intended to be afforded to borrowers are provided for in Chapters VI and VII of the Act.	None
Chapter VI fixes the maximum rate of interest legally recoverable from borrowers and the total amount which could be claimed a principal and interest in respect to any loan.	None
Chapter VII of which sec.	None
36 forms a part, makes details provisions for reopening of transaction and previous adjustments and settlements for the purpose of giving reliefs to which the borrower is entitled under the Act.	None
Sec. 36 (1) gives power to the Court to reopen any transaction and taken an account between the parties, to reopen any account already taken in spite of an agreement between the parties by which they purposed to close their previous dealings, to relieve the borrower from liability to pay interest in excess of the limits prescribed by sec.	None
30 of the Act	None
and	None
to give other consequential reliefs.	None
As was pointed out by the Judicial Committee in Renula v. Manmotha Nath (2), although the drafting of the section is unfortunate and obscure, there is no doubt that it contemplates reopening of decrees, and this is apparent from the provision of subsec.	None
(2) of the section as well as that of the second proviso attached to subsec.	None
(1) which concerns us materially in the present case.	None
The proviso (ii) to subsec.	None
(1) lays down that in exercise of the powers conferred by the different clauses of the subsection, the Court shall not do anything which affects any decree of a Court other than a decree in a suit to which this Act applies which was not fully satisfied by the first of January, 1939.	None
The proviso thus puts a limitation upon the powers of reopening transactions which the Court can exercise under subsec.	None
(1), and it seems that the intention of the legislature is to keep decrees of Court beyond the pale of these exception which the proviso lays down.	None
Thus before a decree could be touched or affected, two conditions would have to be satisfied first, it must be a decree in a suit to which this Act applies and secondly, it must not have been fully satisfied by the 1st of January, 1939.The expression a suit to which the Act applies has been defined in sec.	None
2 (22) of the Act as meaning any suit or proceeding instituted or filed on or after 1st of January, 1939, or pending on that date and includes a proceeding in execution, provided, the object of such suit or proceeding is the recovery of loan advanced before or after the commencement of the Act, or the enforcement of any agreement or redemption of any security as laid down in clauses (b) and (c) of the subsection.	None
It is not disputed that the first condition has been fulfilled in the present case because the mortgage suit in which the decree was passed was instituted after the 1st of January, 1939.	None
The controversy narrows down to the short point as to whether the other requirement has been satisfied.	None
The second condition is negative in its terms and in order to comply with it, is has got to be shown that the decree was not fully satisfied by the 1st of January, 1939.	None
Taking the clause in its natural meaning, it is certainly be said that the Plaintiff has fulfilled the requirement of this clause inasmuch as the decree itself was passed subsequent to 1st January, 1939 and ex hypothesi it could not be satisfied by that date.	None
The Appellants contention is that it is not appropriate in ordinary language to speak of a decree passed after 1st January, 1939, that it was not satisfied before that date.	Arguments of Petitioner
The language is certainly not happy but mere inappropriateness of language would not justify us in adopting an interpretation which leads to anomalous results and frustrates the very object of the legislation.	None
It is more reasonable to hold as Max well says (1) that the legislature expressed its intention in a slovenly manner than that a meaning should be given to the worlds which could not have been intended.	None
It would be clear from the different sections of the Act that the intention of the legislature was to make its provisions retrospective to a considerable extent.	None
Under sec.	None
30 of the Act, the relief against excess interest is provided for in all cases whether or not the loan was contracted before or after the commencement of the Act.	None
Sec. 30, however, as was pointed out the Judicial Committee in the case of Renula v. Manmotha (2), by itself does not affect judgments already obtained.	None
A judgmentdebtor could obtain relief as is provided for in sec.	None
30 of the Act only by reopening the decree for which provisions are made in sec.36.	None
17.	None
It appears from the very definition of the expression a suit to which the Act applies as given in sec.	None
(22) of the Bengal Money Lenders Act as well as the detailed provisions embodied in sec.	None
36 that in the matter of reopening of decrees the legislature has taken the 1st of January, 1993, as the material date and a decree could be reopened only if the suit or any proceeding in connection with the decree was pending on or after the 1st of January, 1939, and the decree itself was not fully satisfied by that date.	None
If the contention of the Appellant is accepted and all decrees passed after 1st January, 1939, are deemed to be outside the purview of sec.	None
36 for the simple reason that it could not be appropriately said of them that they must not be satisfied by the 1st of January, 1939, the result will be just the reverse of what the legislature has contemplated, and holders of decrees passed after 1st January, 1939, would be entitled to no relief under the Act, and they would be in a worse position than those who had obtained decrees prior to that date.	None
18.	None
As has been said above, the proviso (ii) to sec.	None
36 (1) of the Bengal Money Lenders Act lays down two conditions one of which is cast in an affirmative and the other in a negative form.	None
To fulfil the first condition, the decree has got to be passed in a suit to which the Act applies.	None
Normally such a suit is one which is pending on or is instituted after the 1st of January, 1939, and a decree passed in such suit could not possibly be satisfied before that date.	None
It is true that if execution proceedings in connection with a decree passed before 1st of January, 1939, are pending on or after that date, the decree would still be deemed to be made in a suit to which the Act applies but having regard to the explanation attached to the proviso to sec.	None
36 (1) which lays down under what circumstances a decree would be deemed to be fully satisfied for purposes of the Act the cases in which such decrees could be fully satisfied by the 1st of January, 1939, must be extremely rare.	None
Other exceptional cases can also be conceived of, where a decree though passed prior to 1st January, 1939, might still be pending in an appeal after that date and there might not be any inherent impossibility in such a decree being fully satisfied before the material time.	None
It may be that the legislature had in mind these and similar other exceptional cases when it introduced the second clause in the proviso, but it would be inappropriate to suggest that the operation of the proviso is confined to such cases only.	None
The result of such interpretation would be to make the proviso unworkable for all practical purposes, one part of it being, in the majority of case, contradictory to the other.	None
To me it seems that the object of the legislature in inserting the second clause in the proviso to sec.	None
36 (1) is not to exclude decrees passed after 1st January, 1939, from the benefit of the section, but only to lay down an additional requirement which has to be fulfilled in cases where the decree though passed prior to 1st of January, 1939, could still be deemed to be made in suit to which the Act applies as intended that no relief by way of reopening of decree should be before that date.	None
There could be no doubt that the legislature intended that no relief by way of reopening of a decree should be granted if the decree was fully satisfied by the 1st of January, 1939 and to attract the operation of the proviso, it must be established as a fact in case of a decree passed prior to 1st of January, 1939, that it remained unsatisfied partially at least at this relevant date.	None
When, however, the decree was one made subsequent to 1st of January, 1939, it would exhypothesi remain unsatisfied on that date, and it would be clearly within the intendment of the legislature to bring such cases within the purview of the proviso.	None
This seems to me to be the plain interpretation of the language that has been used in proviso (ii) to sec.	None
36 (1).	None
19.	None
I may add here that it is quite in consonance with established rules of interpration that when a negative condition in the shape of non existence of a certain fact is prescribed as an essential pre requisite to a particular legal result, the condition is deemed to be satisfied if the existence of the fact has been rendered impossible by circumstances.	None
The Privy Council in the case of Renula v. Manmotha Nath (2), adopted the same principle of interpretation while construing clause (5) of sec.	None
36 of the Bengal Money Lenders Act.	None
That clause protects an assignee, for value, of a loan, from the operation of sec.	None
36, if the Court is satisfied that the assignment to him was made bona fide and he had not received the notice referred to in sec.	None
28 (1) (a) of the Act.	None
It could not be appropriately said of a preAct assignee that he had not received a notice under the provision of the Act, and it was argued before the Judicial Committee that the operation of the clause was confined to cases where the assignment took their Lordships held that the effect to upholding such a contention would be that an assignee to whom no notice could be given would occupy as bad a position as one who had received notice.	None
The identical line of reasoning, in my opinion, could be applied to this case.	None
In my opinion, therefore, the view taken by the High Court is right and this appeal must fail and should be dismissed with costs.	None
