 Sarkaria, J.1.	None
This appeal is directed against the judgment, D  211973 of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, declaring void the election of the appellant Bhagat Ram Bhagtu to the Haryana State Assembly.	Issue
The material facts are theseElection to the Haryana State Legislature took place in March 1972.	Facts
Bhagtu Ram appellant, Bhagat Ram respondent and three others contested the election as rival candidates from Kalayat Constituency (Reserved).	Facts
The result was announced on March 12, 1972.	Facts
Appellant secured 17032 votes as against 15812 polled by Bhagat Ram, respondent herein.	Facts
Appellant was declared elected.2.	Facts
Bhagat Ram respondent filed an election petition under the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter called the Act) challenging the election of the appellant on three grounds.	Facts
Of them, only these two are relevant for the purpose of this appeal (1) The returned candidate and his workers with his consent published a statement of fact (poster, Exh.	Facts
P. W. 1/1) which was false and which he either believed to be false or did not believe to be true and that statement relating to the personal character and conduct of the petitioner, was reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the petitioners election and thus he committed a corrupt practice under Section 123 (4) of the Act.	Issue
(2) The returned candidate incurred or authorised, in connection with his election, expenditure to the tune of Rupees 15,000/, in contravention of the requirements of Section 77 of the.	Issue
Act and thus committed the corrupt practice under Section 123 (6) of the Act.3.	Facts
Issues 1 and 2 framed by the learned trial Judge relate to the first charge, and Issue 6 to the second.	Facts
Issues 1 and 2 were decided against the petitioner.	Facts
Under Issue 6, it was held that the returned candidate had incurred, in connection with his election, expenditure of Rs. 93.02 in excess of the permissible limit of Rs.	Facts
9,000/. On this short ground the election petition was allowed, and the election of the returned candidate was set aside.	None
Hence this appeal.4.	Facts
In the statement of Account, Ex.	Facts
P. W. 6/1, filed under Section 78 of the Act, the appellant showed the incurring of a total expenditure of Rs. 1,668.92 in connection with his election.	Facts
The permissible limit being Rs. 9,000/, the electionpetitioner, in order to succeed, had to prove that the returned candidate had incurred or authorised the election expenses, aggregating more than Rs. 7331.08, in addition to those disclosed in the return Ex.	Facts
P. W. 6/1.5.	Facts
The learned trial Judge found that the returned candidate had incurred or authorised, in connection with his, election these items of expenditure, which are not covered by his return of election expenses.	Facts
Ex. P. W. 6/1(i)	Facts
Hire of jeep, HRB. 3638Rs.2800.00(ii) Hire of jeep, HRJ698Rs.2800.00(iii) Hire of Taxi DLY371Rs.	Facts
72000(iv)	None
Excess amount of petrol and mobile oil purchased from M s. Chiranji Lal Sardha RamRs.	None
734.71(v) Amount of petrol etc. purchased from M s. Kali Ram Mittal and Brothers, NarwanaRs. 369.39TotalRs.7424.106.	Facts
Shri Kapil Sibal, learned Counsel for the appellant assails the findings of the High Court regarding items (i), (ii) and (iv) only.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
A peculiar feature of the case, as rightly stressed by Shri Sibal, is that annoyed by the postelection somersault taken by the appellant, his principal workers, Suresh Chander, Lal Chand, Ch.	Arguments of Petitioner
Inder Singh, Advocate and others, who had steered his election campaign to victory at the Polls, are now making a concerted effort to see him unseated through the instrumentality of the election petition.	Facts
Although at the outset  proceeds the argument  the learned trial Judge noticed this feature which overshadows the entire case, he overlooked it while appraising the oral evidence of the drivers of the jeeps, HRB3638 and HRJ698.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel maintains that the entire evidence in this case should have been appraised against the above background.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that since the electionpetition has been conceived and propelled with the support of the former workers of the appellant, who have now turned hostile to him, it was hazardous to accept the oral evidence of the drivers of the Jeeps, when it had not been corroborated by unimpeachable documentary evidence.8.	Facts
As against the above, Shri Dikshit, Learned Counsel for the respondent, submits that the oral evidence adduced in regard to Issue No. 6, was materially corroborated by documentary evidence furnished by the entries in the account books of M s. Chiranjilal Sardha Ram, petrol dealers, and the statement of election expenses, Ex. R. W. 1/10, which admittedly bears the signature of the appellant.9.	Arguments of Respondent
It is true that there is one peculiar feature which casts its shadow on all the warp and woof of this case and cautions the Court to examine the evidence with more than ordinary care.	None
The learned trial Judge also adverted to it thusOne broad feature of this case which has to be kept in view while appraising the evidence of the parties is that though the respondent had been elected on the Congress (O) ticket with the support of the Jan Sangh and some other opposition parties, he appears to have annoyed his supporters by his postelection political conduct resulting in his supporters having become his avowed enemies who are now anxious to get him unseated.	None
His principal workers in the election were P. W. 4, Suresh Chander President of the Jind District Congress (O) Committee, Chaudhry Inder Singh Advocate who has conducted this case on behalf of the electionpetitioner, and	None
P. W. 9	None
Lal Chand, the scribe of the two manuscripts of the disputed poster The Counsel for the petitioner has tried to justify the action of the supporters of the respondent in trying to get their own erstwhile candidate unseated by reference to what has been called by him defection of the respondent from the Congress (O) party.	None
Be that as it may, the fact remains that I will have to be very cautious in placing reliance on the bare oral testimony of such witnesses unless the same is corroborated in material particulars by some unimpeachable evidence or some proved documents.10.	None
The learned Judge had thus correctly enunciated the principle of prudence which had to be strictly adhered to in the peculiar circumstances of this case.	Facts
The question is Did he do so while appraising the evidence relating to Issue No. 6, in particular?	Facts
Bearing this question in mind, we will now consider the evidence relating to items (i) and (ii).11.	Facts
The evidence produced by the petitioner to establish the hiring charges of Jeep HRB3638 and Jeep HRJ698 consisted of the oral statements of Chander Singh, P. W. 10, and Hazura Singh, PW11, the alleged drivers of those vehicles.12.	Facts
Chander Singh, P. W. 10, is a resident of village Sadhana, Tehsil Hansi, District Hissar.	Facts
He stated that he had become a driver of Jeep Regd.	Facts
No. HRB 3638, owned by Megha Ram about five or six months before the date of his deposition (i.e. in February, March, 1972).	Facts
According to the witness, Bhagtu Ram (appellant) and his son, Balbir Chand, both had come to Jind, where the owner of the jeep was then living, and hired this vehicle for 35 days at the rate of Rs. 80/ per day, for a total amount of Rs. 2,800/ out of which, Rs. 1,000/ were then paid in advance against a written acknowledgment given by the witness to Balbir Chand.	Facts
The balance of Rs. 1,800/ was to be paid at the time of returning the vehicle.	Facts
Balbir Chand also gave a writing to the witness to the effect, that the jeep had been hired for 35 days.	Facts
Chander Singh further stated that at the time of the final payment, he passed a receipt to Balbir Chand and returned Balbir Chands original writing to the latter.	Facts
His evidence further was that during the hiring period, Chiranji Lal petroldealer of Narwana used to supply him petrol for his jeep on the basis of chits issued by Suresh Chander.	Facts
Witness further tried to support the petitioners case, saying that Jeep No. 4311 driven by Ram Sarup and Jeep No. 698 driven by Hazura Sing were also hired and used by Bhagtu Ram in connection with his election.13.	Facts
We will comment generally on the evidence given by Chander Singh and Hazura Singh, later.	Facts
At this place three weak spots in the statement of Chander Singh may be noted.	Facts
Firstly, he did not give the date or even the month to fix the time when, Bhagtu Ram and Balbir Singh came to Jind to hire the jeep.	Facts
He simply said that he was engaged as a driver of this jeep five or six months before the date of his deposition.	Facts
He was examined on August 25, 1972.	Facts
The date of his employment as driver of the jeep would work out to the 4th week of February or March, 1972.	Facts
The hiring of the Jeep, therefore on this interpretation of Chander Singhs statement, took place at the earliest, towards the end of February 1972 and not in the first week of that month.	Facts
Secondly in examinationinchief his position was that Megha Ram, the owner of the Jeep was living in Jind and that was why Bhagtu Ram came and contacted him and the witness there.	Facts
In crossexamination, he seems to have deviated from that position.	None
There, he said that Megha Ram was living in village Budain and not in Jind  which is 1718 miles from Jind, and that the hiring deal was not made with Megha Ram but with the witness.	Facts
Witness was anxious to keep Megha Ram out of the picture.	Facts
Thirdly, never before this Jeep had been hired out.	Facts
It was a private vehicle which was formerly used by the owner for domestic purposes only.	Facts
Nor did Bhagtu Ram take or borrow this vehicle on any prior occasion.14.	Facts
P. W. 11 Hazoora Singhs statement is of the same pattern as that of Chander Singh (P. W. 10).	Facts
He however, expressly said that the Jeep, Regd.	Facts
No. HRJ698, driven by him, was hired on the 5th February, 1972, at Jind by Bhagtu Ram who was then accompanied by his son Balbir Chand, at Rs. 80/ a day for 35 days.	Facts
He received Rs. 1,000/ in advance and the balance of Rs. 1,800/ on March 11, 1972 at the conclusion of the work and passed one consolidated receipt for the entire sum of Rs. 2800/ to Bhagtu Ram.	Facts
Of course, this witness did not say that Bhagtu Ram had obtained any voucher from the witness regarding the advance payment of Rs.	Facts
1,000/. He also stated that petrol used to be obtained from the filling station of Chiranji Lal of Narwana against chits issued by Suresh Chander, and in the latters absence, against chits issued by Suresh Chanders uncle.	Facts
Like Chander Singh, this witness also does not confine his evidence to the hiring of the Jeep driven by him, but also goes on to say with regard to the hiring and use of Jeep No. 3638 driven by Chander Singh and Jeep No. 4311 driven by Ram Sarup.	Facts
Further, he claims to be a witness of the payment of Rs. 1,000 or Rs. 1,200 to Ram Sarup and Rs. 1,800 to Chander Singh.	Facts
Ha admitted that	Facts
Jeep No.	Facts
HRJ 698 did not belong to him but to an armyman, named Hukm Singh of Sindhir Khera.15.	Facts
The learned trial Judge has held that P.Ws.	Facts
Chander Singh and Hazur Singh were independent witnesses.	Facts
We do not think so.	Facts
Although both these witnesses tried hard to keep out Suresh Chander from the hiring deal, yet from what had been elicited in the crossexamination of Inder Singh, P. W. 14, it was clear that it was Suresh Chander, the principal worker and officeholder of Congress (O) Party who had procured or hired these vehicles.	Facts
Inder Singh P. W. 14, in examinationinchief had stated that Jeeps Nos. 698 and 3638 had been obtained from Jind but the witness did not know the names of their drivers.	Facts
In crossexamination Inder Singh clearly said that on 521972 when these jeeps arrived from Jind, Pt. Suresh Chander and Balbir Singh were with them.	Facts
No attempt was made in reexamination to show that Bhagtu Ram was also with those vehicles at that time.16.	Facts
The version of P. Ws. 10 and 11 that Bhagtu Ram himself had gone to Jind along with his son to hire these jeeps was otherwise highly improbable.	Facts
Election campaign must have by then gained momentum and the candidate could illafford to be away from his constituency at that time.	Facts
Pt. Suresh Chander, the General Secretary of the District Congress (O) Jind was the best person to do this job.	Facts
Moreover, Bhagtu Ram, the candidate of their party was an illiterate person.	Facts
He had left the Organization and conduct of his election compaign entirely to Suresh Chander, Ch.	Facts
Inder Singh and other workers of the party.17.	Facts
As already noticed, both P. Ws.	Facts
Chander Singh and Hazura Singh admitted that petrol for these vehicles used to be drawn against chits issued by Suresh Chander.	Facts
Hazura Singh further admitted that arrangements for the stay of the workers of Bhagtu Ram had been made on the first floor of the shop of Suresh Chander.	Facts
Both these witnesses betrayed an anxiety to give an omnibus account covering all the vehicles which according to Suresh Chander P. W. 1 were used in the election compaign of Bhagtu Ram.	Facts
Their evidence appears to bear the stamp of P. W. Suresh Chander.18.	Facts
As a matter of caution therefore, it was unsafe to accept the ipse dixit of the drivers of these jeeps without its being corroborated in material particulars by unimpeachable evidence.19.	None
We will now examine the oral evidence given by P. W. 4 Suresh Chander.	None
He went whole hog to support the allegations in the petition.	None
Regarding the vehicles being hired and used in the election campaign of Bhagtu Ram, he saidSo far as I remember, the particulars of the vehicles which were being used by the contesting respondent in connection with his election were these(i) one jeep registered No. 4311, belonging to his relative Ram Sarup of Moonak hired by the contesting respondent at Rs. 70/ per day driven by Ram Sarup himself.	None
This vehicle was used by the contesting respondent for about five weeks(ii) Two jeeps had been obtained on hire by the contesting respondent from Jind at Rs. 80 per day per vehicle.	None
I do not remember the registered numbers of those vehicles.	None
One of the jeeps was driven by Chander and the other by Hazoora Singh.	None
Both these jeeps were used by the contesting respondent from February 6, 1972 to March 11, 1972(iii)	None
One car had been hired by the contesting respondent from Delhi with effect from March 4, 1972, at so far as I remember Rs. 80/ per day.	None
That vehicle worked for the contesting respondent for about nine days in the course of the election(iv)	None
Some vehicles had been obtained by respondent No. 1 from Narwana and some from Kalayat(v)	None
Respondent No. 1 himself used his own jeep.	None
Sometimes he used to go in other vehicles also.	None
He further stated that the hiring charges of these vehicles were exclusive of petrol and oil which was supplied from the filling station of Messrs Chiranji Lal Sardha Ram against chits issued by the witness.20.	None
It may be noted that P. W. 4 Suresh Chander, the star witness of the petitioner was actuated by a spirit of revenge against the appellant who had proved unfaithful to the witness and the party that had supported him in the election.	None
The evidence of P. W. 4 Suresh Chander therefore was rightly not accepted to a material extent by the learned trial Judge who found that an attempt had been made by Suresh Chander to fabricate false evidence with the aid of P. W. Ram Kumar, the Munim of M s. Chiranji Lal Sardha Ram.	None
Suresh Chanders evidence which was per se unreliable could not lend assurance to the oral evidence of Chander Singh and Hazoora Singh.	None
Rather, as already observed the hand of P. W. Suresh Chander in procuring the jeeps and the evidence of P.Ws. 10 and 11 was faintly discernible, it having been unwittingly revealed by P. W. 14 in crossexamination.21.	None
Now we turn to the documentary evidence which appears to have been used by the High Court to corroborate P.Ws. 10 and 11.22.	None
The first document which has been so used is Ex. R. W. 10/1.23.	None
It is not disputed that this statement bears the signature of the appellant.	Reasoning
Bhagtu Ram explained that he was an illiterate man, and he had left all the electionmatters including the preparation of return of election expenses entirely to Chander Singh, Advocate and Pt. Suresh Chander who prepared it and got it typed and then presented it to him for signature.	Reasoning
Bhagtu Ram could not say whether his signatures were obtained by Chander Singh and Suresh Chander on two or three such returns.	Reasoning
Witness expressed ignorance as to how many of those returns were typewritten and how many handwritten.	None
Even the return Ex.	None
P. W. 6/1 was not prepared or typed in the presence of the witness.	Reasoning
Witness did not care to check up before signing the returns of election expenses put up to him for signatures as to what was the total figure of expenses shown in each of them.	Reasoning
On further crossexamination Bhagtu Ram stated that Chaudhary Inder Singh and Pt. Suresh Chander had obtained his signatures on two or four large blank sheets, besides hundreds of blankforms.	None
He did not ask them why his signatures were being obtained on blank sheets of paper.	None
The entire record used to remain with Pt. Suresh Chander.	Reasoning
Bhagtu Ram has said that he had such a confidence in Pt. Suresh Chander and Chander Singh that had entrusted his life to them.	Reasoning
He emphatically denied having ever hired or used jeeps Nos. HRB3638 and HRJ698 in connection with his election.24.	Reasoning
The learned trial Judge noted that the hiring charges stated in Ex. R. W. 10/1, did not tally with the amount mentioned in the charge levelled by the petitioner.	Reasoning
Again, later on, he observed The entry in the return Ex. R. W. 10/l, alone cannot be relied upon for proving the particular charge against respondent No. 1 as it is the admitted case of both sides that the amounts mentioned in the return were not correct.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the learned Judge held that Ex. R. W. 10/1, can be utilized for the purpose of corroborating other evidence.25.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the circumstances delineated by Bhagtu Ram coupled with the dubious manner in which Ex. R. W. 10/1 was smuggled into the case at a very late stage, were sufficient to condemn it as totally unworthy of reliance.	Reasoning
It was of no use even for corroboration.	Reasoning
Far from corroborating, it stood in sharp contradiction to the evidence given by P.Ws.10 and 11 on all the essential points in issue, namely, the amount of the hiring charges, the rate of hire and the period of hiring.	Reasoning
Even as a previous statement, it could be used only to corroborate its author, and not P. Ws. 10 and 11.	Reasoning
In any case, Ex. R. W. 10/1, does not lend any assurance to the oral evidence of P. Ws. 10 and 11 on material points.26.	Reasoning
The second piece of evidence, which according to Shri Dikshit corroborates the evidence of P. Ws. 10 and 11, consists of two credit memos entries, dated 131972, in the accountbooks of M s. Chiranji Lal Sardha Ram.	Reasoning
The first, Ex. P. W. 4/46 evidences that petrol oil worth Rs. 351.78 was drawn for vehicle No. HRB3638 by Risal Singh.	Reasoning
The other, Ex. P. W. 4/47, shows that on the same date (131972) petrol worth Rs. 3046 was drawn by vehicle No.	Reasoning
HRJ 698.	Reasoning
The name of the person at whose instance this petrol was given, is not entered therein.27.	Reasoning
In the first place, as held by the High Court, in the accounts of the said firm some interpolations had been made to show that entries after January 9, 1972 in the Rokar relate to respondent No. 1 and that this is a crude attempt at creating evidence against respondent No. 1.	Reasoning
Secondly, Ex. P. W. 4/46 and Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 4/47 do not evidence that these vehicles (HRB 3638 and HRJ 698) were on hire with the appellant on that day.	Reasoning
At the most they show the possible use of these vehicles on March 1, 1972 only in connection with the election.	Reasoning
Thus, even if Ex. 4/46 and Ex. 4/47 were genuine, they would corroborate the oral testimony of P. Ws. 10 and 11 only to an insignificant extent.	Reasoning
They furnish no corroboration of their evidence in material particulars, namely, the hiring of these jeeps, the rate of the hire and the period of the hire.28.	Reasoning
In the light of the above discussion the conclusion is inescapable that the evidence of the drivers of the aforesaid jeeps had not been substantially corroborated by other unimpeachable evidence, oral or documentary.	Reasoning
Bearing in mind the hostile atmosphere in which the case was conceived and the vindictive spirit in which it has been piloted by the erstwhile workers of the appellant, we think, the uncorroborated oral testimony furnished by Chander Singh and Hazoora Singh had failed to establish the allegations in the petition relating to items (i) and (ii).	Reasoning
Accordingly, we reverse the findings of the.	Reasoning
High Court regarding these items.29.	Reasoning
As regards item (iv), it is contended by Shri Sibal that the High Court should not have relied on any thing whatever, in the accountbooks which according to the finding of the High Court, contained false and fraudulent interpolations.30.	None
The contention does not stand a close examination.31.	None
The learned Judge of the High Court has meticulously sifted the grain from the chaff in these accounts.	None
Only the headings in these accounts were found to be interpolated.	None
The rest of the account was held to be genuine.	None
We find no fault with the dissection and assessment of the documentary evidence and the calculations made by the High Court on its basis.	None
We therefore, do not think it necessary to reappraise this evidence ourselves.	None
Suffice it to say that the conclusion arrived at by the High Court with regard to expenditure item (iv) is sound, and we affirm it.32.	None
Mr. Dikshit contends that the High Court had erred in holding Issues 1 and 2, relating to the publication of the poster Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
P. W. 1/1, against the petitioner.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submits that the findings of the High Court on these Issues be reversed and its decision sustained on that ground, also.	Arguments of Respondent
Rendered into English, the poster Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
P. W. 1/1, read as follows BLACK DEEDS OF SHRI BHAGAT RAM CANDIDATE OF THE NEW CONGRESS.Shri Bhagat Ram is contesting the election from the Kalayat Constituency on the ticket of the New Congress.	None
He is a characterless person He is keeping a widow teacheress in his house with him as his wife and has deserted his own wife, who is wandering from pillar to post.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Bhagat Ram is a tout of the police by profession.	Arguments of Respondent
He takes bribe and gets paid from the people.	Arguments of Respondent
Last year, Shri Bhagat Ram got several applications submitted by the Harijans to the Tehsil (Office) Narwana on the pretext of allotment of land to the Harijans and after playing a fraud with them he himself charged a fee of Rs. 20/ per application dishonestly and thus misappropriated thousands of rupees.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Bhagat Ram has administered an oath to the whole of CHAMAR brotherhood by getting salt put by them in a LOTA (utensil) that they will cast their votes in his favour.	Arguments of Respondent
I also appeal to the whole of my BALMIKI brotherhood that they should also take an oath in the name of religion and make me successful by casting their votes in my favour.	Arguments of Respondent
I have full hope that you will also not vote for characterless, bribetaker and tout like Bhagat Ram.2621972 Issued byBhagat RamMilan Printers, Bhagtu Ram CandidateLawrence Road,Rampura, (Old Congress).Delhi35.33.	Arguments of Respondent
Lal Chand P. W. 9 is the star witness of the petitioner with regard to the printing and publication of the above poster.	Reasoning
He is the Sarpanch of Kamalpur, a village in Kalayat Assembly Constituency.	Reasoning
He was a worker and Polling Agent of the appellant in the election.	Reasoning
He stated that the manuscript Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 1/2 was written by him at the dictation of Bhagtu Ram (appellant) in his election office at Kalayat on February 26, 1972 at about 9 a. m. At about 11 a m., witness accompanied the appellant to a Press, having a name like Millan at Rampura.	Reasoning
At the Press, Bhagtu Ram handed over the manuscript Ex. P .	Reasoning
W. 1/2 to the Manager, and directed him to print 4000 copies thereof.	Reasoning
The Manager asked Bhagtu Ram to sign the manuscript.	Reasoning
Bhagtu Ram thereupon pointed out his signature on the manuscript.	Reasoning
Bhagtu Ram wanted the posters to be printed on the same day.	Reasoning
The Manager expressed his inability to print the posters before March 1,1972.	Reasoning
Bhagtu Ram then told the Manager that the posters would be collected on 131972.	None
The printing charges were settled at Rs.	None
64/.	None
The witness was thereafter sent by Bhagtu Ram with Rs. 100/ to the Press for collecting the posters.	Reasoning
Accordingly, on March 1, 1972, he collected the printed posters on payment of Rs. 64/. and wrote the acknowledgement Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 1/6A on the carbon copy of the bill Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 1/6.	Reasoning
On March 2, 1972, witness accompanied Bhagtu Ram in his jeep along with others, and went to villages, namely Simla, Bahr, Wazir Nagar, Kod and Kharl, where the posters were distributed mostly by the other persons with them.34.	Reasoning
Crossexamined, Lal Chand stated that Bhagtu Ram had dictated one more manuscript apart from Ex.	None
P. W. I/2.	Reasoning
He was questioned as to the necessity of preparing this second manuscript.	Reasoning
He replied that Bhagtu Ram, after perusing the first manuscript, said that the same was not legible, and therefore, he dictated the second manuscript Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 1/2, to the witness.	Reasoning
Pressed further, Lal Chand had to admit that Bhagtu Ram was not very literate, although he could sign his name in Hindi.	Reasoning
He however, added that Bhagtu Ram could read Hindi newspaper.	Reasoning
He shifted this stand also and said that he had seen the appellant taking Hindi Newspaper and therefore, he presumed that Bhagtu Ram could read such newspapers.	Reasoning
Inconsistently with his earlier position, the witness stated that after scribing the first manuscript, he read it over, without any difficulty, to Bhagtu Ram at the latters request.	Reasoning
Questioned further, the witness tried to reconcile his contradictory versions by saying that Bhagtu Ram had simply gazed at the first manuscript for two minutes and then asked the witness to prepare the second manuscript.35.	Reasoning
The appellants case which he later elaborated as R. W. 10 was that he had given several blank sheets of paper to P. W. 4 Suresh Chander.	Reasoning
After the election, Lal Chand at the instance of Suresh Chander, prepared the manuscript Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 9/1, on one of those blank sheets and got the posters in question printed.	Reasoning
Appellant got scent of it.	Reasoning
He got that manuscript secretly removed from the Millan Press with the help of one Tayagi.	Reasoning
After the mysterious disappearance of Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 9/1.	Reasoning
Lal Chand, at the instance of Suresh Chander, prepared the second manuscript on a similar blank sheet of paper and got it produced by Sita Ram, Manager of the Press.36.	Reasoning
The first part of the appellants case was put to Lal Chand without showing him Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 9/1.	Reasoning
He denied that suggestion.	Reasoning
He, however, perused Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 1/2 for a few second, and then categorically said that this was the second manuscript and not the first one.	Reasoning
He significantly added that the figure 4000 below the manuscript must have been written by the press man.	Reasoning
It was at this stage that Lal Chand was confronted with Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 9/1, which was then produced by the appellants Counsel.	Reasoning
Lal Chand stated that this was the first manuscript prepared by him.	Reasoning
He was asked to explain as to how and when it had been signed by the appellant.	Reasoning
His discomfiture was manifest because according to his version the first manuscript had not been signed by the appellant.	Reasoning
The witness further expressed ignorance as to who had written the figure 4000 on Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 9/1.	Reasoning
Nor could Lal Chand give any explanation as to why on the first manuscript he had written the full description of the appellant below his signature.	Reasoning
At this stage the second part of the defence case, regarding the disappearance of the first manuscript and the preparation of its substitute by the witness, was put to him.	Reasoning
This suggestion was also denied.37.	Reasoning
Sita Ram P. W. 1, the Manager of the Millan Press stated that he knew Bhagtu Ram (appellant) since 1966 as the latter used to come to his uncle.	Reasoning
Witness had printed, apart from the poster in question, other material also in connection with the election of the appellant.	Reasoning
Sita Ram produced the manuscript Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 1/2 and asserted that it had been given to him by the appellant on February 26, 1972 who was then accompanied by Lal Chand.	Reasoning
Appellant asked the witness to print 4000 copies of the manuscript.	Reasoning
Witness thereupon wrote the figure 4000 on the manuscript.	Reasoning
Sita Ram further claimed that 4000 copies of the printed poster Ex.	Reasoning
P. W. 1/1 were handed over to Lal Chand, after receiving the printing charges amounting to Rs. 64/  on March 1, 1972.38.	Reasoning
Sita Ram admitted in crossexamination that his press was installed only in 1970.	Reasoning
The effect of this admission was twofold	None
Firstly it falsified Lal Chands claim that the appellant had got posters printed from this Press in connection with the 1967 election.	Reasoning
Secondly, it made Sita Rams claim about his acquaintance with Bhagtu Ram since 1966 , doubtful.	Reasoning
In crossexamination, Sita Ram further revealed that he was not maintaining proper accounts and regular records.	None
Acknowledgements of many customers had not been obtained.	Reasoning
Sita Ram did nothing to comply with the requirements of Section 127A of the Act with regard to the printing of the poster, Ex.	None
P. W. 1/1.	Reasoning
Sita Ram further disclosed that he was not paying any incometax.39.	None
The learned trial Judge has, in his judgment, brought out in bold relief the comics, antics, hesitations, prevarications, twists and turns of Lal Chand in the witnessbox.	None
He rightly appreciated this evidence in the setting that Lal Chand is one of the erstwhile strong supporters of the respondent and is acting like a jilted lady trying to teach the respondent a lesson.	None
He suspected that Lal Chand might be playing the villainof the piece in the story of the poster.	Reasoning
He found the story of the printing and publication of this poster told by Lal Chand and Sita Ram inconsistent with the surrounding circumstances and probabilities of the case.	Reasoning
In that context, after stressing that Lal Chand, Suresh Chander were seasoned politicians, wholly incharge of the election campaign of the appellant, a complete simpleton, the learned Judge observedLal Chand P. W. the scribe of the poster was an experienced election worker who was keenly interested in the respondent during the election days.	Reasoning
It is inconceivable that if the respondent in fact dictated such a defamatory poster to Lal Chand, he would not tell the respondent that the publication of a poster containing those allegations was likely to create trouble for him.	Reasoning
Again Lal Chand must have been aware of the fact that if his hand in the publication of the poster was proved, he may render himself liable to prosecution for defamation or make him liable for damages for libel of the petitioner.40.	Reasoning
Thus after a careful and close scrutiny of the statements of P. Ws.	Reasoning
Lal Chand and Sita Ram, the Judge did not find them worthy of credit.	Decision
As against them, he preferred to believe the evidence of R. W. 1 Shamsher Singh, Advocate, that no poster like the one in question was distributed in the Constituency at any time before the election.	Reasoning
He further found that there was a reasonable possibility of the defence suggestion being true.	Decision
He concluded thatthe possibility of the poster in dispute having been got printed by some friend or associate of the petitioner after the election cannot be ruled out.	Reasoning
Nor can the possibility of both the manuscripts having been prepared on blankpapers bearing the signatures of the respondent which were in the hands of his earlier workers (who have now turned his enemies) can be excluded.41.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the reasoning and the conclusion drawn by the learned Judge with regard to this ground of corrupt practice alleged in the petition, are sound.	Decision
We therefore affirm his findings on Issues (1) and (2).42.	Decision
In view of our finding on Issue (6), we would allow this appeal and set aside the judgment of the High Court and dismiss the election petition with costs throughout.43.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
