 Shah, J.1.	None
This appeal is filed with certificate under Section 66A (2) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.2.	Issue
The assessee is a private limited company carrying on business in Mica Mining.	Facts
Under Article 42 of its Article of Association, remuneration payable to the Managing Director and the Deputy Managing Director of the assessee was fixed at 30 of the annual net profits subject to the minimum of Rs.	Facts
5,000/.	None
In the year of account ending June 30, 1958, the assessee debited an amount of Rupees 66,106/ paid to the Managing Director and the Deputy Managing Director.	Facts
For the assessment year 195960 the Incometax Officer while computing the taxable income in exercise of his power under Section 10 (4A) of the Incometax Act allowed only Rs. 54,670/ as remuneration for the Managing Director and the Deputy Managing Director, and disallowed the balance of Rs.	Facts
11,436/.	None
He was of the view that the allowance paid to the two Directors was excessive or unreasonable having regard to the legitimate business needs of the Company and the benefit derived by or accruing to it therefrom.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner confirmed the order.	Facts
In second appeal, the Tribunal held that the Incometax Officer had jurisdiction under Section 10 (4A) to determine the reasonableness of the claim for remuneration paid to the two Directors and on the materials on the record he was justified in disallowing the amount of Rs. 11,436/.3.	Facts
The Tribunal referred the following question to the High Court of Patna for opinionWhether in the facts and circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was correct in applying the provisions of Section 10 (4A) of the Incometax Act to the case of the assessee and in disallowing Rupees 11,436/ out of the remuneration paid to the Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company?The High Court held that the Incometax Officer had jurisdiction under Section 10 (4A) to disallow a part of the remuneration, and that the disallowance of a part of the claim cannot be said to be unjustifiable or illegally disallowed by the authorities.4.	Facts
In an application filed by the assessee the High Court certified the case under Section 66A (2) stating that as regards the value and nature of the case, it fulfils the requirements under Section 66A (2) of the Incometax Act, 1922, and is a fit case for appeal to the Supreme Court.5.	None
In this appeal the SolicitorGeneral has contended that the certificate was defective in that it did not set out the substantial question of law which, in the view of the High Court, fell to be determined by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
For reasons which we have stated in Civil Appeal No. 376 of 1967 (SC) India Machinery Stores (P) Ltd. v. C. I. T. Bihar, we are of the view that the certificate is defective.6.	None
Mr. Chagla appearing on behalf of the assessee has offered to file a petition for special leave in this case.	None
We have accepted the undertaking given by the Advocate on record to file a special leave petition.7.	None
We have heard counsel on the merits of the appeal.	None
Section 10 (4A) of the Indian Incometax Act which was added by the Finance Act of 1956 with effect from April 1, 1956, provides, insofar as it is materialNothing in subsection (2) shall, in the computation of the profits and gains of a company, be deemed to authorise the making of (a) any allowance in respect of any expenditure which results directly or indirectly in the provisions of any remuneration or benefit or amenity to a director or a person who had a substantial interest in the company within the meaning of subclause (iii) of clause (6C) of Section 2, or(b)	None
x x x x x xif in the opinion of the Incometax Officer any such allowance is excessive or unreasonable having regard to the legitimate business needs of the company and the benefit derived by or accruing to it therefrom.	None
Under the Articles of Association, the rate of remuneration to be paid to the Managing Director and the Deputy Managing Director was fixed.	None
The case was clearly covered by the terms for Section 10 (4A), and the Incometax Officer had jurisdiction to consider whether the allowance was excessive or unreasonable having regard to the legitimate business needs of the Company and the benefit derived by or accruing to it therefrom.	Reasoning
Counsel for the assessee submits that the decision of the taxing authorities and the Tribunal that in the circumstances of the case the allowance was excessive or unreasonable having regard to the legitimate business needs of the Company and the benefit derived by or accruing to it therefrom is erroneous.8.	None
It appears that the Incometax Officer had, for the assessment years 195758 and 195859 disallowed a part of the remuneration paid to the Directors.	Reasoning
The matter was carried to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
For the assessment year 195758 the Tribunal allowed the claim in full in respect for the year 195859 the Tribunal allowed an amount of Rs. 48,000/ as against the claim for Rs. 74,190/.	Reasoning
The assessment orders for the years 195758 and 195859 are not before the Court.	Reasoning
In his order relating to the assessment year 195960 the Incometax Officer adopted the reasons recorded in his previous order relating to the earlier years, and held that the remuneration paid to the Directors was excessive or unreasonable having regard to the legitimate business needs of the Company and the benefit derived by and accruing to it therefrom.	Reasoning
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with that view.	Reasoning
He rejected the contention of the Company that the Managing Director and the Deputy Managing Director had practically built up the business and it was due to their wholetime service and effort that large profits were earned by the Company.	Reasoning
Apparently there was no evidence in support of such a case.	Reasoning
He agreed with the Incometax Officer that the remuneration allowed to the Directors should be at an average rate of the last three years.	Reasoning
The Tribunal held that even though it was not proved that the remuneration was influenced by extracommercial considerations the Incometax Officer had determined the appropriate allowance by striking an average of remuneration charged in the account for the immediate preceding three years.9.	Reasoning
Mr. Chagla contends that in striking an average for three years the Tribunal erred.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel contended that under Section 10 (4A) of the Act, the Incometax Officer must reach a conclusion that the allowance was excessive or unreasonable having regard to the legitimate business needs of the Company and the benefit derived by or accruing to it therefrom.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is however for the taxpayer to establish by evidence that a particular allowance is justifiable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apparently no evidence was tendered by the assessee relating to the duties of the Managing Director and the Deputy Managing Director, the services rendered by them, the manner in which the profits earned by the assessee were enhanced by reason of their special aptitude or qualifications, the legitimate business needs of the assessee and the benefit derived by or accruing to the assessee in consequence of the services rendered by the Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director.	None
In the absence of any such evidence, the finding recorded by the Incometax Officer and confirm by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Tribunal must be accepted.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with counsel for the assessee that even if the taxpayer does not produce any evidence in support of the claim for allowance, the Incometax Officer must independently collect evidence and decide that the allowance claimed is excessive or unreasonable having regard to the legitimate business needs of the assessee before the power under Section 10 (4A) may be exercised.10.	Reasoning
The appeal therefore fails and is dismissed.11.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
