 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
This appeal by certificate granted by the High Court of Punjab raises the questions whether interest paid under S. 34 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, hereinafter called the Act, is of the nature of a capital receipt or of a revenue receipt.2.	Issue
The relevant facts are not in dispute and they may be briefly stated.	Facts
The appellant, Dr. Shamlal Narula, is the manager of a Hindu undivided family, which owned, inter alia, 40 bighas and 11 biswas of land in the town of Patiala.	Facts
The Patiala State Government initiated land acquisition proceedings for acquiring the said land under Regulations then prevailing in the Patiala State.	Facts
It is common case that the State Regulations are in pari materia with the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The State of Patiala first merged into the Union of Pepsu and later the Union of Pepsu merged into the State of Punjab.	Facts
It is also common case that there was a Land Acquisition Act in the Union of Pepsu containing provisions similar to those obtaining in the Act.	Facts
On October 6, 1953, the Act was extended to the Union of Pepsu.	Facts
On September 30, 1955, the Collector of Patiala made an award under the Act as a result of which the appellant received on December 1, 1955, a sum of Rs. 2,81,822/, which included a sum of Rs. 48,660/ as interest up to the date of the award.	Facts
For the year 195657, the Incometax Officer included the said interest in the income of the Hindu undivided family of which the appellant is the manager, and assessed the same to incometax, after overruling the appellant contention that the said interest was a capital receipt and, therefore, not liable to tax.	Facts
On June 14, 1957, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner confirmed the order of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
The appellant preferred an appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, The said Tribunal by its order dated July 9, 1957, held that the said amount representing the interest was a capital receipt and on that finding the said amount was excluded from the total income of the assessee.	Facts
At the instance of the Commissioner of Incometax the said Tribunal referred the following question to the High Court of Punjab under S. 66 (1) of the Incometax Act, 1922Whether on a true interpretation of Section 34 of the Land Acquisition Act and the Award given by the Collector of Pepsu on the 30th September, 1955, the sum of Rs. 48,660/, was capital receipt not liable to tax under the Indian Incometax Act?3.	Facts
The said reference was heard by a Division Bench of the High Court and it held that the said amount was not a capital but a revenue receipt and as such liable to tax under the Indian Incometax Act.	None
Hence the present appeal.4.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant raised before us two contentions, namely, (i) the sum of Rs. 48,660/ received by the appellant under the award was compensation for depriving him of his right to possession of his property and was, therefore, a capital receipt not liable to tax and (ii) whatever may be character of the amount awarded under S 34 of the Act by way of interest in a case where possession of the land has been taken by the State after the award, in a case where possession of the land acquired has been taken before the award, it would be a capital receipt for, it is said that in the latter the interest necessarily takes the character of compensation for depriving the owner of the land of his right to possession.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the Revenue the order of the High Court is sought to be sustained for the reasons stated therein.6.	Arguments of Respondent
The question raised turns upon the true meaning of the provisions of S. 34 of the Act.	None
It readsWhen the amount of such compensation is not paid or deposited on or before taking possession of the land, the Collector shall pay the amount awarded with interest thereon at the rate of six per centum per annum from the time of so taking possession until it should have been so paid or deposited.	None
The section itself makes a distinction between the amount awarded as compensation and the interest payable on the amount so awarded.	Reasoning
The interest shall be paid on the amount awarded from the time the Collector takes possession until the amount is paid or deposited.	Reasoning
To appreciate the scope of the section it is necessary to notice briefly the scope of an award and the manner in which possession is taken under the Act.	Reasoning
After the statutory notifications are issued and the requisite notice is given to the persons interested in the land so acquired, the Collector, after holding the necessary enquiry, makes an award inter alia, determining the amount of compensation payable for the land so acquired.	Reasoning
Section 15 of the Act says that in determining the amount of compensation the Collector shall be guided by the provisions contained in Ss. 23 and 24.	Reasoning
Section 23 provides for the matters to be considered in determining compensation S. 24 describes the matters to be neglected in determining the compensation.	Reasoning
A persual of the provisions of S. 23 shows that interest is not an item included in the compensation for any of the matters mentioned therein nor is it mentioned as a consideration for the acquisition of the land.	Reasoning
Under cl.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 23, the Legislature in express terms states that in addition to the market value of the land the court shall in every case award a sum of 15 per cent, of such market value in consideration of the compulsory nature of the acquisition.	Reasoning
If interest on the amount of compensation determined under S. 23 is considered to be a part of the compensation or given in consideration of the compulsory nature of the acquisition, the Legislature would have provided for it in S. 23 itself.	Reasoning
But instead, payment of interest is provided for separately under S. 34 in Part V of the Act under the heading Payment.	Reasoning
It is so done, because interest pertains to the domain of payment after the compensation has been ascertained.	Reasoning
It is a consideration paid either for the use of the money or for forbearance from demanding it after it has fallen due.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Act itself makes a clear distinction between the compensation payable for the land acquired and the interest payable on the compensation awarded.7.	Reasoning
Another approach to the problem leads to the same result.	Reasoning
Under S. 16 of the Act when the Collector has made an award under S. 11 he may take possession of the land which shall thereupon vest absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances.	None
Under S. 17 thereofIn cases of urgency, whenever the appropriate Government so directs, the Collector, though no such award has been made, may, on the expiration of fifteen days from the publication of the notice mentioned in S. 9, subsec.	None
(1), take possession of any waste land or arable land needed for public purposes or for a Company.	None
Such land shall thereupon vest absolutely in the Government, free from all encumbrances.	None
Under both the sections the land acquired vests absolutely in the Government after the Collector has taken possession in one case after the making of the award and in the other, even before the making of the award.	Reasoning
In either case, some time may lapse between the taking of possession of the acquired land by the Collector and the payment or deposit of the compensation to the person interested in the land acquired.	Reasoning
As the land acquired vests absolutely in the Government only after the Collector has taken possession of it, no interest therein will be outstanding in the in the claimant after the taking of such possession he is divested of his title to the land and his right to possession thereof, and both of them vest thereafter in the Government.	Reasoning
Thereafter he will be entitled only to be paid compensation that has been or will be awarded to him.	Reasoning
He will be entitled to compensation, though the ascertainment thereof may be postponed, from the date his title to the land and the right to possession thereof have been divested and vested in the Government.	Reasoning
It is as it were that from that date the Government withheld the compensation amount which the claimant would be entitled to under the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, a statutory liability has been imposed upon the Collector to pay interest on the amount awarded from the time of his taking possession until the amount is paid or deposited.	Reasoning
This amount is not, therefore, compensation for the land acquired or for depriving the claimant of his right to possession, but is that paid to the claimant for the use of his money by the State.	Reasoning
In this view there cannot be any difference in the legal position between a case where possession has been taken before and that where possession has been taken after the award, for in either case the title vests in the Government only after the possession has been taken.8.	Reasoning
The Legislature expressly used the word interest with its well known connotation under S.34 of the Act.	None
It is therefore, reasonable to give that expression the natural meaning it bears.	None
There is an illuminating exposition of the expression interest by the House of Lords in Westminster Bank, Ltd. v. Riches, (1947)	None
28 Tax Cas 159 at p. 189.	None
The question there was whether, where in an action for recovery of any debt or damages the court exercises its discretionary power under a statute and orders that there shall be included in the sum for which the judgment is given interest on the debt or damages, the sum of interest so included is taxable under the Incometax Acts.	None
If the said amount was interest of money within schedule D and the General R. 21 of the All Schedules Rules of the Income tax Act, 1918, incometax was payable thereon.	None
In that context it was contended that money awarded as damages for the detention of money was not interest and had not the quality of interest.	None
Lord Wright observed The general idea is that he is entitled to compensation for the deprivation.	None
From that point of view it would seem immaterial whether the money was due to him under a contract express or implied, or a statute, or whether the money was due for any other reason in law.	None
In either case the money was due to him and was not paid or, in other words, was withheld from him by the debtor after the time when payment should have been made, in breach of his legal rights, and interest was a compensation, whether the compensation was liquidated under an agreement or statute, as for instance under S. 57 of the Bills of Exchange Act, 1882, or was unliquidated and claimable under the Act as in the present case.	None
The essential quality of the claim for compensation is the same, and the compensation is properly described as interest.	None
This passage indicates that interest, whether it is statutory or contractual, represents the profit the creditor might have made if he had the use of the money or the loss he suffered because he had not that use.	None
It is something, in addition to the capital amount, though it arises out of it.	Reasoning
Under S. 34 of the Act when the Legislature designedly used the word interest in contradistinction to the amount awarded, we do not see any reason why the expression should not be given the natural meaning it bears.9.	None
The scheme of the Act and the express provisions thereof establish that the statutory interest payable under S. 34 is not compensation paid to the owner for depriving him of his right to possession of the land acquired, but that given to him for the deprivation of the use of the money representing the compensation for the land acquired.10.	Reasoning
We shall now proceed to consider the case law cited at the Bar.	None
Where a Tribunal directed the Improvement Trust, under the provisions of S. 28 of the Land Acquisition Act, to pay interest to the assessee from the date of taking possession of the property to the date of payment, a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court held, in Behari Lal Bhargava v. Commr. of Income tax, C.P. and U.P., 19419 ITR 9 at p. 24 (AIR 1941 All 135 at p. 140) that the interest so awarded was in the nature of compensation for the loss of the assessees right to retain possession of the property acquired and therefore, was not income liable to tax.	None
The reason for the said conclusion is stated thus It is not the fruit of a tree to borrow the simile used in Commr. of Incometax v. Shaw Wallace and Co. AIR 1932 PC 138  but was compensation or damages for loss of the right to retain possession and it seems to us that S. 28 was designed as a convenient method of measuring such damages in terms of interestAs we have pointed out, earlier, as soon as the Collector has taken possession of the land either before or after the award the title absolutely vests in the Government and thereafter the owner of the land so acquired ceases to have any title or right of possession to the land acquired.	None
Under the award he gets compensation for both the rights.	None
Therefore, the interest awarded under S. 28 of the Act, just like under S. 34 thereof, cannot be a compensation or damages for the loss of the right to retain possession but only compensation payable by the State for keeping back the amount payable to the owner.	None
Adverting to the said decision a Division Bench of the Madras High Court in Commr. of Incometax, Madras v. N. Narayanan Chettiar, (1943) 11 ITR 470 at p. 477 (AIR 1943 Mad 682 at p. 683) observed with great respect we find ourselves unable to follow the reasoning.	None
Certainly we are not prepared to accept the judgement as a guide to the decision in the present case.	None
So was the interest granted to an assessee under S. 18A of the Incometax Act on the advance payment of tax by him under the provisions of that section held to be income taxable in his hand see Commr. of Incometax, Bihar and Orissa v. Kameshwar Singh, (1953) 23 ITR 212 at p. 225 (AIR 1953 Pat 217 at p.220).	None
There, when the decision of the Allahabad High Court in Behari Lal Bhargavas case.(1941) 9 ITR 9 (AIR 1941 All 135 ) was relied upon the learned Judges, refusing to follow it, observed thus It is not a matter of discretion for the Central Government but the duty to pay interest is imposed by the statute.	None
Apart from this I think (with great respect) that the Allahabad decision is of doubtful authority.	None
The decision is not consistent with the principal laid down in Schulze v. Bensted, (1919) 7 Tax Cas 30 and Commrs. of Inland Revenue v. Barnato (1936) 20 Tax Cas 455.	None
The Madras High Court expressly declined to follow the Allahabad case in 194311	None
ITR 470 (AIR 1943 Mad 682 )	None
The Kerala High Court in P.V. Kurien v. Commr. of Incometax, Kerala, (1962)	None
46 ITR 288 (Ker) held that interest paid on the enhanced amount of compensation directed to be paid by an appellate court in an appeal against an award of compensation for compulsory acquisition of land under the Land Acquisition Act represented capital and was not income liable to be taxed under the Indian Incometax Act.	None
It was argued there as is argued before us, that the interest awarded was a capital sum estimated in terms of interest.	None
In coming to the conclusion which they did, the learned Judges relied upon the decision of the Judicial Committee in Inglewood Pulp and Paper Co., Ltd. v. New Brunswick Electric Power Commission AIR 1928 PC 287 and that of the Madras High Court in Revenue Divisional Officer, Trichinpoly v. Venkatarama Ayyar, AIR 1936	None
Mad 199 .	None
In the former, the Judicial Committee directed the purchaser who had taken delivery and possession of the property he had purchased before the sale to pay interest to the vendor on the purchase money from the date he had taken possession on the ground that the right to receive interest takes the place of the right to retain possession and is within the rule and in the latter, though it arose under the Land Acquisition Act, possession was taken by the Government under circumstances falling outside the scope of Sections 16 and 17 of the said Act.	None
In both the cases the title did not pass to the vendee in one case and to the State in the other when possession was taken by them and, therefore, it may be said that the owner was given interest in place of his right to retain possession of the property.	None
But in a case where title passes to the State, the statutory interest provided thereafter can only be regarded either as representing the profit which the owner of the land might have made if he had the use of the money or the loss he suffered because he had not that use.	Reasoning
In no sense of the term can it be described as damages or compensation for the owners right to retain possession, for he has no right to retain possession after possession was taken under S. 16 or S. 17 of the Act.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the statutory interest paid under S. 34 of the Act is interest paid for the delayed payment of the compensation amount and, therefore, is a revenue receipt liable to tax under the Incometax Act.	Reasoning
The order of the High Court is therefore, correct.11.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.12.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
