 Gajendragadkar, J. (for himself, K.Subba Rao, K. N. Wanchoo and N. Rajago pala Ayyangar JJ.)1.	None
This appeal arises from a suit filed by the appellant Kanakarathanammal in the Court of the IInd Additional District judge, Bangalore (O. S. No. 39 of 194748) in which she claimed to recover possession of the properties described in the schedules attached to the plaint.	Facts
Schedules 1 and 2 consist of movable and immovable properties, while schedule 3 refers to jewels and silverware.	Facts
The appellant laid a claim to these properties as the sole heir of her mother Rajambal who died on September 13, 1946.	Facts
Her case was that she was entitled to these properties exclusively under subclause (i) of Clause (1) of section 12 of the Mysore Hindu Law Womens Right Act 1933 (No. X of 1933) (hereinafter called the Act).	Facts
A gold before which is an item of jewellery was described by her in schedule 4 and the same was claimed by her on the ground that it had been presented to her by her father before he died on March 20, 1947.2.	Facts
The case set out in the plaint showed that according to the appellant the properties in schedules 1, 2 and 3 belonged exclusively to her mother and when she made a claim against the respondents in that behalf, they challenged her title.	Facts
In connection, the appellant relied on the fact that a sale deed had been executed in favour of her mother on April 1, 1942 for a consideration of Rs. 28,000/by Mr. Gibbs under which several pieces of land together with all buildings and erections standing thereon and movable property consisting of articles of furniture and other things set out in the Schedules attached to the saledeed (Exbt. F), were covered.3.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 Loganatha Mudliar alleged that on February 17, 1947, the father of the appellant had executed a will under which he had been appointed an executor and that as such executor, he obtained a probate under the said will, got possession of the properties and handed them over to Respondent No. 2	Facts
Mudaliar Sangham, by its President, as directed under the will.	Facts
Respondents 1 and 2 thus set up a title in respect of the suit properties in the appellants father.	Facts
Alternatively, they urged that even if the property belonged to the appellants mother, she would not be entitled to claim exclusive title to it, because by succession the said property would devolve upon the appellant and her brothers and the appellants failure to join her brothers made the suit incompetent for nonjoinder of necessary parses.	Facts
The third respondent, Vasudeva setty and sons, admitted that he was in possession of the gold belt described in schedule 4, but urged that the appellants father had given it to him for purpose of sale and that a sum of Rs. 10979 was due to him.	Facts
He pleaded that he had no objection to hand it over to the rightful claimant, provided the amount due to him was repaid to him.4.	Facts
On these pleadings, the trial Court framed six substantive issues, three of which were important.	Facts
These three issues were (1) whether the appellants father or mother was the real owner of the property described in Schedules 1 and 2 (2) whether the will set up by respondents 1 and 2 was genuine and valid in law and (3) whether the suit was not maintainable on the ground that necessary parties had not been joined by the appellant.	Facts
The learned trial Judge held that the appellants mother was the owner of the property described in Sch.	Facts
1.	Facts
Regarding the movable property the trial Judge held with some variation that the items admitted by the respondents also belonged to the appellant.	Facts
As regards the jewels, he found that they had never gone into the possession of respondents 1 and 2, and so, the appellants claim in respect of the said jewels was rejected.	Facts
As to the gold belt mentioned in Sch. 4, the decision of the trial Court was that the appellant should recover the same from respondent No. 3 on her paying to him Rs. 109 and odd claimed by him.	Facts
Having found the title of the appellants mother proved, the trial Judge came to the conclusion that the will executed by the appellants father was invalid.	Facts
These findings, however, did not materially assist the appellant, because the learned Judge upheld the respondents plea that the suit was bad for nonjoinder of necessary parties.	Facts
In the result, the appellants suit was dismissed in regard to the main relief claimed by her.5.	Facts
Against this decision, the appellant preferred an appeal before the High Court of Mysore (R.A. No.171 of 195152).	Facts
The High Court has held that the main property described in Sch.	Facts
I did not belong to the appellants mother, but to her father.	Facts
It found that the saledeed in respect of the property was taken by the appellants father in the name of the appellants mother benami.	Facts
Having held that the appellant had not established her title to the said property, the High Court did not think it necessary to consider the validity of the finding of the trial Judge that the suit was bad for nonjoinder of necessary parties.	Facts
It also did not think it necessary to consider whether the will had been proved or not.	Facts
The appellant, however, succeeded before the High Court in respect of one minor point and that was in relation to her claim for the gold belt.	Facts
The High Court has ordered that Respondent No. 3 should return the said gold belt to the appellant and that the appellant was not bound to pay to Respondent No. 3 the amount claimed by him.	Facts
The result was that with a very slight modification, the decree passed by the trial Court was confirmed, though on a different ground.	Facts
It is against this decree that the appellant has come to this Court by special leave.	Facts
It appears that respondents 1 and 2 had also preferred an appeal in the High Court against a part of the decree passed by the trial Judge, and the said appeal was dismissed.	Facts
With that part of the case, we are not concerned in the present appeal.6.	Facts
The first point which has been urged before us by the appellant is that the High Court was in error in holding that the immovable property described in Sch.	Arguments of Petitioner
I had been purchased by the appellants father benami in the name of his wife.	Arguments of Petitioner
Some facts material to this issue are not in dispute.	None
It has been found by both the Courts below that the consideration which was paid for the sale transaction proceeded entirely from the appellants father so that in dealing with the question as to whether the title to the property vested in the appellants mother or not we have to proceed on the basis that the whole of the consideration was paid by the appellants father and not by her mother.	None
The case of the appellant, however, is that the subsequent conduct of the parties and particularly the correspondence produced by the appellant clearly showed that the appellants father admitted the title of the appellants mother, and it is urged that the High Court was in error in reversing the finding of the trial Court that the property really belonged to the appellants mother.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to deal with the merits of this argument, it is necessary to refer to the material correspondence on which the appellant relies.	None
Exhibit B is a letter written by the appellants father to her (appellants) husband on August 1, 1944.	None
In this letter, the appellants father has used words which clearly show that he treated the property as belonging to his wife.	None
He says she (the appellants mother) tells me that you almost agreed to come and stay in the estate and for that purpose she has asked me not to let out both the houses occupied by Iyer, and then he adds, she says that she will give Rs. 50/  a month with the above free quarters.	None
Then on June 21, 1945, a letter was addressed to the SubDivision Officer, Bangalore SubDivision, Bangalore, by the appellants mother (Exbt. H).	None
This letter is in relation to the properties with which we are concerned, and it has been addressed clearly and unambiguously on the basis that the title to the property vests in the appellants mother.	None
In the course of this letter, she says that about May 10, 1945 the authorities of the Hindustan Aircraft approached her through her husband for permission to put up and install a few electric lights against the runaway to the length of about 700 or thereabouts, and that she gave them the permission on the strict understanding that the rest of her plantation should not be disturbed.7.	None
Similarly, on May 28, 1946, the appellants father wrote to the OfficerinCharge Claims, Bangalore, acknowledging receipt of a cheque which had been issued by the said Officer in favour of the appellants mother for Rs. 251130.	None
On May 23, 1946, the appellants father wrote a letter to his wife, and some of the statements made in it clearly suggest that the appellants father admitted his wifes title to the properties in question.	None
Mr. Loganatha Mudaliar, says the letter, told me that you had said to write some Estate Will.	None
We have talked about this already.	None
You ought not to have told him without telling me again.	None
Money also should be given along with estate.	None
I will see to all as per convenience.	None
If you be without sorrow, you may come out happily early.	None
At this time, the appellants mother was ill and was presumably thinking of making a will of her own properties.	None
In that context, the letter sent by the appellants father to his wife is very significant.8.	None
It is true that the actual management of the property was done by the appellants father but that would inevitably be so having regard to the fact that in ordinary Hindu families the property belonging exclusively to a female member would also be normally managed by the Manager of the family so that the fact that appellants mother did not take actual part in the management of the property would not materially affect the appellants case that the property belonged to her mother.	Reasoning
The rent was paid by the tenants and accepted by the appellants father but that, again, would be consistent with what ordinarily happens in such matters in an undivided Hindu family.	Reasoning
If the property belongs to the wife and the husband manages the property on her behalf, it would be idle to contend that the management by the husband of the properties is inconsistent with the title of his wife to the said properties.	Reasoning
What we have said about the management of the properties would be equally true about the actual possession of the properties, because even if the wife was the owner of the properties, possession may continue with the husband as a matter of convenience.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that the High Court did not correctly appreciate the effect of the several admissions made by the appellants father in respect of the title of his wife to the property in question.	Reasoning
Therefore, we hold that the property had been purchased by the appellants mother in her own name though the consideration which was paid by her for the said transaction had been received by her from her husband.9.	Reasoning
As soon as we reach this conclusion it becomes necessary to consider whether the appellants suit must fail for nonjoinder of necessary parties.	None
It is common ground that the appellant has brothers alive, and even in the trial Court respondents 1 and 2 took the alternative plea that if the property was found to belong to appellants mother, under the relevant Mysore law the appellant and her brothers would be entitled to succeed to that property and the nonjoinder of the brothers was, therefore, fatal to the suit.	None
In fact, as we have already indicated, the trial Court had dismissed the appellants suit on this ground.	None
The decision about the question as to the appellants title to this property would thus depend upon the construction of the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
Section 10 is relevant for the purpose.	None
Section 10(l) defines stridhan as meaning property of every description belonging to a Hindu female, other than property in which she has by law or under the terms of an instrument, only a limited estate.	None
Section 10(2) prescribes an inclusive definition of the word Stridhan by clauses (a) to(g).	None
The appellant contends that the property in question falls under S. 10(2) (b), whereas according to the respondents it falls under S. 10 (2) (d).	None
There is no doubt that if S. 10(2)(b) takes in the property the appellant would be exclusively entitled to it and the plea of nonjoinder of her brothers would fail.	None
On the other hand, if S. 10 (2) (d) applies to the property, the appellant will not be exclusively entitled to the property and her brothers would be necessary parties to the suit.	None
In that case the plea of nonjoinder would succeed and the appellants suit would be dismissed on that account.	None
That position with regard to the heirs who succeed to Stridhan property belonging to a Hindu female dying intestate has been provided for by S. 12 of the Act and there is no dispute on that account.10.	None
Let us, therefore, consider under which clause of S.10 (2) the property in question falls.	Issue
Section 10(2) (b) refers to all gifts received by a female at any time (whether before, at or after her marriage) and from any person (whether her husband or other relative or a stranger).	None
It is thus clear that all gifts received from the husband at any time would fall under S. 10(2)(b).	None
The appellants argument is that as soon as it is found that the consideration for the sale proceeded solely from the appellants father it must follow that the property purchased with the said consideration is a gift by the husband to his wife.	Reasoning
The fact that the property has been purchased in the name of the wife does not make any difference in substance.	Reasoning
Two transactions have taken place, one a gift of the money by the husband to his wife, and the other purchase of the property with the said money in the name of the wife.	Reasoning
Treating the two transactions as integrally connected, it should be held that the purchase itself was made by the husband in the name of his wife and that can hardly be distinguished from the gift of the said property to the wife.11.	None
On the other hand, the respondents contend that S. 10(2)(b) can take in only gift and not properties purchased with the assistance of the gifts.	Arguments of Respondent
If the appellants father gave to his wife the amount with which the property was purchased, all that can be said is that the amount given by the husband to his wife was a gift under S. 10(2)(b).	None
What the wife purported or chose to do with the amount gifted to her by her husband is entirely a different matter.	None
She might have purchased the property, or she might have kept the amount in bank.	None
If the amount had continued in the bank and its identity was not in dispute, it may have been impressed with the character of Stridhan as described in S. 10(2)(b).	None
But if the amount was utilised by the wife for purchasing the property in her own name, the purchase is hers and the purchased property cannot be said to be gift from the husband to his wife.	None
Section 10(2)(d) refers to property acquired by a female by purchase, agreement, compromise, finding or adverse possession.	None
The respondents urged that one has merely to read S. 10(2)(d) to be satisfied that the purchase of the property in this case falls squarely under it.12.	None
We have carefully considered the arguments thus presented to us by the respective parties and we are satisfied that it would be straining the language of S. 10(2)(b) to hold that the property purchased in the name of the wife with the money gifted to her by her husband should be taken to amount to a property gifted under S.10(2)(b).	None
The argument about the substance of the transaction is of no assistance in the present case, because the requirement of S.10(2)(b) is that the property which is the subjectmatter of devolution must itself be a gift from the husband to the wife.	None
Can we say that the property purchased under the sale deed was such a gift from the husband to his wife?	None
The answer to this question must clearly be in the negative.	None
With what funds the property is purchased by the female is irrelevant for the purpose of S. 10(2)(d) so too the source of the title to the fund with which the said property was purchased.	None
All that is relevant to enquire is has the property been purchased by the female, or has it been gifted to her by her husband?	None
Now, it seems clear that in deciding under which class of properties specified by cls.	None
(b) and (d) of S. 10(2) the present property falls, it would not be possible to entertain the argument that we must treat the gift of the money and the purchase of the property as one transaction and hold on that basis that the property itself has been gifted by the husband to his wife.	Reasoning
The obvious question to ask in this connection is, has the property been gifted by the husband to his wife, and quite clearly a gift of immovable property worth more than Rs. 100 can be made only by registered deed.	None
The enquiry as to whether the property was purchased with the money given by the husband to the wife would in that sense be foreign to S. 10(2) (d) gift of money which would fall under S. 10(2) (b) if converted into another kind of property would not help to take the property under the same clause, because the converted property assumes a different character and falls under S.10(2) (d).	Reasoning
Take a case where the husband gifts a house to his wife, and later, the wife sells the house and purchases land with the proceeds realised from the said sale.	Reasoning
It is, we think, difficult to accede to the argument that the land purchased with the saleproceeds of the house should, like the house itself, be treated as a gift from the husband to the wife but that is exactly what the appellants argument will inevitably mean.	Reasoning
The gift that is contemplated by S. 10(2) (b) must be a gift of the very property in specie made by the husband or other relations therein mentioned.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are satisfied that the trial Court was right in coming to the conclusion that even if the property belonged to the appellants mother, her failure to implead her brothers who would inherit the property along with her makes the suit incompetent.	Reasoning
It is true that this question had not been considered by the High Court, but since it is a pure point of law depending upon the construction of S. 10 of the Act, we do not think it necessary to remand the case for that purpose to the High Court.	Reasoning
Facts which are necessary to decide the question under S.10(2) have been found and there is no dispute about them.	None
The only point to decide is, on a fair construction of S. 10(2)(b) and (d) which of the said two clauses takes in the property in question.13.	Issue
This appeal was argued before us on August 22, 1963.	None
At the said hearing, we had suggested to the parties to consider whether they could amicably settle the dispute between themselves.	None
Accordingly, we allowed the matter to stand over to enable the parties to negotiate the settlement, if possible.	None
Ultimately, on September 13, 1963, the Appellants counsel reported to the office that no settlement was possible.	None
However, in the meanwhile, on September 6, 1963, the appellants counsel filed an application for leave to add the appellants two brothers, T. Narayanaswami and T. Vasudevan as coplaintiffs to the plaint or if they are not willing to join as coplaintiffs, then is defendants 4 and 5.	None
This application is opposed by respondents 1 and 2.	None
That is how this appeal was placed before the same Bench once again on December 13, 1963.14.	None
We do not think there is any justification for allowing the appellant to amend her plaint by adding her brothers at this late stage.	None
We have already noticed that the plea of nonjoinder had been expressly taken by respondents 1 and 2 in the trial Court and a clear and specific issue had been framed in respect of this contention.	None
While the suit was being tried, the appellant might have applied to the trial Court to add her brothers, but no such application was made.	None
Even after the suit was dismissed by the trial Court on this ground it does not appear that the appellant moved the High Court and prayed that she should be allowed to join her brothers even at the appellate stage, and so, the High Court had no occasion to consider the said point.	None
The fact that the High Court came to the contrary conclusion on the question of title does not matter, because if the appellant wanted to cure the infirmity in her plaint, she should have presented an application in that behalf at the hearing of the appeal itself.	Reasoning
In fact, no such application was made even to this Court until the appeal was allowed to stand over after it was heard.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances, we do not think it would be possible for us to entertain the said application.	Reasoning
In the result, the application for amendment is rejected.15.	None
It is unfortunate that the appellants claim has to be rejected on the ground that she failed to implead her two brothers to her suit, though on the merits we have found that the property claimed by her in her present suit belonged to her mother and she is one of the three heirs on whom the said property devolves by succession under S. 12 of the Act.	None
That, in fact, is the conclusion which the trial Court had reached and yet no action was taken by the appellant to bring the necessary parties on the record.	None
It is true that under O. 1, R. 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure no suit shall be defeated by reason of the misjoinder or nonjoinder of the parties but there can be no doubt that if the parties who are not joined are not only proper but also necessary parties to it, the infirmity in the suit is bound to be fatal.	None
Even in such cases, the Court can under O. 1 R. 10, subrule (2) direct the necessary parties to be joined, but all this can and should be done at the stage of trial and that too without prejudice to the said parties plea of limitation.	None
Once it is held that the appellants two brothers are coheirs with her in respect of the properties left intestate by their mother, the present suit filed by the appellant partakes of the character of a suit for partition and in such a suit clearly the appellant alone would not be entitled to claim any relief against the respondents.	Reasoning
The estate can be represented only when all the three heirs are before the Court.	Reasoning
If the appellant persisted in proceedings with the suit on the basis that she was exclusively entitled to the suit property, she took the risk and it is now too late to allow her to rectify the mistake.	Reasoning
In Naba Kumar Hazra v. Radhashyam Mahish, AIR 1931 PC 229 the Privy Council had to deal with a similar situation.	Reasoning
In the suit from which that appeal arose, the plaintiff had failed to implead comortgagors and persisted in not joining them despite the pleas taken by the defendants that the comortgagors were necessary parties and in the end, it was urged on his behalf that the said comortgagors should be allowed to be impleaded before the Privy Council.	Reasoning
In support of this plea, reliance was placed on the provisions of O. 1, R. 9 of the Code.	Reasoning
In rejecting the said prayer, Sir George Lowndes who spoke for the Board observed that they are unable to hold that the said Rule has any application to an appeal before the Board in a case where the defect has been brought to the notice of the party concerned from the very outset of the proceedings and he has had ample opportunity of remedying it in India.16.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed.	None
The appellant has been granted special leave to file this appeal as a pauper.	None
In the circumstances of this case, however, we direct that she need not pay the Courtfees which she would have had to pay if she had not been allowed to appeal as a pauper.	None
There would be no order as to costs throughout.	None
MUDHOLKAR, J.17.	None
I regret my inability to agree with the conclusion of my learned brother Gajendragadkar J. on the second point and consequently with the ultimate decision of the appeal as proposed by him.	None
My reasons for taking a different view are these 18.	None
The sale deed on which the appellant relies admittedly stands in the name of her mother.	None
It is no longer in dispute that the consideration for the transaction proceeded not from her mother but from her father.	None
It was because of this latter circumstances that the respondents contended that the transaction was benami.	None
After examining the entire evidence adduced by the parties, the trial court negatived the respondents contention.	None
Though the High Court took a different view, my learned brother has held and in my opinion rightly, that the conclusion of the High Court was wrong and that the trial court was correct on this point.	None
The position, therefore, that the property in question was that of the appellants mother at her death.	None
The respondents, however, contended that even so the suit must fail because the appellant had failed to join her brothers as parties to the suit because they were coheirs of their mother along with her.	None
That would be the correct position under S. 12 of the Mysore Hindu Womens Rights Act provided the property is deemed to have been purchased by the mother herself.	None
The short question, therefore, is whether upon the findings that the property was not purchased by the appellants father benami in the name of her mother and that the consideration for the transaction entirely flowed from the father, the inference must be that the property was purchased by the mother.	None
No doubt, the sale deed stands in her name.	None
But the fact remains that the consideration did not flow from her but from the appellants father.	None
It is interesting to mention that on February, 9, 1948 the respondents counsel made an application under O. VI, Rr. 5 and 11, Code of Civil Procedure calling upon the appellant to furnish further particulars with regard to her claim to the property in question in view of S. 12 of the Mysore Hindu Womens Rights Act.	None
She furnished the following particulars on February 17, 1948 The property detailed in Schedules I and II was all conveyed to Rajambal under one sale deed as stated in paragraph 5 of the plaint.	None
She stood by her husband in his adversity sacrificing her possessions for him which she got as presents from her own parents.	None
He was deeply attached to her, and indeed they were a loving couple.	None
Out of love, affection and gratitude and with a view to make herself sufficient, he provided the money to acquire the property for her own absolute use, which she while alive had even decided and announced to give away to the plaintiff ultimately.	None
The appellants case, therefore, clearly is that the purchase money was provided by her father for acquiring property for the absolute use of her mother.	None
By negativing the finding of benami made by the High Court we are in effect holding that the property was acquired by the appellants father with his own money for her mother.	None
In this state of affairs it is difficult to see how the transaction could be split up into two parts, i. e., a gift of the money by the father to the mother in the first instance and the purchase by the mother of that property subsequently with that money.	None
In my judgment, upon the pleadings there is no scope for splitting up the transaction into parts like this.	None
It is not even an alternative contention of the respondents that the transaction was in two parts and that what the father gifted was the money and not the property.	None
It would be indeed an artificial way of looking at the transaction as was done by the trial court as being constituted of two parts.	None
The transaction in my judgment is one indivisible whole, and that is, the father provided the money for acquiring the property in the mothers name.	None
Therefore, in effect it was the father who purchased the property with the intention of conferring the beneficial interest solely upon the mother.	None
Such a transaction must therefore amount to a gift.	None
In that view the property would not fall under Cl.	None
(d) of S. 10 of the Act but under Cl.	None
(b) of that section.	None
Therefore, the appellant would be the sole heir of her mother and the nonjoinder of her brothers would not defeat the suit so far as she is concerned.	None
In the result 1 would set aside the decree of the courts below in so far as the property in question, Beverley Estates, is concerned and decree the appellants suit with respect to it in addition to the property with respect to which she has already obtained a decree in the Courts below.	None
I would further direct that the respondents will pay to the appellant proportionate costs in all the courts.ORDER19.	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority, the appeal is dismissed.	Decision
No order as to costs.	Decision
Appellant need not pay courtfees.20.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
