Bhan, J. These appeals are directed against a common order passed by a Full Bench of Five Judges of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Writ Petition No. 4285 (MB) of 1999, Public Services Tribunal Bar Association vs. State of U.P. Anr.	Issue
Civil Writ Petition No. 871 (MB) of 2000, Afzal Ahmad Siddiqui vs. State of U.P. Ors., and Civil Writ Petition No. 1262 (MB) of 2000, Shireesh Kumar vs. State of U.P. Ors., wherein the High Court has dismissed the writ petitions challenging the view of the U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) Act, 1976, as amended from time to time.	Issue
The High Court has upheld the constitutional validity of the Act as well as the subsequent amendments made therein.	Issue
To effectively adjudicate the dispute arising in these appeals it would be necessary to have a look at the events in a chronological order which are given in brief as under The U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) Act.	None
1976 (for short the Act) was promulgated relating to public servants of the State Government and the employees of the government undertaking, local bodies etc.	None
having power to grant interim relief as well.	Facts
Before the coming into force of the Act the public servants were approaching civil courts for redressal of their grievances arising out of their services matters by filing civil suit before the civil court of competent jurisdiction or by approaching the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
After the coming into force of the Act the jurisdiction of the Civil Court was taken away.	Facts
The decision to have a separate service Tribunal was taken by the State Government after considering the increasing workload of the civil courts and the delay in disposal of the service matters.	Facts
The purpose for creating the Tribunal has been indicated in the statement of objects of the Act, which reads as under The number of cases in the courts pertaining to the employment matters of the Government servants was constantly on the increase.	Facts
This, besides increasing the workload in the courts also delayed considerably the disposal of such cases.	Facts
Such litigation also involved money and time of government servants.	Facts
I these circumstances, it was decided to establish Public Services Tribunals to deal with cases pertaining to employment matter of government servants and also of the employees of the local authorities and Government Corporations and Companies, so that the employees may get quick and inexpenses justice.	Facts
It was also decided that after the establishment of the Tribunals such suits be barred from being file in the subordinate courts.	Facts
Under the original Act the State Government constituted five Tribunals each comprising of an IAS Officer as a Chairman and a Judicial Officer of the rank of District Judge as a Judicial Member.	Facts
Each Tribunal was vested with the jurisdiction over service matters of different department to the State Government.	Facts
Under Section 4 of the Act any person who is or has been a public servant could file a claim petition in any manner relating to employment as such public servant if his employer had dealt with him in a manner which was not in conformity with any contract or provisions or Article 16 or Article 311 of the Constitution of India or with any rules or law having force under Article 309 or Article 313 of the Constitution.	Facts
Under Section 5 (5) (j) of the original Act the Tribunals had the power to pass interim orders in respect of all matters within their jurisdiction including orders of dismissal, removal, reduction in rank, termination, reversion and compulsory retirement.5.	Facts
The Act was amended by the U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) (Amendment) Act (U.P. Act No. 1 of 1977).	Facts
By the said amendment after subsection (5) of Section 5, subsection (5A) were inserted.	Facts
Under Section 5 (5A)	Facts
the Tribunal could pass an interim order in specific type of cases, but under Section 5 (5B) the Tribunal was prohibited from passing interim orders in respect of the order made or purporting to be made by an employer for the suspension, dismissal, removal, reduction in rank, termination, reversion and compulsory retirement.6.	Facts
In the year 1982 a proviso was added to Section 4 of the Act by the U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) (Amendment) Act (U.P. Act 2 of 1982) divesting the Tribunal of the jurisdiction to deal with petitions arising out of orders of transfer of a public servant.7.	Facts
In 1985 the Administrative Tribunal Act (Act No. 13 of 1985) was enacted by the Parliament under Article 323A of the Constitution providing a Central Administrative Tribunal with benches for adjudicating disputes in respect of recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed under the Central Government and its undertakings in connection with the affairs of the Union.	Facts
Under Section 5(1) of the said Act.	Facts
Tribunal was to consist of a Chairman, ViceChairman, Judicial and Administration Members.	Facts
Under Section 6(1)(c) of the said Act a person who had held the post of Secretary to the Government of India or any other post under Central or State Government carrying a scale of pay which as not less than that of a Secretary to the Government of India could be appointed as the Chairman of the Tribunal.	Facts
The original Act vested the entire power of appointment of Chairman.	Facts
ViceChairman Administrative Judicial Members of the Tribunal in the Central Government without providing for their appointments being made on consultation with the Chief Justice of India.8.	Facts
Writ Petition No. 12437 of 1985, S.P. Sampath Kumar v. Union of India and other connected cases were filed in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of India challenging the validity of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 including Section 28 of the Act whereby the High Courts were divested of their jurisdiction under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution in respect of matters within the jurisdiction of the Administrative Tribunals, i.e., in respect of service matters pertaining to employees of the Central Government, State Government or any undertaking which were brought within the jurisdiction of the Tribunals.	Facts
S.P. Sampath Kumars case and other connected cases were referred to and disposed of by a Constitution Bench of this Court and the same is reported in 1987 (1) SCC 124.	Facts
By the said decision, this Court upheld the constitutional validity of the Administrative Tribunals Act but directions were issued to the Central Government to amend the Act, inter alia, to delete the provisions providing for IAS Officers to be appointed as Chairman of the Tribunal and providing for appointment of Chairman, ViceChairman and other members of the Tribunal in Consultation with the Chief Justice of India.	Facts
Thereafter in 1987 by Administrative Tribunals (Amendment) Act, section 6(1)(c) of the said Act were omitted and section 6 (7) was submitted providing for appointment of Chairman, ViceChairman and members of the Tribunal in consultation with the Chief Justice of India.9.	Facts
In Krishna Sahai v. State of U.P. 1990 (2) SCC 673 and Rajendra Singh Yadav v. State of U.P. 1990 (2) SCC 763 , this Court directed the State of U.P. to consider the feasibility of setting up an appropriate Tribunal under the Central Tribunal Act. 1985 in place of the Services Tribunals functioning at present, and in case the existing State Tribunals were continued.	Facts
This observed it would be appropriate for the State of Uttar Pradesh to change its manning and a sufficient number of people qualified in Law should be on the Tribunal to ensure adequate dispensation of justice and to maintain judicial temper in the functioning of the Tribunal In the later decision in Rajendra Singh Yadavs case (supra), this Court reiterated its earlier view, a few other observations to improve the functioning of the Services Tribunal were made.	Facts
The said observations read as under We have been told that the Services Tribunal mostly consists of Administrative Officers and the judicial element in the meaning part of the Tribunal is very small.	Facts
As was pointed out by us in S.P. Sampath Kumar v. Union of India, the disputes require judicial handling and the adjudication being essentially judicial in character it is necessary that an adequate number of judges of the appropriate level should man the Services Tribunals.	Facts
This would create appropriate temper and generate the atmosphere suitable in an adjudicatory Tribunal and the institution as well would command the requisite confidence of the disputants.	Facts
We have indicated in the connected matter that steps should be taken to replace the Services Tribunals by Tribunals under the Administrative Tribunals Act. 1985.	Facts
That would give the Tribunal the necessary colour in terms of Article 323A of the Constitution.	Facts
As a consequences of setting up of such Tribunals, the jurisdiction of the High Court would be taken away and the Tribunals can with plenary powers function appropriately.	Facts
The disputes which have arisen on account of the Services Tribunals hot having complete jurisdiction to deal with every situation arising before it would then not arise.	Facts
We have pointed out that notice has been issued in a latter case for the States response to the question of Tribunals to be located at different parts of the State.	Facts
State of Uttar Pradesh territorially is the second largest State in India but considering the population it comes first.	Facts
Almost every part of the State is well advanced and service litigation in such setting is likely to arise everywhere.	Facts
To locate the seat of the Tribunals at the State capital in such a situation is not appropriate.	Facts
The accepted philosophy relevant to the question today is that justice should be taken to everyones doors.	Facts
This, of course, is not a statement which should be taken literally but undoubtedly the redressal forum should be available near about so that litigation may be cheap and the forum of ventilating grievance may not be difficult to approach.	Facts
Keeping that in view which is a legitimate consideration it would be appropriate for the State Government to consider, firstly, increase in the number of benches of the Tribunal and secondly, to located then not at the same station but at various sectors or depending upon the number of institution of disputes and pendency at the level of independent Commissionerate or by clubbing two or three of them together.	Facts
This, of course, is a matter which would require further examination at the administrative level and, therefore, we express no opinion regarding location of such Tribunals although we are of the definite view the there should be Tribunals available in different part of the State and all the benches of the Tribunal should not be located at one place.	Facts
Thereafter in 1992 the U.P. Public Services (Tribunals) (Amendment) Act (U.P. Act No. 7 of 1992) was promulgated amending drastically the provisions of the original Act.	Facts
Only one Tribunal with separate division and single member benches replaced the several Tribunals constituted under the original Act.	Facts
According to section 3(2) of the Amending Act the Tribunal was to consist of one Chairman, one ViceChairman, Judicial and Administrative Members.	Facts
Under section 3(3)(c) of the Amen ding Act an IAS Officer could be appointed as Chairman of that Tribunal.	Facts
Similarly, under section 3(4) (c) of the Amending Act an IAS officer could also be appointed as ViceChairman of the Tribunal.	Facts
Another significant change brought about by the Amending Act was that vide Section 5A of the Amending Act the Tribunal was vested with the powers of punishment for its contempt in the same manner as th High Court has under the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act.	Facts
Thereafter in 1993 Sri S. Venkat Ramani, an IAS officer was appointed by the State Government as Chairman of the Tribunal.	Facts
Sanjai Kumar Srivastava filed writ petition No. 1619(MB) of 1993 before the Allahabad High Court challenging the appointment of Sri Venkat Ramani as Chairman of the Tribunal as well as challenging the constitutional validity of the provisions of section 5(3) (c) and 5(4)(c) of the Act as amended in 1992 whereby an IAS officer could be appointed as Chairman and ViceChairman of the Tribunal.	Facts
A Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court by its judgment dated 26th May, 1995 struck down the provisions of Section 5 (3) (c) and 5(4) (c) of the Act and quashed the appointment of Sri Venkat Ramani an IAS officer as Chairman of the Tribunal.12.	Facts
In 1994 the U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) (Amendment) Ordinance (U.P. Ordinance No.23 of 1994) was promulgated whereby subsection 5C was inserted to section 5 of the Act divesting the Tribunal from passing any interim order in respect of an adverse entry awarded to a public servant and providing that all interim orders passed in respect of any such adverse entry before the promulgation of the Ordinance would stand vacated.	Facts
This Ordinance in due course of time lapsed and thereafter in the year 1995 again the same Ordinance was promulgated by U.P. Ordinance No.8 of 1995 introducing the same amendments as were in U.P. Ordinance No.23 of 1994.	Facts
This Ordinance also lapsed in due course of time and thereafter on 25th August.	Facts
1995 the U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) (Amendment) (Second) Ordinance, 1995 (U.P. Ordinance No.32 of 1995) was promulgated by the Government repromulgating U.P. Ordinance No.8 of 1995 which had lapsed on expiry of the period specified in Article 213(2) of the Constitution.13.	Facts
In February, 1997 a former Judge of the Allahabad High Court, Justice K.L. Sharma (retd.) was appointed as the Chairman of the Tribunal.	Facts
Justice Sharma retired as Chairman of the Tribunal on 10th July, 1999.14.	Facts
On 10th of September, 1999 U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) Amendment Ordinance, 1999 (U.P. Ordinance No.17 of 1999) was promulgated by the Governor of U.P. and published vide notification dated 9th September, 1999.	Facts
By Ordinance No. 17 of 1999 Section 4(1) was substituted in place of section 4 of the Act, further Section (5C) was added to Section 5.	Facts
Writ Petition No.l 4285 (MB) of 1999 was filed by the U.P. Public Services Tribunal Bar Association.	Facts
The constitutional validity of newly added Section 4(1), subsection (5C) and Section 5(5B) was challenged being ultra vires the Constitution.	Facts
A further prayer was made that a writ in the nature of mandamus be issued commanding the State Government to modify the Act strictly in conformity with the Central Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 as per the law laid down by this Court in S.P. Sampath Kumars case (supra) and L. Chandra, Kumar v. Union of India 1997 (3) SCC 261 .	Facts
Lastly it was prayed that the U.P. Public Services Tribunal be given comprehensive powers to grant interim relief to make the Tribunal more efficient and effective.	Facts
Subsequently the impugned U.P. Ordinance No. 17 of 1999 was replaced by U.P. Act No. 5 of 2000.	Facts
Thereafter an application for amendment of the writ petition challenging the U.P. Act No. 5 of 2000 was moved which was allowed.15.	Facts
Sri Satish Chand Shukla, a practising advocate of Allahabad High Court filed writ petition No. 5103 (MB) of 1999 challenging the constitutional validity of the U.P. Public Service (Tribunal) Act, 1976 on the ground that the same was beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature.16.	Facts
Shri Afzal Ahmad Siddiqui, a practising advocate filed writ petition No. 748 (MB) of 1999 challenging the constitutional validity of Section 3(5), (7) and (8) of the Act with a prayer to annual the above sections in order to remove the infirmities of the Act as pointed out by this Court in S.P. Sampath Kumars case (supra).	Facts
The same advocate Shri Afzal Ahmad Siddiqui filed another writ petition No. 1636 (MB) of 1999 challenging the constitutional validity of the U.P. Ordinance No. 17 of 1999.	Facts
After the coming into force of the U.P. Act No. 5 of 2000 replacing the Ordinance No.17 of 1999 Shri Afzal Ahmad Siddiqui filed writ petition No. 871 (MB) of 2000 challenging the provisions of the U.P. Act No.5 of 2000.	Facts
Relief claimed in writ petition No. 871 (MB) of 2000 was the same as had been claimed in writ petition Nos. 748 (MB) of 1999 and 1636 (MB) of 1999 filed by him in which he had challenged the provisions of the Ordinance.17.	Facts
The provisions of the Act which are under challenge and other relevant provisions are reproduced below for reference Section 3.	Facts
Constitution of the Tribunal (1) As soon as may be after the commencement of the Uttar Pradesh Public Services (Tribunals) (Amendment) Act, 1992, the State Government shall, by notification, establish a Tribunal to be called the State Public Services Tribunal.(2)	Facts
The Tribunal shall consist of a Chairman a Vice Chairman (Judicial), A ViceChairman(Administrative) and such number of other Judicial and Administrative Members not less that five in each category, as may be determinated by the State Government.(3)	Facts
A person shall not be qualified for appointment as Chairman unless he(a) has been a Judge of a High Court, or(b) has, for at least two years held the post of ViceChairman, or(c) has been a member of the Indian Administrative Service who has held the post of a Secretary to the Government of India or any other post under the Central or the State Government equivalent thereto, and has adequate experience in dispensation of justice.(4).	Facts
A person shall not be qualified for appointment as ViceChairman (Judicial) unless he.	None
(a) has held the post of District Judge or any other post equivalent thereto for at least five years or(b) has, for at least two years, held the post of a Judicial Member.(4A)	None
A person shall not be qualified for appointment as ViceChairman(Administrative) unless the(a) has, for at least two years, held the post of an Administrative Member or(b) has, for at least two years held the post of Additional Secretary to the Government of India or any other post under the Central or a State Government carrying a scale of pay which is not less than that of an Additional Secretary to the Government of India and has, in the opinion of the State Government, adequate experience in dispensation of Justice.(5)	Facts
A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Judicial Member, unless he has held the post of District Judge, or any other post equivalent thereto.(6)	Facts
A person shall not be qualified for appointment as an Administrative Member, unless he has field, or has been eligible to hold, the post of Commissioner of a Division or Joint Secretary to the Government of India and has in the opinion of the State Government, adequate experience in dispensation of justice.	Facts
The Chairman, ViceChairman and every other member shall be appointed by the State Government after consultation with the Chief Justice for which proposal will be initiated by the State GovernmentProvided that no person shall assume the Office of Chairman, ViceChairman or other member, as the case may be, unless he has resigned or retired from, as the case may be, the Judgeship of the High Court, or the Indian Administrative Service or the Uttar Pradesh Higher Judicial Service or any other service in which he was serving except the service as ViceChairman or Member.	Facts
Section 4.	Facts
Reference of claim to Tribunal  (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, a person who is or has been a public servant and is aggrieved by an order pertaining to a service matter within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, may make a reference of claim to the Tribunal for the redressal of his grievance.	Facts
Explanation For the purpose of this subsection order means an order made by the State Government or a local authority or any other Corporation or company referred to in clause (b) of Section 2 or by an officer, committee or other body or agency of the State Government or such local authority or Corporation or companyProvided that no reference shall, subject to the terms of any contract, be made in respect of a claim arising out of the transfer of a public servant.	None
Section 5.	Facts
Powers and procedure of the Tribunal  (1)(a)	Facts
The Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908), or the rules of evidence contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (Act 1 of 1872), but shall be guided by the principles of natural justice, and subject to the provisions of this section and of any rules made under Section 7, the Tribunal shall have power to regulate its own procedure (including the fixing of places and times of its sittings and deciding whether to sit in public or private)Provided that where, in respect of the subject matter of a reference, a competent court has already passed a decree or order or issued a writ or direction, and such decree, order, writ of direction has become final, the principle or res judicata shall apply.	Facts
Section (5B)	Facts
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing subsections, the Tribunal shall have no power to make an interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other manner) in respect of an order made or purporting to be made by an employer for the suspension, dismissal, removal reduction in rank termination, compulsory, retirement or reversion of a public servant, and every interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other manner), in respect of such matter, which was made by a Tribunal before the date of commencement of this subsection and which if in force on that day, shall stand vacated.	Facts
Section (5C)	Facts
Notwithstanding anything in the forgoing subsections, the Tribunal shall have no power to make an interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other manner) in respect of an adverse entry made by an employer against a public servant, and every interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other manner) in respect of an adverse entry, which was made by a Tribunal before the commencement of the Uttar Pradesh Public Services (Tribunal (Amendment) Act, 2000 and which is in force on the date of such commencement shall stand vacated.	Facts
The validity of Section 4(1) inserted by Act No. 5 of 2000 has been challenged on the ground that a public servant could not approach the Tribunal for in action on the part of the authorities in respect of his legal rights.	Facts
If there was inaction on the part of the employer a public servant had no remedy before the Tribunal and further the incumbent could not approach the Civil Court for the reason that the jurisdiction of the Civil Court had already been barred under Section 6 of the Act.	Facts
That by the amendments made in the impugned Act the powers of the Tribunal regarding judicial review of administrative inaction deprives the litigants of their valuable right.	Facts
Divesting of power of judicial review too was ultra vires to the Constitution of India.	Facts
Judicial review being basic and essential feature of the Constitution as held by this Court in Minerva Mills Ltd. vs. Union of India reported in 1980 6 SCC 625.	Facts
The object of the Act was not to leave a public servant without any remedy.	Facts
It was further averred that initially there were provisions in the Act conferring powers upon the Tribunal to grant interim relief.	Facts
However, in due course of time on one pretext or the other the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to grant interim reliefs has gradually been taken away.	Facts
Firstly embargo was put with respect to grant of interim relief in certain matters.	Facts
Subsequently the jurisdiction with respect to transfer was taken away and lastly the power to make interim order in respect of an adverse entry made by an employer against a public servant has been taken away.	Facts
By the impugned action of the respondents the whole concept of the aims and objects of the Act have been diluted.	Facts
If the Tribunal is not conferred with full powers of the court and the authority to grant effective relief to the public servants then it cannot be the real substitute of the courts.	Facts
If the Tribunal is not empowered to deal with every situation with respect to the services of the public servants then it will loose its identity.	Facts
If the rule of law is to prevail the Tribunal has to play effective role in administration of justice and in the process the Tribunal should have all powers as are vested in courts.	Facts
Challenging the later part of subsection (c) to the effect that every order made whether by way of injunction or stay or any other manner in respect of an adverse entry which was made by the Tribunal before the date this subsection came into force and which was in force on that date shall stand vacated, it was contended that the interim orders granted by the Tribunal before the coming into force of section (5C) with retrospective effect could not be nullified by exercise of legislative power and only the provisions which are the basis of the judicial orders could be amended.	Facts
That the complete ouster of jurisdiction in the matter of grant of interim relief from the Tribunal in specified cases was ultra vires to the Constitution as there was no judicial remedy open for the incumbent.	Facts
For example in the matter of suspension the Tribunal does not have the power to grant any interim relief whereas the order many suffer from legal infirmity, error of jurisdiction, mala fide and arbitrary exercise of power.	Facts
In view of these circumstances it was submitted that public servant does not have any judicial and continues under suspension during the period of disciplinary proceedings.	Facts
Similarly, it was submitted that right of livelihood is a fundamental right of a government servant and by illegal termination of his service the said right is infringed.	Facts
The order of termination on the face of it may be without jurisdiction and bad in law but since the Tribunal did not have the power to grant interim relief such incumbent would go without relief till the matter is finally heard and decided.	Facts
It takes considerably long period before the dispute is finally decided and during has period the incumbent faces financial and mental torture.	Facts
Another submission made was that judgment and orders of the Tribunal before the promulgation of the amended Act could be executed after issuance of a certificate by the Tribunal to the principal civil court under subsection (7) of Section 5 of the Act.	Facts
However, by the amendment made in the impugned Act by U.P. Act No. 7 of 1992, subsection (7) of Section 5 was submitted by the following provisions The order of the Tribunal finally disposing of a reference shall be executed in the same manner in which any final order of the State Government or other authority or office or other person competent to pass such order under the relevant service rules as to redressal of grievances in any appeal preferred or representation made by the claimant in connection with any matter relating to his employment to which the reference relates would have been executed.	Facts
In view of the aforesaid substituted subsection (7) of Section 5, the orders and judgment of the Public Services Tribunal cannot be executed as a decree of civil court and they are executable only as orders of the State Government or other authority or officer or other person competent to pass such orders under relevant service rules.	Facts
It was also contended that powers and functions of the Tribunal as they stand today under the Act are not in consonance with the dictum of this Court in S.P. Sampath Kumars case (supra) and L. Chandra Kumars case (supra).20.	Facts
The validity of Section 3 and especially an appointment of an Administrative Member as ViceChairman of the Tribunal was challenged on the ground that the same was contrary to the decision of this Court in S.P. Sampath Kumars case (supra).	Facts
That an IAS officer could not be made ViceChairman because in the absence of a Chairman or Vice Chairman (Judicial), a ViceChairman (Administration) could officiate as a Chairman which would be contrary to be law laid down by this Court in S.P. Sampath Kumars case (supra).21.	Facts
In the written statements filed by the respondents a preliminary objection was taken regarding the maintainability of the writ petition challenging the vires of the Act by the Tribunal Bar Association which was not an aggrieved party.	Facts
On merit it was submitted that the amendments brought out in the Act are in consonance with the directions issued by this Court in S.P. Sampath Kumars case (supra) and various other judgments order rendered by the Allahabad High Court.	Facts
The amendments have been made to bring the U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) Act, 1976 at par with the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985.	Facts
That the appointment of the Chairman, ViceChairman (Judicial) as well as ViceChairman (Administration) as well as Members has now to be made in consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court.	Facts
That it has been done in pursuance to the directions issued by the Allahabad High Court in Writ Petition No. 1619(MB) of 1993 Sanjay Kumar Srivastava vs. State of U.P. and other by a Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court wherein the provisions of subsection 3(c) and 4(c) of Section 3 of the unamended Act were struck down.	Facts
These subsections (as they stood on the statute book) provided that an IAS officer could be appointed as Chairman.	Facts
Now the appointment of the Chairman, the two ViceChairman and Members has to be made by the State Government after effective consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court on the basis of parameters indicated in Sanjai Kumar Srivastavas case (supra) of the Allahabad High Court.	Facts
That the State Legislature was competent to enact the U.P. Public Service (Tribunal) Act as well as to carry out the amendments in it in exercise of it legislative power.22.	Facts
In regard to challenge of subsection (1) of Section 4 that only an order passed by the authority could be challenged and not the inaction on the part of the government to pass an order, it was submitted that order also would mean omission and inaction on the part of the authority concerned for which a public servant could move the Tribunal.	Facts
Advocate General who had appeared before the High Court on behalf of the State very fairly stated that the inaction or omission to Act could also be challenge before the Tribunal.	Facts
Since no explanation clarification had come in the Act, the High Court observed Now it is certain that there is no remedy provided in the Act to the Government employee to approach the Services Tribunal as far as nonaction of the State Government is concerned.	Facts
Therefore we are of the considered opinion that now the remedy open to such incumbent is under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
It could be a blessing in disguise to such employees as this Court can even grant interim relief under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
After detailed examination of the various submissions made before it, the High Court the constitutional validity of the Act as well as the subsequent amendments made therein.	Facts
In the concluding portions the High Court culled out the conclusions as follows The composition of the Tribunal as provided by the impugned Act is constitutional and valid.(ii)	Facts
The State Legislature is competent to enact, revalidate on reenact any provisions of law.(iii)	Facts
The impugned Act (U.P. Act No.5 of 2000) does not suffer from any colourable exercise of power.(iv)	Facts
The impugned Act is not inconsistent with the rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution.(v)	Facts
By issuance of the impugned Act there has neither been violation of fundamental rights nor violation of the principles of basic structure of the Constitution.(vi)	Facts
For nonaction on the part of State Government in relation to service matters of the State employees the remedy open is only under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
Shri Venugopal, learned senior advocate appearing in Civil Appeal No. 3946 of 2001 did not raise the point regarding the legislative competence of the State Legislature to enact the Act or the various amendments brought therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
The only submission made by him is that the amendments brought about in the Act are violative of fundamental rights guaranteed to a public servant in the spirit of Social Justice and Welfare State concepts which constitute the backbone of the Indian Constitution and basic structure of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
For effective adjudication to a cause of action complete jurisdiction to grant relief including the interim relief should vest in one and the same forum.	Arguments of Petitioner
Single cause of action cannot be split and divided for getting the interim and final relief in two different forums.	Arguments of Petitioner
A public servant is required to approach the Tribunal to challenge the order of its termination whereas for getting an interim relief against the order of termination he is forced to approach the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Right to get interim relief is ancillary to the main relief and therefore should vest in one and the same forum.	Arguments of Petitioner
Splitting of the cause of action for getting the relief interim and the final works out to be iniquitous, onerous and oppressive.	Arguments of Petitioner
More often and so, the High Court may not intervene for giving interim relief as it is precluded from going into the dispute on merits at the first instance which practically leaves the litigant from getting any immediate relief against an order of transfer, termination, suspension, removal, dismissal etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
It also results in additional expenses to the litigant thus defeating the purpose of the Act itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the said reasons, according to him, subsection 5B and 5C are violative of Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution being arbitrary.25.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned senior advocate appearing in Civil Appeal Nos. 3947 3948 of 2001 contended that object of the amendments was to bring the U.P. Public Services (Tribunal) Act, 1976 in tune with the Administrative Tribunals, Act, 1985 whereas it is to the contrary.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the impugned judgment does not deal with the question regarding holding of the post of a ViceChairman by a non judicial member.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other respects he adopted the submissions made by Shri Venugopal.26.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri P.P. Rao, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents contraverted the submissions made by the respective counsels appearing for the appellants in the two sets of appeals.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended by him that a litigant is not left without any remedy.	Arguments of Respondent
He has a right to approach the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for redressal of his grievance for interim relief.	Arguments of Respondent
Power to grant interim relief from the Tribunal has not been taken away completely.	Arguments of Respondent
It has only been taken away partially.	Arguments of Respondent
Referring to the following judgments viz.	Arguments of Respondent
(i) Delhi Cloth General Mills Co. Ltd. vs. Shri Rameshwar Dyal and Another reported in 1961 (2) SCR 590 , (ii) U.P. Rajya Krishi Utpadan Mandi Parishad vs. Sanjiv Rajan reported in 1993 Supp.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) SCC 483 and (iii) State of Haryana vs. Suman Dutta reported in 2000 (10) SCC 311 , it was contended that this Court has consistently been of the view that final relief could not be given at the interim stage.	Arguments of Respondent
In case the order of suspension or termination or dismissal or removal is stayed at the interim stage it amounts to allowing the petition itself at the interim stage.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court in State of Haryanas case (supra) has held that order of termination could not be stayed by interim order.	Arguments of Respondent
In case any public servant is finally ordered to be reinstated after quashing the order of termination, removal, dismissal, suspension etc, he can be compensated by the courts by appropriately moulding the relief whereas in cases where the order of removal, dismissal, termination etc. is stayed at the interim stage but later on the petition is dismissed then the courts cannot mould the relief to undo the mischief resulting from the interim order passed.	Arguments of Respondent
The constitution of the forum to get redressal of grievance, the procedure prescribed and the right to file an appeal, revision etc. are all creations of statute and the State Legislature was competent to enact such a law.	Arguments of Respondent
The same was not violative of Articles 14 16 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Under the circumstances it was contended by him that taking away of the jurisdiction to grant interim relief against an order of suspension, dismissal, removal, deduction of rank, compulsory retirement or reversion of a public servant or to grant interim relief against an order of transfer or against an adverse entry made in the record is not violative of Article 14 16 of the Constitution.27.	Arguments of Respondent
The constitutional validity of an Act can be challenged only on two grounds, viz., (i) lack of legislative competence and (ii) violation of any of the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution or of any other constitutional provisions.	None
In State of Andhra Pradesh vs. McDowell Co. others (1996 (3) SCC 709 ), this Court has opined that except the above two grounds there is no third ground on the basis of which the law made by the competent legislature can be invalidated and that the ground of invalidation must necessarily fall within the four corners of the aforementioned two grounds.	None
Power to enact a law is derived by the State Assembly from List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.	None
Entry 41 confers upon a State Legislature the power to make State Public Services State Public Services Commission.	None
Under this Entry, a State Legislature has the power to constitute State Public Services and to regulate their service conditions, emoluments and provide for disciplinary matter etc.	None
The State Legislature had enacted the U.P. Public Services Tribunals Act, 1976 in exercise of the power vested in it by Entry 41 of List II of seventh schedule.	Facts
Power to enact would include the power to reenact or validate any provision of law in the State Legislature provided the same falls in a entry of List II of the VII Schedule of the Constitution with the restriction that such enactment should not nullify a judgment of the competent court of law.	None
The legislative competence of the State to enact the U.P. Public Services Tribunal has not been questioned in these appeals.	None
The challenge put forth is to various amendments made is that the same are violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution being arbitrary as they are onerous and work inequitably.	None
In the present appeals legislative action of the State is under challenge.	None
Judicial system has an important role to play in our body politic and has a solemn obligation to fulfil.	None
In such circumstances it is imperative upon the courts while examining the scope of legislative action to be conscious to start with the presumption regarding the constitutional validity of the legislation.	None
The burden of proof is upon the shoulders of the incumbent who challenges it.	None
It is true that it is the duty of the Constitutional Courts under our Constitution to declare a law enacted by the Parliament or the State Legislature as unconstitutional when the Parliament or State Legislature had assumed to enact a law which is void, either from want of constitutional power to enact it or because the constitutional forms or conditions have not been observed or where the law infringes the fundamental rights enshrined and guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution.	None
In State of Bihar and others vs.	None
Bihar Distillery Ltd.	None
others reported in 1997(2) SCC 453, this Court indicated the approach which the Court should adopt while examining the validity constitutionality of a legislation.	None
It would be useful to remind ourselves of the principles laid down which read The approach of the court, while examining the challenge to the constitutionality of an enactment, is to start with the presumption of constitutionality.	None
The Court should to try to sustain its validity to the extent possible.	None
It should strike down the enactment only when it is not possible to sustain it.	None
The court should not approach the enactment with a view to pick holes or to search for defects of drafting, much less inexactitude of language employed.	None
Indeed any such defects of drafting should be ironed out as part of the attempt to sustain the validity constitutionality of the enactment.	None
After all, an Act made by the legislature represents the will of the people and that cannot be lightly interfered with.	None
The unconstitutionality must be plainly and clearly established before an enactment is declared as void.	None
The same approach holds good while ascertaining the intent and purpose of an enactment or its scope and application (para 17).	None
In the same paragraph the Court further observed as follows The Court must recognize the fundamental nature and importance of legislative process and accord due regard and deference to it, just as the legislature and the executive are expected to show due regard and deference to the judiciary.	None
It cannot also be forgotten that our Constitution recognizes and gives effect to the concept of equality between the three wings of the State and the concept of checks and balances inherent in such scheme.	None
In the light of what has been stated above, we proceed to examine the challenge to the various provisions of the Act.	None
The newly added subsection (1) of Section 4 contemplates that subject to the provisions of the Act a person who is and has been public servant being aggrieved by an order pertaining to the service matters within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal may make a reference to the Tribunal for redressal of his grievances.	None
Counsel appearing for the respondents fairly stated before us as had been stated by the Advocate General appearing for the State before the High Court that an order would also mean omission and inaction on the part of the authority concerned for which the public servant can move the Tribunal.	None
In the written statement filed by the respondents in the High Court it was stated that an order would include an omission of inaction on the part of the authority concerned and open to challenge.	None
Since no such amendment or clarification had come in the Act, the High Court observed that an omission and inaction on the part of the authority could be challenged by filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India in the High Court.	Reasoning
It was observed that there is no remedy provided in the Act to the Government employee to approach the Services Tribunal as far as nonaction of the State Government is concerned.	Facts
The only remedy open is under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	None
We agree with the view taken by the High Court that unless a clarification is made by the Legislature in the Act clarifying that an order would include an omission or inaction on the part of the authority, the inaction on the part of the authority can be challenged in High Court by filing the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that the public servant is left without a remedy to challenge any omission or inaction on the part of the authority.	Reasoning
Inaction by itself is an independent cause of action and the High Court can effectively deal with the same.	Reasoning
Subsections (5B) of Section 5 was introduced earlier in the principal Act by Act No. 1 of 1977 after the same was assented to by the President of India on 10th January, 1977.	None
The same was challenged in the High Court in the year 1978 by filing a Writ Petition No. 4255 of 1978.	None
The validity of Subsection (5B) was upheld which decision was not challenged in appeal.	None
The High Court relying upon the reasons recorded in the earlier writ petition upheld the vires of subsection (5B).	None
Since a point has been raised that earlier decision by the two Judges and the now the matter was being considered by a larger Bench of five Judges, the full Bench should have examined the point afresh and record an independent reason instead of upholding the validity of SubSection (5B) for the reasons recorded in the earlier judgment by two Judges.	None
We proceed to examine the validity of Subsections (5B) and (5C) of Section 5 independently of what had been held by the High Court in Writ Petition No. 4255 of 1978.	None
Before we make a reference to the various provisions of that Act under challenge and examine their validity it would be useful to refer to certain decisions of this Court wherein the grant of interim stay in cases of dismissal, termination or suspension has been examined.	None
In Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. case (supra) this Court examined the point as to whether a workman could be ordered to be reinstated as an interim measure pending final adjudication by the Tribunal under the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
In the said case the employer dismissed the workman for disobeying the orders of the managing authority.	None
The workman filed an application before the Industrial Tribunal under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 contesting his dismissal on various grounds, whereupon the Tribunal passed an order to the effect that as an interim measure the workman be permitted to work and if the management failed to take him back his full wages be paid from the date he reported for duty.	None
The employer challenged the order of the Tribunal by filing a writ petition before the High Court which was dismissed.	None
On appeal by a certificate of the High Court it was held that the order of reinstatement could not be given as an interim relief because that would be giving the employee the very relief which he would get if order of dismissal is not found to be justified.	None
Order passed by the Tribunal was held to be manifestly erroneous and set aside.	None
It was observed We are of opinion that such an order cannot be passed in law as an interim relief, for that would amount to giving the respondent at the outset the relief to which he would be entitled only if the employer failed in the proceedings under s.33A. As was pointed out in Hotel Imperials case (1960(1)	None
SCR 476, ordinarily, interim relief should not be the whole relief that the workmen would get if they succeeded finally.	None
The order therefore of the Tribunal in this case allowing reinstatement as an interim relief or in lieu thereof payment of full wages is manifestly erroneous and must therefore be set aside.	None
In U.P. Rajya Krishi Utpadan Mandi Parishad others case (supra) it was held by this Court that it was desirable that an order of suspension passed by a competent authority should not be ordinarily interfered by an interlocutory order pending the proceeding.	None
It was observed Whether the employees should or should not continue in their office during the period of inquiry is a matter to be assessed by the authority concerned and ordinarily, the Court should not interfere with the orders of suspension unless they are passed mala fide and without there being even a prima facie evidence on record connecting the employees with the misconduct in question In Suman Duttas case (supra) this Court set aside the order passed by the High Court staying the order of termination as an interim measure in the pending proceeding.	None
It was observed We are clearly of the opinion that the High Court erred in law in staying the order of termination as an interim measure in the pending writ petition.	None
By such interim order if an employee is allowed to continue in service and then ultimately the writ petition is dismissed, then it would tantamount to usurpation of public office without any right to the same Transfer is an incident of service and is made in administrative exigencies.	None
Normally it is not to be interfered with by the courts.	Reasoning
This Court consistently has been taken a view that orders of transfer should not be interfered with except in rare cases where the transfer has been made in a vindictive manner.	Reasoning
From the above quoted decisions, it is evident that this Court has consistently been of the view that by way of interim order the order of suspension, termination, dismissal and transfer etc. should not be stayed during the pendency of the proceedings in the Court.	None
Subsection (5B) provides that the Tribunal shall have not be the power to make an interim order (whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other manner) in respect of an order made or purporting to be made by an employer for the suspension, dismissal, removal, reduction in rank, termination, compulsory retirement or reversion of a public servant.	Facts
Dismissal, removal, termination and compulsory retirement puts an end to the relationship of employer and employee.	None
In case of suspension, reduction in rank or reversion the relationship of employer and employee continues.	None
Interference at the interim stage with an order of dismissal, removal, termination and compulsory retirement would be giving the final relief to an employee at an interim stage which he would have got in case the order of dismissal, removal, termination and compulsory retirement is found not to be justified.	None
If the order of dismissal, removal, termination and compulsory retirement is set aside then an employee can be compensated by moulding the relief appropriately in terms of arrears of salary, promotions which may have become due or otherwise compensating him in some other way.	None
But in case the order of dismissal, removal, termination and compulsory retirement is found to be justified then holding of the office during the operation of the interim order would amount to usurpation of an office which the employee was not entitled to hold.	None
The action becomes irreversible as the salary paid to the employee cannot be taken away as he has worked during that period and the orders passed by him during the period he holds office (because of the interim order) cannot also be put at naught.	None
The Legislature in its wisdom thought it proper not to confer the power to grant interim relief on the Tribunal.	None
State Legislature had the legislative competence to constitute a service tribunal and it was for it to define the parameters of the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.	None
An employee is not left without any remedy.	None
Judicial review of an order regarding which the jurisdiction of the Tribunal is barred would be available by approaching the High Court by filing petition under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India.	None
In an extreme and rare case where the order is passed mala fide or without following the procedure under the law then the employee can certainly approach the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution for the interim relief.	None
The High Court in such an extreme and rare case may in its wisdom stay that operation of the said order.	None
In the case of suspension, reduction in rank or reversion the relationship of employer and employee remains.	None
Normally, the suspension is made during a contemplated or a pending enquiry.	None
During the suspension period the employee is entitled for the suspension allowance.	None
If the suspension continues for indefinite period or order of suspension is passed mala fide then it would be open to the employee to challenge the same by approaching the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	None
In case the order of reduction in rank or reversion is set aside then the employee can be compensated by adequately moulding the relief while giving the relief at the final stage.	None
Power of the Tribunal to grant interim relief has been taken away qua certain matters not completely.	Arguments of Respondent
The power has been taken away in matters where the grant of said relief at the interim stage would result in giving the relief which would normally be given while disposing of the case finally.	None
Simply because in a rare cases of microscopic number a case is made out for stay of orders of suspension, transfer, reduction in rank, reversion or termination, dismissal and compulsory retirement and the employee is liable to approach the High Court for interim stay by itself is no ground to strike down the law enacted by a Legislative which is within its competence to enact.	None
Subsection (5C) of Section 5 contemplates that the Tribunal shall have no power to make an interim order in respect of an adverse entry.	None
Adverse entry in the confidential report does not affect the conditions of service of a public servant.	None
Making of an entry in the confidential report is an administrative act based on the subjective satisfaction of the superior officer done on the objective criteria.	None
It is an assessment of the performance of the Government servant in one year.	None
Assessment of performance in the past year may become a criteria affecting the future prospectus of the employee.	None
Invariably an adverse entry results in the passing of an order by the employer at a later stage and such an order may result in giving rise to a cause of action.	None
Subsection (5C) does not debar the public servant to challenge the adverse entry made in the record.	None
The adverse entry made in the service record is open to challenge and a public servant can approach the Tribunal to challenge the adverse entry made in the confidential report.	None
Tribunal if satisfied can set aside the adverse entry by way of a final order but stay of the adverse entry at the interim stage may not be an appropriate relief.	None
The reasons given by us for upholding the validity of Subsection (5B) would equally apply for upholding the validity of Subsection (5C) as well.	None
Subsections (5B) and (5C) are not arbitrary as contended by the counsel for the appellant as this Court in earlier cases has taken the view that orders of suspension, dismissal, removal, reduction in rank, termination, compulsory retirement or reversion of a public servant normally should not be interfered with at an interim stage as the employee can be suitably compensated in case the order of suspension, dismissal, removal, etc. in found not to be in order.	None
The cases in which the operation of orders of dismissal, removal, termination etc. is stayed by way of interim order is later on upheld at the final stage then it results in wrong usurpation of the office by the employee during the operation of the interim order.	None
This act becomes irreversible and the employer cannot be suitably compensated by moulding the relief at the final stage.	None
In an extreme and rare case where the order is prima facie on the face of it is mala fide or bad in law then it is open to a public servant to approach the High Court by filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for stay of such an order.	None
The employee is not left without any remedy.	None
In an extreme and rare case an employee is to approach the High Court for interim relief resulting in some extra expense by itself is no reason to strike down the Subsection (5B) being arbitrary and violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India.	None
The Principal Act was promulgated in 1976 for adjudication of the disputes pertaining to employment matters of public servants of the State Government and the employees of the Government Corporations and Companies, local authorities etc. and the jurisdiction of the civil courts for redressal of their grievances was taken away.	Reasoning
It was set up with five Tribunals and each Tribunal was independent and consisted of one Judicial member and one administrative member.	Reasoning
Out of them one member was the Chairman.	Reasoning
Constitution of the Tribunal was challenged in the High Court successfully.	Reasoning
Consequently, the Original Act was amended by U.P. Act No. 7 of 1992.	Reasoning
Subsections 3 (1), (2), (3) and (6) were amended.	Reasoning
The Tribunal was constituted of one Chairman, a Vice Chairman at least five Judicial Members and Five Administrative Members which were to function at different Benches consisting of a Single Member or two members for the disposal of such references of claims and other matters as ay be specified by the Chairman.	Reasoning
Under the Act 7 of 1992 an Administrative Member could be appointed as Chairman and in fact Shri Venkatramani, IAS was appointed as the Chairman.	Reasoning
This Act was challenged by filing a writ petition in Sanjai Kumar Srivastava in the High Court.	Reasoning
It was contended that administrative member could not become a Chairman and the appointment of Chairman.	Reasoning
Vice Chairman and members could not be made without consulting the Chief Justice of the State.	Reasoning
This objection was upheld and accordingly Section 3(3)(c) and Section 3(4)(c) of the Act were struck down.	Reasoning
State was permitted to make suitable amendments to bring about suitable amendments in the Act.	Reasoning
It was also directed that in future all appointments to the Tribunal be made only after effective consultation with the Chief Justice of the State.	Reasoning
Special Leave Petition filed against the judgment was dismissed by this Court.	Reasoning
The Government thereafter deleted the offending clauses of Section 3(3)(c) and Section 3(4)(c) from the Act.	Reasoning
Thereafter, Ordinance No. 17 of 1999 was promulgated which culminating in the passing of Act 5 of 2000.	Reasoning
Section 3(2) of the Principal At was substituted for the words a ViceChairman, the words A viceChairman (Judicial) a ViceChairman (Administrative).	Reasoning
From now onwards there are two Vice Chairmen instead of one Chairman.	Reasoning
In Section 3(4)(b) the words or an Administrative were deleted.	Reasoning
Subsection (4A) was inserted which prescribed the qualification for appointment as ViceChairman (Administrative).	Reasoning
Subsection (4A)(a) was the same as was earlier in Subsection 4(b) by deleting the words or an Administrative.	Reasoning
The new Subsection (4A) (b) was an addition now added in 1999.	Reasoning
This is in pari materia of Section 6 (2)(b) of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 except the words.	Reasoning
Additional Secretary instead of Secretary to the Government of India.	Reasoning
SubSection (4A) (b) is the same as the original Section 3(6) except adding the words as under has adequate experience, the words has, in the opinion of the State Government, adequate experience have been added.	Reasoning
Challenge to SubSection (4A) (b) of Section 3 that the same is not in conformity with the judgment in Sanjai Kumar Srivastava case is unfounded because this subsection is in pari materia with Section 6(2)(b) of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985.	None
SubSection (7) in Section 3 was also substituted by adding the words State Government after consultation with the Chief Justice for which proposal will be initiated by the State Government.	Reasoning
In other words, the power of appointments with the State Government has been retained but the same has to be exercised in consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court as directed by the High Court in Sanjai Kumar Srivastava case.44.	Reasoning
Appointment of the Chairman, ViceChairman (Judicial) and (Administrative) and members has now to be made in consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court.	Reasoning
Submission that the amendment carried out in Section 3 regarding appo9intment of Chairman, ViceChairmen (Judicial) as well as (Administrative) and members is not in conformity with the corresponding provisions of Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 has no substance.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated above, we find that the State Legislature was competent to enact the impugned provisions.	None
Further that the provisions enacted are not arbitrary and therefore not violative of Articles 14, 16 or any other provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
They are not against the basic structure of the Constitution of India either.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we do not find any merit in these appeals and the same are dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
