 UNTWALIA J.1.	None
These two appeals, one by the Union of India and the other by M s. Jardine Henderson Ltd., are by certificate granted by the Calcutta High Court.	Issue
Since the facts in both the cases are very much similar involving the interpretation of the various clauses of s. 3(1) of the Taxation Laws (Continuation and Validation of Recovery Proceedings) Act, 1964, hereinafter referred to as the Validation Act , the two appeals have been heard together and are being disposed of by this judgment There were two brothers named Basanta Kumar Daw, respondent No. 2 in Civil Appeal No. 1575 of 1971 and Haridhan Daw, respondent No. 2 in Civil Appeal No. 1965 of 1971.	Issue
The facts of Civil Appeal No. 1575 of 1971 are these For realization of arrears of incometax dues the Certificate Officer (sic) of 24 Parganas forwarded to the Collector a certificate in accordance with s. 46(2) of the Indian I.T. Act, 1922, specifying the amount of arrears due from respondent No.2.	Facts
Thereupon a certificate case was started against him (Basanta Kumar Daw) under the Bengal Public Demands Recovery Act, 1913, hereinafter called the Bengal Act, by the Certificate Officer acting as a Collector.	Facts
Notice under s. 7 was served on the certificatedebtor on October 31, 1949.	Facts
Basanta Kumar Daw entered appearance and filed an objection under s. 9 of the Bengal Act.	Facts
This objection was rejected by the Certificate Officer by his order dated March 8, 1951.	Facts
On April 2, 1951, the certificatedebtor made an application for review of the said order dated March 8, 1951, stating therein, inter alia, that the appeal preferred by him before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal had been allowed in part and some payments also had been made since then the certificate case, therefore, could not proceed for the recovery of the sum of Rs. 36, 874100, the original amount mentioned in the certificate.	Facts
The Certificate Officer declined to review his previous order and rejected the review petition.	Facts
But he made certain enquiries from the ITO whether the amount of the certificate had to be reduced.	Facts
The ITO informed him that the Tribunal had reduced the demand on appeal on September 13, 1956, and after adjustment of the previous payments made by the certificatedebtor the revised demand stood at Rs. 19, 00130 only.	Facts
Thereupon, the Certificate Officer amended the certificate on the basis of the information received from the ITO and reduced the demand.	Facts
On July 18, 1956, he directed the issue of sale notice under r. 46(2) framed under the Bengal Act in respect of the half share of Basanta Kumar Daw (the other half belonging to big brother, Haridhan Daw) in premises Nos. 201 to 205/1, Old China Bazar Street, CalcuttaNow, a few facts of the other appeal, being Civil Appeal No. 1965 of 1971, may be stated.	Facts
The ITO sent a requisition to the Certificate Officer of 24 Parganas for the recovery of a sum of Rs. 59, 541150 against Haridhan Daw, respondent No. 2, in this appeal.	Facts
A certificate case was started.	Facts
A notice under s. 7 of the Bengal Act was served on the certificatedebtor on January 30, 1951.	Facts
He also filed a petition of objection under s. 9.	Facts
But the Certificate Officer by his order dated January 13, 1954, rejected the objection filed by the certificatedebtor under the Bengal Act.	Facts
A review application was also rejected in this case on January 27, 1954.	Facts
On March 2, 1954, the ITO informed the Certificate Officer that the original demand of Rs. 59, 541150 had been enhanced to Rs. 59, 60470 under s. 35 of the I.T. Act and requested him to realize the enhanced amount.	Facts
The order under s. 35 was passed on March 2, 1953.	Facts
The Certificate Officer thereupon informed the ITO that the Bengal Act did not provide for enhancing the demand of the existing certificate and asked him to file a separate certificate for the additional amount.	Facts
He, however, continued the certificate proceedings for the recovery of the original amount2.	None
M s. Jardine Henderson Ltd., respondent in Civil Appeal No. 1575 of 1971, and appellant in Civil Appeal No. 1965 of 1971, purchased the whole of the premises in question on September 20, 1954, for a total sum of Rs. 3, 00, 100 purchasing onehalf of the undivided share from each of the two brothers3.	Facts
In both the cases, the company received a notice on August 6, 1956, fixing a date for settling the terms of the sale proclamations in respect of the respective onehalf share of each of the two certificatedebtors.	None
Immediately thereafter, the respondentcompany made an application in each of the two cases that it had purchased the property being unaware of the pendency of any certificate case against any of its vendors for realization of incometax dues and that the Company was the owner of the property and it was not liable to be sold as that of the certificatedebtor.	Facts
The Certificate Officer rejected the objection holding that the purchase, having been made after service of notice under s. 7 of the Bengal Act on the certificatedebtor, was void as against any claim enforceable in execution of the certificate and hence the company had no right to object to the sale.	Facts
The company went up in appeal before the Commissioner and succeeded in both the cases.	Facts
Two revisions were filed before the Board of Revenue which were allowed.	Facts
The respondentcompany then moved the High Court under art.	Facts
227 of the Constitution.	Facts
The petition giving rise to Civil Appeal No. 1575 of 1971 was allowed and hence the Union of India has come up in appeal.	Facts
The other petition giving rise to Civil Appeal No. 1965 of 1971 was dismissed by the same Bench and the company has, therefore, come up in appealThe Validation Act was not there when the orders were passed either by the Commissioner or the Board of Revenue.	Facts
But in the High Court as also here the main controversy between the parties was the effect of the Validation Act on the two certificate proceedings4.	None
Mr. V S, Desai, appearing for the Union of India, in the first instance submitted that the order reducing the amount of the certificate in Civil Appeal No. 1575 of 1971 was an order under s. 10 of the Bengal Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the notice served under s. 7 on the certificatedebtor continued to have its effect in spite of the reduction of the amount and no fresh notice under s. 7 was necessary to be served.	Reasoning
In agreement with the High Court we have no difficulty in rejecting this argument5.	None
We may first read some of the relevant provisions of the Bengal Act.	None
Section 7 reads as follows When a certificate has been filed in the office of a Certificate Officer under section 4 or section 6, he shall cause to be served upon the certificatedebtor, in the prescribed manner, a notice in the prescribed form and a copy of the certificate.	None
The effect of service of notice of certificate is provided in s. 8 which provides From and after the service of notice of any certificate under section 7 upon a certificatedebtor(a) any private transfer or delivery of any of his immovable property situated in the district in which the certificate is filed, or of any interest in any such property, shall be void against any claim enforceable in execution of the certificate.	None
Under s. 9 the certificatedebtor may file a petition of objection denying his liability in whole or in part.	None
Under s. 10 it is provided The Certificate Officer in whose office the original certificate is filed shall hear the petition, take evidence (if necessary), and determine whether the certificatedebtor is liable for the whole or any part of the amount for which the certificate was signed and may set aside, modify or vary the certificate accordingly.	None
On reading the provisions aforesaid it is clear that if the certificate is modified or varied by the Certificate Officer under s. 10 while disposing of the petition of objection filed by the certificatedebtor under s. 9, then the certificate case proceeds further without a fresh notice under s. 7.	None
But in the instant case, the amount was not reduced on the objection of the certificatedebtor but it was reduced on receipt of the information from the ITO.6.	None
In the Bengal Act itself there is no express provision enabling a person other than the certificatedebtor claiming an interest in the property to be sold to file any objection.	None
He, of course, under section 22 can take recourse to the said provision by filing an application to set aside the sale of immovable property on deposit of the amounts provided therein.	None
But the rules in Sch. II under s. 38 have the effect as if enacted in the body of the Act.	None
In Sch. II is to be found r. 39 which is very much like r. 58 of O. 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.	None
The company preferred a claim objecting to the sale of property on the ground that it was not liable to sale as it had purchased the property from the two certificatedebtors.	None
It was, therefore, not quite accurate to say that the company had no locus standi to prefer the claim.	None
It was open to it to show under r. 40 that at the date of the service of notice under s. 7 it had some interest in the property in dispute.	Reasoning
If the notice served at the beginning of the two certificate cases under s. 7 on the two certificatedebtors was not a valid notice in the sense that in one case on the reduction of the amount of the certificate it became necessary to give a fresh notice and in the other without a fresh demand notice under the I.T. Act for the enhanced amount, the certificate case could not proceed, then the company had validly purchased the property and its purchase was not void.	Reasoning
The property purchased by it could not then be sold for realization of the incometax dues against the two brothers.	Reasoning
If, however, no fresh notice was necessary to be served in either of the two cases then it is plain that the companys purchase was void as against the claim enforceable in execution of the certificate.	Reasoning
The answer in both the cases has got to be given with reference to the Validation Act and no other point of any consequence was argued or could be pressed with any success in either of the two appealsIn ITO v. Seghu Buchiah Setty 1964 52 ITR 538 (SC) best judgment assessment had been made for the assessment years 195354 and 195455.	None
A notice of demand for each of the two years was served upon the assessee under s. 29 of the Indian I.T. Act, 1922.	None
The assessee preferred appeals.	None
In the meantime for nonpayment of tax he was treated as a defaulter and a certificate was forwarded to the Collector under s. 46(2).	None
Thereafter, the tax payable by the assessee was substantially reduced in appeal.	None
The ITO informed the assessee of the reduced tax liability and called upon him to pay the reduced amount.	None
No fresh notice of demand was issued under s. 29.	None
Pending further appeals to the Appellate Tribunal the assessee wanted the certificate proceedings to be stayed.	None
and on his request being rejected be moved the High Court under art.	None
226 of the Constitution.	Facts
The High Court held that the department was not entitled to treat the respondent as a defaulter in the absence of a fresh notice of demand and quashed the recovery proceedings.	None
On appeal to this court the majority view expressed was that the amount of tax assessed being reduced as a result of the orders of the AAC, a fresh demand notice had to be served on the respondent before he could be treated as a defaulter.	None
The recovery proceedings initiated against him on the basis of the original demand notice were, therefore, rightly quashed by the High Court.7.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons which led to the introduction and passing of the Validation Act would show that it was to get over the difficulties in the collection of incometax and other direct taxes created by the Supreme Court decision in Seghu Buchiah Settys case 1964 52 ITR 538 that the Validation Act was passed with retrospective effect.	None
The interpretation of this Act falls for our consideration for the first time in this court.	None
This is an Act to provide for the continuation and validation of proceedings in relation to Government dues and for matters connected therewith .	None
In the Schedule appended to the Act are enumerated various tax statutes including the I.T. Act.	None
Taxing authority has been defined in cl.	None
(d) of s. 2 and cl.	None
(e) defines Tax Recovery Officer to mean an officer to whom a certificate for the recovery of arrears of Government dues may be issued under this Act.	None
Section 3, without the proviso, may be read as a whole Continuation and validation of certain proceedings.(1) Where any notice of demand in respect of any Government dues is served upon an assessee by a Taxing Authority under any scheduled Act, and any appeal or other proceeding is filed or taken in respect of such Government dues, then, (a) where such Government dues are enhanced in such appeal or proceeding, the Taxing Authority shall serve upon the assessee another notice of demand only in respect of the amount by which such Government dues are enhanced and any proceedings in relation to such Government dues as are covered by the notice or notices of demand served upon him before the disposal of such appeal or proceeding may, without the service of any fresh notice of demand, be continued from the stage at which such proceedings stood immediately before such disposal (b) where such Government dues are reduced in such appeal or proceeding, (i) it shall not be necessary for the Taxing Authority to serve upon the assessee a fresh notice of demand (ii) the Taxing Authority shall give intimation of the fact of such reduction to the assessee, and where a certificate has been issued to the Tax Recovery Officer for the recovery of such amount, also to that officer (iii) any proceedings initiated on the basis of the notice or notices of demand served upon the assessee before the disposal of such appeal or proceeding may be continued in relation to the amount reduced from the stage at which such proceedings stood immediately before such disposal (c) no proceedings in relation to such Government dues (including the imposition of penalty or charging of interest) shall be invalid by reason only that no fresh notice of demand was served upon the assessee after the disposal of such appeal or proceeding or that such Government dues have been enhanced or reduced in such appeal or proceeding.	None
8.	None
The Act was made retrospective by an express provision in section 5 Clause (a) deals with the case of an enhancement of Government dues and provides that the proceedings initiated may be continued from the stage at which such proceedings stood immediately before the disposal of the appeal or proceedings in which the enhancement was made.	None
Another notice of demand is required to be served in respect of the amount by which the dues are enhanced.	None
On a plain reading of cl.	None
(a) of s. 3	Reasoning
it is clear that the intention of the legislature is not to allow the nullification of the proceedings which were initiated for recovery of the original demand.	Reasoning
On the basis of another notice of demand for the enhanced amount, two courses are open to the department (1) to initiate another proceeding for the recovery of the amount by which the dues are enhanced treating it as a separate demand, or(2) to cancel the first proceedings and start a fresh one for the recovery of the entire amount including the enhanced one.	Reasoning
In the latter case, the first proceedings started for the recovery of the original amount will lose its force and the fresh proceeding will have to proceed de novo.	Reasoning
But in the former the first proceedings are not affected at all.	Reasoning
In Civil Appeal No. 1965 of 1971 this is exactly the view taken by the High Court and in our opinion rightly.9.	Reasoning
Mr. S. T. Desai appearing for the company submitted that where the amount was enhanced in appeal or revision there was no express provision in the I.T. Act for service of a fresh or another notice of demand for the additional amount.	Arguments of Respondent
But if the amount was enhanced under the power of rectification under s. 35 then subs.	Arguments of Respondent
(4) thereof requires Where any such rectification has the effect of enhancing the assessment or reducing a refund the Incometax Officer shall serve on the assessee a notice of demand in the prescribed form specifying the sum payable, and such notice of demand shall be deemed to be issued under section 29 and the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly10.	Arguments of Respondent
The effect of this subsection, according to the counsel, has not been done away with by cl.	None
(a) of s. 3 of the Validation Act.	Arguments of Respondent
We reject this argument as being unsound and for two reasons.	None
Firstly, on a correct interpretation of subs.	Reasoning
(4) of s. 35 it would be noticed that though the expression used is the sum payable but in the context it would mean only the extra enhanced sum payable and not the whole of the enhanced amount.	Reasoning
The expression sum payable had to be used in subs.	Reasoning
(4) because that subsection was also providing for a contingency where by the rectification order the amount of refund was reduced.	Reasoning
In such a case, the expression the sum payable would obviously mean the difference between the amount refunded and the reduced amount which was liable to be refunded.	Reasoning
The second reason is that even if it were to be held that in the case of enhancement the expression the sum payable in subs.	Reasoning
(4) means the whole of the enhanced amount by a rule of harmonious construction it has got to be held that in view of s. 3(1)(a) of the Validation Act even in the case of a rectification a notice of demand is to be served now only in respect of the amount by which the Government dues are enhanced11.	Reasoning
Now, coming to the case of reduction dealt with in cl.	None
(b) of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of s. 3 of the Validation Act it would be seen that subcl.	Reasoning
(i) clearly provides that it is not necessary for the taxing authority to serve upon the assessee a fresh notice of demand.	Reasoning
The only thing which he is required to do is that he has to give intimation of the fact of such deduction to the assessee and to the TRO.	Reasoning
The purpose of giving intimation to the assessee is to bring it to his pointed knowledge that the demand against him has been reduced, although by other methods also such as by service of a copy of the appellate order or the revisional order being served on him he may be made aware of that.	Reasoning
The intimation to the TRO is essential, as without that intimation from the taxing authority he cannot reduce the amount of the certificate debt in the proceedings already commenced.	Reasoning
The High Court has taken the view that the provision contained in subcl.	Reasoning
(ii) of cl.	Reasoning
(b) of s. 3(1) of the Validation Act is mandatory and, in the absence of a formal intimation to the assessee and to the TRO as required by the said provision, the proceedings initially started could not be continued under subcl.	Reasoning
(iii).	Reasoning
In our opinion the view of the High Court is not sustainable in law.	Reasoning
On the facts of this case, the assessee himself in his review application had clearly mentioned that the demand against him stood reduced in appeal.	Reasoning
He also claimed that he had made certain payments.	Reasoning
Although the TRO rejected his review petition, as, probably, he had no power of review, he took the precautionary measure of making inquiry from the taxing authority.	Reasoning
Thereupon, the taxing authority gave him the information and the amount of the certificate debt was substantially reduced.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that, on the facts of this case, the requirement of subcl.	Reasoning
(ii) stood fulfilled and nothing further had to be done in the matter by the taxing authority.	Reasoning
That being so, the proceedings initiated on the basis of the notice of demand served upon the assessee before the reduction of the amount in appeal could be continued in relation to the amount so reduced from the stage at which such proceedings stood immediately before such disposal as provided for in subcl.	Reasoning
(iii)Clause (c) of s. 3(1) of the Validation Act is also important and it clearly and expressly provides that no proceedings in relation to the Government dues shall be invalid merely because no fresh notice of demand was served upon the assessee after the dues were enhanced or reduced in any appeal or proceeding.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, plain that in neither of the two cases did the certificate proceeding become invalid, in one case by reduction of the demand and in the other by an enhancement.	Reasoning
In both the cases notices under s. 7 of the Bengal Act had been served upon the certificatedebtors before the property in question was transferred by them to the company.	Reasoning
The transfer was, therefore, void against the certificate claims in both the cases under s. 8(a) of the Bengal Act12.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai called our attention to the decision of the Allahabad High Court in Ram Swarup Gupta v. Behari Lal Baldeo Prasad 1974 95 ITR 339.	Arguments of Respondent
That case is, however, clearly distinguishable as in that the property was sold in certificate proceedings started for the realisation of the original amount even after the amount had been reduced in appeal.	None
It is obvious that that sale was illegal and invalid as rightly held by the High Court because after reduction the demand had to be reduced on intimation by the taxing authority and the property could not be sold for the original amount13.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated above, Civil Appeal No. 1575 of 1971 is allowed with costs payable by the respondentcompany, the judgment and order of the High Court are set aside and it is directed that the certificate case shall proceed to disposal in accordance with law as expeditiously as possible.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 1965 of 1971 is dismissed but we make no order as to costs in this appeal.14.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 1575 of 1971 allowed15.	None
Civil Appeal No. 1965 of 1971 dismissed.	None
