 Mudholkar, J. 1.	None
This judgment will also govern Civil Appeal No. 679 of 1964 since common questions of law arise in both the appeals.	None
For illustrating the points which arise for consideration in these appeals we will set out briefly the facts pertaining to C. A. 600 of 1964.	None
2.	None
The appellant (hereinafter referred to as the Company) is a private limited company having its registered office at Calcutta and a branch office at Dhamangaon which was formerly in the Province of Central Provinces and Berar but is now in the State of Maharashtra.	Facts
The company owns a ginning factory at Dhamangaon.	Facts
The Notified Area Committee of that place imposed, under S. 66(1) (b) of the Central Provinces Municipalities Act, 1922 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) as applied to Berar a tax at the rate of one anna per Boja of ginned cotton and one anna per bale of pressed cotton as from December 22, 1936, on which date a notification sanctioning the imposition under S. 241(1) of the Act was published in the official Gazette by order of the Government of the Province.	Facts
The Notification in question runs as followsNo.	None
79113242MVIII.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Subsection (1) of section 241 of the Central Provinces Municipalities Act, 1922 (C. P. Act II of 1922) as applied to Berar, the Local Government is pleased to confirm the following rule made by the Notified Area Committee, Dhamangaon, in the Amravati district, under clause (b) of subs.	None
(1) of section 66 of the said Act, for imposing a tax on persons carrying on the trade of ginning and pressing cotton by means of steam or mechanical process within its limits RULE The committee shall levy from all persons carrying on within its limits the trade of ginning or pressing cotton into bales by means of steam or mechanical process a tax at the following rates from the date of the publication of this notification in the Central Provinces Gazette (a) For each bojha of 392 lbs.	None
ginned 1 anna.	None
(b) For each bale of 392 lbs.	None
pressed 1 anna.	None
By order of the Government, (Ministry of Local SelfGovernment).	None
Sd  R. N. Banerjee, Secretary to Government, Central Provinces.	None
3.	None
The Notified Area Committee of Dhamangaon decided to raise the rate from 1 anna per bojha and 1 anna per bale to four annas per bojha and four annas per bale.	Facts
Soon after this decision it caused the following notification to be published in the official Gazette on April 10, 1941.	Facts
The Notification runs thusThe following amendment to the rule for imposition of the tax by the Municipal Committee, Dhamangaon, in the Amraoti district, under Cl.	None
(b) of subsection (1) of section 66 of the Central Provinces Municipalities Act, 1922 (II of 1922), as applied to Berar, on persons carrying on the trade of ginning and pressing cotton by means of steam or mechanical process within its limits, published in the Central Provinces and Berar Gazette Notification No. 79113242M VIII dated the 22nd December, 1936, is published for the information of the public, the same having been previously published as required by subsection (3) of section 68 of that Act, and in exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (7) of section 68 of that Act, the municipal committee directs that the said amendments shall come into operation on the 1st August, 1941 AMENDMENT	None
For the figure and the word 1 anna occurring in clauses (a) and (b) of the rule, the figure and word 4 annas shall be substituted.	None
Sd  B. S. Mundhada, President, Municipal Committee.	None
No. 2418MXIII.	None
4. Certain rules were framed by the Government for the assessment and collection of tax which were also published on December 22, 1936.	Facts
These rules were, however, amended by the Local Government and the amended rules were published in the Gazette on July 30, 1941.	Facts
It is these latter rules which are now in force.	Facts
Consequent upon the amendment of the rules the appellant in the two appeals and the proprietors of the ginning factory in Dhamangaon have been paying these taxes at the new rate of 4 annas per bojha and 4 annas per bale.	Facts
5.	None
It may be mentioned that in December 1951, the Municipal Committee, Dhamangaon, which by then had replaced the Notified Area Committee proposed to raise the tax from four annas to one rupee per bojha and per bale but eventually dropped the proposal.	Facts
Apparently being alarmed at the abortive attempt of the Municipal Committee to raise the tax further, the appellant and other factory owners in Dhamangaon instituted suits for recovery from the Municipal Committee of excess tax paid by them within 3 years of the dates of the respective suits.	Facts
The Company claimed refund of Rupees 12,511.66 on the ground that it was recovered from it illegally by the Municipal Committee and paid by it under a mistake.	Facts
The amount has been computed by them thus Rs.	Facts
6,905146 recovered from them in respect of ginned cotton between 29th March, 1949 and some date in the year 1952 plus Rs. 8,04880 in respect of pressed cotton recovered from them during the same period less Rs.	Facts
3,73896 which was legally due from them thus totalling to Rs. 11,215130.	Facts
To this they added Rs. 1,29596 as interest by way of damages on the aforesaid amount at the rate of 9 per cent p.a.	Facts
In the plaint it was contended by the Company that after the coming into force of S. 142A of the Government of India Act, 1935 (which came into effect from 1st April, 1939) till January 25, 1950 a tax on trade, profession or calling in excess of Rs. 50 per annum could not be imposed either by a Provincial Government or by a Local Body.	Facts
Nor again, could an existing tax on trade, profession or calling be raised further so as to exceed Rs. 50 per annum.	Facts
The Company further pointed out that after the coming into force of the Constitution the upper limit of the tax was raised to Rs. 250 per annum and that as the Company was already paying more than this amount per year even at the rate of one anna per bojha and one anna per bale recovery from them at the enhanced rate of 4 annas was illegal with effect from April 1, 1939.	Facts
The Municipal Committee contended in its written statement that the provision of S. 142A of the Government of India Act and Art.	Facts
276 of the Constitution which limit the tax on professions, trades or callings or employments to Rs. 50 and Rs. 250 per annum, respectively do not apply to a case such as the present where there is no imposition of a new tax but only an enhancement of the rate of an existing tax.	Facts
It further contended that the tax in question at the rate of 4 annas per bojha and 4 annas per bale was in existence when Art. 276 came into force and is saved by that Article.	Facts
According to the Committee, the Company is not entitled to claim back the amount paid by it under S. 72 of the Indian Contract Act or the general law.	Facts
This contention, however, was negatived by the trial Court and does not appear to have been reiterated before the High Court.	Facts
Nor again was it pressed before us by Mr. Viswanatha Sastri who appears for the Municipal Committee.	Facts
The principal contention which was pressed before the trial Court and raised before the High Court was that the Companys suit was bad for noncompliance with the requirements of S. 48 of the Act and that is the point which we have to consider in this appeal.	Issue
6. Section 48 of the Act reads thus(1)	None
No suit shall be instituted against any Committee or any member, officer or servant thereof or any person acting under the direction of any such committee, member, officer or servant for anything done or purporting to be done under this Act, until the expiration of two months next after notice in writing stating the cause of action, the name and place of the abode of the intending plaintiff and the relief which he claims, has been, in the case of a committee, delivered or left at its office, and, in the case of any such member, officer or servant or person as aforesaid, delivered to him or left at his office or usual place of abode, and the plaint shall contain a statement that such notice has been so delivered or left.	None
(2) Every such suit shall be dismissed unless it is instituted within six months from the date of the accrual of the alleged cause of action.	None
7.	None
Mr. Patwardhan for the appellant contends that this was a case of recovery of an illegal tax and, therefore, a claim for its refund fell outside the provisions of S. 48 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his contention he relied upon a number of decisions and we will proceed to examine them.	None
8.	None
The first of these cases is Municipal Committee, Karanja v. New East India Press Co. Ltd., Bombay, ILR 1948 Nag 971 (AIR 1949 Nag 215).	None
That was also a case where enhancement of a tax was made by the Municipal Committee of Karanja after March 31, 1939, in excess of Rs. 50 per year payable by one person.	None
There, a Division Bench of the High Court held, that the enhancement was in contravention of S. 142A of the Government of India Act, 1935 and was illegal, that a suit for refund of the tax is maintainable by the person who has paid the tax and that such a suit is not barred by the provisions of S. 48, 83 or 84 of the Act.	None
The relevant observations of Bose, A. C. J. (as he then was) who delivered the judgment are as followsIt was then argued that the Civil Courts have no jurisdiction because of sections 83 and 84 of the Central Provinces Municipalities Act as applied to Berar.	None
It was said that that Act provides for remedies in cases of wrongful recovery of taxes.	None
Therefore, the jurisdiction of the civil Courts is barred.	None
A large number of cases have dealt with this question but we need consider only two of the latest decisions.	None
In District Council, Bhandara v. Kishorilal (Civil Revision No. 220 of 1946, dated 2561948) (AIR 1949 Nag 190), one of us (Bose, J.) held that provisions corresponding to Ss. 83 and 84 come into play only when the Municipal Committee acts within the scope of its authority, that is to say, when it is acting or purporting to act under the Municipalities Act.	None
It is pointed out there in respect of this very section of the Government of India Act, S. 142A, that when a Municipality is prohibited by law from imposing a tax in excess of a certain amount then it cannot be said to be acting either under the Act or purporting to act under the Act if it exceeds that amount, and in such a case the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts is not barred.	None
Here again we may refer to the fact that in the Privy Council case Radha Kishan Jaikishan (Firm) v. Municipal Committee, Khandwa, 30 Nag LR 121 (AIR 1934 PC 62 ), this objection does not appear to have been taken.	None
It is hardly likely that it would have been omitted had there been any force in the contention.	None
In the present case, as in District Council, Bhandara v. Kishorilal, (AIR 1949 Nag 190), the Municipality is seeking to recover sums which the law has prohibited it from taking, in the shape of taxes.	None
Accordingly, as it is acting wholly without jurisdiction, the claims lie and are not barred by reason of Ss. 83 and 84.	None
Then it was stated that the claims are barred by S. 48 of the Municipalities Act.	None
There again the same considerations apply.	None
Section 48 comes into play only when the act is done or is purported to be done under the Municipalities Act.	None
As we have said, that is not the case here because its action is something which is prohibited by law, and so wholly beyond its jurisdiction, and, therefore, S. 48 does not apply.	Reasoning
The distinction between a case where S. 48 applies and a case where it does not is clearly shown in Amraoti Town Municipal Committee v. Shaikh Bhikan, ILR (1939)	None
Nag 216 at pp. 219, 220 (AIR 1938 Nag 455 at p. 457).	None
Kishorilals case, C. R. No. 220 of 1946 (AIR 1949 Nag 190), to which reference is made in the above quotation is a decision of a Division Bench upon a reference made by Bose, J. and which, though rendered earlier, has been reported in ILR (1949)	None
Nag 87.	None
In that case a tax imposed by the District Council, Bhandara, under a similar provision of the Local SelfGovernment Act, 1920, at the rate of three pies per khandi on persons carrying on trade of husking, milling or grinding of grains was raised by it to one anna as from April 1, 1942 with the sanction of the Provincial Government.	None
It was contended on behalf of the respondent that the recovery was illegal.	None
Since the matter involved the interpretation of S. 142A of the Government of India Act, 1935, Bose, J., acting under one of the rules of the High Court referred it to a Division Bench.	None
This is what the Division Bench heldWe are clear that the tax in question is a tax which can be so termed.	None
This was in fact conceded in the Court below and the contention raised before us that the persons who gave grain to Kishorilal for grinding and not he were the traders concerned was plainly devoid of force.	None
He had a mill and with it carried on the trade of milling grain.	None
The tax in question was recovered from him because of this and it was one of the taxes hit by S. 142A of the Government of India Act, 1935, and the Professions Tax Limitation Act, 1941 (XX of 1941).	None
When the matter went back before Bose, J., it was contended on behalf of the District Council that the suit was barred altogether by the provisions of S. 71 and that the provisions of S. 73 make the issue of a notice by the District Council a precondition for the institution of a suit of the kind before him.	None
Reliance was placed on a certain rule framed under S. 79 (1) (xxix) of the Central Provinces Local SelfGovernment Act, 1920.	None
After quoting S. 71 and the rule relied on the learned Judge observedIt will be observed that both S. 79 and the rule are confined to orders and decisions given under the Act.	None
It is impossible to say that an order which contravenes the law or is made in the face of an express statutory prohibition can be said to be under the Act.	None
The words purporting to be given or made under the Act are not present in this section and so the difficulty which arises regarding the other point is not present here.	None
I hold that the suit is not incompetent on this score.	None
9. Pointing out that the other question urged before him was more difficult the learned Judge said that his conclusion was that what was done in the case was not under the Act and, therefore, what remained for consideration was whether it was purported to be done under the Act.	None
He came to the conclusion that what was done was not purported to be done under the Act and expressed himself thusNow	None
this expression has recently been interpreted by their Lordships of the Privy Council in H. H. B. Gill v. The King, AIR 1948.	None
Nag 128, also in Hori Ram Singh v. The Crown, 1939 FCR 159 (AIR 1939 FC 43), of which their Lordships approved.	None
The question is a difficult one and as Varadachariar, J. observed in the Federal court decision at p. 187 (of FCR) (at p. 56 of AIR), it is neither possible nor desirable to lay down any hard and fast rule.	None
The question is substantially one of fact and must be determined with reference to the act complained of and the attendant circumstances.	None
I think, however, that the following test which their Lordships of the Privy Council laid down concludes the matter so far as this Act is concerned.	None
Their Lordships say A public servant can only be said to act or to purport to act in the discharge of his official duty, if his act is such as to lie within the scope of his official duty.	None
Now I can understand it being said that an act which is within the scope of an official duty cannot be taken out of that category simply because it is carelessly or negligently performed, but I cannot see how an act which is expressly prohibited by law can be said to lie there.	None
If a Magistrate directed to supervise a sentence of whipping duly imposed by a competent Court has the wrong man whipped by mistake or imposes more lashes than warranted, I can understand him being protected.	None
He is there acting within the scope of his duty.	None
But if, instead of having the man whipped, he has him branded with a hot iron he would not, in my opinion, be able to claim the protection.	None
In the same way I cannot see how a Municipal Committee can be said to be acting under the Act when it does that which is expressly prohibited by the Legislature.	None
Say it purported to tax salt.	None
Its action would not be covered by S. 73 because the Constitution Act makes that an exclusively Central subject.	None
Say also a municipality attempted to tax marriages or births, that would be completely beyond its province and it could not be heard to say that because it has been given certain limited powers of taxation, therefore, it purports to act under the Act whatever the nature of the tax it attempts to impose.	None
In the same way, if the Legislature limits the authority of the Committee to a maximum of Rs. 50 I do not think it can be said to purport to act within the scope of the Act if it travels beyond its limited provisions.	None
10.	None
A reference may be made to the decision in ILR (1939)	None
Nag 216 (AIR 1938 Nag 455), which apparently takes a contrary view.	None
There Niyogi, J., sitting singly has held that a suit against a municipal committee for the recovery of a tax illegally collected is governed by S. 48 of the Central Provinces Municipalities Act and, is, therefore, barred by limitation if not filed within six months of the date of the collection of the tax.	None
That case is, however, distinguishable in that there was no prohibition to the levy of the tax and all that had happened was that proper procedure had not been followed in imposing the tax.	None
This was thus a case of something purporting to be done under the Act but not done strictly in accordance with the provisions.	None
That such a case would squarely fall within the ambit of S. 48 cannot be questioned.	None
But the point is whether what was done by a local body under the colour of an Act can be regarded as something purported to be done under the Act even though neither the local body nor even the State Legislature has the power to do what was in fact done.	None
11.	None
The next case referred to was Gajadhar Hiralal v. Municipal Committee, Bashim, ILR 1958	None
Bom 625 (AIR 1958 Bom 378 ).	None
That was also a case in which a tax on bojhas and bales of ginned cotton was raised from Re. 023 per bale to Re. 040 per bale and the learned Judges held, following the decision in the New East India Press Co.s case, ILR (1948)	None
Nag 971 (AIR 1949 Nag 215) (supra) that the enhancement was ultra vires Art.	None
276 of the Constitution.	None
The other question did not arise for consideration in this case.	None
This decision is, therefore, of little assistance to us, because it is not contended before us that the enhancement of the tax is valid.	None
12.	None
There is, however, another decision in the same volume at p. 483 (of ILR (1958) Bom) (AIR 1958 Bom 487 ) (Municipality of Chopda v. Motilal Manekchand) which is relevant for consideration in this appeal.	None
In that case a Division Bench, while pointing out that the particular tax which was levied by the Municipality was in substance a tax on trade within the meaning of Art. 276 of the Constitution and being in excess of Rs. 250 p.a. was beyond the competence of the Municipality, held that a suit for its refund beyond the time prescribed by rules was barred by limitation.	None
According to the learned Judges the levy of the tax though beyond the authority of a Municipality was an act done in pursuance or execution or intended execution of the Bombay District Municipal Act and was merely a wrongful act as distinguished from an ultra vires or illegal act.	None
In coming to this conclusion they followed a previous decision of the High Court in Jalgaon Borough Municipality v. Khandesh Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd., 55 Bom LR 65 (AIR 1953	None
Bom 204 ).	None
Incidentally we may mention that an appeal was brought before this Court from that part of the decision in Municipality of Chopda, East Khandesh v. Motilal Manakchand Press Factory, Chopda, C. A. No. 168 of 1961, dated 1131962 (SC), which held that the levy was unconstitutional.	None
13.	None
Ayyangar, J., who spoke for the Court has stated towards the end of the Judgment as followsIn the circumstances the correctness of the decision of the High Court in holding the impugned levy to be a tax on callings or employments and, therefore, subject to a pecuniary limit of Rs. 250 per year does not really arise for consideration.	None
The respondents had in their plaint, no doubt, challenged the entirety of the levy and sought relief on that basis, but they had, however, pleaded in the alternative that the tax might be held to be one on a trade, etc.	None
and, therefore, within Art.	None
276 (2) and claimed relief on this footing in the alternative.	None
The learned Civil Judge had accepted this alternative contention and had granted them a decree on that basis and the respondents had not challenged the correctness of that decision by preferring an appeal and the learned Judges of the High Court had accepted this view of the nature of the levy.	None
We, however, consider it proper to add that there is considerable force in the opinion expressed by the High Court that the tax in question, at the date when the same was challenged, being a levy imposed on persons carrying on the business of pressing cotton, was a tax on professions, trades, callings, or employments and that the learned Judges of the High Court came to a correct conclusion that the respondents were entitled to the declaration which was granted as regards the maximum amount of the tax that could be levied from the respondents.	None
14.	None
In Jalgaon Borough Municipalitys case, 55 Bom LR 65 (AIR 1953	None
Bom 204 ) (supra) on which the High Court relied in Motilal Manekchands case, ILR (1958)	None
Bom 483 (AIR 1958 Bom 487 ), what had happened was this The Municipality acting under S. 73 (iv) of the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925, levied octroi duty on fuel oil or furnace oil under certain rules and bylaws framed by it with the sanction of the Government which provided for the levy of an octroi duty on various articles including oils used for machinery.	None
It was found that the Municipality was not entitled to levy any octroi duty on fuel oil or furnace oil which was not compromised within the items enumerated in the octroi rules and byelaws.	None
The respondent who had paid the tax instituted a suit for its recovery.	None
One of the questions which arose for consideration was whether the provisions of S. 206 of the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925, corresponding to those of S. 48 of the Central Provinces and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922, applied to the case.	None
The learned Judges of the High Court held that what the municipality did was not an act done in pursuance of the Act, but it was an act which it purported to do in pursuance of the Act and that, therefore, is action was well within the terms of S. 206.	None
In the course of the judgment Bhagwati, J., observed that the acts which fell within the category of those done or purporting to have been done in pursuance of this Act could only be those which were done under a vestige or semblance of authority or of a shadow of right.	None
If an act was outrageous and extraordinary or could not be supported at all, not having been done with a vestige or semblance of authority, or a shadow of right invested in the party doing that act, it would not be an act which is done or purported to have been done in pursuance of the Act.	None
The distinction is really between ultra vires and illegal acts, on the one hand, and wrongful acts, on the otherwrongful in the sense that they purport to have been done in pursuance of the Act they are intended to have been done in pursuance of the Act if they are done with a vestige or semblance of authority, or a sort of a right invested in the party doing those acts.	None
The learned Judge then referred to certain decisions and said that under S. 73 (iv) of the Act power was given to the Municipality to impose octroi duty on articles and goods imported within its jurisdiction.	None
What had happened there was that the defendants, on the interpretation which they gave to the words oils used for machinery, did something which ultimately, on an adjudication in that behalf, the Court found to be wrong.	None
By acting in that way what the Municipality purported to do could not be said to be illegal or outrageous and extraordinary or done without having any vestige or semblance of authority, or without even a shadow of a right.	None
15.	None
Apart from the fact that much of what was said in this case is opposed to a recent decision of this Court to which we will presently make a reference certain observations made by Bhagwati, J., in fact lend support to the argument advanced before us by Mr. Patwardhan.	None
The observations we have in mind are to the effect that where a municipality, not having the power to levy a particular tax at all, either wholly or in regard to some classes of goods, had purported to levy the same it would certainly be an act which was outrageous and extraordinary, or done without having any vestige or semblance of authority or without even a shadow of a right.	None
Here, the overstepping of its authority by the Municipality consists not in the matter of the selection of a class of goods but of that of the rate at which it has levied and collected a tax.	None
It has levied and collected a tax beyond constitutional limits.	None
Therefore, to the extent it has done so the tax could properly be said to have been levied without a vestige or semblance of authority or even of a shadow of right.	None
16.	None
We may now refer to the recent decision of this Court in Poona City Municipal Corporation v. Dattatraya Nagesh Deodhar, C. A. No. 582 of 1961, dated 551964 (AIR 1965 SC 555 ).	None
That was a case in which the Municipal Corporation had imposed a tax on the refund of octroi duty collected by it on goods imported within the Municipal limits of the city.	None
Its practice was to deduct the tax from the amount which it was required to refund and pay the person entitled to the refund only the balance.	None
A suit was instituted by the respondents for refund of the amount illegally deducted by the Corporation from the octroi refund made by the Corporation to the respondents.	None
It was contended on behalf of the Corporation that the deduction made by it was valid and that the suit was barred by limitation.	None
This Court upheld the contention of the respondents that the Corporation had no power to impose the tax and that in fact there was a prohibition against the imposition of such a tax by the Corporation.	None
On the plea of limitation, which was founded upon the provisions of S. 487 of the Bombay Act which are almost the same as those of S. 48 of the Act with which we are concerned, this Court observedThe benefit of this section would be available to the Corporation only if it was held that this deduction of ten per cent was an act done or purported to be done in pursuance or execution or intended execution of this Act.	None
We have already held that this levy was not in pursuance or execution of the Act.	None
It is equally clear that in view of the provisions of S. 127 (4) (to which we have already referred) the levy could not be said to be purported to be done in pursuance or execution or intended execution of the Act.	None
For, what is plainly prohibited by the Act cannot be claimed to be purported to be done in pursuance or intended execution of the Act.	None
Subsection (4) of S. 127 of the Act to which this Court has referred is in the following termsNothing in this section shall authorise the imposition of any tax which the State Legislature has no power to impose in the State under the Constitution.	None
It is pertinent to bear in mind that the conclusion of this Court on the question whether the act was done or purported to be done under the Act was not based solely on this provision and reliance was placed upon it as affording additional support to the conclusion already arrived at.	None
It seems to us that this provision was enacted by way of abundant caution.	None
For, the Constitution is the fundamental law of the land and it is wholly unnecessary to provide in any law made by the Legislature that anything done in disregard of the Constitution is prohibited.	None
Such a prohibition has to be read in every enactment.	None
This decision does appear to conclude the matter.	None
17.	None
During the pendency of the suit before the trial Court the appellant had preferred a writ petition before the High Court at Nagpur in which it contended that the notification of April 10, 1941, enhancing the tax from one anna per bojha and one anna per bale to four annas per bojha and four annas per bale was illegal and ultra vires and should, therefore, be quashed.	None
This petition was granted by the High Court on April 12, 1955.	None
There was, therefore, a direct decision before the trial Court and the appellate Court which though it could not be treated as res judicata was binding on those Courts and was treated as such by them and it is perhaps because of this that it was not sought to be urged on behalf of the Municipal Committee when the second appeal was argued before the High Court that the notification is valid and, therefore, the Municipal Committee could recover the tax at the enhanced rate.	None
Though Mr. Vishwanatha Sastri did say that the decision of the High Court is not res judicata he did not directly challenge its correctness.	None
What he argued was as follows 18.	None
The levy of a tax on professions, trades, callings, etc., was within the power of the Provincial Legislature and is now within the power of the State Legislature.	Reasoning
It could in the past and can even now levy such a tax at the rate of four annas per bojha and four annas per bale, that both under S. 142A of the Government of India Act and Art. 276 of the Constitution the Municipal Committee could collect such a tax up to the constitutional limit (which was formerly Rs. 50 p.a. and is after the coming into force of the Constitution Rs. 250 p.a.).	Reasoning
The mischief, according to him, is not in the levy but in the realisation of an excess over the limit.	Reasoning
To put it differently, the ban is not upon the rate of tax but upon excess collection thereof.	Reasoning
Therefore, the collection of a tax above the constitutional limit was not without jurisdiction but only illegal or irregular.	Reasoning
A suit by an assessee to recover the amount paid by him in excess of the constitutional limit would, therefore, be in respect of a matter purported to be done under the Act and the provisions of S. 48 of the Act would apply to it.	Reasoning
Further according to him every suit against a Committee for anything done or purported to be done under the Act must comply with the conditions laid down in the section.	Reasoning
He points out that the assessment of the tax was made by an authority competent to make an assessment, that in making it the authority proceeded in accordance with the provisions of the Act and assessed the tax as authorised by Rules which had been sanctioned by the former Government of Central Provinces and Berar.	Reasoning
So, even if it is assumed that any of the Rules were ultra vires and, therefore, the assessment and recovery of the tax was illegal, what the authority had done was something purported to be done under the Act.	Reasoning
Some of these arguments were advanced in cases discussed earlier and rejected.	None
19.	None
In support of his contention he placed reliance on the decisions in Richard Spooner v. Juddow, 4 Moo Ind App 353 at p. 379 (PC) and Dhondu Dagdu Patil v. Secretary of State, ILR 37 Bom 101 at p. 106.	None
These cases were not pressed in aid in the decisions so far considered and we would deal with them now.	None
20.	None
Before we deal with these cases it is necessary to point out the rationale upon which S. 142A of the Govt.	None
of India Act, 1935 was enacted and on which Art.	None
276 of the Constitution now rests.	None
It is that the legislative spheres of the Provinces and the Centre came to be clearly demarcated in regard to items falling within Lists I and II of Schedule VII of the Govt.	None
of India Act and now to those falling within the same lists of Schedule VII of the Constitution.	None
Taxes on professions, trades, callings and employments are taxes on income and are thus outside the provincial and now Statelists and belong exclusively to Parliament and before that to the Central Legislature.	None
Yet under a large number of laws enacted before the Govt.	None
of India Act, 1935 came into force, power was conferred on local Governments and local authorities to impose taxes on such activities.	None
This was obviously in conflict with S. 100 of the Govt.	None
of India Act.	None
When this was realised S. 142A was enacted by the British Parliament which saved the power conferred by preexisting laws but limited the amount payable to Rs. 50 after 31st March, 1939.	None
A saving was made, however, of preexisting laws subject to certain conditions with which we are not concerned.	None
The provisions of this section have been substantially reproduced in Article 276 of the Constitution with the modification that the upper limit of such tax payable per annum would be Rs. 250 instead of Rs. 50.	None
A tax can be recovered only if it is payable and it would be payable only after it is assessed.	None
It is, therefore, futile to contend that the ban placed by the aforesaid provisions extends only to recoveries and not to an earlier stage.	None
21.	None
Now coming to the cases, the first was one in which the question considered by the Privy Council was whether the Supreme Court at Bombay was competent to entertain a suit for recovery of damages brought by one Hurkissondass Hurgovundass against the Collector of Bombay and others in respect of trespass and nuisance committed by certain officers of the Collectorate while purporting to execute a distress warrants issued against one Narrondass for nonpayment of arrears of land revenue.	None
Under the Letters Patent, dated Dec. 8, 1823 the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was barred in any matter concerning the revenue under the management of the said Governor and Council of Bombay, respectively. . . . . .	None
.or	None
concerning any act done according to the usage and practice of the country, or the regulations of the Governor and Council of Bombay aforesaid.	None
Similar provisions were contained in S. 8 of the Statute 21 Geo III., C. 70.	None
The Supreme Court overruled the defendants contention on the ground that what was due from the plaintiff was not revenue but a perpetual ground rent which was incapable of being enhanced and could not be regarded as revenue at all.	None
After holding so Lord Campbell who delivered the opinion of the Judicial Committee observedThe point, therefore, is, whether the exception of jurisdiction only arises where the defendants have acted strictly, according to the usage and practice of the country, and the Regulations of the Governor and Council.	None
But upon this supposition the proviso is wholly nugatory for if the Supreme Court is to inquire whether the Defendants in this matter concerning the public revenue were right in the demand made, and to decide in their favour only if they acted in entire conformity to the Regulations of the Governor and Council of Bombay, they would equally be entitled to succeed, if the Statutes and the Charters contained no exception or proviso for their protection.	None
Our books actually Swarm with decisions putting a contrary construction upon such enactments, and there can be no rule more firmly established than that if parties bona fide and not absurdly believe that they are acting in pursuance of Statutes, and according to law, they are entitled to the special protection which the Legislature intended for them, although they have done an illegal act.	None
In this case it may well be that the warrant against the goods of Tookaydass did not authorise the taking of the goods of Hurgovindass, or even that Hurgovundass might not be liable for the arrears of quit rent which accrued before he became owner of the house.	None
Still the Collector was evidently of opinion, that a distress might be made for the whole of the arrears due, and that it was sufficient to introduce into the warrant the name of Tookaydass, in whose name the house continued to be registered.	None
The other Defendant never could have doubted the sufficiency of the warrant.	None
If Indian revenueofficers have fallen into a mistake, or without bad faith have been guilty of an excess in executing the duties of their office, the object of the Legislature has been, that they should not be liable to be sued in a civil action before the Supreme Courts.	None
Later in his opinion Lord Campbell saidIf it concerned the revenue, or was a matter concerning an act bona fide believed to be done according to the Regulations of the Governor and Council of Bombay, his (i. e., of the Judge of the Supreme Court) jurisdiction was gone, although prima facie it appeared to be a trespass over which his jurisdiction might be properly exercised.	None
This case would have assisted Mr. Sastri only if what was done was something which could legally have been done by the Municipality but was wrongly done by it as, for instance, the collection of a lawful tax from a person other than the one from whom it was due.	None
But this decision is no authority for the proposition that if the Collector recovered or tried to recover from a person a sum of money as arrears of land revenue even though it did not fall within the definition of revenue or tried to collect a sum of money which he was expressly prohibited by law from collecting, he would still be said to have purported to act under the revenue law which empowered him to collect land revenue.	None
If an act of trespass was committed in execution of a distress warrant for recovery of such monies, a suit for damages would not have been barred.	None
22.	None
In the next case what the High Court was dealing with was the claim of the plaintiff against the Govt.	None
for damages occasioned by the wrongful cancellation of his licence to sell liquor.	None
The suit had been dismissed by the trial judge as barred by the provisions of S. 67 of the Bombay Abkari Act, 1878, firstly because the Collector had acted bona fide in pursuance of the Act and secondly because it was not instituted within four months from the date of the act complained of.	None
The High Court upheld the dismissal of the suit and in the course of its judgment observedIt is quite true that the Collectors action is not strictly in conformity with the section which authorizes the revocation only on the actual conviction of the licensee.	None
But the circumstances under which the Collector acted are so near the circumstances legally entitling him to act as he did that we feel bound to say the act was done in pursuance of the Statute.	None
The law upon this point may be found stated in many cases, of which we may notice Hermann v. Seneschal, (1862) 32 LJ CP 43.	None
In strictness, anything not authorized by a Statute cannot be said to be in pursuance of it, while if it is authorized by the Statute clearly it would need no other protection.	None
But if effect were given to such a construction it would altogether do away with the protection intended to be given accordingly the general principle is that if any public or private body charged with the execution of a Statute honestly intends to put the law in motion and really and not unreasonably believes in the existence of facts, which, if existent, would justify his acting and acts accordingly, his conduct will be in pursuance of the Statute and will be protected.	None
23.	None
The learned Judges then referred to Spooners case, 4 Moo Ind App 353 (PC) (Supra) also.	None
Mr. Sastri laid particular emphasis on the concluding portion of the observations quoted above.	None
This again, it may be said, is not a decision which is quite in point.	None
There was no want of jurisdiction in the Collector to do what he did but there was only the absence of facts which, had they existed, would have given him power to do what he did.	None
Cases of this type must be distinguished from those like the present in which we must imply a constitutional or statutory prohibition against the act done.	None
Where such prohibition exists or can be implied, anything done or purported to be done by an authority must be regarded as wholly without jurisdiction and is not entitled to a protection of the law under colour of which that act was done.	None
24.	None
It is true, as urged by Mr. Sastri, that it was within the competence of the respondent committee to raise the rate of tax from one anna to four annas per bojha and bale even after the coming into force of S. 142A of the Govt.	None
of India Act, 1935.	None
The levy of tax at that rate cannot, therefore, be regarded to be beyond the jurisdiction of the respondent so long as the constitutional limit was not exceeded.	None
What is, however, contended on behalf of the appellant is that the action of the Committee in compelling it to pay the tax in excess of the amount which was constitutionally recoverable from it in respect of any one year was ultra vires, that thereby the provisions of section 142A have been transgressed and, therefore, this was a case of utilization by the Committee of the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder for doing something which was prohibited by the Government of India Act 1935 and is now, by the Constitution.	None
It is true that the Committee had jurisdiction to recover an amount up to the constitutional limit.	None
But it cannot fairly be contended on its behalf that merely because of this, that the recovery by it of an amount in excess of the constitutional limit was only irregular or at the worst illegal.	None
Where power exists to assess and recover a tax up to a particular limit and the assessment or recovery of anything above that amount is prohibited the assessment or recovery of an amount in excess is wholly without jurisdiction and nothing else.	None
To such a case the Statute under which action was purported to be taken can afford no protection.	None
Indeed, to the extent that it affords protection, it would be bad.	None
But where, as here, the validity of a provision of a statute can be upheld upon a possible construction of that provision it would be the duty of the court to so construe it as to avoid rendering the provision unconstitutional and reject a construction which will invalidate the provision.	None
25.	None
The final contention urged by Mr. Sastri is based upon the decision of the Privy Council in Raleigh Investment Co. Ltd. v. Governor General in Council, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ).His	Arguments of Respondent
argument is that the Municipalities Act contains adequate provisions dealing with refund of taxes and that the provisions of S. 85(2) bar a suit for recovery of a tax wrongfully recovered by the Municipal Committee.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be mentioned that the contention was not raised in the suit or in the grounds of appeal before the High Court and has not therefore been considered by it.	None
It has been raised for first time in the statement of case.	None
But the scope of an appeal cannot, even at the instance of the respondent who is entitled to support a decree in his favour even upon a ground found against him by the High Court, be permitted to be enlarged beyond that of the appeal before the High Court or the Courts below.	None
But as it is a question of considerable importance and might be raised in other similar suits which are said to be pending, we propose to deal with it.	None
26.	None
Before dealing with Raleigh Investment	None
Cos case, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ) (supra), we may refer to the provisions of the Act which Mr. Sastri placed before us.	None
Sec. 83(1) provides for an appeal against the assessment or levy of or refusal to refund any tax under the Act before the Deputy Commissioner and subs.	None
(1A) for a revision before the State Government.	None
Subs.	None
(2) provides that if the authority hearing the appeal or revision entertains a reasonable doubt on any question as to the liability to or the principles of assessment of a tax it shall draw up a statement of the facts of the case and the point on which the doubt is entertained and refer the statement with his own opinion on the point for the decision of the High Court.	None
There is, however, no express provision like that of S. 31 (1) or S. 33 (4) of the Indian Incometax Act entitling the assessee to a hearing either in the appeal or revision petition.	None
Section 85 empowers the State Govt.	None
to make rules for regulating the refund of taxes, and such rules may impose limitations on such refunds.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) thereof provides that no refund of any tax shall be claimable by any person otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder.	Reasoning
This subsection can be availed only if the Act or the rules provided for making a claim for refund.	Reasoning
The rules relating to refunds, if there are any, were, however, not placed before us.	Reasoning
Nor was our attention drawn to any provision of the Act or to any rule which makes it obligatory upon a person to apply to the Municipal Committee for a refund of a tax.	Reasoning
Even assuming that the Act contemplates obtaining a refund only upon compliance with rules made thereunder, does it contemplate cases where refund or repayment on the ground of the constitutionality of the levy?	Reasoning
It will be noticed that subs.	Reasoning
(1) of this section, empowers the State Govt.	Reasoning
to impose by rules limitations on the refundspresumably including limitation on the amount of refundsand subs.	Reasoning
(2) bars a claim for refund otherwise than in accordance with the rules made under subs.	Reasoning
(1).	Reasoning
These provisions cannot possibly apply to a case where the right to obtain a refund or repayment is based upon the ground that the action of the Committee was in violation of a constitutional provision.	Reasoning
To hold otherwise would lead to the startling result that what was incompetent to the State Legislature to do or authorise a committee to do directly can be permitted to be done indirectly by empowering the State Govt.	Reasoning
to make rules for refund whereunder the amount of refunds could be so limited as to permit retention by the committee of the tax recovered by it in excess of the constitutional limit.	Reasoning
In our view, therefore, S. 85 of the Act cannot, in any event, be said to provide a machinery for obtaining refunds in cases of this kind.	Reasoning
Since S. 85 is inapplicable, a fortiori S. 83 cannot apply either.	Reasoning
We must therefore proceed on the footing that the Act does not provide a machinery for making a claim for refund or repayment in such cases.	None
27.	None
It would be pertinent to advert also to the provisions of S. 84, subs.	None
(3) of which deals with Bar of other proceedings.	None
Subs.	None
(1) provides for the period of limitation for an appeal under S. 83 (1).	None
Subs.	None
(2) empowers the appellate authority to require the assessee to deposit the tax before the hearing or the decision of the appeal.	None
Subs.	None
(3) is in the following termsNo objection shall be taken to any valuation, assessment, or levy, nor shall the liability of any person to be assessed or taxed be questioned, in any other manner or by any other authority than is provided in this Act.	None
It will be seen that there is no express mention of a civil court in this subsection as there was in S. 67 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.In fact S. 48 of the Municipalities Act contemplates the institution of a suit subject to fulfilment of certain conditions and thus indicates that it was not the intention of the legislature to make the machinery provided by the Act exclusive.	None
But even if a bar to the jurisdiction of a civil court be assumed or implied, there is an absence of a reference to refund in subs.	None
(3) of S. 83.	None
In other words, no finality seems to have been given to a decision rendered by an authority under S. 83 refusing to refund a tax improperly or illegally assessed or recovered.	None
In the light of these circumstances we have to consider the applicability of the decision in Raleigh Investment	None
Cos case, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ) (supra).	None
In that case the Privy Council considered the effect of certain provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 which prescribed remedies to an assessee who sought to challenge the assessment made against him and also the provisions of S. 67.	None
The relevant portion of S. 67 was that no suit shall be brought in any civil court to set aside or modify any assessment made under this Act After examining all these provisions the Privy Council said that an effective and appropriate machinery was provided by the Act itself for the review of any assessment on grounds of law, including the question whether a provision of the Act was ultra vires and it was in that setting that S. 67 had to be construed.	None
Then it went on to say that the phrase assessment made under this Act in S. 67 meant an assessment finding its origin in an activity of the assessing officer acting as such and that the circumstance that he had taken into account an ultra vires provision of the Act was in that view immaterial in determining whether the assessment was made under this Act.	None
But, with respect, we find it difficult to appreciate how taking into account an ultra vires provision which in law must be regarded as not being a part of the Act at all, will make the assessment as one under the Act.	None
No doubt the power to make an assessment is conferred by the Act and, therefore, making an assessment would be within the jurisdiction of the assessing authority.	None
But the jurisdiction can be exercised only according, as well as with reference to the valid provisions of the Act.	None
When, however, the authority travels beyond the valid provisions it must be regarded as acting in excess of its jurisdiction.	None
To give too wide a construction to the expression under the Act may lead to the serious consequence of attributing to the legislature, which owes its existence itself to the Constitution, the intention of affording protection to unconstitutional activities by limiting challenge to them only by resort to the special machinery provided by it in place of the normal remedies available under the Code of Civil Procedure, that is, to a machinery which cannot be as efficacious as the one provided by the general law.	None
Such a construction might necessitate the consideration of the very constitutionality of the provision which contains this expression.	None
This aspect of the matter does not appear to have been considered in Raleigh Investment	None
Cos case, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ) (Supra).	None
28.	None
This decision has been briefly referred to by this Court in Firm of Illuri Subbayya Chetty and Sons v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1964) 1	None
SCR 752 at p. 764 (AIR 1964 SC 322 at p. 326), and what this Court has observed is thisIn determining the effect of S. 67, the Privy Council considered the scheme of the Act by particular reference to the machinery provided by the Act which enables an assessee effectively to raise in courts the question whether a particular provision of the incometax Act bearing on the assessment made is or is not ultra vires.	None
The presence of such machinery observed the judgment, though by no means conclusive, marches with a construction of the section which denies an alternative jurisdiction to enquire into the same subjectmatter.	None
It is true that the judgment shows that the Privy Council took the view that even the constitutional validity of the taxing provision can be challenged by adopting the procedure prescribed by the Incometax Act and this assumption presumably proceeded on the basis that if an assessee wants to challenge the vires of the taxing provision on which an assessment is purported to be made against him, it would be open to him to raise that point before the taxing authority and take it for a decision before the Court under S. 66 (1) of the Act.	None
It is not necessary for us to consider whether this assumption is well founded or not.	None
But the presence of the alternative machinery by way of appeals which a particular statute provides to a party aggrieved by the assessment order on the merits, is a relevant consideration and that consideration is satisfied by the Act with which we are concerned in the present appeal.	None
We have already adverted to the provisions of Ss. 83 and 85 of the Act which are the only provisions brought to our notices as providing a machinery under the Act for challenging an assessment and we have pointed out that they do not cover a case like the present.	None
Again the provision for an appeal before a Deputy Commissioner who is an authority who performs numerous functions under different laws, functions which are executive, as well as administrative and judicial cannot be regarded as on par with one which provides for an appeal before an Appellate Assistant Commissioner under the Incometax Act, an authority whose duties are confined to matters arising under that Act.	None
Further, the latter Act contains a safeguard in the shape of an appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal which deals exclusively with matters arising under that Act and is an independent tribunal.	None
In the circumstances it must be held that even in the class of cases to which the provisions of Ss. 83 and 85 of the Municipalities Act apply they cannot be said to provide a sufficiently effective remedy to an assessee to challenge the assessment made against him or to a person who is aggrieved by the action of the Committee levying or refusing to refund a tax.	Reasoning
It is true that Subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 83 provides for a reference to the High Court but even that provision cannot be said to be a sufficiently efficacious remedy for challenging the assessment made on an assessee.	Reasoning
For whether to make a reference or not is at the discretion of the appellate or revisional authority and the Act does not confer upon the person aggrieved a right to move the High Court, as does the Incometax Act, to require a reference to be made in an appropriate case.	Reasoning
We may again point out that there is a complete absence of a provision corresponding to S. 67 of the Indian Income Tax Act barring the institution of a suit in so far as refusal of refund of a tax is concerned.	Reasoning
29.	None
In Secretary of State v. Mask and Co., 67 Ind App 222 (AIR 1940 PC 105 ), the Privy Council has observed that it is settled law that the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil courts is not to be readily inferred, but that such exclusion must either be explicitly expressed or clearly implied.	None
As earlier pointed out, this decision has been approved by this Court in the case of Firm of Illuri Subbayya Chetty and Sons, (1964) 1	None
SCR 752 (AIR 1964 SC 322 ) (Supra).Further, one of the corollaries flowing from the principle that the Constitution is the fundamental law of the land is that the normal remedy of a suit will be available for obtaining redress against the violation of a constitutional provision.	None
The Court must, therefore, lean in favour of construing a law in such a way as not to take away this right and render illusory the protection afforded by the Constitution.	None
So, whatever be the position with respect to S. 67 of the Indian Incometax Act, so far as S. 83 (3) of the Act is concerned, we find it reasonably possible to construe it as not depriving a person of his right to obtain redress from a civil court in respect of an amount recovered from him as a tax in violation of Art.	Reasoning
276 of the Constitution.	None
30.	None
We have already pointed out that no machinery is provided by the Act for obtaining a refund of tax assessed and recovered in excess of the Constitutional limit and that the machinery actually provided by the Act is not adequate for enabling an assessee to challenge effectively the constitutionality or legality of assessment or levy of a tax by a municipality or to recover from it what was realised under an invalid law.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, not possible to infer that the jurisdiction of the civil court is barred.	None
The decision in the Raleigh Investment Cos case, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ) (supra) does not, therefore, help the respondent.	None
Moreover, we must bear in mind the provisions of the Art. 265 of the Constitution which preclude the levy or collection of a tax except by authority of law, which means only a valid law.	None
There was no corresponding provision in the various Acts for the governance of India which preceded the Constitution.	None
Under Art.	None
226 of the Constitution has provided a remedy to a citizen to obtain redress in respect of a tax levied or collected under an invalid law.	None
This remedy will not be affected by any provision like S. 67 of the Indian Incometax Act or like S. 84 (3) of the Municipalities Act.	None
31.	None
We must not lose sight of the fact that what the appellant has claimed in the suit is the repayment by the Municipal Committee of an amount recovered by it in excess of that which under the Constitution it was competent to recover from the appellant.	None
The appellant has not sought to modify or set aside any order made by an authority acting or purporting to act under the Act.	Reasoning
No doubt, the relief of repayment is claimed on the ground that the enhancement of the rate is unconstitutional.	Reasoning
No doubt also that the appellant had sought a further relief of injunction.	Reasoning
As regards the first, the position is that the High Court of Nagpur has held, in the petition under Art.	Reasoning
226 preferred by the appellant, the enhancement to be unlawful.	Reasoning
This decision was rendered by the Court during the pendency of the suit and was binding on the civil Court in which the suit was pending and has been in fact followed by it.	Reasoning
As regards the relief of injunction, that relief became unnecessary because of the order made by the High Court in the Writ petition.	Reasoning
It is apparently for this reason that the civil Court did not award that relief to the appellant.	Reasoning
In view of the High Courts decision it was not at all necessary for the trial Court to consider in the suit before it the question of the validity of the assessment by or collection of the tax but only to ascertain the amount which was payable to the appellant and whether the suit was barred under S. 48 or S. 85 (2) as contended by the respondent.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, we are of opinion that the appellants suit cannot be said to be barred even if we interpret S. 84 (3) of the Municipalities Act in the same way as the Privy Council interpreted S. 67 of the Indian Incometax Act.	Reasoning
32.	None
We may further observe that where there is an express prohibition in a statute against a local authority from imposing a tax, as for instance, the recovery in the Statute construed by this Court in the Poona City Municipal Corporation case, C. A. No. 582 of 1961, dated 551964 (AIR1965 SC 555) (supra) or where a prohibition can be impliedwhether it be with regard to an item of taxation or with regard to the rate of tax or the quantum of tax payable by an individual assesseethe action of a local authority or of any of its instrumentalities in transgressing that prohibition must be regarded as being in excess of its jurisdiction.	None
Here there is a prohibition in S. 142A of the Government of India Act and now in Art.	None
276 of the Constitution, which precludes a State Legislature from making a law enabling a local authority to impose a tax on professions, trades, calling and employments in excess of Rs. 250 per annum.	Facts
These provisions have to be read in the Act or to be deemed by implication to be there as the Constitution is the paramount law to which all other laws are subject as was the Government of India Act, 1935 before January 26, 1950.	None
If, therefore, after the date specified in S. 142A of the Government of India Act or after the commencement of the Constitution a local authority or any of its instrumentalities imposed or imposes a tax which is in excess of the permissible amount, it would be exceeding its jurisdiction and a provision like S. 84 (3) of the Act will not bar the jurisdiction of a civil Court to entertain a suit instituted by a person from whom it is collected for the repayment of the money recovered from him in excess of the permissible amount.	None
There is a real distinction between those cases where a suit was held to be incompetent and the kind of cases which we have before us.	None
Thus where the question merely is, whether the assessment had been made according to law, the Assessing Officer of the Municipality having jurisdiction on the subjectmatter and over the assessee the provisions of S. 84 (3) may be a bar to a suit.	Reasoning
Where, however, the question raised is as to the jurisdiction of the Assessing Officer to proceed against the assessee and levy on or collect from him an amount in excess of that permitted by the Constitution, the matter would be entirely out of the bar of that provision.	Reasoning
Here since the Assessing Officer had no authority to levy a tax beyond what S. 142A of the Government of India Act, 1935 permitted or what Art. 276 permits his proceedings are void in so far as they purport to levy a tax in excess of the permissible amount and authorise its collection and the assessment order is no answer to the suit for the recovery of the excess amount.	Reasoning
To this extent, even the order of assessment cannot obtain the protection of S. 84 (3) of the Act and, therefore, the appellants suit is maintainable.	Reasoning
33.	None
For all these reasons we hold that the High Court was in error in dismissing the appellants suit.	None
We hold the same in the connected appeal and accordingly allow both the appeals with costs throughout.	None
The judgment of Raghubar Dayal and R. S. Bachawat, JJ. was delivered by 34.	None
Raghubar Dayal, J. We have given careful thought to the questions of law arising in this appeal, but regret we have not been able to agree with the view expressed by brother Mudholkar, J. in the majority judgment.	None
35.	None
We need not recapitulate the facts which have been fully set out in the judgment of Mudholkar, J.	None
The questions of law which arise for determination are (i) whether the respondents collecting the amount in excess of the amount which it could have collected on account of the tax on trade, in view of the provisions of Art. 276 of the Constitution, was an act done or purported to be done under the Act within the meaning of S. 48 (1) of the Central Provinces and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922 (Act II of 1922), hereinafter called the Act and (ii) whether the suit is barred by S. 84 (3) of that Act.	None
36.	None
The question in short boils down to this whether the expression anything done or purporting to be done under the Act will cover only those acts which would be in strict conformity with the provisions of the Act or will also cover such acts which the Municipal Committee is competent to do under the Act, but in doing which the Committee has, in some manner, acted beyond the provisions of the Act or beyond any other legal provision.	None
37.	None
Section 48 of the Act refers to suits against the Committee or any of the other specified persons acting under the directions of the Committee, for anything done or purported to be done under the Act.	None
If a suit is for anything done or purported to be done under the Act, the necessary conditions laid down in the section are to be satisfied before the institution of the suit.	None
One condition is that the suit is to be instituted after the expiration of two months after the service of a notice, in writing, to the persons mentioned in subs.	None
(1).	Reasoning
Another is that that suit be instituted within six months from the date of accrual of the alleged cause of action.	None
If a suit is not instituted after giving notice or within this period, it has to be dismissed.	None
38.	None
The question then is what is the present suit for?	Issue
And it is only on the determination of the nature of the act to which the present suit relates that it can be said whether the suit is covered by S. 48 or not, i.e., whether the act can be said to be done or purported to be done under the Act.	None
39.	None
The plaintiff claims decree for the amount alleged to have been illegally collected from him as tax and for a permanent injunction.	None
The illegality of the collection is said to be on account of there being an upper limit for a persons liability to tax on trade and calling, in view of S. 142A of the Government of India Act, 1935 (shortly referred to as the 1935 Act) and Art.	None
276 of the Constitution.	None
The limit under the Constitution is Rs. 250.	None
It was Rs. 50 under the 1935 Act.	None
What was collected from the appellant was the tax assessed on him.	None
According to the appellant, the amount assessed exceeded the legal limit and, therefore, what had been collected in excess of that limit was collected illegally.	None
40.	None
We may now consider the procedure laid down for the collection of tax under the Act before we determine the nature of the alleged excessive collection of tax from the appellant.	None
Section 66 empowers the Committee to impose the taxes enumerated in subs.	None
(1).	Reasoning
Clause (b) of subs.	None
(1) mentions a tax on persons exercising any profession or art, or carrying on any trade or calling, within the limits of the municipality.	None
Subsection (2) empowers the State Government, by rules made under the Act, to regulate the imposition of taxes mentioned in the section and to impose maximum amounts of rates for any tax.	None
The rate of tax fixed by Government Notification, dated December 22, 1936 was enhanced by another Notification, dated April 10, 1941.	None
The former rate of one anna was enhanced to four annas.	None
These notifications did not lay down any upper limit for the amount of tax payable by one person to the Municipality.	None
The legality of the imposition is not questioned.	None
The legality of the enhancement was questioned by the appellant through Miscellaneous Petition No. 389 of 1954, decided by the High Court on April 12, 1955.	None
The appellant prayed, by that petition, for the issue of a writ prohibiting the Committee from collecting taxes under the notification of 1941.	None
The High Court did not hold the notification to be bad in law.	None
What it held was that the tax was invalid to the extent it offended against S. 142A of the 1935 Act and that it was also invalid to the extent it offended against Art.	None
276 of the Constitution.	None
The writ issued by the High Court was a writ of mandamus prohibiting the Municipality from resorting to the 1941 Notification for the purpose of collecting tax in excess of Rs. 250 per annum.	None
The Municipality, therefore, was empowered to impose tax in accordance with the notification of 1941 and, in view of S. 142A of the 1935 Act and Art.	None
276 of the Constitution, the total tax claimable on account of this tax from the appellant could not exceed Rs. 50 or Rs. 250, respectively, during the period when S. 142A was in force and later when Art. 276 came into force.	None
41.	None
The next step, after the imposition of a valid tax, according to the Act, relates to the assessment of tax on the persons liability to pay it.	None
Section 71 empowers the State Government to make rules under the Act regulating assessment of tax and for preventing the evasion of assessment and S. 76 empowers the State Government to make rules regulating the collection of taxes.	None
The rules for assessment and collection of taxes framed in 1936 notified on December 22, 1936.	Facts
42.	None
Rule 1 required a person carrying on the trade of ginning or pressing cotton into bales by means of steam or mechanical process to furnish to the Committee, annually, a return in the prescribed form which required the furnishing of the number of bojhas ginned and the number of bales pressed, with the total weight in maunds during the financial year in each case.	None
This information was necessary as the rate of tax related to a bojha of 392 lbs.	None
ginned cotton and a bale of 392 lbs.	None
pressed cotton.	None
43.	None
Rule 4 provided that the tax would be assessed by a subcommittee on the basis of the information received under certain rules including R. 1.	None
Rule 5 required the communication of the amount of assessment to the assessee.	None
Rule 6 provided that objections to the assessment would be received and considered by the subcommittee if presented within a month from the date of communication of the amount of assessment to the assessee and that the decision of the subcommittee would be final subject to the confirmation by the general committee.	None
Rule 7 provided that the tax would be payable in one instalment on August 1, each year.	None
Fresh rules were notified in 1941 and these were practically identical with the 1936 rules.	None
44.	None
It is not alleged that the tax assessed on the appellant during the periods in suit had not been assessed by following the procedure laid down in the rules.	None
45.	None
It follows from the statutory rules that once the tax is assessed according to the rules, the assessee becomes liable statutorily, to pay the assessed tax.	None
46.	None
Section 77 provides how any arrears of tax claimable by the Committee under the Act can be recovered.	None
They can be recovered on an application to a Magistrate, by distress and sale of movable property of the defaulter within the limits of his jurisdiction.	None
Sections 77A and 80 provide other procedure for arrears of certain taxes to be realised.	None
47.	None
Section 83 provides for an appeal, against the assessment or levy of or refusal to refund any tax under the Act, to the Deputy Commissioner or some other officer empowered by the State Government in that behalf.	None
Subsection (1A) allows a person aggrieved by the decision of the appellate authority to apply to the State Government for revision of the decision on the grounds that the decision is contrary to law or is repugnant to any principle of assessment of tax or that the appellate authority has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law or has failed to exercise a jurisdiction vested in it by law.	None
Subsection (2) provides for a reference to the High Court by the appellate authority or the revisional authority on its own motion or on the application of any person interested, for the opinion of the High Court on any question as to the liability or the principle of assessment of tax if such a question arises on the hearing of the appeal or revision.	None
Subsection (3) of S. 84 providesNo objection shall be taken to any valuation, assessment, or levy, nor shall the liability of any person to be assessed or taxed be questioned, in any other manner or by any other authority than is provided in this Act.	None
Section 85 reads(1)	None
The State Government may, make rules under this Act regulating the refund of taxes, and such rules may impose limitations on such refunds.	None
(2) No refund of any tax shall be claimable by any person otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder.	Reasoning
It follows from the above provisions that an assessee has to pay the tax assessed and that if aggrieved with the assessment of tax he has to appeal against the assessment order.	None
He can raise questions of law and fact in the appeal.	None
48.	None
The appellant, in the present case, could have appealed against the assessment on the ground that the amount assessed exceeded the limits laid down for the tax under S. 142A of the 1935 Act if that applied at the time of assessment or under Art. 276 of the Constitution if the latter applied at the relevant time.	None
His claim for the refund of any amount, if paid, would arise only after the amount assessed and paid is modified by the appellate or revisional authority.	None
If the amount is not so modified, no question for the refund or repayment of any amount paid as tax under the Act arises.	None
The statute provided for the assessment of tax and for its collection in case the assessee did not himself pay the assessed amount according to the rules.	None
The present suit for the repayment of the amount alleged to have been realised illegally is in essence a suit for firstly modifying the amount assessed and then to decree the payment of the amount held to have been paid in excess of the tax as modified by the Court.	None
It follows, therefore, to our mind, that the suit relates to the act of the Committee in assessing the appellant wrongly by ignoring the constitutional provision that the amount payable by a single person to the municipality for such tax was not to exceed a certain limit and that it is not merely with respect to the act of collecting the excess amount.	None
In fact, the assessment of the entire tax was one act and so was the collection of the amount assessed.	None
The act of assessing the tax or the consequential act of collecting the amount cannot be broken up into two acts (i) of assessing the tax upto the legal limit and (ii) of assessing the tax with respect to the amount in excess of the legal limit.	None
Neither can the act of collection be broken up into two acts (i) of collecting the amount which can be legally assessed and (ii) of collecting the amount in excess of the legally realisable amount of tax.	None
The act of assessment or of collection, therefore, was an act done by the Committee under the provisions of the Act, though it may be, as appears to be the case, that it acted wrongly in assessing the tax at an excessive figure and consequently in collecting an amount in excess which could have been legally collected.	None
The suit is, therefore, fully covered by the provisions of subs.	None
(1) of S. 48 of the Act.	None
49.	None
Subsection (2) of S. 48, as already stated, provides that every such suit, i.e., a suit falling within subs.	None
(1) of that section, shall be dismissed unless it is instituted within six months from the date of the accrual of the alleged cause of action.	None
The suit was instituted in the instant case on December 6, 1952, more than 8 months after the date of recovery of most of the amounts alleged to have been illegally recovered from the appellant and, clearly, the suit for the recovery of such amount had to be dismissed.	None
50.	None
The taxes for the years, 195152 were recovered in small amounts on January 17, 1952, March 13, 1952, March 31, 1952 and August 27, 1952.	None
The suit for the amount recovered on January 17 was also instituted after the period of limitation.	None
51.	None
No notice with respect to the alleged illegal collection of taxes in March and August 1952 had been given to the Municipal Committee as notice was given on January 10, 1952, prior to those collections and could not have possibly referred to them.	None
The suit for these amounts also has to be dismissed as the condition precedent for the institution of the suit under subs.	None
(1) of S. 48 has not been satisfied.	None
52.	None
There is another reason which justifies the dismissal of the appellants suit, though the view of the High Court on that point is in favour of the appellant.	None
In view of S. 84 (3) the assessment of the tax or the liability of the person assessed or taxed cannot be objected to in any manner or before any authority other than what is provided in the Act.	None
Section 83 provides the procedure by which the assessment of tax can be questioned both on law and facts.	None
The correctness of the assessment cannot be questioned by any other manner and questioning by instituting the suit in a civil Court would be one such other manner.	None
We have already indicated that in essence the present suit is a suit for the modification of the taxes assessed and for consequential order decreeing the repayment of the amount held to have been collected in excess of the amount so modified.	None
In view of subs.	None
(3) of S. 84, exclusive jurisdiction to determine the correctness of the amount assessed is given to the authorities mentioned in S. 83.	None
The result is that no other authority can enter into the question of the correctness of the assessment on grounds of law or fact.	None
The present suit is barred from the cognizance of the Civil Court.	None
53.	None
The views we have expressed find support from what has been decided by the Privy Council and this Court.	None
We would first refer to those cases before dealing with the cases relied on for the appellant in support of the contention that the Committee had no jurisdiction to assess the tax beyond the limit allowed by S. 142A or Art.	None
276 and that, therefore, the act of the Committee was an act which could not be said to have been done or purported to have been done under the Act and that it was not necessary for the appellant to take recourse to the procedure laid down in Ss. 48 and 83 of the Act.	None
54.	None
In 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ), the Privy Council had to construe S. 67 of the Incometax Act which provided no suit shall be brought in any civil Court to set aside or modify an assessment made under this Act. . . .	None
The suit giving rise to the appeal before the Privy Council was for a declaration that certain provision of the Act was ultra vires the legislative powers of the Federal Legislature, that, therefore, the appellant before the Privy Council was not liable to be assessed or charged to tax in respect of certain dividends and the assessment was illegal and wrongful, for an injunction restraining the department from making assessment in future years in respect of such dividends and for the repayment of the amount said to have been illegally realised on account of the illegal assessment.	None
The Privy Council said at p. 62 (of Ind App) (at p. 80 of AIR).In form the relief claimed does not profess to modify or set aside the assessment.	None
In substance it does, for repayment of part of the sum due by virtue of the notice of demand could not be ordered so long as the assessment stood.	None
The same can be said with respect to the claim for repayment of the alleged illegal collection of the excess amount from the appellant.	None
55.	None
The Privy Council further saidAn assessment made under the machinery provided by the Act, if based on a provision subsequently held to be ultra vires, is not a nullity like an order of a Court lacking jurisdiction.	None
Reliance on such a provision is not an excess of jurisdiction but a mistake of law made in the course of its exercise.	None
In view of what the Privy Council has said, the Committees overlooking the constitutional provisions in the exercise of its jurisdiction to assess the tax will not make its assessment of the tax an assessment without jurisdiction but would only show that the Committee made a mistake of law in the course of the exercise of its jurisdiction.	None
56.	None
The Privy Council took into consideration the machinery provided in the Incometax Act for the assessee raising objections to the assessment made against him and held that effective and proper machinery was provided by the Act itself for the review on grounds of law.	None
This was, however, not the reason for their construing S. 67 in the way they did.	None
In fact, they considered the construction of S. 67 clear and saidUnder the Act the incometax officer is charged with the duty of assessing the total income of the assessee.	None
The obvious meaning, and in their Lordships opinion, the correct meaning, of the phrase assessment made under this Act is an assessment finding its origin in an activity of the assessing officer acting as such.	None
The circumstance that the assessing officer has taken into account an ultra vires provision of the Act is in this view immaterial in determining whether the assessment is made under this Act.	None
The phrase describes the provenance of the assessment it does not relate to its accuracy in point of law.	None
The use of the machinery provided by the Act, not the result of that use, is the test.	None
These observations fully apply to the expression the assessment of any tax under the Act in subs.	None
(1) of S. 83.	None
It follows that when the Committee made the assessment of the tax on the appellant the assessment was founded on the activity of the Committee acting as the assessing authority and the fact that it overlooked the constitutional requirement is immaterial in determining whether the assessment is made under the Act.	None
The expression made under the Act has no relation to the accuracy of the assessment in point of law.	None
The expression assessment of any tax under the Act in S. 83 is equivalent in its content to the expression assessment made under the Act.	None
57.	None
Lastly, the final observations of the Privy Council in this case indicate that when an exclusive machinery for the determination of the tax is provided by the Act and the tax is assessed by that machinery, there arises a duty to pay the amount of tax demanded on the basis of that assessment and that the jurisdiction to question the assessment otherwise than by the use of the machinery expressly provided by the Act would be inconsistent with the statutory obligation to pay arising by virtue of the assessment.	None
The very fact that the appellant let the assessment become final without taking recourse to the procedure of appeal and revision laid down in S. 83 of the Act and thus became liable under the statute to pay the amount assessed, makes his questioning the correctness of the amount through the Court inconsistent with that obligation.	None
It appears that the Privy Council considered a special provision barring the taking of objection to assessment of tax by any authority to be unnecessary.	None
It said at p. 65 (of Ind App) (at p. 81 of AIR)The only doubt, indeed, in their Lordships mind, is whether an express provision was necessary in order to exclude jurisdiction in a civil Court to set aside or modify an assessment.	None
This would meet the contention for the appellant that subs.	None
(3) of S. 84 does not specifically refer to the civil Court and, therefore, does not specifically bar jurisdiction of the civil Court from taking cognizance of a suit relating to the assessment of tax.	None
58.	None
It may also be mentioned that Section 84 (3) of the Act, by its terms, refers to an objection to assessment and not to assessment under the Act or assessment made under the Act.	None
This makes the provisions of S. 84 (3) much wide in scope than those of S. 67 of the Indian Incometax Act were.	None
59.	None
The other case we would refer to is (1964) 1	None
SCR 752 (AIR 1964 SC 322 ).	None
The appellant before this Court, in that case, sued the State of Andhra Pradesh for a decree for a certain amount on the ground that that amount had been illegally recovered from it under the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939.	None
Section 18A of that Act provides that no suit or other proceeding shall, except as expressly provided in the Act, be instituted in any Court to set aside or modify an assessment made under the Act.	None
This provision is practically identical in terms with that of S. 67 of the Incometax Act which had been considered by the Privy Council in Raleighs case, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ).	None
The contention raised before the Court was that if an order of assessment had been made illegally by the proper authority purporting to exercise its powers under the Act, such an assessment could not be said to be an assessment made under the Act.	None
It was also contended that the use of the words any assessment made under this Act did not cover cases of assessment which purported to have been made under the Act.	None
This Court said at p. 759 (of SCR) (at p. 324 of AIR)The expression any assessment made under this Act is, in our opinion, wide enough to cover all assessments made by the appropriate authorities under this Act whether the said assessments are correct or not.	None
It is the activity of the assessing officer acting as such officer which is intended to be protected and as soon as it is shown that exercising his jurisdiction and authority under this Act, an assessing officer has made an order of assessment that clearly falls within the scope of S. 18A.	None
The view expressed by this Court is practically the same as had been expressed in Raleighs case, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ).	None
In fact, the only difference between the two cases appears to be that in the Privy Council case the illegality of the assessment was said to lie in basing the assessment on a provision which was said to be ultra vires the legislature while the illegality of the assessment made in the case before this Court lay in the alleged mistake of the assessing officer in construing certain transactions to be transactions of purchases though they were really transactions of sale, the tax being leviable on purchases and not on sales.	None
This Court referred to Raleighs case 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ) at p. 764 (of SCR) (at p. 326 of AIR) and did not express an opinion on the view of the Privy Council that even the constitutional validity of the taxing provision could be challenged by adopting the procedure prescribed by the Incometax Act, a question which does not arise for consideration in the present case.	None
60.	None
We are therefore, of opinion that the construction put on the expression assessment made under the Act in these two cases justifies the conclusion that the assessment of tax made on the appellant in this case is covered by subsection (1) of section 83 of the Act and amounts to an act done under the Act for the purposes of subsection (1) of section 48 of the Act.	None
It is, therefore, unnecessary to determine the scope of the expression an act purported to be done under the Act in subsection (1) of section 48.	None
61.	None
We may now briefly deal with the cases relied on for the appellant.	None
62.	None
Before, however, doing so, we may first deal with the case of CA No. 582 of 1961 dated 551964 (AIR 1965 SC 555 ), decided by this Court.	None
In this case the Poona Municipality had imposed a tax on the amount of octroi duty which had been levied on the goods imported within the Municipal limits but had been subsequently exported out of such limits within the specified periods.	None
The Poona Municipality used to deduct 10 per cent of the amount to be refunded.	None
This deduction was held to amount to a tax on the octroi refund.	None
Such a deduction was imposed as a tax under section 59 (b) (xi) of the Act III of 1901.	None
The tax continued after the 1901 Act was repealed by the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925.	None
The Boroughs Act was, in its turn, repealed by the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949.	None
That Act was applied to Poona on February 15, 1950 and thereafter the powers of taxation of the Municipality were governed by S. 127 of that Act which authorised the Corporation to impose the various taxes mentioned in that section.	None
A tax on octroi refund was not one of such taxes.	None
It could not come under Cl.	None
(f) which described any other tax which the State Legislature has power under the Constitution to impose in the States.	None
The State Legislature had no power under the Constitution to impose a tax on octroi refund.	None
It was, therefore, held by this Court that the amount of tax on octroi refund could not be imposed by the Poona City Municipal Corporation.	None
It was, after holding so, that reference was made to subs.	None
(4) of S. 127 which provided that nothing in that section would authorize the imposition of any tax which the State Legislature had no power to impose in the State under the Constitution, and it was saidApart from this absence of power to impose such a tax, which is clear from the earlier parts of S. 127, we have the categorical prohibition in subs.	None
(4) against the imposition of any such tax by the Corporation.	None
This reference was to emphasize that the impugned tax could not possibly be imposed under the Act.	None
Subsection (4) appears to have been enacted as a matter of caution.	None
There could be no necessity for subs.	None
(4) as S. 127 itself had provided for the taxes which could be imposed.	None
Any tax which was not specified in the section could not possibly be imposed by the Corporation.	None
The legislature might have considered the possibility of any of the specified taxes not remaining in future within the legislative list of the State and, therefore, provided that in such a contingency a tax though specified in the section will not be imposed.	None
The provision of subs.	None
(4) did not in any way affect the decision of this Court in holding that the Poona Municipal Corporation could not impose a tax on octroi refund.	None
63.	None
The other contention for the Poona Municipal Corporation was that the suit was instituted beyond the period of limitation prescribed under S. 487 of the 1949 Act.	None
The suit would have been timebarred if the act of the Corporation imposing the tax on octroi refund could be held to be an act done or purported to be done in pursuance or in execution or intended execution of the 1949 Act.	None
This Court held that the tax was not levied in pursuance or in execution of the Act and, therefore, the benefit of S. 487 could not be available to the Corporation.	None
64.	None
The expression used in S. 487 is different from the one used in S. 48 of the Act.	None
Apart from this consideration, the act of imposing the tax could not be said to have originated from any provision of the 1949 Act and, therefore, could not possibly be held to be an act done under the 1949 Act.	None
We do not think this case can be taken to support the appellants contention that the assessment of the tax on it and the consequential collection of the amount in excess of the limit laid down by the Art. 276 of the Constitution was not an act done under the Act.	None
65.	None
The appellant has mainly relied on the cases decided by the Nagpur High Court and a brief reference may now be made to them.	None
We may refer to the case reported as ILR 1939 Nag 216 (AIR 1938 Nag 455), first.	None
The plaintiffs had sued to recover the tax which had been collected from them in excess of the lawful rate.	None
The suit was instituted after the plaintiffs had obtained a declaration that the enhancement of the tax over that rate was illegal.	None
The Municipal Committee had power to impose and enhance the tax.	None
It, however, had enhanced the tax without following the entire procedure laid down for such enhancement and had omitted to consider the objections filed against the proposed enhancement.	None
The question before the High Court was whether the collection of the tax at the enhanced rate was an act which fell within the ambit of the expression anything done or purported to be done under the Act which Act, it may be mentioned, was the C. P. and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922, the very Act with which we are concerned in the present appeal.	None
Niyogi, J., expressed at p. 219 (of ILR Nag) (at p. 457 of AIR), his agreement with the principle that if the Municipal Committee exercised a power which it did not possess, it should not be regarded as acting in pursuance of the statute governing its affairs and its acts should not be regarded as being done under the statute, and further stated that that principle, however, did not help the Municipal Committee, the appellant before him.	None
Niyogi, J., then said, after noticing the failure of the Municipal Committee to consider the objections to the proposed taxesNow there can be no question that the municipal committee, in imposing and collecting tax at four annas per animal, was acting exactly in accordance with S. 68.	None
It must be observed that there is a difference between a case when a corporate body exercises a power which is wholly absent and a case where it has power but it exercises it illegally or with material irregularity.	None
In the former case the municipal committees act from beginning to end is illegal whereas in the latter case the act is quite legal in the beginning but becomes illegal in the end.	None
again he saidIn enhancing the tax and collecting it the municipal committee was certainly exercising although irregularly, the power conferred on it by S. 68 and to that extent it appears to me that the contention that they were not acting under the statute is untenable.	None
66.	None
The views expressed by Niyogi, J., we may say with respect, find full support from Raleighs case, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ) and Subbayya Chettys case, (1964) 1	None
SCR 752 (AIR 1964 SC 322 ).	None
Amraoti Municipal Committees case, ILR (1939)	None
Nag 216 (AIR 1938 Nag 455), was in a way on all fours with the present case.	None
In that case the Municipal Committee over looked the provision of law about considering the objections to the proposed enhancement in tax.	None
In the present case the Committee overlooked the constitutional requirement that the maximum limit of the tax payable by a single individual is Rs. 250. 67.	None
The next case is ILR 1949 Nag 87 (AIR 1949 Nag 190).	None
In this case the question before Bose, J., was whether a suit for the recovery of an amount recovered in excess of what could be legally taxed came within the mischief of S. 71 and S. 73 (1) of the Central Provinces Local SelfGovernment Act, 1920 (C. P. IV of 1920).	None
Bose, J., said at p. 92 (of ILR Nag) (at p. 192 of AIR)It will be observed that both S. 79 and the rule are confined to orders and decisions given under the Act.	None
It is impossible to say that an order which contravenes the law or is made in the face of an express statutory prohibition can be said to be under the Act.	None
The words purporting to be given or made under the Act are not present in this section and so the difficulty which arises regarding the other point is not present here.	None
We do not see why an ordinary decision given under the Act be not considered to be an order made under the Act.	None
Neither of the expressions refer to the order or decision being correct or not.	None
68. Section 73 of the Central Provinces Local SelfGovernment Act prescribed that no suit shall be instituted, etcfor anything done or purporting to be done under that Act, unless the prescribed notice be first given.	None
Bose, J., presumably in view of what he had said earlier in connection with orders and decisions given under the Act, saidI am clear that what was done here was not done under the Act, so the only question is whether it purported to be done under the Act.	None
In these observations he seems to have equated the expression given under the Act with done under the Act.	None
His view, as we have already pointed out with reference to something done under the Act, does not find support from Raleighs case, 74 Ind App 50 (AIR 1947 PC 78 ) and Subbayya Chettys case (1964) 1	None
SCR 752 (AIR 1964 SC 322 ).	None
Bose, J., then considered the content of the expression purported to be done.	None
We need not discuss what he says on this point as we have held that the assessment made on the appellant was an assessment made under the Act and that the act of illegal collection with respect to the amount in excess was an act done under the Act.	None
69.	None
The appellant mainly relied on the Nagpur case reported as ILR (1948)	None
Nag 971 (AIR 1949 Nag 215).	None
It was held in that case that a suit for refund of a tax illegally imposed by the Municipal Committee was not barred by reason of Ss. 48, 83 and 84 of the Central Provinces Municipalities Act as the Municipal Committee did not act or purport to act under the Act in imposing the illegal tax.	None
Bose, Acting C. J., delivering the judgment, relied on his earlier decision in District Council, Bhandara case, ILR 1949 Nag 87 (AIR 1949 Nag 190), and held that the claim for the recovery of the tax illegally realised in excess of the permissible limit were not barred by reason of Ss. 83 and 84.	None
He then referred to S. 48 and, after stating that the act of the Municipality when prohibited by law was wholly beyond its jurisdiction and, therefore, S. 48 did not apply, saidThe distinction between a case where S. 48 applies and a case where it does not is clearly shown in ILR 1939 Nag 216 (AIR 1938 Nag 455).	None
We have referred to this case and expressed full agreement with the views expressed by Niyogi, J. there.	None
It appears to us that the full significance of that judgment has been overlooked in Municipal Committee, Karanja case, ILR (1948)	None
Nag 971 (AIR 1949 Nag 215).	None
70.	None
We hold that the appellants suit for the recovery of the tax realised in excess of Rs. 250 a year has been rightly dismissed as the correctness of the assessment of the tax could not be challenged by a suit in a civil Court in view of S. 84 (3) and as the provisions of S. 48 requiring the giving of notice to the Municipality and the institution of the suit within a certain period had not been complied with.	None
We would, therefore, dismiss the appeal with costs.	None
ORDER 71.	None
In view of the majority Judgment, the appeal is allowed with costs throughout.	Decision
72.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
