 MOHAN, J. Leave granted.	None
The brief facts leading to this appeal are as follows.	None
The first respondent, North India Petrochemicals Limited (hereinafter referred to as NIPL) filed a windingup petition (Company Petition No. 1 of 1 993) before the High Court of Allahabad, Lucknow Bench, Lucknow under Sections 433, 434 and 439 of the Companies Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	None
On July 1, 1988 a Shareholders Agreement or Promoters Agreement was entered into.	None
That superseded earlier agreements which recorded that the grant of a Letter of Intent for the manufacture of 15, 000 tonnes per a nnum of Phthalic Anhydride in favour of the appellantCorporation.	Facts
However, the said Letter of Intent was to be used, utilised and implemented in collaboration with M s Dalmia Dairy Industries Limited (Respondent 2 herein).	Facts
The collaboration agreement or the promoters agreement contemplated that a new company would be brought into existence called the Northern India Petrochemicals Limited.	Facts
Clause 3 of the agreement provided that initial authorised capital would be Rs 5 lakhs which would be issued in equity shares of Rs 10 each while the subscribed capital of the company would be such as would b e decided by the Board of Directors of the Company from time to time.	None
Clause 6 of the said agreement contemplated that each party would ensure that its respective shareholdings in the paidup equity capital of the company shall be 26 plus 10 equity shares for PICUP (the appellant herein) and 25 minus 10 equity shares for second respondent, Dalmia Dairy Industries Limited.	Facts
Clause 7 of the agreement further provided that the Board would consist of 13 Directors out of which 4 were to be nominated by PICUP, the appellant herein and 3 by the second respondent, Dalmia Dairy Industries and the remaining 6 Directors were to be appointed as per the provisions of the Act.	None
Clause 13(a) stated that the appellant, Dalmia Dairy Industries Limited will contribute equal sums as may be required, from time to time, for the purpose of preliminary and exploratory and other expenses.	Facts
These contributions are to form part of the share capital agreed to be contributed by each party under the agreement.	None
Northern India Petrochemicals Limited came to be incorporated on March 12, 1985.	None
Differences arose between the second respondent and the appellant.	None
The second respondent got the disputes referred to arbitration as per clau se 27 of the promoters agreement dated July 1, 1988 by letter dated December 19, 1991.	Facts
The second respondent nominated the former Chief Justice of Delhi High Court, Justice Shri Shiv Prakash Narain, as their arbitrator.	Facts
Thereafter the appellant nominated Shri D.N. Jha, former Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court.	Facts
These two arbitrators appointed Shri Justice M.H. Kania (former Chief Justice of this Court) as Chairman.	Facts
On January 6, 1992, the first respondent issued a notice under Section 434 of the Act to the appellant.	None
It was stated that an amount of Rs 140.33 lakhs had been spent on the project.	Facts
The notice further stated that an amount of Rs 72.50 lakhs was payable by the appellant under the terms of the promoters agreement.	Facts
That amount had not been forthcoming.	Facts
On that ground it is alleged that the appellant was indebted to the tune of Rs 72.50 lakhs as on November 30, 1991 which the appellant was called upon to pay as its share contribution of NIPL within three weeks of the receipt of the notice.	Facts
On January 29, 1992 the appellant replied to the notice denying its liability to pay the amount of Rs 72.50 lakhs.	None
It was stated therein that the disputes raised by second respondent M s Dalmia Industries Limited had already been referred to arbitration and as such is pending adjudication.	Facts
Hence, NIPL was not entitled to take any action.	None
In the windingup petition it is alleged that the sum of Rs 72.50 lakhs is a debt payable by the appellant to the first respondent.	Issue
The debt arose on the basis of the promoters agreement between the appellant and the second respondent for promoting the first respondentcompany referred to above.	Issue
It is further alleged that the appellant is liable to pay towards certain expenses for exploratory work.	None
Those expenses will be adjusted and treated as subscription to the share capital.	Facts
The appellant has agreed to subscribe by way of equity participation in the share capital.	Facts
That amount ought to be paid.	Facts
There is a breach of promoters agreement for the failure to pay these amounts, namely, the dues on account of share capital and the expenses for exploratory work.	Facts
It was alleged that the said sum of Rs 72.50 lakhs was due.	Facts
Therefore, the first respondent claimed to be a creditor.	None
It may be noted, as stated above, that the second respondent has already referred the dispute to arbitration under clause 27 of the promoters agreement for adjudication claiming specific performance of the promoters agreement and in the alternative for damages for breach of contract.	Facts
The said amount is the basis for the windingup petition as it is one of the claims in the statement of claims before the arbitrators.	None
One further fact requires to be noted the promoters agreement had already cancelled as per notice dated October 31, 1992.	None
In view of the above, the appellant denied the liability to pay the amount on various grounds not only in the company petition but also before the arbitrators.	None
Inter alia it was urged that the windingup petition was not maintainable.	None
The claim itself was doubtful.	Facts
It was a matter which required adjudication.	Facts
Therefore, it was not a debt as contemplated within the meaning of Sections 433 and 434 of the Act.	Facts
Respondent 1 is not a creditor.	Facts
Before the learned Single Judge four preliminary objections were taken The petition does not comply with the requirement o f the Company Rules insofar as Rule 21 which is mandatory in character is not satisfied.(2)Inasmuch as a creditor is seeking relief the application has to be accompanied by an application under Section 439(8) of the Act.	Issue
There is also noncompliance of Section 439(8) and as such Rule 97 of the Company Rules had been breached.	Issue
There was no presentation in accordance with Rule 95.	Facts
When a notice to show cause why the petition should not be admitted was initially issued, the notice was notin the prescribed form.	Facts
In spite of it, publicity had been given in the newspapers in order to pressurise the appellant to yield to the demand.	None
These preliminary objections were overruled by an order dated January 28, 1993.	None
Thereafter in dealing with the question whether the petition deserved to be admitted or not it was concluded that a prima facie case had been made out for admission.	Issue
However, the advertisement was suspended till further orders.	Facts
Aggrieved by the same, an appeal was preferred to the Division Bench.	Facts
The preliminary objections which were raised before the learned Single Judge were reiterated.	Issue
They were overruled.	None
Another objection taken was as to the maintainability of the appeal.	None
That was overruled on the ground that the orde r of the learned Single Judge was likely to require the respondents to face the windingup proceedings.	Facts
Therefore, an appeal would lie under Section 483 of the Act.	None
As to the admissibility of the windingup petition, the Division Bench is of the vie w that promoters agreement had in fact been entered into.	None
The company is the beneficiary of the agreement.	Issue
As a beneficiary it could claim that amount.	Issue
From the material on record it is seen that no specific plea had been taken to show the circumstances under which the amount had not been paid by the appellant.	Facts
Accordingly, the appeal came to be dismissed.	Issue
Hence, the present special leave petition.	Issue
20.	None
It is urged by the learned Solicitor General that the learned Single Judge had gone wrong while holding that the admissibility of windingup petition would depend upon arguable issues.	Arguments of Petitioner
Equally, the Division Bench failed to note that the debt is bona fide disputed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further it failed to note that the question of liability is still pending adjudication before the arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
No windingup petition can be admitted unless the court comes to the conclusion that the defence put up is moonshine.	None
In support of these submissions reliance is placed on Madhusuda n Gordhandas v. Madhu Woollen Industries Pvt	Arguments of Petitioner
. Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case, the debt itself is yet to be established.	Arguments of Petitioner
Merely because the promoters agreement had been signed it does not follow that the appellant is liable as a debtor.	Arguments of Petitioner
1 1971 (3) SCC 63 2(1972)42CompCasl25 21.In opposition to this, learned counsel for the respondents would support the impugned orders contending that both the courts below have carefully analysed the legal position.	Arguments of Respondent
They have correctly found that the agreement had been entered into under which there is an obligation to pay certain amount.	Arguments of Respondent
This obligation if not discharged, would amount to a debt.	Arguments of Respondent
Insofar as there is a prima facie case of liability, certainly the petition could be admitted.	Arguments of Respondent
The ruling relied on by the appellant has no relevance to the facts of this case.	Arguments of Respondent
To determine the correctness of the above submissions it is necessary, on our part, to find out as to what exactly is the position in relation to the debt, on facts.	None
As seen from the earlier narration, the promoters agreement was entered into between the appellant and Respondent 2, Dalmia Industries Limited.	Reasoning
Only under that agreement the first respondent, North India Petrochemicals Limited, was floated.	Reasoning
As per clauses 6 and 13(a) the appellant will have to pay its share of contribution to the first respondent.	Reasoning
It is the case of the first respondent that already an amount of Rs 140.33 lakhs has been spent on this project.	Reasoning
Therefore, towards each share the appellant is liable to contribute a sum of Rs 72.50 lakhs which, according to it, is a debt.	None
It is important to note that by virtue of clause 31 of the agreement the appellant was not obliged to proceed with the obligation cast upon it under the terms of the agreement.	None
Clause 31 of the agreement reads as follows Neither party to this agreement shall be considered responsible for any breach of failure of this agreement or any terms hereof arising from the imposition of restriction or onerous regulations by any Government agency or local authority or by acts of civil or military authority or other cause beyond their control.	None
Since the agreement has been cancelled the appellant is not liable to discharge any of its obligations under the agreement.	None
If really, the cancellation is to be challenged there are other ways of doing it.	None
The second respondent , Dalmia Industries Limited has resorted to arbitration proceedings and has claimed this money.	None
Hence, there is a substantial dispute inasmuch as the second respondent claims the said payment of Rs 72.50 lakhs on the ground that they should be reimbursed.	None
The appellant is a financial corporation which is fully owned by the State of Uttar Pradesh.	None
It cannot be denied that it is a profitmaking organisation and is not incurring losses.	None
It is paying dividends on annual profits.	None
Therefore, there is no relationship of debtor and creditor.	None
The defence of the appellant in relation to nonpayment is a bona fide defence.	None
Whatever it may be, the liability of the appellant is yet to be determined.	None
It is in this factual background we will deal with legal aspect of the matter.	None
Section 433 of the Act says A company may be woundup by the Court, (a) to (d) 354 (e) if the company is unable to pay its debts ( f) From the above it follows (1) There must be a debt and (2) the company must be unable to pay the same.	None
An order under clause (e) is discretionary.	None
26.A debt under this sect ion must be a determined or a definite sum of money payable immediately or at a future date.	None
What then is inability when the section says unable to pay its dues?	None
That should be taken in the commercial sense.	None
In that, it is unable to meet current demands.	None
As stated by William James, V.C. it is plainly and commercially insolvent that is to say, that its assets are such, and its existing liabilities are such, as to make it reasonably certain as to make the Court feel satisfied that the existing and probable assets would be insufficient to meet the existing liabilities.	None
(In European Life Assurance Society, Re2 V. V. Krishna Iyer Sons v. New Era Mfg. Co. Ltd. 3) While dealing with the scope of Sectio n 433(e) this Court had occasion to hold the following at page 131 in Madhusudan Gordhandas1 the case relied on by learned Solicitor General) (SCC pp.	None
63839, paras 2022)	None
Two rules are well settled.	None
First, if the debt is bona fide disputed and the defence is a substantial one, the court will not wind up the company.	None
The court has dismissed a petition for windingup where the creditor claimed a sum for goods sold to the company and the company contended that no price had been agreed upon and the sum demanded by the creditor was unreasonable.	None
(See London and Paris Banking Corpn., Re4.	None
Again, a petition for windingup by a creditor who claimed payment of an agreed sum for work done for the company when the company contended that the work had not been done prope rly was not allowed.	None
(See Brighton Club and Horfold Hotel Co. Ltd., Re5.)	None
Where the debt is undisputed the court will not act upon a defence that the company has the ability to pay the debt but the company chooses not to pay that particular debt.	None
(See A Company, Re6.)	None
Where, however, there is no doubt that the company owes the creditor a debt entitling him to a windingup order but the exact amount of the debt is disputed the court will make a windingup order without requiring the creditor to quantify the debt precisely.	None
(See Tweeds Garages Ltd., Re 7.)	None
The principles on which the court acts are first that the defence of the 2 LR (1869)	None
9 Eq 122 3 4 LR (1 874) 19 Eq 444 5 (1865) 35 Beav 204 6 (1894) 94 SJ 369 1894 (2) Ch 349 (Ch D) 7. 1962	None
Ch 406 company is in good faith and one of substance, secondly, the defence is likely to succeed in point of law, and, thirdly, the company adduces prima facie proof of the facts on which the defence depends.	None
Another rule which the court follows is that if there is opposition to the making of the wind DgUp order by the creditors the court will consider their wishes and may decline to make the windingup order.	None
Under Section 557 of the Companies Act, 1956, in all matters relating to the windingup of the company the court may ascertain the wishes of the creditors.	None
The wishes of the shareholders are also considered, though, perhaps, the court may attach greater weight to the views of the creditors.	None
The law on this point is stated in Palmers Company Law, 21st Edn., page 742, as follows This right to a windingup order is, however, qualified by another rule, viz., that the court will regard the wishes of the majority in value of the creditors, and if, for some good reason, they object to a windingup order, the court in its discretion may refuse the order.	None
The wishes of the creditors will however be tested by the court on the grounds as to whether the case of the persons opposing the windingup is reasonable secondly, whether there are matters which should be inquired into and investigated if a windingup order is made.	None
It is also wellsettled that a winding up order will not be made on a creditors petition if it would not benefit him or the companys creditors generally.	None
The grounds furnished by the creditors opposing the windingup will have an important bearing on the reasonableness of the case.	None
(See P. J. Macrae Ltd., Re8)	None
It is beyond dispute that the machinery for win dingup will not be allowed to be utilized merely as a means for realising its debts due from a company.	None
In Amalgamated Commercial Traders (P) Ltd. v. A.C.K. rishnaswami9 this Court quoted with approval the following passage from luckley on the Companies Acts, (1 3thedn., p. 45 1)	None
It is wellsettled that a windingup petition is not a legitimate means of seeking to enforce payment of the debt which is bona fide disputed by the company.	None
A petition presented ostensibly for a windingup order but really to exercise pressure will be dismissed, and under circumstances may be stigmatised as a scandalous abuse of the process of the court.	None
Examined in the light of the above, we are unable to uphold the judgments of the courts below on the facts narrated above.	Reasoning
Our reasons are as under The basis of the claim of the first respondent for Rs 72.50 lakhs is the promoters agreement dated July 1, 1988.	Reasoning
This agreement has been cancelled by the appellant by notice dated October 31, 1992.	Reasoning
Though the learned Single Judge of the High Court referred to this aspect he had not pursued it further.	Reasoning
He has not considered as to what would be the consequence.	None
Unfortunately, the Division Bench has overlooked this aspect when it held thus In the present case, there is an allegation in the petition that there was an agreement between the Company and Dalmia Dairy Industries for promoting the petitioner Company and that under the terms of that agreement the Company had to pay certain amounts.	None
There is nothing on record to suggest that such an agreement was not entered into.	None
The first respondent is not a creditor.	None
The appellant is not a debtor because it is a financial institution for an amount which is agreed to be subscribed.	None
Neither the learned Single Judge nor the Division Bench has decided this important question whether there is a debt and the company ha s either neglected or is unable to pay.	None
The same claim is the subjectmatter of arbitration which is pending adjudication.	None
Therefore, there is no definiteness about it.(4)	None
In view of all these, there is no prima facie dispute as to the debt.	None
The defence raised is a substantial one and not mere moonshine.	None
We find it difficult to appreciate the reasoning of the learned Single Judge when he holds that there are arguable issues and, therefore, the windingup petition has to be admitted.	None
On this aspect the courts below failed to note that the admission of the windingup petition is fraught with serious consequence as far as the appellant is concerned.	None
We are informed that the financial position of the appellant is sound.	None
It is the largest financial corporation of the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
It has rendered financial assistance of Rs 1024.83 crores till March 1992 to more than 100 industrial units and has also promoted joint sector projects.	Reasoning
It is profit making financial corporation and is paying dividend as seen from the balance sheet for the year 199192, (filed along with special leave petition).	Reasoning
The assets of the appellantcorporation are Rs 5, 26, 35, 36, 568.	None
The reserves are Rs 17, 60, 15, 222.	Reasoning
The profits earned by the appellant before payment of tax is Rs 7.40 crores and after meeting its financial liabilities, Rs 2.78 crores.	Reasoning
Thus, we find no justification whatever for admitting the windingup petition.	None
Accordingly the impugned judgment s are hereby set aside.	None
Civil Appeal will stand allowed with costs to be borne equally by Respondents 1 and 2.	Decision
