 Patanjali Sastri, CJ.1.	None
This batch of appeals arises out of a reference made to the High Court at Allahabad by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Allahabad Bench, under S. 26, Excess Profits Tax Act, hereinafter referred to as the Act.	Issue
The assessments challenged in these appeals relate to different chargeable accounting periods but the questions raised are the same in all the cases.2.	None
The appellants constitute a Hindu undivided family consisting of four branches representing the four sons of one Sohan Pathak deceased.	Facts
The family carried on business at Banaras in moneylending and Banaras brocade under the name and style of Sohan Pathak and Sons.	Facts
In the assessment relating to the chargeable accounting period ending on 8101943, the appellants alleged that there was a partial partition among the members of the family on1671943, whereby the Banaras brocade business was divided in equal shares among the four branches and that, on the next day, the adult members of the family formed two partnerships admitting the minors to the benefits thereof, and thereafter carried on business in Banaras brocade under the respective firm names of Sohan Pathak Girdhar Pathak and G. M. Pathak and Co.	Facts
The appellants claimed that the family as such ceased to carry on business in Banaras brocade after 1671943, though they continued to remain joint in status and that the profits derived by the two partnerships aforesaid after 1771943 could not be assessed as profits of the original joint family business, as the businesses carried on by the two partnerships were distinct and newly started businesses and could neither in law nor in fact be regarded as continuation of the old brocade business.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this claim, the appellants strongly relied on the circumstance that the Incometax officer treated the old business as discontinued by the family after the partial partition and granted relief on that footing under S.25(3), Incometax Act in the assessment to incometax of the appellants as a Hindu undivided family.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Excess Profits Tax Officer, however, rejected the claim as he was of opinion that the main purpose of the partial partition and the creation of the two partnerships was to avoid or reduce the liability of the appellants to excess profits tax, and he made adjustments under S.10A of the Act as adding to the profits made by the appellants as a joint Hindu family till the date of the partition the profits made by the two firms during the chargeable accounting periods.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Appellate Tribunal confirmed the finding and order of the Excess Profits Tax Officer, but, at the instance of the appellants, the Tribunal referred the following questions to the High Court for its decision1.	None
Whether in view of the fact that the partial partition had been accepted by the Incometax Officer and the business was treated as having been discontinued for the purpose of assessment under the Incometax Act, the same business could legally be treated as having continued unbroken in respect of the same chargeable accounting period for the purpose of S. 10A of the Excess Profits Tax Act read with Ss. 4 and 5 of the same Act?2.	None
Whether in the circumstances of the case the effect of the partial partition of the Hindu undivided family on 1671943, and the formation of two different firms was a transaction within the meaning of S. 10A of the Excess Profits Tax Act?3.	Facts
Whether on the facts found by the Tribunal as stated in para.	None
7 of the statement of the case, it was justified to draw the inference that the main purpose behind the partial partition was the avoidance or reduction of liability to Excess Profits Tax?The Court answered these questions against the appellants but granted leave to appeal to this Court.3.	Facts
At a previous hearing of these appeals this Court was of opinion that the material facts relating to the partial partition and the formation of the partnership and the findings of the Tribunal in regard thereto had not been clearly stated by the Tribunal in the original statement of the case.	Facts
The Court saidWhile it is true that in one place in the statement of case the Tribunal speaks of the old family brocade business as continuing without a break after the partial partition, reference is made in another place to the assets of that business having been equally divided among the four branches forming the family.	Facts
There is thus no clear finding as to how the partition of the brocade business was actually effected whether by a division in shares, each branch holding its share in severalty and the business being carried on as before on a partnership basis, or whether by an actual distribution and allotment of specific assets and liabilities among the branches resulting in the disruption of that business.	Facts
The Court accordingly by its order of 12111953 called for a further and clearer statement of the facts on the points indicated.4.	Facts
The Tribunal has since submitted a supplementary statement of the case fully setting out the details of the partition arrangement and the constitution of the two firms by the members of the family after the partition.	Facts
The statement reveals that the bulk of the capital as well as all the stockintrade, the cash in hand, the cash in banks, all outstandings as on that date as also the sundry liabilities up to that day were divided amongst each of the 14 coparceners each branch being allotted a fouranna share as stated in the schedule filed by the assessees and annexed to the statement, showing that the partition was by specific distribution of the assets and liabilities and not by a division of shares merely.	Facts
With the assets and liabilities thus distributed, the two partnerships separately carried on brocade business similar to the one carried on by the joint family before the partial partition.	Facts
The names of the partners of the two firms are mentioned and it appears that each firm consisted of members representing all the four branches, some of them being adults and some minors, the minors in each case being only admitted to the benefits of the partnerships.5.	Facts
On these facts it was contended by Mr. Pathak on behalf of the appellants that the finding of the Excess Profits Tax Officer that the main purpose of the partial partition and the formation of the new partnerships was to avoid or reduce the liability of the appellants to excess profits tax was not supported by any material, on record.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, assuming that there was material on which the Officer could have come to such a finding, the old family business in Banaras brocade having been actually closed down, the Officer had no power in assessing the profits of that business to make adjustments under S. 10A of the Act by adding the profits made by the two firms after 1771943.	Arguments of Petitioner
And lastly, and alternatively, there was undoubtedly a change in the persons carrying on the old business after 1671943 even if it were regarded as still continuing, the Hindu undivided family being a person (S. 2(17) ) distinct from the individuals composing it, and such business must, under S. 8(1), be deemed for all the purposes of the Act (except for one, not material here) to have been discontinued and a new business to have been commenced, and the same consequences followed.	None
Mr. Pathak did not argue that the partial partition and the constitution of the two partnerships were not transactions within the meaning of S. 10A. Nor did he insist that the acceptance of the partition and allowance of relief by the Incometax Officer under S.25(4), Incometax Act, concluded the matter for purposes of S.10A of the Act, as appears to have been contended in the earlier stages of these proceedings.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first contention can be disposed of in a few words.	None
It appears from the facts found by the tax authorities as well as by the Appellate Tribunal that the partial partition and the formation of the partnerships were brought about at a time when the profits of the Banaras brocade business showed a definitely upward trend.	None
If the main purpose of these transactions was not to evade liability to excess profits tax, the appellants were asked to explain what the purpose was, and they said that they wanted to project the interests of the minor members whose shares in the partnership assets would not be liable for the losses, if any, of the firms while the entire family properties would be liable for any loss incurred in the family business.	None
The explanation was not acceptable because such protection was not thought of when the family business was earning smaller profits and also because, according to the constitution of the partnerships, while each branch was given the same 4 a. interest, the responsibility for losses falling on the branch which had no minor members would be heavier than what would be borne by the branch which had no adult members, a disparity which the purpose put forward by the appellants failed to explain.	None
In these circumstances we agree with the High court in holding that there was sufficient material to support the inference drawn by the Appellate Tribunal that the main purpose behind the partial partition and the formation of the partnerships was the avoidance or reduction of liability of the family business to excess profits tax.7.	None
The real and substantial question in the appeals is whether in view of the finding of fact that the old family business was wound up, its assets and liabilities having been actually distributed among the coparceners, and was no longer carried on by the joint family as such during the relevant chargeable accounting periods, S. 10A has any application to the case.	None
Question No. 1, which is supposed to have raised this point, was not happily framed.	None
As already stated, Mr. Pathak did not argue that the Incometax Officers finding as to the discontinuance of the old family business precluded the Excess Profits Tax Officer from considering the issue.	None
It is now well settled that, for the purposes of the Act, a business is a unit of assessment, and the charging S. 4 provides for the tax being levied in respect of the profits of any business to which this Act applies.	None
Section 5 specifies the businesses to which the Act applies, and they are businesses of which any part of the profits made during the chargeable accounting period is chargeable to incometax by virtue of certain specified provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	None
There are some provisos to this Section, one of which excludes the application of the Act to any business the whole of the Profits of which accrue or arise in a Part B State.	None
It is thus manifest that the Act can have no application to a business which did not make any profits during the relevant chargeable accounting period.	None
In other words, if a business, having been discontinued, earned no profit during the chargeable accounting period in question, no excess profits tax can be charged in respect of such business, and that being the position here as respects the old joint family business in Banaras brocade, the appellants are not liable to be taxed as a Hindu undivided family in respect of that business.8.	None
But, argues the learned AttorneyGeneral, that that result cannot follow by reason of S.10A of the Act which runs as follows10 A. Transactions designed to avoid or reduce liability to excess profits tax.(1) Where the Excess Profits Tax officer is of the opinion that the main purpose for which any transaction or transactions was or were effected (whether before or after the passing of the Excess Profits Tax(Second Amendment) Act, 1941) was the avoidance or reduction of liability to excess profits tax, he may, with the previous approval of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, make such adjustments as respects liability to excess profits tax as he considers appropriate so as to counteract the avoidance or reduction of liability to excess profits tax which would otherwise be effected by the transaction or transactions.	Arguments of Respondent
This provision, it is claimed, empowers the Excess Profits Tax Officer to ignore any transaction (s) the main purpose of which was the avoidance or reduction of liability to excess profits tax and to proceed on the footing that such transaction(s) had not been effected, and, in the present case, the partial partition as well as the subsequent formation of the partnerships having been found to be transactions the main purpose of which was the avoidance or reduction of liability to excess profits tax, the Officer had authority to assess the appellants old family business in Banaras brocade on the basis of its continued existence during the relevant chargeable accounting periods We are unable to accept this contention.9.	Reasoning
If, under S. 4 of the Act read with S. 5, the old joint family business cannot be regarded as one to which this Act applies, S. 10A, one of the provisions of the Act can have no application to such business.	Reasoning
The learned AttorneyGenerals argument that Ss. 4 and 5 must be read along with S. 10A in determining whether the Act applies to any particular business or not involves the fallacy that, in determining the initial issue whether the Act does or does not apply to a given business, you have to look not merely at the provision which defines the scope and application of the Act but other provisions also which presuppose its application.	Reasoning
We are of opinion that the issue whether the Act applies or not to a particular business must be determined solely with reference to S. 5, and S. 10A must be construed as applicable only to cases where, the business being found to be one to which the Act applies, a transaction of the kind referred to in the Section has been effected.	Reasoning
The learned AttorneyGeneral conceded that, if a person who had been paying excess profits tax transferred the business to a Part B State, it would not be competent for the Excess Profits Tax Officer to take action under S. 19A to make adjustments on the footing that the assessee continued to carry on his business in the same place as before such transfer, even if it was found that the transfer was effected for the main purpose of avoiding or reducing his liability to excess profits tax.	Reasoning
In that case, the AttorneyGeneral admitted, the Officer would be running counter to the express prohibition contained in the proviso to S. 5 to which reference has been made and he did not challenge the correctness of a decision to that effect by the Bombay High Court.	Reasoning
(Commissioner of Excess Profits Tax, Bombay City v. Moholal Manganlal, AIR 1953	Reasoning
Bom 230 (A) )	Reasoning
.But we fail to appreciate the distinction in principle between that case and the present, for, to both alike the Act is made inapplicable by S. 5.The reasoning of the learned Judges in the Bombay case, namely, that if the Act is inapplicable to a particular business and there would thus be no liability to excess profits tax in respect of that business, no question could arise of avoiding or reducing any ability to excess profits tax under S. 10A, would equally apply to the present case and must lead to the same result.10.	Reasoning
Reference was made by the AttorneyGeneral in the course of his argument to the proviso to S. 2(5) which says that all businesses to which this Act applies carried on by the same person shall be treated as one business for the purposes of this Act.	Reasoning
We find it difficult to appreciate the bearing of this Section on the point at issue.	Reasoning
It is clear that the proviso can operate in respect of businesses to which the Act applies and not otherwise, and it carries the matter no further.11.	Reasoning
In the view we have expressed above, it is unnecessary to deal with the alternative contention based on S. 8 (1) of the Act.12.	Reasoning
We allow the appeals, set aside the answer made by the High Court to Question No. 1 and answer it as follows In view of the finding of fact that the old joint family business in Banaras brocade was wound up and was no longer carried on by the joint family as such during the relevant chargeable accounting periods, the same business could not legally be treated as having continued unbroken in respect of such periods for the purpose of S. l0A of the Excess Profits Tax Act read with Ss. 4 and 5 of the same Act.	Decision
The judgment of the High Court will stand in other respects.	Decision
The appellants will have their costs of the appeals.	Decision
Advocates fee one set.13.	Decision
Appeals allowed.	None
