 Ramaswamy, J. Leave granted.	None
We have heard learned counsel on both sides.	None
Intervention is permitted.	None
These appeals by special leave arise from the order of the High Court of Rajasthan, made on October, 24, 1996 in Revision Petition No. 715/96.	Issue
One matter relates to the two individuals, i.e., appellants in appeal arising out of SLP(C)	Facts
No. 22164, namely, Dr. Rajeshwar Kumar Malhotra and S. Srinivasan.	Issue
This Court on November 26, 1996 directed as under We do not find any substance in the appeal as regards the injunction against the individual petitioner is concerned.	Facts
But as regards the injunction against the Company Shri Salve, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents seeks for and is granted one weeks time as to how the injunction requires to be modulated.	Facts
Accordingly, the matter was adjourned.	Facts
Today, Shri Soli J. Sorabjee, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants in appeal arising out of SLP(C)	Arguments of Petitioner
No. 22769, namely, appeal filed by the company has stated that in the rejoinder affidavit, the appellant has stated that the aforestated two persons resigned from the respective posts held by them in the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a result, they are no longer continuing in the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also pointed out that shares held by the different groups, as stated at page 148 of the additional paperbook filed in this case, are different and varied.	Arguments of Petitioner
So, no injunction can be granted against the company much less due to the change in the circumstances.	Arguments of Petitioner
We find force in the contention.	None
Though the learned counsel appearing for the respondents, Sri Harish Salve, seeks to contend that the bank had granted loan to the appellants with a condition that the aforestated two persons would be required to continue to work in the company.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is only a makebelieve show to see that no injunction is granted against the company and the one granted by the High Court is vacated.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not find any justification for the contention as on today.	Reasoning
If the two persons really still work for the company in any form and in any manner, it is open to the respondents to approach the trial Court for appropriate relief.	Reasoning
As facts stand today, injunction granted by the High Court against the company is not warranted.	Reasoning
The appeal are accordingly allowed with the above liberty.	Decision
The injunction order granted against the company stands dissolved.	Decision
No costs.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
