 P. JEEVAN REDDY, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal is directed against the judgment of a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court disposing of the writ petition filed by the respondent with certain directions.	None
The arguments before us ranged far and wide and several questions have been raised though none of them are reflected in the judgment under appeal.	None
It is averred that all these contentions were indeed urged before the High Court.	None
Be that as it may, having regard to the importance of the questions raised herein, which is said to be arising in that Court frequently, it has become necessary to refer to the contentions urged.	None
The respondent  Bridge Roof Company (India) Limited  is a public sector corporation.	Facts
It entered into a works contract with the Government of Uttar Pradesh for rehabilitation and improvement of a certain stretch of road in Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
The tender notice was issued on 191990.	Facts
The date of opening the tenders was specified as 17121990.	Facts
The tenders were opened and the respondents tender was accepted on 151991.	Facts
The work has since been completed.	Facts
The dispute is only about certain payments which the respondent claims are due to it whereas the appellant  Government of Uttar Pradesh  says that it is entitled to retain.	Facts
According to the terms of the contract, the rates quoted by the contractor were deemed to be inclusive of the sales tax, if any, on the constructional plant, material and supplies required for the purposes of the contract.	Facts
The relevant clause subclause (4a) of clause 78 of the contract, quoted at pp.	None
25 and 26 of the PaperBook stated inter alia that.	None
78. (4a)	None
Nothing in the contract shall relieve the contractor from the responsibility to pay any trade tax that may be levied under the U.P. Trade Tax Act, 1948 as amended from time to time in performance of this contract during pursuance of the contract the engineerincharge or any other person responsible for making payment to the contractor shall, at the time of making the payment to the contractor either in cash or in any other manner, deduct an amount equal to the amount specified in Section 8D of the aforesaid Act as in force, for the time being towards part, or as the case may be, full satisfaction of the tax payable under the said Act on account of the contract the amount presently specified in the said Section is 4 per cent (four per cent) of the amount payable to the contractor.	None
Another clause subclause (2) of clause 78 quoted at p. 24 of the PaperBook stated that.	None
78.	None
(2) The tendered amount by the contractor shall include, all excise duties, customs duties, import duties, sales tax and other taxes that may be levied according to the laws and regulations for the time being in force as on the date 30 days prior to the closing date for submission of bids in the employers country on the constructional plants, materials and supplies (both permanent, temporary and consumable) acquired for the purpose of the contract.	None
Nothing in the contract shall relieve the contractor from his responsibilities to pay any tax that may be levied in the employers country on profits made by him in respect of the contract.	None
Clause 70 of the contract provided for price adjustment.	None
It would be sufficient if we notice subclause (4) of the said clause (quoted at p. 47 of the PaperBook).	None
It reads 70.	None
(4) If, after the date thirty days prior to the date of opening of tenders for the works, there in India, changes to any National or State statute, ordinance, decree or other law or any regulation or byelaw of any local or other duly constituted authority, or the introduction of any such State statute, ordinance, decree, law, regulation or byelaw which causes additional or reduced cost of the contract, other than under subclauses (1a), (2) and (3) of this clause, in the executing of the works, such additional or reduced cost shall be certified by the Engineer after examining the records provided by the claimant and shall be paid by or credited to the employer and the contract price adjusted accordingly.	None
Notwithstanding the foreign input, such additional or reduced cost shall not be separately paid or credited if the same shall already have been taken into an account in the indexing of any input to the price adjustment formula in accordance with subclauses (1), (2) and (3) of this clause.	None
Section 3 of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, 1948 (the Act) creates the liability to tax at the specified rates on the turnover of sales or purchases, or both, of every dealer.	None
Section 3F introduced by U.P. Act 25 of 1985 pursuant to the Constitution 46th Amendment Act provides for rate of tax on the goods used or involved in the execution of a works contract.	None
It reads.	None
3F. Rate of tax on the right to use any goods or goods involved in the execution of a works contract.  	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 3A, or Section 3AAA, or Section 3D, Words or Section 3G , omitted by U.P.	None
At 28 of 1991, Section 6 (w.e.f. 1921991) and deemed to have been omitted (w.e.f. 1391985).	None
turnover relating to the business of transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose or of transfer of the property in the goods whether as goods or in some other form Ins.	None
by U.P. Act 8 of 1992, Section 4 (w.e.f. 1731992) and shall deemed always to have been inserted.	None
involved in the execution of a works contract shall be determined in the manner prescribed and shall be liable to tax at such rate, not exceeding fifteen per cent, as the State Government may, by notification, declare, and different rates may be declared for different goods or different classes of dealers.	None
Section 7D provides for composition of tax liability.	None
Subject to the directions issued by the State Government, the Commissioner of Sales Tax is empowered to agree to accept a lump sum in lieu of the amount of tax payable by the dealer under the Act.	None
It reads.	None
7D.	None
Composition of tax liability.  	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in other provisions of this Act, but subject to such directions as the State Government may from time to time issue in that behalf, the Commissioner of Sales Tax may agree to accept a lump sum in lieu of the amount of tax that may be payable by a dealer in respect of such goods or class of goods and for such period as may be agreed uponProvided that any change in the rate of tax which may come into force after the date of such agreement shall have the effect of making a proportionate change in the lump sum agreed upon in relation to that part of the period of agreement during which the changed rate remains in force.	None
Section 8D provides for deduction of tax from the amount payable to works contractors.	None
Subsection (1) provides that every person responsible for making payment to any dealer contractor shall deduct, at the time of making payment to the contractor, a sum equal to 4 per cent of the sum mentioned therein.	None
The proviso to subsection (1) inserted by U.P. Amendment Act 28 of 1991, with effect from 1921991, empowers the Commissioner to direct that the deduction provided by subsection (1) shall be made at such lesser rate as may be specified in the order made by him or that no such deduction shall be made.	None
Section 8D further provides that the amount so deducted shall be remitted to the Government and shall be treated as tax paid by the contractor dealer.	None
Any failure to deduct the amount as provided by subsection (1) makes the person (responsible for deducting) liable to pay the said amount.	None
He is also liable to pay such penalties as may be imposed for his failure to deduct and or remit.	None
It would be appropriate to read subsection (1) of Section 8D along with its proviso.	None
8D. Tax deduction from the amount payable to works contractor.  	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2) of Section 8A, every person responsible for making payment to any dealer (hereinafter in this section referred to as the contractor) for discharge of any liability on account of valuable consideration payable for the transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in any other form) in pursuance of a works contract, not being a building contract of such class or value as may be notified by the State Government in public interest in this behalf, shall, at the time of making such payment to the contractor, either in cash or in any other manner, deduct an amount equal to four per centum of such sum towards part or, as the case may be, full satisfaction of the tax payable under this Act on account of such works contractProvided that the Commissioner of Sales Tax may, if satisfied that it is expedient in the public interest so to do and for reasons to be recorded in writing, order that in any case or class of cases no such deduction a shall be made or, as the case may be, such deduction shall be made at a lesser rate.	None
It is stated before us that pursuant to Section 7D of the Act the Government devised a composition scheme on 541991.	Facts
It was amended later on 20111991.	Facts
The respondent appears to have applied to the Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. for composition of his tax liability under the said contract and for reducing the rate of deduction of tax at source.	Facts
This application was made in terms of Section 7D and the proviso to Section 8D(1).	Facts
Upon this application, it is averred, an order of composition was passed.	Facts
What is relevant is that the Deputy Commissioner (in exercise of the powers delegated to him by the Commissioner) ordered (vide his order dated 2751992) that at the time of payment of balance amount from the above contract price, the sales tax should be deducted at the rate of one per cent.	Facts
A copy of this order was also communicated to the Superintending Engineer concerned of the PWD.	Facts
It is an admitted case of both the parties that the composition scheme devised by the Government on 541991 (as amended on 20111991) is valid and effective only till and inclusive of 3131995 but not thereafter.	Facts
In September 1995, the respondent filed CMWP No. 24837 of 1995 in the Allahabad High Court with the following prayer.	None
(a) to issue a writ in the nature of mandamus commanding Respondent 2 (Superintending Engineer) restraining them from deducting a sum of Rs. 82, 24, 969 from Bill No. 44RA bill dated 2051995/3171995 (Annexure 4) of the petitionerCompany.	Facts
After setting out the relevant facts, the respondent contended in the said writ petition that the proposed deduction of the sum of Rs. 82, 24, 969 from the petitioners bills, purporting to act under clause 70(4) of the contract is misconceived and untenable because the rate of sales tax has not been reduced in the present case as contemplated by clause 70(4), but that only the rate of deduction at source has been reduced.	Facts
The respondents case was that the change in the rate of deduction at source or the composition of the respondents liability to pay tax under Section 7D is of no concern to the Government.	Facts
The Government must deduct only one per cent up to 3131995 as directed in the order dated 2751992 and leave the rest to the respondent and the Sales Tax authorities.	Facts
The respondents in the writ petition (appellants herein) filed a counter disputing the several contentions raised in the writ petition and justifying the retention of the sum of Rs. 82, 24, 969.	Facts
According to the appellants, the said amount need not be paid to the Sales Tax Department also.	Facts
By virtue of the composition agreement between the respondent and the Sales Tax Department under Section 7D, read with the order of the Deputy Commissioner under the proviso to Section 8D(1), the tax liability of the respondent has been reduced with respect to the works contract between them, within the meaning of clause 70(4) of the contract and, therefore, they submitted, the benefit of the said reduction should go to the Government, as provided by the contract.	Facts
The High Court did not deal with the several contentions aforesaid.	Facts
It disposed of the writ petition observing that inasmuch as the Commissioner in his order has accepted the prayer for composition as requested by the petitioner and has directed the deduction of one in lieu of four per cent, (and) only that amount is to be deducted from the amount required to be paid to the petitioner under the bill in question and the same will cover the period up to 3131995 and not thereafter and the payment under the bill shall be made accordingly.	Facts
The High Court then observed that inasmuch as the order of the Commissioner under the proviso to Section 8D(1) has not been challenged by the Government, the writ petition is liable to be disposed of with the direction aforesaid, viz., that the Government shall deduct only one per cent of the bill in question up to 3131995.	Facts
Mr Rakesh Dwivedi, the learned Additional Advocate General for the State of U.P., urged the following contentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the terms of the contract the tendered amount quoted by the respondent included sales tax at 4 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Government was under a statutory obligation to deduct this 4 per cent and remit the same to the Sales Tax Department.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contractor was entitled only to the remaining 96 per cent of the contract amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the rate of tax payable by the respondentcontractor has been reduced to one per cent from 4 per cent under an order of composition passed under Section 7D, it is a situation attracting subclause (4) of clause 70 of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to it, the benefit of any reduction in the rate of sales tax shall operate to the benefit of the Government just as any enhancement in the rate of sales tax would be a liability upon the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Government was, therefore, justified in retaining the said amount of Rs. 82, 24, 969 (2) The direction of the High Court to deduct only one per cent is a case of stating the obvious.	Arguments of Petitioner
But that order is being construed by the respondent as an order allowing the writ petition as prayed for.	Arguments of Petitioner
If so understood, the order of the High Court results in unjust enrichment of the respondent at the cost of the public exchequer besides being contrary to the provisions of the statute and terms of the contract between the parties Shri A.K. Ganguli and Mr Sudhir Chandra, the learned advocates of the respondent, on the other hand, submitted that the Government is not concerned with the sales tax liability of the respondent.	None
That is a matter between the respondent and the Sales Tax Department.	Arguments of Respondent
The obligation of the Government under the contract was only to deduct 4 per cent from the amount payable to the respondent under the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
But since the said obligation to deduct has been reduced from 4 per cent to one per cent by an order made under the proviso to Section 8D(1), the Government should deduct only at the rate of one per cent and pay over the rest balance of the contract amount to the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government is not concerned with the order of composition made under Section 7D(1).	Arguments of Respondent
What all has happened under the composition order is that instead of ascertaining the value of the goods transferred in the execution of the works contract and levying tax thereon at 4 per cent, the department has agreed to levy one per cent on the entire value of the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel say that this has been done in the interest of simplification of assessment procedure and as a measure of government policy.	Arguments of Respondent
This does not result in reduction in the rate of tax it is only a convenient and simplified formula for quantifying the tax.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, they submit, there is no question of the Government getting the benefit of any reduction in the rate of tax.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the very remedy adopted by the respondent is misconceived.	Reasoning
It is not entitled to any relief in these proceedings, i.e., in the writ petition filed by it.	Reasoning
The High Court appears to be right in not pronouncing upon any of the several contentions raised in the writ petition by both the parties and in merely reiterating the effect of the order of the Deputy Commissioner made under the proviso to Section 8D(1).	Reasoning
Firstly, the contract between the parties is a contract in the realm of private law.	Reasoning
It is not a statutory contract.	Reasoning
It is governed by the provisions of the Contract Act or, maybe, also by certain provisions of the Sale of Goods Act.	Reasoning
Any dispute relating to interpretation of the terms and conditions of such a contract cannot be agitated, and could not have been agitated, in a writ petition.	Reasoning
That is a matter either for arbitration as provided by the contract or for the civil court, as the case may be.	None
Whether any amount is due to the respondent from the appellantGovernment under the contract and, if so, how much and the further question whether retention or refusal to pay any amount by the Government is justified, or not, are all matters which cannot be agitated in or adjudicated upon in a writ petition.	None
The prayer in the writ petition, viz., to restrain the Government from deducting a particular amount from the writ petitioners bill(s) was not a prayer which could be granted by the High Court under Article 226.	None
Indeed, the High Court has not granted the said prayer.	Reasoning
Secondly, whether there has been a reduction in the statutory liability on account of a change in law within the meaning of subclause (4) of clause 70 of the contract is again not a matter to be agitated in the writ petition.	None
That is again a matter relating to interpretation of a term of the contract and should be agitated before the arbitrator or the civil court, as the case may be.	None
If any amount is wrongly withheld by the Government, the remedy of the respondent is to raise a dispute as provided by the contract or to approach the civil court, as the case may be, according to law.	Reasoning
Similarly if the Government says that any overpayment has been made to the respondent, its remedy also is the same.	Reasoning
Accordingly, it must be held that the writ petition filed by the respondent for the issuance of a writ of mandamus restraining the Government from deducting or withholding a particular sum, which according to the respondent is payable to it under the contract, was wholly misconceived and was not maintainable in law.	Reasoning
(See the decision of this Court in Asstt.	None
Excise Commr.	None
v. Issac Peter where the law on the subject has been discussed fully.)	None
The writ petition ought to have been dismissed on this ground alone.	None
We must mention in this behalf that the order of composition of tax liability, if any, under Section 7D of the Act has not been placed before us.	None
(We presume that it is an order separate from the order dated 2751992.	None
But, even if it is not, it makes no difference to what we were saying hereafter.)	None
Whether such composition agreement results in reduction of tax liability within the meaning of clause 70(4) of the contract is again a matter concerning the interpretation of a term of the contract.	None
Accordingly, the question to whom the benefit of reduction in tax should go is not a matter for a writ petition, for the very same reasons as are mentioned hereinbefore.	None
Now coming to the order made by the Deputy Commissioner under the proviso to Section 8D(1) of the Act, all that it says is that the Government shall deduct tax at source only at the rate of one per cent instead of at the rate of 4 per cent.	Reasoning
The said order, having been made under the statute, relieves the Government of its obligation to deduct at source at the rate of 4 per cent.	Reasoning
In other words, by virtue of the said order, no action can be taken against the Government (appellants) for not deducting at the rate of 4 per cent under Section 8D.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the respondent contend that the order under the proviso to Section 8D(1) does not determine the tax liability of the respondent, which liability, they say, will be determined only in the assessment proceedings.	Reasoning
Maybe they are right or maybe, not.	Reasoning
We need not express any opinion on these submissions because, as already pointed out hereinabove, the said question depends upon the interpretation of the terms of the contract between the parties.	Reasoning
Just because the interpretation of orders made under Section 7D or Section 8D(1) may also fall for consideration while construing the terms of the contract does not convert the controversy into a public law issue.	Reasoning
It is yet a matter within the realm of private law and, therefore, outside the purview of the writ petition.	Reasoning
The arbitrator under the contract or the civil court, as the case may be, can go into and decide both questions of fact as well as questions of law.	Reasoning
There is yet another substantial reason for not entertaining the writ petition.	Reasoning
The contract in question contains a clause providing inter alia for settlement of disputes by reference to arbitration (clause 67 of the contract).	Reasoning
The arbitrators can decide both questions of fact as well as questions of law.	Reasoning
When the contract itself provides for a mode of settlement of disputes arising from the contract, there is no reason why the parties should not follow and adopt that remedy and invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226.	Reasoning
The existence of an effective alternative remedy  in this case, provided in the contract itself  is a good ground for the court to decline to exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226.	Reasoning
The said article was not meant to supplant the existing remedies at law but only to supplement them in certain wellrecognised situations.	Reasoning
As pointed out above, the prayer for issuance of a writ of mandamus was wholly misconceived in this case since the respondent was not seeking to enforce any statutory right of theirs nor was it seeking to enforce any statutory a obligation cast upon the appellants.	Reasoning
Indeed, the very resort to Article 226  whether for issuance of mandamus or any other writ, order or direction  was misconceived for the reasons mentioned supra.	Reasoning
So far as the High Courts direction to deduct at the rate of one per cent is consumed, it may be a case of stating the obvious, as contended by the appellants.	Reasoning
But it must also be realised that more than that could not have been legitimately granted in a writ petition.	Reasoning
It must also be noticed that the declaration granted is effective only for a limited period, i.e., 3131995.	Reasoning
It does not apply to payments made on or after 141995.	Reasoning
What does it mean in the facts and circumstances of the case, we do not know.	Reasoning
Whatever it means, it cannot certainly be construed as a direction to the appellants to pay over the said sum of Rs. 82, 24, 969 to the respondent as claimed by it or as upholding the basis of the respondents claim put forward in the writ petition.	Reasoning
Before parting with this appeal, we must mention that counsel for both the parties have urged several other contentions of fact and law and relied upon several other clauses of the contract apart from those mentioned supra.	Reasoning
We have not set them out herein because, in our opinion, they are outside the ken of a writ petition.	Reasoning
It shall be open to the parties to urge and rely upon them at the proper stage and before the appropriate forum.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned hereinabove the appeal is dismissed subject to the observations and clarifications aforementioned.	Decision
It shall be open to the respondent, if it so chooses, to either raise a dispute and ask for reference of the dispute to arbitration as provided by the contract or to approach the civil court according to law, as the case may be.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
