 G. Balakrishnan, J. Criminal Appeal Nos.98102 of 1999 and Criminal Appeal Nos. 109114 of 1999 are filed by the State of Madhya Pradesh through CBI and the Criminal Appeal Nos. 103108 of 1999 are filed by the Chattisgarh Mukti Morcha.	None
All these appeals arise out of the common judgment passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh on 26.6.1998.	None
Nine accused persons were tried by the Second Addl.	None
Sessions Judge, Durg, M.P. Accused Nos. 1 to 8 were charged for the offence under Section 302 read with Section 120B IPC.	None
The 9th accused was charged under Section 302 read with Section 120B, and in the alternative, Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and Section 25(1)(A) and Section 27 of the Arms Act.	None
The Sessions Judge acquitted A6 Naveen Shah, A7 Chandrabaksh Singh and A8 Baldev Singh Sandhu.	None
A1 Chandrakant Shah, A2 Gyan Prakash Mishra, A3 Avdesh Rai, A4 Abhay Kumar Singh, A5 Moolchand Shah and A9 Paltan Mallah Ravi were convicted by the Sessions Judge for the offence under Section 302 read with Section 120B. A9 Paltan Mallah was found guilty of the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC and sentenced to capital punishment whereas other accused were sentenced to life imprisonment.	None
The High Court by the impugned Judgment acquitted all the accused of the charges framed against them.	None
Deceased Shankar Guha Yogi was a popular, powerful trade union leader in the industrial region of Bhillai, Durg, which was part of the then State of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
Deceased Shankar Guha Niyogi had been working for the welfare of the labour demanding living wages, bonus, reinstatement of retrenched workers and he organised the workers of the various industrial units at Bhillai and Durg.	Facts
The labourers had an organisation by name CHATTISGARH MUKTI MORCHA (hereinafter being referred to as CMM) and deceased Niyogi became a leader of this organisation.	Facts
He was leading the labourers working at Rajaram Mines area which was a main source of raw material iron ore for the Bhillai Steel Plant at Durg.	Facts
In the year 1989, there was an agitation by the workers of industrial unit by name ACC, which is a leading cement manufacturer.	Facts
A settlement was reached at the instance of deceased Niyogi.	Facts
The workers in other industrial establishments sought the help of deceased Niyogi to solve their problems.	Facts
In the year 1990, he came to Bhillai and started occupying quarter no.	Facts
MIG 1/55of HUDCO.	Facts
He stayed there with his servant Bahal Ram.	Facts
The other members of his family continued to stay near Rajhara.	Facts
Deceased Niyogi set up an offence for CMM at MIG2/273 HUDCO.	Facts
In the year 1990, there was widespread labour movement against the management of various industrial units such as Simplex, Kedia, B.E.C., B.K. etc.	Facts
According to the prosecution, the management of these industrial units started opposing the labour movement and there was even physical attack on some of the leaders of CMM.	Facts
One Uma Shankar Rai, a leader of CMM was fatally assaulted by the agents of the industrialists.	Facts
Deceased Niyogi apprehended serious threat to his life from the industrialists, especially from Simplex and Kedia Group of Industries.	Facts
He made notes in his diary regarding the apprehension of danger from the management of these industrial units.	Facts
On 27.9.1991, he had gone to Raipur and there he met one Rajendra Sail, Secretary General of PUCL and	Facts
reporter N.K. Singh of India Today.	Facts
He expressed an apprehension of danger to his life from Kedia and also from A5 Moolchand Shah and A1 Chandrakant Shah of Simplex Group.	Facts
On 27.9.1991 at about midnight, he left Raipur for Bhillai and reached his quarter no.	Facts
MIG1/55 of HUDCO and went to bed.	Facts
His servant Bahal Ram was occupying the neighbouring room.	Facts
In the night, Bahal Ram heard and noise like bursting of crackers and he rushed to the room of Niyogi and found Niyogi writing in pain on is bed.	Facts
The window was found open.	Facts
Bahal Ram called for help of the neighbour Sripad Mategaonkar.	Facts
Few workers from the CMM came to the place and it was found that Niyogi had been shot.	Facts
He was immediately taken to to the Sector 9 Hospital of Bhillai.	Facts
Before reaching the hospital, Niyogi succumbed to the gun shot injuries.	Facts
Postmortem examination was conducted by a team of doctors and they opined that death was due to bullet injuries.	Facts
Preliminary investigation was carried out by PW182 Deputy Superintendent of Police Shri M.G. Agarwal.	Facts
There was agitation by the workers that investigation shall be conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Government of Madhya Pradesh requested the Union of India seeking help of the Central Bureau of Investigation.	Facts
As part of police investigation, PW182 visited the scene of occurrence and got prepared map of the site and he took steps to see that viscera of the victim was sent for laboratory tests.	Facts
He took into custody the pellets recovered from the body of Niyogi.	Facts
He took statements from Bahal Ram, the servant and also from the widow and daughter of deceased.	Facts
He got prepared photograph Exh.	Facts
P180 to P196.	Facts
He got report from Serum Science and Chemical Analysis which are marked as Exh. P430 to P432.	Facts
He recorded statements of various other witnesses.	Facts
Accused A3 Avdhesh Rai was taken into custody on 13.10.1991.	Facts
On 1.11.1991, he seized diary of deceased Niyogi and on 9.11.1991 he handed over the investigation to CBI officials.	Facts
PW187 R.S. Dhankad took over the investigation along with PW 192 R.S. Prasad.	Facts
PW187 held search of Oswal Industry.	Facts
He recorded the statements of Zakkiruddin on 21.11.1991.	Facts
This witness identified the photographs of A2 Gyan Prakash Mishra and A3 Abhay Kumar Singh.	Facts
PW192 conducted further investigation of the case along with other officers.	Facts
On 10.11.1991, he seized the window curtains from the house of Niyogi.	Facts
On 15.11.1991, he conducted searches of the business premises of Jain and Shah and Company, 108 A. Khan Goga Complex and recovered articles under Exh. P297.	Facts
After the arrest of accused Paltan Mallah on 25.8.1993, he got recovered 12 bore country made weapon, 13 live cartridges of 12 bore, a foreign made revolver, 6 live cartridges of .38 bore and a red colour Suzuki motorcycle.	Facts
He sent Exh. P403 and 404 to Central Forensic Laboratory (CBI), New Delhi.	Facts
He conducted various other searches and recovered incriminating articles from the other accused.	Facts
After investigation, final report was filed.	Facts
On the side of prosecution PW1 to PW192 were examined by the trial court.	None
The High Court by the impugned judgment acquitted all the accused and that is challenged before us.	Issue
He elaborately heard the counsel for the State, counsel for the Chhattisgarh Mukti Morcha and also various other counsel who appeared for the accused persons.	None
The accused A1, A3, A4, A5 and A7 were found guilty by the Sessions Court on the basis of the circumstantial evidence adduced by the prosecution.	None
The Division Bench held that these circumstances were not sufficient to prove the guilt of the accused.	None
This being an appeal against acquittal, this Court would be slow in interfering with the findings of the High Court, unless there is perverse appreciation of the evidence which resulted in serious miscarriage of justice and if the High Court has taken a plausible view this Court would not be justified in interfering with the acquittal passed in favour of the accused and if two views are possible and the High Court had chosen one view which is just and reasonable, then also this Court would be reluctant to interfere with the judgment of the High Court.	None
With these principles in mind, we have carefully considered the evidence of the prosecution.	None
The Sessions Judge relied on various items of evidence to prove that there was a deeprooted conspiracy among the accused to murder the deceased Shankar Guha Niyogi.	None
In order to prove the conspiracy, the Sessions Judge relied on certain circumstances.	None
One of the circumstance relied is that A1, A4, A5 and A7 had a strong motive to do away with deceased Shankar Guha Niyogi.	None
Motive by itself is not sufficient to prove the guilt of the accused.	None
However, the prosecution adduced extensive evidence to show that A1, A4, A5 and A7, were owners of the certain industries at Durg and the trade union activities of deceased Niyogi created a lot of problems in running their business and caused loss to these industries.	None
M s. Simplex is one of the factories referred to by the witnesses for the prosecution.	None
Several witnesses were examined to prove that Simplex and Kedia Distilleries were acting against the interests of the workers and there were series of agitations by the workers against the factory owners.	None
Evidence was also adduced to show that some workers were retrenched from Simplex and the agitating workers wanted the reinstatement of the retrenched workers.	None
Some of the witnesses examined by the prosecution turned hostile and did not support this version.	None
The overall evidence given by the prosecution would only show that some agitation had been going on against the management of these industries and the deceased Niyogi was spearheading many of these agitations.	None
This by itself would not prove the prosecution case of conspiracy.	None
Another item of evidence is the recovery of a diary allegedly maintained by deceased Niyogi.	None
The diary of Niyogi was marked Exh.	None
P93.	None
In the diary, Niyogi had written that industrialists like Simplex Kedia along with higher officials of Durg district had formed a fascist gang and that the sad thing was that the judiciary of Durg and Rajnanadagaon districts had also joined this gang.	None
On page 172 of the diary, he had written the names of A2, A3.	None
In a micro cassette produced as Article C, deceased Shankar Guha Niyogi had recorded a speech wherein he mentioned that he apprehended a danger at the hands of some persons and he also said that people of Simplex were indulging in mischief and in particular the fifth respondent Moolchand Shah.	None
The name of A2 was also mentioned in the diary.	None
That apart, deceased Shankar Guha Niyogi submitted a memorandum to the President of India.	None
In this memorandum he has stated elaborately the grievances of the workers and emphasized that the industrialists had been doing their utmost to break the workers organization and they had even resorted to physical violence on workers.	None
He alleged that police personnel were helping the industrialists and he appealed to the President to bring a check on these acts of violence by industrialists.	None
The entries in the diary and certain statements of the deceased recorded on a micro cassette were sought to be made admissible as evidence under Section 32 of the Evidence Act.	None
Section 32 of the Evidence Act says that the statement, written or oral, of relevant facts made by a person who is dead, are themselves relevant facts, but this statement should have been made as to the cause of his death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death when such question comes up for consideration by the court.	None
It is true that when such statements were made, the maker of the statement need not be under the expectation of dealt.	None
But nevertheless, these statements should give either the cause of his death or any of the circumstance which led to his death.	None
The entries in the diary and the representation Niyogi had submitted to the President of India were in general terms.	None
He apprehended some danger at the hands of some industrialists as the agitation of the workers had been going on and in some instances the henchmen of the industrialists had unleashed physical violence on the workers.	None
Even though he had mentioned the names of some of the accused persons in the diary and in the cassette, that by itself may not be of any assistance to the prosecution to prove the case as the entries in the diary and cassette do not refer to any event which ultimately was the cause of his death.	None
Another item of evidence strongly relied on by the prosecution to prove the case of conspiracy is that some of the accused persons had visited Nepal, which according to the prosecution, was to procure some illegal weapons to carry out the common object of the conspiracy.	None
PW91 Ravinder Kumar Mande Ravi deposed that the first accused Chander Kant Shah made the programme of going to Nepal in a tempo truck and the first accused along with A4 Abhay Kumar Singh and A3 Avdhesh Ria went to Nepal via Banaras.	None
On the way, they stayed at Khalispur and reached Nepal on the next day and stayed at Hotel Kailash.	None
The second accused Gyan Prakash Misra reached there after two days.	None
The second accused when questioned under Section 313 Cr.P.C. admitted that they had gone to Nepal on a pilgrimage.	None
The prosecution, when conducted a search at the residence of A1 Chandrakant Shah recovered certain articles.	None
Some of the old bills were recovered and on the reverse side of a bill marked as Exh. P393(8) issued on 12.11.91 by a provision store in Nepal, certain entries have been made in respect of some foreignmade firearms.	None
These entries were in the hand writing of the second accused Gyan Prakash Misra.	None
The price of the weapons also is mentioned.	None
The Sessions court assumed that these accused must have procured some weapons during their visit to Nepal.	None
These entries in Exh. P393(8) by itself do not prove that fact.	None
No bills proving purchase of foreignmade weapons were recovered from any of these accused persons.	None
The visit to Nepal was in March, 1991.	None
This, according to the Sessions Judge was part of the conspiracy and not a pilgrimage as the first accused had not gone with the members of his family.	None
The visit to Nepal by these accused persons and the recovery of a bill do not advance the prosecution case to prove criminal conspiracy alleged against them.	None
The other items relied on by the prosecution to prove the case against the accused are the various recoveries effected by the investigating agency, but none of these items would prove the involvement of these accused in the conspiracy.	None
These items would include Exh.	None
P239 recovered from the office of the first accused.	None
In Exp.	None
P239 slip, the registration number of the car which was being used by deceased Niyogi and also the registration number of a jeep registered in the name of Chattisgarh Mukti Morcha were written.	None
This according to the prosecution would show that the accused were watching the movements of deceased Niyogi.	None
We are not able to attach any further importance to these documents.	None
Another document is ExP298, which is a letter alleged to have been written by the second accused to the sixth accused indicating that he had received Rs. 20,000/ for the work he had done.	None
The recovery of this letter by the investigating officer is surrounded in mystery.	None
It is alleged that it was found in torn pieces and this letter is alleged to have been recovered on 15.12.1991 by the investigating officer when a search was conducted in the office of the first accused.	None
The case of the prosecution is that the money transaction indicated in Exh.	None
P298 is the consideration given to the second accused for having caused the death of deceased Niyogi.	None
PW158 Devendra Jain was alleged to be the person who delivered this letter to the first accused, but he turned hostile and did not support the prosecution.	None
Even if the letter is assumed to be true, it would only show that there was some money transaction between the second accused and the sixth accused and in no way it is proved that the amount of Rs. 20,000/ alleged to have passed between the parties was in consideration of the illegal act carried out at the instance of the second accused.	None
The High Court was justified in not relying on this document.	None
The prosecution relied on the arrangement of granting the contract for a cycle stand in the cinema theatre, by name Maurya Talkies.	None
PW102 Kamaluddin was examined to prove this fact.	None
He deposed that the contract was taken in the name of A3 Avdhesh Rai and the income from the cycle stand was deposited in the syndicate Bank in the account of the second accused Gyan Prakash Mishra.	None
This, according to the prosecution, was an arrangement made at the instance of A8 Baldev Singh Sandhu.	None
PW102 does not know anything about the nature of this transaction and there is no other evidence, oral or documentary, to show that the contract of the cycle stand at Maurya Talkies has got anything to do with the murder of the deceased Shannkar Guha Niyogi.	None
The fact that some of these accused had absconded from the place of their business at the relevant time is also pointed out by the counsel for the appellant as an incriminating circumstance.	None
When the murder of a trade union leader took place, there were strong allegations that the industrialists in the area had been instrumental in causing his death.	None
Under those circumstances, if any of these accused had absconded from the place, it could not be said to be a factor to prove their guilt.	None
Another incriminating circumstance sought to be proved against the accused is the extrajudicial confession alleged to have been made by the ninth accused Paltan Mallah wherein he named A1, A2, A5 and A6.	Reasoning
It is alleged that he made the confession to PW105 Satyaprakash Nishad and A9 is alleged to have disclosed to PW105 that these accused persons had given him money and he murdered Shankar Guha Niyogi for the sake of money.	Reasoning
Under Section 30 of the Evidence Act, the extrajudicial confession made by a coaccused could be admitted in evidence only as a corroborative piece of evidence.	Reasoning
In the absence of any substantive evidence against these accused persons, the extrajudicial confession allegedly made by the ninth accused loses its significance and there cannot be any conviction based on such extrajudicial confession.	Reasoning
The High Court, in our view, has given cogent and satisfying reasons for the acquittal of the accused A1 to A8.	Reasoning
We do not find any reason to interfere with such a finding, especially when this being an appeal against acquittal and this Court would be slow in reversing such a finding unless the High Court had made a perverse or erroneous appreciation of the evidence resulting in grave miscarriage of justice.	Reasoning
The evidence adduced by the prosecution can only throw some serious suspicion against these accused which cannot be used as a substitute for evidence.	Reasoning
Now we come to the question of the complicity of the ninth accused Paltan Mallah.	None
His case stands on a entirely different footing.	None
There is evidence against this accused and the High Court brushed aside the prosecution evidence against him on flimsy reasons.	None
There are several items of evidence to show that the ninth accused and none else caused the death of Shankar Guha Niyogi.	None
This accused is a person hailing from Gorakpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	None
He had come to Bhilai and was engaged in petty jobs.	None
He had been involved in a series of criminal cases and happened to be in custody for some period.	None
PW63 who was the subjailor at Durg jail for the period 1988 to 1992 deposed that the ninth accused Paltan Mallah was lodged as an undertrial prisoner at Durg jail from 1995 to 1998.	None
The second accused Gyan Prakash Mishra and the third accused Avdhesh Rai were also undertrial prisoners in Durg jail during this period.	None
Accused Paltan Mallah had involved himself in several criminal cases registered for offences punishable under Section 457, 380, 370, 394 IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act.	None
He was also involved in another case registered under Section 353, 307, 397, 341, 294, 506B, 323 IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act and he was lodged as a prisoner from 1.3.1988 to 10.8.1988 in Durg jail.	None
PW121 is a photographer who deposed that in the beginning of 1991, he had taken photograph of a prisoner and he identified the Exh.	None
P318 photograph.	None
This photograph is admittedly that of the ninth accused Paltan Mallah.	None
The High Court in the impugned judgment stated that there is absolutely no evidence to show that Paltan Mallah could have been at Bhilai during the relevant period.	Reasoning
In a murder that took place during night, there would not be any direct evidence to prove the fact, but various circumstances would show that the ninthaccused was a Bhilai during 1991.	Reasoning
This accused was staying with PW51 Reshami Bai.	Reasoning
She deposed that accused Paltan Mallah had gone to Bombay and this evidence was erroneously taken into consideration by the High Court.	Reasoning
It is common knowledge that the wife of an accused, leave aside the exceptional cases, would always give evidence only to support the husband.	Reasoning
There is also evidence of PW66 Nuruuddin.	None
PW66 is running an arms shop at Sadar Bazar in Raipur.	None
He deposed that on 14.9.1991 one Birendra Kumar came to his shop along with a boy to purchase certain material.	None
He showed his licence and expressed his intention to purchase a gun.	None
He told him that he was acquainted with a person who was an expert in firearms.	None
He then left the boy in the shop to fetch that armourer.	None
After1520 minutes, Birendra Kumar came with PW59 Rajbahadur who selected a twelve bore gun of single barrel and entries were made in the register.	None
He deposed that Birendra Kumar purchased five cartridges along with the gun and few L.G. cartridges by using the licence of a person, by name, Satya Narayan Singh.	None
PW66 deposed that all along the boy was sitting in his shop and he identified the boy as the ninth accused Paltan Mallah.	None
He further stated that the CBI officials came and questioned him and showed him the photograph of that boy.	None
This witness identified the ninth accused Paltan Mallah in the court.	None
The counsel for the accused vehemently attached the evidence of PW66.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that going by the evidence of PW75, P61 Jakruddin and PW72 Jainarayan Tripathi, the accused Paltan Mallah could not have been present in the shop and that those who were in the shop were Birendra Kumar, PW59 Rajbahadur and the father of PW59.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to PW61 he had sold 13 cartridges to Satyanarayan Singh and Birendra Kumar had signed in the register.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW59 Rajbahadur deposed that he is an armourer in the police department.	Arguments of Petitioner
He deposed that Ram Bahadur, a police constable told him that his son had taken a licence and he wanted to purchase a gun.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rajbahadur and his son went to the shop of PW61 for purchasing a gun.	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on the evidence of PW59, PW61 and PW72 it was stated that the ninth accused Paltan Mallah could not have been in the shop of PW61, but in the face of the evidence of PW66, we do not think that there was any mistake as to the identity of Paltan Mallah.	Arguments of Petitioner
Of course, the fact that the prosecution wanted to prove further that the L.G. cartridges were passed on to these accused and the same were used in the commission of the crime is not proved by any direct evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW66 appears to be an independent reliable witness an from his evidence, it is clear that the accused was at Bhilai during the relevant period.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also proved by satisfactory evidence that the accused Paltan Mallah had been involved in cases relating to illegal use of arms.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next evidence against the ninth accused came to surface in 1993 at the time of his arrest by an airforce officer alleging that he was in illegal possession of certain firearms.	None
The airforce officer handed over the ninth accused to PW125, who was a subinspector at the Rudrapur police station.	None
On questioning Paltan Mallah, PW125 came to know that he had been involved in the murder of Shankar Guha Niyogi.	None
He informed the CBI officials and recorded the confession made by Paltan Mallah.	None
Based on the confession given by accused Paltan Mallah, certain recoveries were effected.	None
Based on the information furnished by him, PW125 along with PW104 Dinesh Baloni left for the village Nibahi and reached the place which according to the prosecution was the house of the accused Paltan Mallah.	None
Another witness Farukh Miza Baig accompanied them.	None
This witness is a resident of Nibahi.	None
The accused pointed out that near the northern wall of the house he had buried certain articles.	None
The accused Paltan Mallah removed the earth, took out a bundle wrapped in a plastic sheet.	None
The bundle contained a countrymade pistol with 13 cartridges 2L.G. cartridges and others were 38 bore cartridged.	None
PW125 recovered these articles and in the seizure memo, Dinesh Baloni, one Ram Bahadur and Farukh Mirza Baig and the accused had signed.	None
From there, they left and reached the house of PW105, Satyaprakash Nishad, in village Chainpur, where the accused had hidden his TVS Suzuki motorcycle.	None
The motorcycle was recovered and there was no number plate on the motorcycle.	None
The recovery of the countrymade pistol at the instance of the accused Paltan Mallah was seriously challenged on various grounds.	None
It was contended by the counsel that the recovery of the weapon was not effected in accordance with law and the witness PW104 Dinesh Baloni was not a resident of the village Nibahi and that he was brought from a different place only for the purpose.	None
It was argued that as recovery was not effected in accordance with law, the entire evidence is inadmissible as the search itself is illegal.	None
The counsel further contended that the recovery of weapons at the instance of the accused Paltan Mallah is not admissible in evidence as the disclosure statement marked Exh.	None
P285 would only show that the accused had the knowledge of the concealment of the weapon and that he was not the author of that concealment.	None
Counsel for the accused Paltan Mallah placed reliance on two decisions, namely, (1976) 1 SCC 828 Mohmed Inayatullah vs. State of Maharashtra and (1980) 1 SCC 530 Pohalya Motya Valvi vs. State of Maharashtra.	None
The above two decisions are not relevant in this case as in the Exp.	None
P285 the accused specifically says that he concealed the weapon himself.	None
As the alleged confession clearly states that the accused himself has concealed it, the recovery of the weapon assumes importance in this case.	None
The counsel for the respondentaccused further contended that PW125 was not investigating the case of accused Paltan Mallah and that the custody of the accused Paltan Mallah was entrusted to him alleging that he had unlawfully trespassed into the prohibited area belonging to Air Force and PW125 could have conducted investigation of that case only and if at all he had come to know of the involvement of the accused in other cases, he should have contacted the CBI and informed them of the alleged concealment of weapon.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that the CBI officers had reached that place and met PW125 even before he went with the accused Paltan Mallah for the alleged search and seizure.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel submitted that the search and seizure was completely illegal and therefore the evidence obtained under such illegal search is to be completely excluded.	Arguments of Respondent
The plea of the appellant cannot be accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
In India, the evidence obtained under illegal search is not completely excluded unless it has caused serious prejudice to the accused.	None
The discretion has always been given to the court to decide whether such evidence is to be accepted or not.	None
In Radha Krishan vs. State of U.P. AIR 1963 SC 822 , speaking for a three Judge Bench, Justice Mudholkar held So far as the alleged illegality of the search is concerned, it is sufficient to say that even assuming that the search was illegal and the seizure of the articles is not vitiated.	None
It may be that where the provisions of Sections 103 and 165 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are contravened the search could be resisted by the person whose premises are being searched.	None
It may also be that because of the illegality of the search the Court may be inclined to examine carefully the evidence regarding the seizure.	None
But beyond these two consequences, no further consequence ensues.	None
In a subsequent decision reported in Pooran Mal vs. Director of Inspection (1974) 1 SCC 354, this Court held So far as India is concerned its law of evidence is modeled on the rules of evidence which prevailed in English Law, and Courts in India and in England have consistently refused to exclude relevant evidence merely on the ground that it is obtained by illegal search or seizureIt would thus be seen that in India, as in England, where the test of admissibility of evidence lies in relevancy, unless there is an express or necessarily implied prohibition in the Constitution or other law, evidence obtained as a result of illegal search or seizure is not liable to shut out.	None
This decision was later followed in Dr. Pratap Singh vs. Director of Enforcement (1985) 3 SCC 72 .	None
The provisions contained in the Criminal Procedure Code relating to search and seizure are safeguards to prevent the clandestine use of powers conferred on the law enforcing authorities.	None
They are powers incidental to the conduct of investigation and the legislature has imposed certain conditions for carrying out search and seizure in the Code.	None
The courts have interpreted these provisions n different ways.	None
One view is that disregard to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to the powers of search and seizures amounts to a default in doing what is enjoined by law and in order to prevent default in compliance with the provisions of the Code, the courts should take strict view of the matter and reject the evidence adduced on the basis of such illegal search.	None
But often this creates a serious difficulty in the matter of proof.	None
Though different High Courts have taken different views, the decision of this Court quoted above the have settled the position and we have followed the English decisions in this regard.	None
In the Privy Council decision in Kuruma vs. The Queen (1955) A.C. 197, Lord Goddard, C.J. was of the firm view that in a criminal case the Judge always has a discretion to disallow evidence if the strict rule of admissibility would operate unfairly against an accused.	None
The trend of judicial pronouncements is to the effect that evidence illegally or improperly obtained is not per se inadmissible.	None
If the violation committed by the investigating authority is of serious nature and causes serious prejudice to the accused, such evidence may be excluded.	None
It may also be noticed that the Law Commission of the India in the 94th Report suggested the incorporation of a provision in Chapter 10 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	None
The suggestion was to the effect that in a criminal proceeding, where it is shown that anything in evidence was obtained by illegal or improper means, the court, after considering the nature of the illegality or impropriety and all the circumstances under which the thing tendered was obtained, may refuse to admit it in evidence, if the court is of the opinion that because of the nature of the illegal or improper means by which it was obtained, its admission would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute.	None
The Commission also quoted the various circumstances surrounding the proceedings that may entail the exclusion of such evidence but the suggestion of the Law Commission was not accepted and no legislation was effected in line with the recommendations of the 94th Report of the Law Commission and the position continues to be that the evidence obtained under illegal search could still be admitted in evidence provided there is no express statutory violation or violation of the constitutional provisions.	None
For example, if certain specific enactments are made and the search or seizure is to be effected in accordance with the provisions of such enactment, the authorities shall comply with such provisions.	None
The general provisions given in the Criminal Procedure Code are to be treated as guidelines and if at all there is any minor violation, still the court can accept the evidence and the courts have got discretionary power to either accept it or reject it.	None
In the instant case, we do not think that the court has violated any such provision merely because the witness was not from the same locality and his evidence cannot be rejected.	Reasoning
The next important evidence against the respondentaccused Paltan Mallah are the two extrajudicial confessions allegedly made by him to two witnesses.	None
The first is the confession the appellant is alleged to have made to PW105 Satyaprakash Nishad and the second to PW124 Bishambhar Prasad Sahni.	None
PW105 Satyaprakash Nishad is related to Paltan Mallah.	None
He deposed that in 1991 Paltan Mallah came to Chainpur village which is about 3540 kms.	None
away from his village at Nibahi.	None
PW105 deposed that Paltan Mallah told him that he is involved in the murder of a leader and the CBI was in search of him and on further questioning he told the entire details.	None
He gave the names of other accused also and informed the witness that CBI had announced Rupees one lakh as reward for his capture and therefore he wanted to go to Nepal.	None
The witness agreed to take him to Pohari Bazar where his sister was married to one Keshnath Nishad.	None
The witness further deposed that he took Paltan Mallah to his brotherinlaw who was working in the Railways, but his brotherinlaw said he could not hide Paltan Mallah.	None
He had also given evidence to the effect that Paltan Mallah left his motorcycle at his residence and he later came to know that in August, 1993 Paltan Mallah was caught by the police.	None
The evidence of this witness was seriously challenged in crossexamination.	None
He was extensively crossexamined and a perusal of his crossexamination would show that the witness could withstand the crossexamination successfully.	None
His evidence is to be appreciated in the light of the evidence of PW124 and also the recovery of the motorcycle from the premises of the witness.	None
The evidence of PW124 fully supports the evidence of PW105.	None
PW124 Bishambhar Prasad Sahni was the headmaster of a school during the relevant time and he was working in the Higher Secondary School of Navalparsi since 1976.	None
He is a postgraduate from Tribhuvan University and his relatives are in village Kusha (U.P.).	None
PW124 deposed that accused Paltan Mallah came to his house along with Keshnath, the brotherinlaw of PW105.	None
They came in the evening and on the next morning he asked Paltan Mallah about the purpose of his visit.	None
Then Keshnath told that Paltan Mallah was a distant relative of his brotherinlaw and that he should get some safe place for him in Nepal.	None
The witness asked why he wanted to stay in Nepal and Paltan Mallah had a detailed discussion and he revealed that he had murdered Shankar Guha Niyogi in complicity with Gyan Prakash Mishra.	None
The witness deposed that he got agitated and angry and scolded his brotherinlaw Keshnath and asked them to leave the place immediately.	None
The statement of PW124 was recorded in 1993, but in the crossexamination, he mistakenly stated that CBI officers had come there fifteen days after the departure of Paltan Mallah.	None
This evidently is a mistake and for this sole reason the evidence of this witness was discarded.	None
The extrajudicial confession made by the accused Paltan Mallah to PW124 is unimpeachable.	None
PW124 is a headmaster of a school who had no axe grind against the accused and he was working at a far distant place and the CBI must have come to know of the alleged extrajudicial confession made on the basis of questioning the accused.	None
The questioning of PW124 by police was in 1993.	None
The extrajudicial confession implicating the second accused Gyan Prakash Mishra is not strictly admissible as it is a confession made by a coaccused and could be used only as supporting evidence.	None
Though the evidence as such cannot be used against Gyan Prakash Mishra, the extrajudicial confession revealed by PW124 Bishambhar Prasad Sahni is reliable and trustworthy and fully supported by the evidence of PW125	None
and we find no reason to discard the same.	None
Then the most important item of evidence against the accused, Paltan Mallah, is the report of the ballistic expert.	None
PW192, the Deputy Superintendent of Police of the CBI deposed that after the arrest of the appellant Paltan Mallah on 25.8.1993, he recovered one 12 bore countrymade pistol, 13 live cartridges 12 bore, one foreign made pistol, 6 live cartridges of 38 bore and motorcycle.	Facts
The countrymade pistol, the foreign made pistol and the cartridges were sent for examination by the ballistic expert to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, New Delhi.	None
During the postmortem of the deceased Shankar Guha Niyogi, three pellets were extricated from his body.	None
These pellets were sent to Forensic Laboratory at Sagar and thereafter they were deposited in the court by PW192 and these pellets were also later on obtained from the court and sent for examination by the CFSL.	None
PW159, the ballistic expert conducted detailed laboratory testfires and microscopic examination and he gave Exh.	None
P398 report wherein he opined that three lead pellets marked P1 to P3 must have been fired from a 12 bore countrymade pistol.	None
He deposed that he had prepared the report on the basis of the miscroscopic examination and he had also taken photographs of the pellets and Exh.	None
P398 are the worksheets of the report prepared by him.	None
The evidence of Pw159 and his report are seriously challenged by the counsel for the respondent accused.	None
He extensively referred to the text books written by foreign ballistic experts such as Burrad, Hatcher and Taylor.	None
It was argued that in the instant case, the weapon was a countrymade pistol and the barrel was not grooved and there was absolutely no question of any identifiable marking coming on the pellets to enable the expert to give any opinion whatsoever.	None
Reliance was placed by him on the observations of this Court in Ram Avtar and Others vs. Ram Dhani and Others (1997) 2 SCC 263 wherein this Court relied on the opinion of J.S. Hatcher in his text book of Fire Arms Investigation to the effect that unless there were rifling marks in the bullets which were not defaced by the entry in the bodies of the victims, no expert can ordinarily and generally give an opinion.	None
It was also pointed out that in the case of countrymade pistol, it was difficult to assume that the ballistic expert could have found identifying marks on the pellets.	None
The evidence given by the ballistic expert was questioned in great detail.	None
He was crossexamined extensively be counsel for all the accused.	None
He deposed in the crossexamination that when these pellets are fired, then they among themselves would press each other inside the barrel on inside parts their effect could be on the side of inner side of barrel, they will take special individual mark on them and these marks will be in the form of a line on the pellets and if the barrel is tight then pellets will be more rubbed, and on more parts, lines will come.	None
If barrel is tight then half part of the pellets are pressed and the barrel was nicely tight and the witness himself said that in the testfire which he did on all of the six pellets good marks of barrel had come.	None
He had also stated that he had taken microphotograph of only one pellet and had compared all pellets but he had not made any separate comparative record or photograph.	None
It was argued that microphotographs were not produced and mere observation by the expert  was not sufficient and that he should have produced these photographs.	None
We do not think that there was any such necessity to produce the micro photographs when the expert has given convincing reasons to support his opinion.	None
This Court in Ramanathan vs. State of Tamil Nadu 1978 3 SCC 86 held that the production of such photographs is not necessary and such a peal was rejected.	None
In paragraph 26, it was held as under It is true that there has been considerable difference of opinion amongst investigators regarding the use of photographs in a court for the purpose of illustrating the matching of the markings, and while it may be that microscopic photographs, when taken with due care and in the best of conditions, may enable the evidence to be placed on the record in a visible form, it cannot be denied that a court would not be justified in rejecting the opinion of an expert who has examined the markings under the comparison microscope simply for the reason that he has not thought it necessary to take the photographs.	None
It is therefore not possible for us to reject the evidence of Ramiah (PW 23) who has categorically stated that he had compared the land and groove markings on the bullets under a comparison microscope, simply because he did not think it necessary to take the photographs.	None
In the case of the respondentaccused Paltan Mallah, there is overwhelming evidence to prove his complicity in the crime.	Reasoning
The recovery of the countrymade pistol at his instance, which is proved to have been used for causing the death of Shankar Guha Nihogi and the evidence of the ballistic expert coupled with two extrajudicial confessions made to PW105 made PW124 support the prosecution case fully.	Reasoning
There is also prosecution evidence to the effect that the accused had got accessibility to the weapons and that he was staying at the place of occurrence and doing various jobs.	Reasoning
It is also established that accused Paltan Mallah is involved in other offences relating to firearms.	Reasoning
Though there is no direct and convincing evidence against other accused, the case against Paltan Mallah is proved beyond reasonable doubt.	Reasoning
He was acquitted by the High Court on fanciful reasons.	Reasoning
The evidence of extrajudicial confessions was rejected without any valid reasons.	Reasoning
The report of the ballistic expert also was not appreciated in the correct perspective by the High Court.	Reasoning
In our view, the Division Bench seriously erred in acquitting the respondentaccused Paltan Mallah.	Reasoning
In the result, we reverse the acquittal of the respondentaccused Paltan Mallah.	Reasoning
The incident leading to these appeals had taken place as early as 1991.	Reasoning
As there is a long of time, we do not think that the sentence of death imposed upon him by the Sessions Court is justified in the circumstances.	Reasoning
We set aside the acquittal of respondentaccused Paltan Mallah and find him guilty of the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for life.	Reasoning
The appeals preferred by the State and also by the Chhattishgarh Mukti Morcha are allowed to the extent indicated above.	Decision
All other appeals shall stand dismissed.	Decision
The acquittal of other accused by the High Court is confirmed.	Decision
