 Hegde, J. 1.	None
Two important questions of law arise for decision in this appeal, by certificate.	None
It will be convenient to formulate those questions after we set out the material facts.	None
2.	None
One Aswini Kumar Chatterjee (since deceased) executed the Trust deed Exh.	Facts
I on December 6, 1930, in respect of some of the properties owned by him.	Facts
It is provided therein (a) that the settlor would be the trustee of the Trust Estate and would enjoy the income and profits of the trust properties during his lifetime, (b) after his death his wife Smt.	Facts
Santimoyee Devee and or his sons as soon as they or any of them attain the age of majority should be the sole Trustee or Joint Trustees and (c) from and after his death the said Trust Estate should be held to the use and for the benefit of the said Smt.	Facts
Santimoyee Devee and the said sons.	Facts
Santimoyee Devee to be paid from the income and the profits of the said estate Rs.	Facts
50/. monthly and the balance of the Income and profits of the Trust Estate to be held for the use and benefit of each of the sons in equal shares and after the death of the said Santimoyee Devee to make over the whole of the Trust Estate to each of the sons in equal shares.	Facts
He reserved to himself the power to vary the terms and conditions of the Trust so far as they relate to the quantum of interest given to each of the beneficiaries after the earn of the settlor by his instrument by will alone and in no other way or act.	Facts
3.	None
The settlor administered the trust property for sometime and thereafter thought of effecting by deed inter vivos certain changes in the trust.	Facts
To enable him to do so he took out an originating summons on the original side of the Calcutta High Court under Chapter XIII of the Original Side Rules of that Court seeking primarily two reliefs viz.	Facts
, (1) to have the Official Trustee, Bengal appointed as the Trustee in his place and (2) to empower him to alter the clause renting to variation of the quantum of interest given to each of the beneficiaries by a deed inter vivos.	Facts
From the averments made in the application, it is clear that relief was sought under the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act (Central Act 2 of 1882) and the Official Trustees Act (Central Act 2 of 1913).	Facts
In the body of the petition the settlor definitely prayed for permission to revoke the clause in the Trust deed relating to his power to vary the quantum of interest of the beneficiaries by will alone and in its place authorise him to make that variation by deed inter vivos and not by will alone.	Facts
The relevant reliefs asked for in the petition read as follows (1) that the provisions contained in the Deed of settlement dated the 6th December,1930, whereby the persons therein named were appointed Trustees of the said Trust Estate and whereby power was reserved to petitioner to alter the said quantum of interest by will alone and in no other way be revoked and (2) that the petitioner be empowered to alter the said quantum of interest in such manner as he may think proper, by deed inter vivos and not by will alone.	Facts
4. The aforementioned originating summons was taken out on August 20, 1937.	Facts
The matter came up for hearing before Ramfry, J., evidently after service of notices on the respondents on August 25, 1937.	Facts
On that date the learned Judge passed the following order It is ordered that the provisions contained in the said Deed of Trust whereby the persons therein named were appointed Trustees of the said Trust Estate and whereby power was reserved to the said applicant to alter the quantum of interest of the beneficiaries by will and in no other way be and they are hereby revoked and it is further ordered that the said applicant as such settlor as aforesaid be at liberty to alter the said quantum of interest in such manner as he may think proper by deed inter vivos and not by will and it is father ordered that the said applicant the present sole trustee under the said Deed of Trust be and is hereby discharged from further acting as such Trustee and the Official Trustee of Bengal be and is hereby appointed the sole trustee of the said Deed of Trust.	Facts
And it is further ordered that the stocks and shares and securities (both moveable and immovable) now comprised in the Trust Estate do vest in the said Official Trustee of Bengal as such Trustee as aforesaid.	Facts
At this stage it is necessary to emphasise that what the settlor asked for was the Courts permission to revoke the clause in the Trust deed empowering him to alter the quantum of interest given to each of the beneficiaries by will alone and in its place to confer upon him power to make the said alteration by deed inter vivos.	Facts
The Court in specific terms ordered the revocation and granted the authority sought for.	Facts
Acting under the power purported to have been given by the order of Ramfry, J., the settlor executed a second Trust deed on March 22, 1938.	Facts
Under that deed, in the place of the Trustees nominated under the original deed, the Official Trustee was constituted as the sole trustee.	Facts
Sachindra, (The first respondent herein) one of the sons of the settlor was deprived of all his interest as a beneficiary in the corpus of the trust properties.	Facts
He was given a meagre allowance of Rs. 20 per month during his life time.	Facts
The settlor died in 1946.	Facts
5.	None
On December 18, 1950, the first respondent filed the suit out of which this appeal has arisen praying for following declarations (a) that the power reserved by the settlor in the original Trust deed for altering the quantum of interest of the beneficiaries by will alone and by no other means was irrevocable (b) that the order passed by Ramfry, J. on 2581937 was null and void as having been made without jurisdiction, and (c) the original Trust deed stood unaffected by the second Trust deed and therefore he was entitled to the benefits provided under the said deed.	Facts
He also asked for a decree directing the Official Trustee to pay him 1/4 the of the income of the Trust Estate, so long as Santimoyee Devee was alive and on her death to make over onefourth of the corpus of the Trust Estate to him and further render accounts to him of the profits of the Trust Estate since the time of the death of the settlor.	Facts
The Official Trustee as well as some of the other defendants resisted the suit.	Facts
They contended that the settlor was entitled to execute the second Trust deed in exercise of the power reserved by him under the original Trust deed and in any event he could do so because of the orders of Ramfry, J. 6.	Facts
The trial Court decreed the suit as prayed for but the first Appellate Court reversed the decree of the trial Court and dismissed the suit upholding the contentions advanced on behalf of the contesting defendants.	Facts
In second appeal the High Court reversed the decree of the first Appellate Court and restored the decree of the trial Court.	Facts
7.	None
Two questions that arise for decision in the appeal are (1) whether the settlor was entitled to execute the second Trust deed in pursuance of the power reserved by him under the original Trust deed, and (2) whether in any event the validity of the second Trust deed is not open to challenge in view of the order made by Ramfry, J., on August 25, 1937.	Issue
8.	None
Mr. B. Sen, learned Counsel for the appellant contended that on a proper reading of the Trust deed it would be seen that the settler had reserved to himself the power to vary the terms of the Trust in so far as they relate to the quantum of interest given to each of the beneficiaries after the death of the settler.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him the recital in the deed that such a variation can be done only by an instrument of will and not otherwise is not a manner of substance but only a form.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore we must hold that the settlor had the power to make the variation in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
He did not dispute the proposition that a settlor is incompetent to vary any of the terms of a Trust settled by him unless he had reserved for himself the power to make the variation in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
The real question for decision is whether the stipulation in the Trust deed that the variation in question can only be made by will and not otherwise is binding condition.	Arguments of Petitioner
If it is held to be a material condition then the settlor must be held to have had no power to vary the same.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The law on the point is stated by Halsburythus 3rd Edn.	None
Vol. 30 p. 272, paragraph 518.	None
Defects not of the essence.	None
Equity relieves only against defects which are not of the essence of the power relief will not be granted so as to defeat anything material to the intention of the donor of the power.	None
Thus mere defects in the mode of execution will be aided, and so will an appointment by will made under a power to appoint only by deed.	None
But no aid will be given to an appointment by irrevocable deed made under a power to appoint only by will or to an appointment which would result in a fraud on the power or aid a breach of trust.	None
Morever, no aid will be given to the exercise by will of a power of revocation by deed if it is clear that a deed is of the essence, as where the original power of appointment was by will or deed and on its exercise of power to revoke by deed only was reserved.	None
Nor will the Court aid a lease containing unusual covenants granted under a power to lease with usual covenants, or a lease granted without consent under a power to lease with consent, or a sale of land reserving timber made under a power not authorising such a reservation, or a sale of land reserving the minerals under a power not authorising such a reservation.	None
Similar are the views expressed in Hanburys book on Modern Equity (7th Edn. p.56).Referring to the decision in Re Anstis, (1886) 31 Ch D 596 the learned author observes The case brings out another important point.	None
The power was exercised by Will, whereas it should have been exercised by deed.	None
Now a Will is revocable at any time during the testators life time as so the defect is treated as one of form only, and relief will be granted.	None
But the defect constituted by the converse process, the attempted exercise by irrevocable deed of a power which should have been exercised by Will, is treated as a manner of substance, and, in Reid v. Shergold, (1805) 10 Ves 370 as fatal to the objects of the power.	None
The law is similarly stated in Molineux v. Evered, (1910) 2	None
Ch 417.	None
10.	None
From the above discussion it also follows that the settlor had no power to appoint new trustees during his lifetime nor designate persons other than those already designated in the original Trust deed to act as trustees after his lifetime.	None
11.	None
Considerable arguments were advanced before us as to the effect of the order made by Ramfry, J., on August 25, 1937.	None
On behalf of the appellant it was urged that Ramfry, J., had jurisdiction over the parties to the application in question as well as on the subjectmatter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence the validity of the order made by him cannot be challenged even if it is held that that order is not in accordance with law.	Arguments of Petitioner
To put it differently it was urged that what could be complained of is not the lack of jurisdiction on the part of the Court to make the order in question but an illegal exercise of that jurisdiction but such an attack cannot be made against that order in a collateral proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand it was urged by Mr. N. C. Chatterjee, learned Counsel for the respondents that Ramfry, J., had no jurisdiction to pass the order in question.	Arguments of Respondent
His grievance was not that Ramfry, J., exercised his undoubted jurisdiction illegally but that he had no jurisdiction at all to make the order in question.	Arguments of Respondent
12.	None
It is plain that if the learned Judge had no jurisdiction to pass the order in question then the order is null and void.	Reasoning
It is equally plain that if he had jurisdiction to pronounce on the plea put forward before him the fact that he made an incorrect order or even an illegal order cannot affect its validity.	Reasoning
Therefore, all that we have to see is whether Ramfry, J., had jurisdiction to entertain the application made by the settlor.	Reasoning
13.	None
What is meant by jurisdiction ?	None
This question is answered by Mukherjee Acting C. J., speaking for the full bench of the Calcutta High Court in Hirday Nath Roy v. Ramchandra Barna Sarma, ILR 48 Cal 138 (AIR 1921 Cal 34 (FB)).	None
At page 146 of the report ILR (Cal) (at p. 36 of AIR)	None
the learned Judge explained what exactly is meant by jurisdiction.	None
We can do no better than to quote his words In the order of Reference to a Full Bench in the case of Sukhlal v. Tara Chand, (1905) ILR 33 Cal 68 (FB), it was stated that jurisdiction may be defined to be the power of a Court to hear and determine a cause, to adjudicate and exercise any judicial power in relation to it in other words, by jurisdiction is meant the authority which a Court to decide matters that are litigated before it or to take cognizance of matter presented in a formal way for its decision.	None
An examination of the cases in the books discloses numerous attempts to define the term jurisdiction, which has been stated to be the power to hear and determine issues of law and fact the authority by which the judicial officers take cognizance of and decide causes the authority to hear and decide a legal controversy the power to hear and determine the subject matter in controversy between parties to a suit and to adjudicate or exercise any judicial power over themthe power to hear, determine and pronounce judgment on the issues before the Court the power or authority which is conferred upon a Court by the Legislature to hear and determine causes between parties and to carry the judgments into effect the power to enquire into the facts, to apply the law, to pronounce the judgment and to carry it into execution.	None
(Emphasis here in ) supplied).	None
Proceeding further the learned Judge observed This jurisdiction of the Court may be qualified or restricted by a variety of circumstances.	None
Thus, the jurisdiction may have to be considered with reference to place, value and nature of the subject matter.	None
The power of a tribunal may be exercised within defined territorial limits.	None
Its cognizance may be restricted to subjectmatters of prescribed value.	None
It may be competent to deal with controversies of a specified character, for instance, testamentary or matrimonial causes, acquisition of lands for public poses, record of rights as between landlords and tenants.	None
This classification into territorial jurisdiction, pecuniary jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the subject matter is obviously of a fundamental character.	None
Given such jurisdiction, we must be careful to distinguish exercise of jurisdiction from existence of jurisdiction for fundamentally different are the consequences of failure to comply with statutory requirements in the assumption and in the exercise of jurisdiction.	None
The authority to decide a cause at all not the decision rendered therein is what makes up jurisdiction and when there is jurisdiction of the person and subjectmatter, the decision of all other questions arising in the case is but an exercise of that jurisdiction.	None
The extent to which the conditions essential for creating and raising the jurisdiction of a Court or the restraints attaching to the mode of exercise of that jurisdiction, should be included in the conception of jurisdiction itself, is sometimes a question of great nicety, as is illustrated by the decisions reviewed in the order of reference in (1905) ILR 33 Cal 68 (FB) and Khosh Mahomed v. Nazir Mahomed, (1905)	None
ILR 33 Cal 352 (FB) see also the observation of Lord Parker in Raghunath v. Sundar Das, ILR 42 Cal 72(AIR 1914 PC 129).	None
.We	None
must not us overlook the cardinal position that in order that jurisdiction may be exercised, there must be a case legally before the Court and a hearing as well as a determination.	None
A judgment pronounced by a Court without jurisdiction is void, subject to the wellknown reservation that, when the jurisdiction of a Court is challenged, the Court is competent to determine question of jurisdiction, though the result of the enquiry may be that it has no jurisdiction to deal with the matter brought before it Rashmoni Dasi v. Gunada Sundari Dasi, 20 Cal LJ 218 (AIR 1915 Cal 49).	None
(Emphasis (here in ) supplied).	None
14.	None
Finally the learned Judge quoted with approval the decision of Srinivas Aiyangar, J., in Thuljaram v. Gopala, 32 Mad LJ 434(AIR 1918 Mad 1093)	None
wherein Aiyangar, J., laid down thatif a Court has jurisdiction to try a suit and has authority to pass orders of a particular kind, the fact that it has passed an order which it should not have made in the circumstances of the litigation, does not indicate total want or loss of jurisdiction so as to render the order a nullity.	None
(Emphasis (here in ) supplied).	None
15.	None
From the above discussion it is clear that before a Court can be held to have jurisdiction to decide a particular matter it must not only have jurisdiction to try the suit brought but also have the authority to pass the orders sought for.	Reasoning
It is not sufficient that it has some jurisdiction in relation to the subjectmatter of the suit.	Reasoning
Its jurisdiction must include the power to hear and decide the questions at issue, the authority to hear and decide the particular controversy that has arisen between the parties.	Reasoning
Therefore the fact that Ramfry, J., had jurisdiction to pass certain orders either under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 or under the Official Trustees Act, 1913 or under the Trustees and Mortgagees Powers Act 1866 or under his inherent power is not conclusive of the matter.	Reasoning
What is relevant is whether he had the power to grant the relief asked for in the application made by the settlor.	Reasoning
That we think is the essence of the matter.	Reasoning
It cannot be disputed that if it is held that the learned Judge had competence to pronounce on the issue presented for his decision then the fact that he decided that issue illegally or incorrectly is wholly besides the point.	Reasoning
See Ittyavira Mathai v. Varkey Varkey, 1964 1	None
SCR 495 (AIR SC	None
907).Therefore we have now to see whether the learned Judge had jurisdiction to decide the issue presented for his determination.	None
The relief prayed for, as seen earlier, was to permit the settlor to revoke particular clauses in the Trust deed and to authorise him to alter the quantum of interest given to each of the beneficiaries by a deed inter vivos.	Facts
Had the learned Judge jurisdiction to entertain those pleas?	None
16.	None
Reliance was placed on Section 34 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 as conferring power on the judge to make the order in question.	None
That Section reads Any trustee may, without instituting a suit, apply by petition to a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction for its opinion, advice or direction on any present questions respecting the management or administration of the trust property other than questions of detail, difficulty or importance, not proper in the opinion of the Court for summary disposal.	None
Under this provision the Court could have only given opinion, advice or direction on any presented question respecting the management or administration of the trust property and not on any other matters.	Reasoning
The relief prayed for by the settlor did not relate to the management or administration of the trust property but on the other hand it asked for authority to alter the quantum of interest given to each of the beneficiaries by a deed inter vivos.	None
The jurisdiction conferred on the Court under Section 34 is a limited jurisdiction.	None
Under that provision, the Court has not been conferred with overall jurisdiction in matters arising under a Trust deed.	None
The statute has prescribed what the Court can do and inferentially what it cannot do.	None
From the fact that the Court has been conferred power to grant only certain reliefs it follows as a matter of law that the Court has been prohibited from granting any other relief.	None
The jurisdiction of the Court is circumscribed by the provisions of Section 34 of the Trusts Act.	None
The Court had no jurisdiction to pronounce on the pleas put forward by the settlor.	None
From the facts stated in the petition and from the relief asked for, it was obvious that the case did not come within the scope of Section 34 of the Trusts Act.	None
Therefore when the learned Judge granted the relief asked for, he did something which be was not competent to do under Section 34 of the Trusts Act.	None
17.	None
Next we were told that the learned Judge had jurisdiction to pass the order in question under Section 10 (1) of the Official Trustees Act, 1913 which reads If any property is subject to trust other than a trust which the Official Trustee is prohibited from accepting under the provisions of this Act, and there is no trustee within the local limits of the ordinary or extraordinary original civil jurisdiction of the High Court willing or capable to act in the trust, the High Court may on application make an order for the appointment of the Official Trustee by that name with his consent to be the trustee of such property.	None
18.	None
This provision has no relevance as regards the controversy with which we are dealing.	Reasoning
That provision might have empowered the Court to appoint the Official Trustee in the place of the settlor as the settlor was not willing to continue, as the trustee.	Reasoning
But it could not have granted the other reliefs asked for.	Reasoning
19.	None
Reliance was next placed, on Section 43 of the Trustees and Mortgagees Powers Act, 1866.	None
There is no reference to this Act in the application made by the settler,Obviously he did not rely on any of the provisions in that Act.	None
But then if the Court could have acted on the basis of any of the provisions in that Act, the fact that it did not purport to act under that provision is immaterial.	None
Therefore we have to see whether the Court could have acted on the basis of any of the provisions in the said Act.	None
The only provision of that Act on which reliance was placed on behalf of the appellants is Section 43 (1).	None
The portion of that Section relevant for our present purpose reads Any trustee, executor or administrator shall be at liberty, without the institution of a suit, to apply by petition to any Judge of the High Court or the opinion, advice or direction of such Judge on any question respecting the management or administration of the trust property or the assets of any testator or intestate.	None
20.	None
This provision is more or less similar to Section 34 of the Trusts Act.	Reasoning
Under that provision a Judge of a High Court could have only given opinion, advice or direction on any question respecting the management or administration of the trust property.	Reasoning
Therefore the order made by Ramfry J., cannot be justified on the basis of Section 43 of the Trustees and Mortgagees Powers Act, 1866.	Reasoning
21.	None
It was then said that the order in question could have been made by Ramfry, J., in the exercise of his inherent powers as a Judge sitting on the original side of the Calcutta High Court.	None
It was argued that a Judge sitting on the original side of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta has the powers of a Chancery Judge in England as that power has been conferred on him by the Letters Patent granted to that High Court.	None
We shall assume it to be so.	None
We may note that the settlor did not invoke the inherent jurisdiction of the Court nor did the judge purport to exercise that power.	None
But, still, that cannot invalidate the order made if the Court had the inherent jurisdiction to make that order.	None
Hence the real question is had he that inherent jurisdiction ?	None
Chapter XIII of the Calcutta High Court Rules prescribes what orders can be obtained in an originating summons proceedings.	None
The jurisdiction of the Judge acting under that Chapter is a summary jurisdiction.	None
Rule 1 of that Chapter empowers the Judge to entertain an application in respect of matters enumerated in clauses (a) to (g) of that rule.	None
Admittedly clauses (a), (b), (f) and (g) are not relevant for our present purpose.	None
Under clause (c) the Court could only decide about furnishing of any particular accounts by trustees and vouching (where necessary) of such accounts.	Reasoning
Under cl.	Reasoning
(c) a could direct the trustees to pay into Court any monies in his hands and under clause (e) direct him to file an account and vouch the same to do or abstain from doing any particular act in his character as a trustee.	Reasoning
The orders under Chapter XIII are made in chambers.	Reasoning
As mentioned earlier the proceedings under that Chapter are summary proceedings.	Reasoning
No rule in that Chapter was brought to our notice under which the order in question could have been made.	None
22.	None
Different questions might have arisen for consideration if an application under Rule 9 of chapter XIII had been made requesting the High Court to interpret the original Trust deed in particular manner.	None
Such a plea was not taken in the application filed by the settlor before Ramfry, J. Further it was not the case of the appellant either in the High Court or in the Courts below or even in this Court that Ramfry, J., merely purported to interpret the original Trust deed whether his interpretation is correct or not.	None
23.	None
Let us now proceed to the question whether the Chancery Court in England had jurisdiction to pass an order similar to that made by Ramfry, J. This question was elaborately considered by the House of Lords in Chapman v. Chapman, 1954 AC 429.	None
The leading judgement in that case was delivered by Lord Morton of Henryton.	None
In his speech he elaborately considered the various decisions rendered by the English Courts.	None
The broad question that he posed for decision was whether the Court could permit the settlor to alter the terms of a trust and if so in what respect.	None
It was urged before him on behalf of the appellants in that case that the Court had jurisdiction to permit the alteration of any of the terms of a trust.	None
Negativing that contention his Lordship observed at p. 456	None
Striking instances of cases which negative the existence of the alleged, unlimited jurisdiction are In re Crawshay, (1888) 60 LT 357, In re Morrison (1901)	None
1 Ch 701 (Buckley, J.) and In re, Montagu, 18972 Ch 8 (Court of Appeal).	None
In the first of these cases North, J., said I should not be administering the trusts created by the testator if consented to this scheme.	None
I should be altering his trusts and substituting something quite outside the will.	None
On the assumption that the scheme would be beneficial to the estate, I cannot decide that I have jurisdiction to authorise it.	None
In the last mentioned case the Court of Appeal held that it had no jurisdiction to allow the trustees of a settlement to raise money by mortgage of the settled estate and to apply it in pulling down and rebuilding some of the houses on the property.	None
Lindley, L.J., said We none of us see our way to hold that there is jurisdiction to make an order in this case.	None
It is very desirable that the Court should have jurisdiction to deal with such a case but Parliament has never gone so far as to give it that jurisdiction to do what is wanted in this case, and if the persons interested were all ascertained and of age, they would probably concur, and then it might be done but they are not all ascertained nor of full age and unless the Court can authorise the trustees to do it, it cannot be done.	None
Lopes, L. J., said I have no doubt that what is proposed is beneficial and would increase at the income and the capital value of the property.	None
The question is whether the Court has jurisdiction to sanction it.	None
There is no provision in the settlement which would authorize the works in question, nor do they fall within any of the improvements sanctioned by the Settled Lands Act.	None
24.	None
From the above observations it is clear that the learned Judge proceeded on the basis that the Court as no jurisdiction to permit the alteration of any of the terms in a Trust deed excepting as regards the following matters(a)Changes in the nature of an infants property e.g. by directing investment of his personality in the purchase of freeholds (b) Allowing the trustees of settled property to enter into some business transaction which was not authorised by the settlement (c) Allowing maintenance out of income which the settlor or testator directed to be accumulated and (d) Approving a compromise on behalf of infants and possible afterborn beneficiaries.	None
25.It will be noticed that the powers given under those four heads are those relating to management and administration trust property.	None
That power is similar to the power conferred on Courts by Sec.	None
34 of the Trusts Act and S. 43 of the Trustees and Mortgagees Powers Act, 1866.	None
In fact in this country we have codified the very powers that were exercised by the Chancery Courts in England under their equitable jurisdiction.	None
The Court of Appeal in Chapmans case, 19531 Ch 218 Evershed M. R. and Romer L. JJ., Denning L. J. dissenting stated the law on the point thus The inherent jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery is of a limited character.	None
It is a jurisdiction to confer upon the trustee, quoad items of trust property vested in them, administrative powers to be exercised by them where a situation has arisen in regard to the property creating what may fairly called an emergency.	None
The inherent jurisdiction does not extend to sanctioning generally the modification or remoulding of the beneficial trusts of a settlement.	None
26.	None
Hence we are not persuaded that the Chancery Court in England had jurisdiction to pass orders similar to that passed by Ramfry, J. 27 and 28.From whatever angle we may examine the validity of the order made by Ramfry, J., it a clear to us, that the said order was outside the jurisdiction of the learned Judge.	None
It was not merely a wrong order, or an illegal order, it was an order which he had no competence to make.	Reasoning
It is not merely an order that be should not have passed but it is an order that he could not have passed and therefore a void order.	Reasoning
29.	None
The circumstances of the case call for certain modifications in the decree of the High Court.	Reasoning
On the facts of this case we see no justification for treating the Official Trustee as a trustee desontort and to require him in account as such.	Reasoning
In the proceedings before Ramfry, J., the plaintiff did not choose to appear and contest.	Reasoning
It is not his case that he was not served in that proceeding.	Reasoning
But for the order of Ramfry, J., the settlor would have certainly altered the quantum of interest given to the plaintiff under the original Trust deed by means of a will.	Reasoning
As it now turned out the plaintiff has benefited by the wrong step taken by the settlor.	Reasoning
The Official Trustee has merely carried out the order of the Court it was not open to him to go behind that order.	Reasoning
That being so we see no justification to treat him as a trustee desontort.	Reasoning
Equity requires that he should be made to account as if he was trustee.	Reasoning
In other words his liability should not be greater than that of a trustee.	Reasoning
It is also proper to permit him to reimburse himself all the costs incurred by him in all the Courts from out of the trust funds in his hands.	Reasoning
30.	None
We see no justification for allowing accounting in this case from the date the Official Trustee took charge of the trust estate.	Reasoning
Till the institution of the present suit from which this appeal has arisen there was no knowing that the plaintiff would challenge the second Trust deed executed by his father.	Reasoning
He did not challenge it during his fathers lifetime.	Reasoning
On the faith of the order of the High Court, the Official Trustee must have been disbursing the trust income to the various beneficiaries.	Reasoning
It will be inequitable to reopen all those transactions.	Reasoning
We think the ends of justice will be met if accounting is ordered as from the date of the institution of the present suit.	Reasoning
The plaintiff respondent is entitled to his costs in all the Courts.	Reasoning
But he shall get the same from out of the Trust Estate.	Reasoning
31.	None
Subject to the modifications directed above in the decree of the High Court this appeal is dismissed.	Decision
32.	None
Order accordingly.	None
