 Ray, C.J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave from the judgment D 5111969 of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana.	Issue
The only question is whether the order of termination of the service of the appellant who was a probationer is in violation of R.9 of the Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1952.2.	Issue
The appellant was selected by the Public Service Commission as a direct recruit in May, 1965.	Facts
He was appointed on 26 May, 1965.	Facts
He joined as probationer.	Facts
The period of probation was two years.3.	Facts
Rule 8(b) of the Punjab Police Service Rules, 1959 states that the services of a member recruited by direct appointment may be dispensed with by the Government on his failing to pass the final examination at the end of his period of training, or on his being reported on during or at the end of his period of probation, as unfit for appointment.4.	None
The order terminating the services of the appellant was as follows The President of India is pleased to dispense with the service of Shri Hari Singh Mann, Probationary Deputy Superintendent of Police, Amritsar on the expiry of his extended period of probation with effect from 221969 (A. N.) under R. 8 (b) of the Punjab Police Service Rules.	None
1959, having considered him unfit for appointment to the State Police Service.	None
The period from 20568 to 2868 which has been treated as leave of the kind dues has been excluded from the period of trial (Probation)5.	None
The two contentions which have been advanced before the High Court were repeated here.	Arguments of Petitioner
First, the order of termination was passed on 30 January, 1969 when the petitioner by reason of expiry of three years stood confirmed on 1920 November, 1968.	Arguments of Petitioner
Second the order of termination was one of punishment and the appellant should, therefore, under Rule 9 of the Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules have been given opportunity to show cause against the order of termination.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the aforesaid (Police Service) Rule 8 (b) proviso, the Government could extend the period of probation by not more than one year.	Reasoning
The appellant was appointed on 20 May, 1965 on two years probation.	Reasoning
On 1 July, 1967, there was an order extending the period of probation by one year.	Reasoning
On 20 May, 1968, there was an order terminating the services of the petitioner.	Reasoning
On 20 July, 1968 there was an order revoking the order of termination and extending the period of probation for six months from 20 May, 1968.	Reasoning
The order of termination was (passed) on 3011969.	None
The appellant was on leave from 20 May, 1968 to 2 August, 1968.	None
The Government excluded the period of leave from the period of probation.7.	Reasoning
The object of extending the period of probation is to find out whether the appellant was a fit person.	Reasoning
The appellant could not be confirmed till the period of probation to find out the fitness of the appellant expired.	Reasoning
It cannot therefore be held that the appellant stood confirmed on 1920 November, 1968 before the period of probation expired in January, 1969.8.	Reasoning
The appellant relied on R. 9 of the Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1952.Rule 9 is as follows Where it is proposed to terminate the employment of a probationer, whether during or at the end of the period of probation for any specific fault or on account of the unsatisfactory record or unfavourable reports implying the unsuitability for the service, the probationer shall be apprised of the grounds of such proposal and given an opportunity to show cause against it, before orders are passed by the authority competent to terminate the appointment.9.	Issue
If (Punishment) Rule 9 applies the services of the appellant could not be terminated without complying with the provisions thereof.10.	None
The appellant contended that the order of termination stated that the appellant was considered unfit for appointment and therefore it amounts to punishment to attract R. 9.	None
The appellant extracted a statement from the affidavit of the Inspector General of Police in answer to the appellants petition in the High Court that the appellants record during the period of probation was unsatisfactory.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed on Rule 9 where it is said that if the termination of the Services of a probationer be on account of unsatisfactory record he shall be given an opportunity to show cause against it.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent relied on rule 11 of the Punjab Police Service Rules where it is stated that in matters relating to discipline, penalties and appeals, members of the Service shall be governed by the Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is said by the respondent that Rules 8 and 11 of the Punjab Police Service Rules show that termination of probation which is dealt with in Rule 8 is different from matters relating to penalties which are dealt with in rule 11 of the Punjab Police Service Rules.12.	Arguments of Respondent
Termination on account of unsatisfactory record will attract R. 9 of the Punishment Rules.	Reasoning
It is obvious that at the time of confirmation fitness is a matter to be considered.	Reasoning
The order terminating the services is unfitness for appointment at the time of confirmation, it is not passed on the ground of any turpitude like misconduct or inefficiency.	Reasoning
To hold that the words unfit to be appointed are a stigma would rob the authorities of the power to judge fitness for work or suitability to the post at the time of confirmation.	Reasoning
Termination of services on account of inadequacy for the job or for any temperamental or other defect not involving moral turpitude is not a stigma which can be called discharge by punishment.	Reasoning
Fitness for the job is one of the most important reasons for confirmation.	Reasoning
The facts and circumstance do not show that there is any stigma attached to the order of termination.13.	Reasoning
For these reasons, the appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
Parties will pay and bear their own costs.14.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
