 Bhagwati, J. 1.	None
The short question that arises for determination in this petition under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution lies in a very narrow compass, but in order to arrive at its proper determination it is necessary to state the facts giving rise to the petition in some detail.	None
2.	None
Prior to the reorganisation of the States, which took place on 1st November, 1955 by virtue of the provisions of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, the petitioners were confirmed Tehsildars in the quondam State of Hyderabad which was then a Part B State.	Facts
The Rules of recruitment to the posts of Tehsildar which prevailed in the erstwhile State of Hyderabad provided that 1/3rd of the number of posts shall be filled by promotion from the lower ranks while the remaining 2/3rd shall be filled by direct recruitment on the basis of the result of competitive examination.	Facts
The petitioners belonged to the latter category of directly recruited Tehsildars.	Facts
The next higher cadre above that of Tehsildars was the cadre of the Deputy Collectors and recruitment to that cadre was governed by a notification issued by the Rajpramukh of Hyderabad State on the 15th September, 1955.	Facts
This notification provided that all the vacancies of the cadre of Deputy Collectors shall be filled only by promotion by selection from the cadre of Tehsildars.	Facts
It was common ground between the parties that both the cadres of Tehsildars as well as Deputy Collectors were state cadres.	Facts
3.	None
On 31st August, 1956 the Parliament enacted the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 and that Act brought about reorganisation of almost all the States in India with effect from the appointed day, namely, 1st November, 1956.	Facts
The fasciculus of sections in Part II of the Act altered the territories of the existing States of Madras and Andhra Pradesh and brought into being various other new States.	Facts
We are concerned here only with the formation of the new State of Bombay and we will, therefore, confine our attention to that Section 8 constituted a new State Bombay with territories drawn from various existing States, namely, Bombay, Hyderabad, Madhya Pradesh, Saurashtra and Kutch.	Facts
The old State of Bombay ceased to exist and a new State of Bombay with considerably enlarged territories came into being.	Facts
Since the new State of Bombay comprised territories coming from different existing States, that was naturally bound to give rise to new and complex problems of administration, particularly in the context of increased tempo of developmental activities including land reform measures and the necessity of integrating the services, introducing a unified pattern of administration and unifying the laws in the different territories brought together to form the new State of Bombay.	Facts
The Government of Bombay, therefore, issued a Resolution, dated 1st November, 1956, dividing the territories of the new State into six divisions and placing each Division in the charge of a Divisional Officer.	Facts
The territories of former Saurashtra and Kutch States were grouped together in Rajkot Division, the territories drawn from the former Bombay State, save the District of East Khandesh, in Ahmedabad, Bombay and Poona Divisions, the territories drawn from the former State of Madhya Pradesh in Nagpur Division and the territories drawn from the former Hyderabad State with the addition of East Khandesh District in Aurangabad Division.	Facts
Since the service personnel from these different territories came to be allocated to the new State of Bombay, they had all to be fitted in to form a compact and homogeneous service, and it was, therefore, necessary to decide where and at what place they should be adjusted in the constitution of the new service.	Facts
This process necessarily involved equation of posts, absorption of service personnel in the equated posts and determination of inter se seniority.	Facts
The Government of Bombay, therefore, made The Allocated Government Servants (Absorption, Seniority, Pay and Allowances) Rules, 1957, which we shall hereafter, for the sake of convenience, refer to as the Rules of 1957.	Facts
The Preamble to the Rules of 1957 stated that they were made by the Governor of Bombay in exercise of powers conferred by Art. 309 of the Constitution and with due regard to the proviso to subs.	Facts
(7) of S. 115 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 and with the approval of the Government of India obtained thereunder where necessary.	Facts
The Rules of 1957 provided inter alia for absorption of all persons allotted for Service to the State of Bombay and the determination of their inter se seniority in the cadre of absorption.	Facts
Rule 3 dealt with the case of an allocated Government servant belonging to a local cadre, that is, a cadre other than a State cadre in a former State, but this rule had no application to Tehsildars of ExHyderabad State because they belonged to a State cadre and not to a local cadre.	Facts
Rule 4 enacted a general provision that the appointing authority shall issue an order absorbing each allocated Government servant, other than one covered by Rule 3, in an equivalent post after the equation of posts was made by the Government.	Facts
The Government of Bombay thereafter, by a Resolution dated 21st October, 1957, declared inter alia that the post of Mamlatdars in the former State of Bombay shall be deemed to be equivalent to the posts of Tehsildars allocated from the former State of Hyderabad.	Facts
The petitioners and other Tehsildars allocated from the ExHyderabad State were accordingly absorbed as confirmed Grade II Mamlatdars with effect from 1st November, 1956, and since they were serving in one or the other of the districts of the exHyderabad State which were grouped together with East Khandesh District to constitute Aurangabad Division, it was directed that they should be treated as Grade II Mamlatdars in the Aurangabad division.	Facts
Similarly, by the same Government Resolution dated 21st October, 1957 the posts of Deputy Collector in the former State of Bombay were declared to be equivalent to the posts of Deputy Collector allocated from the former State of Hyderabad.	Facts
4.	None
Prior to the reorganisation of the States different rules of recruitment to the posts of Deputy Collector prevailed in the different regions which went to make up the reorganised State of Bombay.	Facts
We have already referred to the rules contained in the Notification of the Rajpramukh of Hyderabad dated 15th September, 1956.	Facts
Then there were rules enacted by the Government Resolution dated 24th July, 1951 which prevailed in the former State of Bombay.	Facts
There were also similar rules in the other States, namely, Madhya Pradesh, Saurashtra and Kutch.	Facts
The allocated Mamlatdars Tehsildars coming from these different States undoubtedly carried their respective conditions of service with them under S. 115, subS. (7) of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, and those conditions of service included the right to be considered for promotion as Deputy Collector, but the different rules of recruitment which prevailed in the different regions as such became wholly inapposite and incongruous and ceased to be applicable in the new set up.	Facts
The Government of Bombay, therefore, felt that it was necessary to have new rules of recruitment to the posts of Deputy Collector applicable uniformly throughout the territory of the reorganised State and, with that end in view, framed recruitment rules and issued them as appendix to a Resolution dated 30th July, 1959.	Facts
These rules we shall hereafter for the sake of convenience refer as the rules of 30th July, 1959, Rule 1 of these Rules is material and it may be reproduced as followsAppointment to the posts of Deputy Collector shall be made either by nomination or by promotion of suitable Mamlatdars.	Facts
Provided that the ratio of appointment by nomination and by promotion shall, as far as practicable be 50 50.	None
Provided further that half the vacancies reserved for appointment by promotion shall be filled by directly recruited Mamlatdars who have put in at least seven years service in the posts including the period spent on probation.	None
It will be noticed that according to these rules vacancies in the posts of Deputy Collector were to the filled from the three sources 50 by nomination on the basis of the result of competitive examination, 25 by directly recruited Mamlatdars who have put in at least seven years service including the period spent on probation and the remaining 25 by Mamlatdars promoted from the lower ranks in the Revenue Department.	Facts
The reservation of 25 of vacancies in favour of directly recruited Mamlatdars was made by the second proviso to Rule 1, but in Writ Petn.	Facts
No. 845 of 1967 filed by one Kapoor against the Commissioner of Aurangabad Division and Ors.	Facts
a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, by its judgment D  2331968 declared that proviso void as being violative of the equal opportunity clause contained in Art.	Facts
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
The petitioners in this petition disputed the correctness of this view taken by the High Court and contained that the provision enacted in the second proviso to Rule 1 was a valid provision.	Facts
But of that a little later when we deal with the arguments of the parties.	Facts
It is, however, evident that if the second proviso to rule 1 were invalid, 50 of the vacancies in the posts of Deputy Collector would have to be filled by nomination and 50 by promotion of Mamlatdars irrespective of whether they were directly recruited Mamlatdars or Mamlatdars promoted from the lower ranks.	Facts
We may also at this stage refer to one other contention raised on behalf of the petitioners in regard to the rules of 30th July, 1959.	Facts
That contention was that the Rules of 30th July, 1959 did not apply to the allocated Tehsildars from ExHyderabad State who continued to be governed by the recruitment and promotion rules of their erstwhile State.	Facts
This contention was sought to be supported by reference to a letter dated 18th October, 1960 addressed by the Commissioner of Aurangabad Division to the first petitioner in which the Commissioner stated that the Rules of 30th July, 1959 are not applicable to Marathwada officers as they are governed by recruitment and promotion rules of ExHyderabad State which are not yet unified by Government.	Facts
The respondents admitted that such a letter was addressed by the Commissioner to the first petitioner, but said that was due to a bona fide error, and in any even it was not binding on the State Government.	Facts
The respondents urged that the Rules of 30th July, 1959 were unified recruitment rules applicable throughout the whole of reorganised State of Bombay and the promotion of the allocated Tehsildars from ExHyderabad State to the posts of Deputy Collector was governed by those Rules and not by the Ex.Hyderabad rules.	Facts
This controversy as to the scope and extent of the applicability of the Rules of 30th July, 1959 need not, however, detain us, as the same controversy was raised also before the Bombay High Court in Kapoors case and was decided in favour of the State Government, and in view of the cogent reasons given by the Bombay High Court in support of its decision the petitioners did not press their contention and agreed to proceed on the footing that the Rules of 30th July, 1959 governed recruitment to the posts of Deputy Collector throughout the reorganised Bombay State.	Facts
5.	None
It may also be noted that, as in the case of Deputy Collectors, so also in the case of Mamlatdars, the Government of Bombay made unified rules of recruitment by a Resolution dated 19th November, 1959.	Facts
These Rules which we shall for the sake of convenience refer as the Rules of 19th November, 1959 came into force with effect from 111960.	Facts
Rule 1 of these rules is material and it provided that appointment to the posts of Mamlatdars shall be made by nomination on the result of competitive examination or by promotion from amongst the members of subordinate revenue service, provided that as nearly as may be one half of the vacancies in the cadre of Mamlatdars shall be reserved for direct recruits by nomination except in the case of Nagpur Division where a special provision was made that this ratio would not apply till all persons recruited as Naib Tehsildars were either promoted as Tehsildars or rejected as not fit to be so promoted.	Facts
6.	None
Now, according to the respondents, the cadre of Mamlatdar was a divisional cadre and not a State cadre and the reorganised State of Bombay being divided into six divisions, there was a separate cadre of Mamlatdars for each division.	Facts
This position was, however, disputed on behalf of the petitioners and their argument was that though it was true that Mamlatdars were allocated to different divisions, that was only for the sake of administrative convenience and it did not have the effect of splitting up the State cadre of Mamlatdars into divisional cadres.	Facts
The cadre of Mamlatdars always remained one and indivisible and it was a State cadre.	Facts
Now whatever be the correct position in law, and we shall examine that presently, one thing is certain that the State Government proceeded on the basis that the cadre of Mamlatdars was a divisional cadre.	Facts
The procedure that the State Government followed for making appointment to the posts of Deputy Collector by promotion of suitable Mamlatdars Tehsildars from and after 1st November, 1956 was that for each division a select list of Mamlatdars Tehsildars considered fit for promotion as Deputy, Collector was prepared by a reviewing committee every year and from the divisional select list, promotions were made as officiating Deputy Collectors on a divisional basis, and thereafter confirmations in the cadre of Deputy Collectors, which was admittedly a State cadre, were made for the State as a whole after considering the claims of all officiating Deputy Collectors in the State as a whole.	Facts
This procedure does not appear to have the warrant of any legislative rules or administrative orders, but there can be no doubt, from the affidavit in reply filed on behalf of the State Government, that it was in fact followed for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector.	Facts
On 7th April, 1961, the Government issued a Resolution laying down the principles for regulating preparation and revision of select list of Mamlatdars Tehsildars fit to be appointed as Deputy Collectors in the posts to be filled by promotion It may be recapitulated here that under the Rules of 30th July, 1959 the posts to be filled by promotion of suitable Mamlatdars Tehsildars were 25 in case the second proviso to rule 1 were held to be valid and 50 in case it was invalid.	Facts
The Government Resolution dated 7th April, 1961 provided that a committee should, in July August each year, review the claims of all Mamlatdars Tehsildars for promotion to the posts of Deputy Collector and should draw up a select listfor each divisionof those who are considered by the committee fit for promotion, and paragraphs 3 to 7 to this Government Resolution laid down the principles governing the preparation and revision of the divisional select lists.	Facts
The promotions as officiating Deputy Collectors were made division wise on the basis of the divisional select lists and confirmations in the cadre of Deputy Collectors were made according to the combined seniority list of officiating Deputy Collectors.	Facts
Paragraph 17 of the affidavit in reply filed on behalf of the State Government set out the detailed procedure followed by the State Government in this behalf.	Facts
We shall have occasion to refer to this procedure in detail when we examine the respective arguments of the parties and we need not, therefore, elaborate it at this stage.	Facts
Suffice it to point out that it was in accordance with this procedure that the petitioners were promoted as officiating Deputy Collectors in the Aurangabad Division on different dates.	Facts
The consequence of the adoption of this procedure, however, was that some of the allocated Mamlatdars Tehsildars in other divisions, who were junior to the petitioners, became officiating Deputy Collectors earlier than the petitioners and were consequently entitled to be confirmed in the cadre of Deputy Collectors in preference to the petitioners.	Facts
The petitioners actually gave in paragraph 38 of the petition examples of three allocated Mamlatdars from ExBombay State, who were admittedly appointed Mamlatdars later than the petitioners, and yet came to be promoted as officiating Deputy Collectors earlier than the petitioners.	Facts
This was the main cause of grievance of the petitioners in the petition.	Facts
7.	None
Before we conclude the narration of facts we must also refer to Government Resolution dated 29th July, 1963 passed by the Government of Maharashtra which superseded the rule of seniority contained in an earlier Government Resolution dated 21st November, 1941, and provided that The seniority ofpromoted officers in the State Servicesand this would include the service of Deputy Collectorsshould be determined according to the date of promotion to officiate continuously in the case of those appointed by promotion, irrespective of whether the appointments are made in temporary or in permanent vacancies, subject to the provisions of the following clauses (i) (ii) The inter se seniority of officers promoted from the select lists prepared in consultation with the State Public Service Commission should be determined in accordance with the ranks in the select list.	Reasoning
This was the rule which governed the determination of seniority in the cadre of Deputy Collectors.	None
8.	None
Now, various reliefs were claimed by the petitioners in the present petition, but of these reliefs, the petitioners did not press those contained in prayers V, VI and IX to XII.	None
The other reliefs were pressed by the petitioner and they may be summed under the following three grounds(A)	None
The gradation list of Mamlatdars Tehsildars allocated to the State of Bombay as on 1st prepared in accordance with the principle of seniority laid down in Government, Resolution dated 21st November, 1941, and the Government Resolution dated 29th July, 1963 had no application in the determination of such seniority.	None
(B) The Rules of 30th July, 1959 varied the conditions of service of the petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars from ExHyderabad State to their disadvantage without the previous approval of the Central Government as required under the proviso to S. 115, subs.	None
(7) of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, and were, therefore, null and void.	None
If, contrary to this submission, the Rules of 30th July, 1959 were valid, so also was the second proviso to Rule 1 of these Rules, and the Bombay High Court was in error in declaring it to be invalid in Kapoors case.	None
(C)	None
The Government Resolution dated 7th April, 1961, as also the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector followed by the State Government were violative of the equal opportunity clause contained in Art.	None
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
The promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector should have been made on the basis of Statewide seniority of Mamlatdars Tehsildars by selection from amongst Mamlatdards Tehsildars throughout the State as a whole.	Facts
We shall proceed to examine these grounds in the order in which we have set them out, but before we do so we must refer to some objections of a preliminary nature raised on behalf of the respondents 9.	None
The first preliminary objection raised on behalf of the respondents was that the petitioners were guilty of gross laches and delay in filing the petition.	Arguments of Respondent
The divisional cadres of Mamlatdars Tehsildars were created as far back as 1st November, 1956 by the Government Resolution of that date, and the procedure far making promotion to the posts of Deputy Collector on the basis of divisional select lists, which was a necessary consequence of the creation of the divisional cadre of Mamlatdars Tehsildars, had been in operation for a long number of years, at any rate from 7th April, 1961, and the Rules of 30th July, 1959 were also given effect to since the date of their enactment and yet the petitioner did not file the petition until 14th July, 1969.	Facts
There was a delay of more than ten or twelve years in filing the petition since the accrual of the cause of complaint, and this delay, contended the respondents, was sufficient to disentitle the petitioners to any relief in a petition under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution.	Facts
We do not think this contention should prevail with us.	None
In the first place, it must be remembered that the rule which says that the Court may not inquire into belated and stale claims is not a rule of law, but a rule of practice based on sound and proper exercise of discretion, and there is no inviolable rule that whenever there is delay, the court must necessarily refuse to entertain the petition.	None
Each case must depend on its own facts.	None
The question, as pointed out by Hidayatullah, C. J., in Tilockchand Motichand v. H. B. Munshi, (1969) 2 SCR 824 (AIR 1970 SC 898 ) is one discretion for this Court to follow from case to case.	None
There is no lower limit and there is no upper limitIt will all depend on what the breach of the Fundamental Right and the remedy claimed are and how the delay arose.	None
Here the petitioners were informed by the Commissioner, Aurangabad Division, by his letter dated 18th October, 1960 and also by the then Secretary of the Revenue Department in January 1961 that the rules of recruitment to the posts of Deputy Collector in the reorganised State of Bombay had not yet been unified, and that the petitioners continued to be governed by the rules of ExHyderabad State and the Rules of 30th July, 1959 had no application to them.	None
The petitioners were, therefore, justified in proceeding on the assumption that there were no unified rules of recruitment to the posts of Deputy Collector and the promotions that were being made by the State Government were only provisional, to be regularised when unified rules of recruitment were made.	None
It was only when the petition in Kapoors case was decided by the Bombay High Court that the petitioners came to know that it was the case of the State Government in that petition  and that case was accepted by the Bombay High Court  that the Rules of 30th July, 1959 werethe unified rules of recruitment to the posts of Deputy Collector applicable throughout the reorganised State of Bombay.	Facts
The petitioners thereafter did not lose any time in filing the present petition.	None
Moreover, what is challenged in the petition is the validity of the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector  whether it is violative of the equal opportunity clause  and since this procedure is not a thing of the past, but is still being followed by the State Government, it is but desirable that its constitutionality should be adjudged when the question has come before the Court at the instance of parties properly aggrieved by it.	None
It may also be noted that the principle on which the Court proceeds in refusing relief to the petitioner on ground of laches or delay is that the rights which have accrued to others by reason of the delay in filing the petition should not be allowed to be disturbed unless there is reasonable explanation for the delay.	None
This principle was stated in the following terms by Hidayatullah, C. J., in (1969 2 SCR 824 (AIR 1970 SC 898 )	None
The party claiming Fundamental Rights must move the Court before other rights come into existence.	None
The action of courts cannot harm innocent parties if their rights emerge by reason of delay on the part of the person moving the Court.	None
Sikri, J., (as the then was), also restated the same principle in equally felicitous language when he said in	None
R. N.	None
Bose .v	None
Union of India, (1970) 2	None
SCR 697 (AIR 1970 SC 470 )	None
It would be unjust to deprive the respondents of the rights which have accrued to them.	None
Each person ought to be entitled to sit back and consider that his appointment and promotion effected a long time ago would not be set aside after the lapse of a number of years.	None
Here, as admitted by the State Government in paragraph 55 of the affidavit in reply, all promotions that have been made by the State Government are provisional and the position has not been crystallised to the prejudice of the petitioners.	Reasoning
No rights have, therefore, accrued in favour of others by reason of the delay in filing the petition.	Reasoning
The promotions being provisional, they have not conferred any rights on those promoted and they are by their very nature liable to be set at naught, if the correct legal position, as finally determined, so requires.	Reasoning
We were also told by the learned counsel for the petitioners, and that was not controverted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State Government, that even if the petition were allowed and the reliefs claimed by the petitioners granted to them, that would not result in the reversion of any Deputy Collector or officiating Deputy Collector to the post of Mamlatdar Tehsildarthe only effect would be merely to disturb their inter se seniority as officiating Deputy Collectors or as Deputy Collectors Moreover, it may be noticed that the claim for enforcement of the fundamental right of equal opportunity under Art.	Reasoning
16 is itself a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 32 and this Court which has been assigned that role of a sentinel on the qui vive for protection of the fundamental rights cannot easily allow itself to be persuaded to refuse relief solely of the jujune ground of laches, delay or the like.	Reasoning
10.	None
The respondents then contended that though the petitioners were not parties to the petition in Kapoors case, some of the respondents in that petition were directly recruited Tehsildars like the petitioners and the dispute of directly recruited Tehsildars as a class was agitated in that case and decided and consequently if the judgment of the Bombay High Court in regard to such dispute was incorrect, the petitioners could always apply for a review of that judgment, as did the parties in Shivdeo Singh v. State of Punjab, AIR 1963 SC 1909 .	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioners had this alternative legal remedy of review available to them, and there was no reason why, instead of pursuing that remedy, the petitioners should have filed the present petition under Art 32.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention is also without force, and for three very good reasons.	None
In the first place, it is difficult to see how the petitioners could have applied for review of the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Kapoors case.	Reasoning
The petitioners were not persons directly and immediately affected by the judgment and it could not be said that they were necessary parties to the petition who should have been heard before the judgment was given, as was the case in AIR 1963 SC 1909 .	Reasoning
The petitioners had, therefore, no locus to apply for review of that judgment.	Reasoning
Secondly the subject matter of the present petition is, barring only one question which is common, namely, the question as to the validity of the second proviso to rule 1 of the Rules of 30th July, 1959, wholly different from that of the petition in Kapoors case, and asking for review of the judgment in Kapoors case would be no remedy at all so far as the reliefs claimed in the present petition are concerned.	Reasoning
Lastly, the remedy by way of review of a judgment given in another case in which the petitioners are not parties can hardly be said to be an adequate alternative legal remedy available to the petitioners.	Reasoning
11.	None
The third preliminary objection raised on behalf of the respondents was that it was not competent to the Court to pronounce on the validity of the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector in the absence of other Mamlatdars Tehsildars who might he interested in supporting the procedure.	Arguments of Respondent
This objection is equally futile.	None
Those who are already promoted according to the impugned procedure and whose position visavis the petitioners would be likely to be affected by the invalidation of such procedure are before the Court as parties to the petition.	None
Only those Mamlatdars Tehsildars are not made parties to the petition who are not promoted as officiating Deputy Collectors or who are, even on the basis of the promotions made under the impugned procedure junior to the petitioners.	Reasoning
But these Mamlatdars Tehsildars are not necessary parties to the petition, as they would not be adversely affected visavis the petitioners even if the impugned procedure were held to be invalid.	Reasoning
All those who are necessary parties are before the Court and there is, therefore, no impediment in the way of the Court proceeding to decide the questions raised for its determination.	None
Having rejected these preliminary objections, we shall now turn to examine the grounds of challenge urged on behalf of the petitioners.	None
11A. Re	None
Ground A	None
The argument under this ground of challenge was that the seniority of the petitioners visavis other Mamlatdars Tehsildars in the reorganised State of Bombay was liable to be determined according to the principle laid down in the Government Resolution dated 21st November, 1941 and the Government Resolution dated 29th July, 1963 had no application.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument is a little difficult to comprehend.	None
We fail to see how either of the two Government Resolutions dated 21st November, 1941 and 29th July, 1963 comes into the picture in determining the seniority of the petitioners qua other allocated MamlatdarsTehsildars as on 1st November, 1956.	Reasoning
The inter se seniority of the Tehsildars and Mamlatdars allocated from the former States of Hyderabad, Madhya Pradesh, Bombay, Saurahstra and Kutch to the reorganised State of Bombay as on 1st November, 1956 would be governed by Rules 7, 8 and 9 of the Rules of 1957, and neither the Government Resolution dated 21st November, 1941 nor the Government Resolution dated 29th July, 1963 would have any application.	Reasoning
Prayer II of the petition must accordingly be rejected.	None
12.	None
Re Ground B	None
The petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars from ExHyderabad State had, under the Notification of the Rajpramukh dated 15th September, 1956, all the vacancies in the posts of Deputy Collector in the ExHyderabad State available to them for promotion, but under the Rules of 30th July, 1959, 50 of the vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment and only the remaining 50 were available for promotion and that too on divisional basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
This according to the petitioners, constituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorganisation of the States and since such variation was affected by the Rules of 30th July, 1959 without obtaining the previous approval of the Central Government as required under the proviso to Section 115, subsection (7) of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, the Rules of 30th July 1959 were invalid.	None
This contention of the petitioners we find difficult to accept.	None
All that happened as a result of making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collectors divisionwise and limiting such promotions to 50 of the total number of vacancies in the posts of Deputy Collector was to reduce the chances of promotion available to the petitioners.	None
It is now well settled by the decision of this Court in State of Mysore v. G. B. Purohit, C.A. No. 2281 of 1965, D  2511967 (SC) that though a right to be considered for promotion is a service, mere chances of promotion are not.	None
A rule which merely affects chances of promotion cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.	None
In Purohits case the districtwise seniority of sanitary inspector was changed to Statewise seniority, and as a result of this change the respondents went down in seniority and became very junior.	None
This, it was urged, affected their chances of promotion which were protected under the proviso to Section 115.	None
subsection (7).	None
This contention was negatived and Wanchoo, J. (as he then was), speaking on behalf of this Court observed It is said on behalf of the respondents that as their chances of promotion have been affected their conditions of service have been changed to their disadvantage.	None
We see no force in this argument because chances of promotion are not conditions of service.	None
It is, therefore, clear that neither the Rules of 30th July, 1959, nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.	None
The proviso to Section 115, subs.	None
(7) is accordingly not attracted and the Rules of 30th July, 1959 cannot be assailed as invalid on ground on noncompliance with that proviso.	None
So far as the question of validity of the second proviso to R. 1 of the Rules of 30th July, 1959 is concerned, there can be no doubt that the Bombay High Court was right in declaring it to be invalid.	Reasoning
It can hardly be disputed that both the directly recruited Mamlatdars as well as the promotee Mamlatdars from one class.	Reasoning
They are both known by the same designation.	Reasoning
They have same scales of pay.	Reasoning
They discharge the same functions.	Reasoning
The posts held by them are interchangeable.	Reasoning
There is nothing to show that the two groups are kept apart.	Reasoning
Both are merged together in the same Class.	Reasoning
It is not competent to the Government thereafter to discriminate between directly recruited Mamlatdars and promotee Mamlatdars in the matter of further promotion to the posts of Deputy Collector.	Reasoning
That would be violative of Art.	Reasoning
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
This is abundantly clear from the decisions of this Court in Mervyn Continho v. Collector of Customs, Bombay, (1966) 3	Reasoning
SCR 600 (AIR 1967 SC 52 ) and S. H. Pandit v. The State of Gujarat, AIR 1972 SC 252 (1972 Lab IC 155).In fact S. M. Pandits case is directly in point.	Reasoning
The facts of the present case are almost indistinguishable from S. M. Pandits case.	Reasoning
The second proviso to Rule 1 of the Rules of 30th July, 1959 must consequently be held to be bad as being in conflict with Art.	Reasoning
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
13.	None
Re Ground C	None
The first question that would logically seem to arise under this ground of challenge is whether in the reorganised State of Bombay the cadre of Mamlatdars was a State cadre or a divisional cadre.	Issue
There is no doubt that in the former State of Hyderabad the cadre of Mamlatdars was a State cadre.	Issue
What was the nature of the cadre of Mamlatdars in the former State of Bombay was a matter of dispute between the parties.	None
The petitioners said that it was a State cadre, while the respondents asserted that it was a divisional cadre.	None
It is not possible to resolve this controversy on affidavits as it raised a disputed question of fact, and we must, therefore, without finally deciding the question proceed on the basis that in the former State of Bombay the cadre of Mamlatdars was a divisional cadre as alleged by the respondents.	None
Nothing, however, turns upon this fact except to indicate that if the cadre of Mamlatdars in the reorganised State of Bombay was constituted into a divisional cadre, it was not something radically new it was in line with what prevailed in the former State of Bombay.	Facts
Now, let us examine what happened on the reorganisation of the States.	None
The allocated Mamlatdars Tehsildars coming from different regions were absorbed in the equated posts of Mamlatdars and the question arose as to how they should be integrated in the new service.	None
Should they be formed into a State cadre as in ExHyderabad State or into a divisional cadre as in ExBombay State?	None
The State Government had to make up its mind on this question and, in the absence of legislative rules, it was competent to the State Government to take a decision in the exercise of its executive power under Art.	None
162 of the Constitution, vide B. N. Nagarajan v. State of Mysore (1966) 3	None
SCR 682 (AIR 1966 SC 1942 ) and Sant Ram v. State of Rajasthan, (1968) 1	None
SCR 111 (AIR 1967 SC 1910 ).	None
The State Government accordingly decided by Government Resolution dated 1st November, 1956 that while recruitment to the posts of Mamlatdars should be on all State basis, the cadre of Mamlatdars should be according to the divisions.	None
It was contended on behalf of the petitioners that the constitution of Mamlatdars into divisional cadres was contrary to the Bombay Civil Services Classification and Recruitment Rules which were statutory rules made by the Governor under S. 241 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
These Rules, said the petitioners, classified the service of Mamlatdars as a Provincial Service and that showed that the cadre of Mamlatdars was a Provincial or State cadre.	None
Now it is true that under the Bombay Civil Services Classification and Recruitment Rules the service of Mamlatdars is regarded as a Provincial Service as distinguished from Subordinate Service, but that does not necessarily mean that it cannot be organised into divisional cadres.	None
The only difference between Provincial service and Subordinate service recognised in these Rules is that whereas appointments to provincial services  shall be made by Government or by an authority empowered by Government in this behalf, recruitment to Subordinate Service shall be made by Heads of Departments and those Heads of Offices to whom powers have been delegated subject to the provisions of these rules and under the general control of Government.	None
There is nothing in these Rules which says that a Provincial service may not consist of divisional cadres.	None
The organisation of Mamlatdars into divisional cadres cannot, therefore, be said to be in conflict with these Rules and on that account invalid.	None
In fact we find legislative recognition of the constitution of divisional cadres of Mamlatdars in the Rules of 19th November, 1959 which are admittedly statutory rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The proviso to Rule 1 proceeds on the basis that the cadre of Mamlatdars is a divisional cadre and in reference to each divisional cadre, goes on to provide that one half of the vacancies shall be filled by nomination and one half by promotion, except in case of divisional cadre of Nagpur division where this provision would not apply until after all persons recruited as Naib Tehsildars are either promoted as Mamlatdars or rejected as not to be so promoted.	Reasoning
There can, therefore, be no doubt that right from 1st November, 1956 the cadre of Mamlatdars was a divisional cadre and not a State cadre.	Reasoning
It is equally clear from the Government Resolution dated 1st November, 1956 as well as the affidavits that the cadre of Deputy Collectors was a State cadre.	None
The question is whether the procedure followed by the State Government for making promotions to the State cadre of Deputy Collectors from the divisional cadres of Mamlatdars was consistent with Article 16 of the Constitution.	Issue
Did it ensure equality of opportunity for promotion to Mamlatdars belonging to the different divisional cadres?	Issue
14.	None
While examining this question it is necessary to compare the procedure followed in regard to direct recruitment to the cadre of Deputy Collectors.	None
As we have already pointed out above, the Rules of 30th July, 1959 provided that 50 of the vacancies in the cadre of Deputy Collectors shall be filled by direct recruitment.	None
Since the cadre of Deputy Collectors was a State cadre, 50 of the vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment were determined on the basis of vacancies in the cadre for the State as a whole and not for any particular division of the state.	None
The direct recruitment was made on a Statewide basis without any attempt to see that there was divisionwise representation.	None
But in regard to promotion by which the other 50 of the vacancies in the cadre of Deputy Collectors were to be filled, the State Government adopted a wholly different procedure.	None
Though a common seniority list of all the Mamlatdars in the State, irrespective of the divisions to which they belonged, could be prepared without any difficulty on the basis of the Rules of 1957 for the allocated Mamlatdars Tehsildars and for the subsequent appointees, on the principle of continuous officiation upto 2971963 and thereafter according to the rule laid down in Government Resolution dated 29th July, 1963and a common Statewide select list could also be made of Mamlatdars found fit for promotion as Deputy Collectors and promotion to the cadre of Deputy Collectors could be made on the basis of such Statewide select list, the State Government did not choose to follow this method and instead made promotions to the cadre of Deputy Collectors which was a State cadre on the basis of divisional select lists.	Facts
The procedure followed by the State Government for making promotions was as follows The Review Committee prepared every year for each division a separate divisional select list of those Mamlatdars who were found fit for promotion as Deputy Collectors.	Facts
Where Mamlatdars were brought on the divisional select list at the same time, their names were ordinarily arranged according to their seniority in the divisional cadre but in case of Mamlatdar of outstanding merit, a higher rank might be given to him in the divisional select list than that warranted by his seniority.	None
Subject to this provision, the seniority of Mamlatdars in the Divisional select list was determined by the date of their entry in the list.	None
When a vacancy arose in the post of Deputy Collector in a division and it was likely to last for three months or more, the Mamlatdar whose name was highest in the Divisional select list and who was not already officiating, was promoted as officiating Deputy Collector in the vacant post.	Reasoning
The name of such Mamlatdar, though promoted as officiating Deputy Collector, however, continued in the divisional select list until he was confirmed in the cadre of Deputy Collectors or retired from service whichever happened earlier.	None
Now, the ranking in the divisional select list did not remain constant.	None
There was periodical review of the work of the officiating Deputy Collectors and on such review, the ranking in the divisional select list was adjusted so as to reflect the assessment of the relative merits of the officiating Deputy Collectors e.g. an officiating Deputy Collector who had a better record of service might be placed higher than another with less meritorious record and so on and so forth in descending order of merit.	None
The promotions as officiating Deputy Collector were thus made for each division separately on the basis of its divisional select list in which the ranking kept on changing periodically as a result of review and assessment.	Facts
Then for the purpose of confirmation in the cadre of Deputy Collectors, a combined seniority list of officiating Deputy Collectors from all divisions was prepared.	None
The procedure followed for the purpose of preparing the combined seniority list was as follows In the first place deemed dates of continuous officiation were given to the officiating Deputy Collectors from each division with a view to ensuring that their inter se ranking in the divisional select list was not affected by the fact that an officer lower in rank in the divisional select list might have been officiating as Deputy Collector for a longer period than another in higher rank.	Reasoning
This was done by providing that the officer who was highest in the rank in the divisional select list should be given the date of continuous officiation of the officer who had the longest period of officiation as Deputy Collector and the officer next to him in rank should be given the date of continuous officiation of the officer who had officiated next longest as Deputy Collector and so on till the dates of continuous officiation of all officers were adjusted so as to reflect their inter se seniority in the divisional select list.	Reasoning
Thus, if A, B and C were officiating Deputy Collectors in a division having 1st January, 1960, 1st July, 1960 and 1st January, 1961 respectively as their dates of continuous officiation and in the divisional select list their ranking was first C. second B and last A, their deemed dates of continuous officiation would be 1st January, 1960 for C, 1st	Reasoning
July, 1960 for B and 1st January, 1961 for A. Then on the basis of the deemed dates of continuous officiation given to the officiating Deputy Collectors in the each division, a combined Statewise seniority list of officiating Deputy Collectors was prepared and confirmations in the cadre of Deputy Collectors were made in accordance with the seniority in such combined Statewise seniority list.	Reasoning
This was the procedure followed by the State Government and it has to meet the challenge of Art.	Reasoning
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
15.Now, it is clear that this procedure suffers from a serious infirmity in that it provides for promotions to the State cadre of Deputy Collectors to be made on the basis of divisional select lists.	Reasoning
That clearly amounts to denail of equality of opportunity to Mamlatdars in the State in the matter of promotion to the cadre of Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
If a Mamlatdard aspires to be promoted to the cadre of Deputy Collectors which is the next higher cadre of promotion for him, he has to be promoted first as officiating Deputy Collector.	Reasoning
It is only after he is promoted as officiating Deputy Collector that he can become eligible to be confirmed in the cadre of Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
But, in order to be promoted as officiating Deputy Collector, he has to wait until a vacancy occurs in the post of Deputy Collector in his division.	Reasoning
Even if he is senior to a Mamlatdar in another division and more suitable, he cannot be promoted to officiate in a vacancy which arises in the other division.	Reasoning
His opportunity for promotion is limited to a vacancy in his own division.	Reasoning
The consequence is that if a vacancy in the post of Deputy Collector arises earlier in one division, a Mamlatdar in the select list of that division would get promoted as officiating Deputy Collectorearlier than a Mamlatdar in another division where a vacancy in the post of Deputy Collector arises later and, subject to the operation of the rule of deemed dates of continuous officiation, that would mean that the former would gain entry in the cadre of Deputy Collectors earlier than the latter, even though the former may be junior and less suitable than the latter.	Reasoning
The entry in the cadre of Deputy Collectors is thus made to depend not on the assessment of the relative merits of a Mamlatdar visavis the other Mamlatdars in the State, but on the fortuitous circumstances as to when a vacancy in the post of Deputy Collector arises in the division to which the Mamlatdar belongs.	Reasoning
This is clearly violative of the equal opportunity clause because it is wholly unrelated to the object and purpose of promotion which is to secure an efficient cadre of Deputy Collectors and in fact negates it.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that the cadre of Deputy Collectors is a State cadre and for promotion to such State cadre every Mamlatdar must have equal opportunity to be considered.	Reasoning
Where promotion is made by selection on the basis of meritcumseniority, every Mamlatdar should be able to enter the lists he should have equal opportunity with others for being considered for promotion.	Reasoning
There must be one common door for entry into the cadre of Deputy Collectors through which every Mamlatdar should be equally entitled to enter, provided he is selected on the application of the principles of meritcumseniority.	Reasoning
There cannot be six doors of entry, one door available exclusively for the Mamlatdars of each division.	Reasoning
That is bound to create inequality of opportunity in the matter of promotion.	Reasoning
It is true that confirmations in the cadre of Deputy Collectors are made on the basis of combined seniority list of officiating Deputy Collectors, but that does not cure the infirmity in the mode of promotion.	Reasoning
The allotment of deemed dates of continuous officiation cannot help retrieve those who have had no opportunity to be promoted as officiating Deputy Collectors, not on account of want of higher seniority or better merit, but purely on account of lack of adequate number of vacancies in the post of Deputy Collector arising in their division.	None
Moreover, since the Officiating Deputy Collectors are still substantively Mamlatdars and it is in virtue of their being Mamlatdars that they are eligible to be promoted to the cadre of Deputy Collectors by confirmation, the combined seniority list of officiating Deputy Collectors is in truth and reality nothing but a combined select list of Mamlatdars prepared by amalgamating the divisional select lists.	Reasoning
The amalgamation of the divisional select lists is not made on a comparative assessment of the relative merits of the Mamlatdars in the divisional select lists so as to produce a combined seniority list based on meritcumseniority, but it proceeds on the basis of deemed dates of continuous officiation as Deputy Collectors given to Mamlatdars in their respective divisional select lists.	None
The giving of deemed dates of continuous officiation no doubt reflects the relative merits of the Mamlatdars in each division taken as a separate unit, but it does not seek to adjust the seniority of the approved Mamlatdars in all the divisions taken as a whole on the basis of assessment of their relative merits.	None
It does not, therefore, eliminate the inequality of treatment which inheres at the initial stage of promotion as officiating Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
The vice on inequality of opportunity continues to inhibit promotions to the cadre of Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
The procedure followed by the State Government in making promotions must, therefore, be held to be violative of Art.	Reasoning
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
16.	None
The respondents, however, relied very heavily on the decision of this Court in Ram Saran v. Deputy Inspector General of Police, (1964) 7	None
SCR 228 (AIR 1964 SC 1559 ) and contended that this decision gives approval to the mode of promotion adopted by the State Government in the present case.	None
We do not think so.	None
Read superficially it might appear that this decision supports the contention of the respondents, but if we scrutinise it closely, it would be apparent that not only it does not render any assistance to the respondents but actually goes against them.	None
To understand the true ratio of this decision it is necessary to notice the facts in some detail.	None
The police force in the State of Rajasthan was constituted under Police Act, 1861, and under S. 2 of that Act it was deemed to be one police force for the whole State under the control and supervision of the Inspector General of Police.	None
The entire area of the State was, for administrative convenience, divided into four ranges, each under the charge of a Deputy Inspector General of Police.	None
Each range comprised various district organisations under Superintendents of Police.	None
The initial recruitment to the police force was in the rank of constable and that was done within the district by the Superintendent of Police.	None
The cadre of constables was a district cadre.	None
The promotion from the cadre of constables to the next higher cadre of head constables was made within the district by the Superintendent of Police on the basis of district wise select list of approved constables.	None
The cadre of Head Constables was also a district cadre.	None
The further promotion from the cadre of Head Constables to the cadre of SubInspectors was made within the range by the Deputy Inspector General of Police and for this purpose all the Head Constables in the range were considered as one group for promotion to the rank of SubInspectors and promotion was made on the basis of rangewise select list of approved Head Constables.	None
Whenever a vacancy in the post of SubInspector of Police arose in a range, the Deputy Inspector General of Police of that range would make promotion from the select list of his range according to seniority and conversely if reversion were to take place, the junior most Head Constable officiating as SubInspector in the range would revert.	None
The cadre of SubInspectors was thus clearly a range cadre.	None
So far as the next higher cadre of Inspectors is concerned, that was a State cadre and promotion to that cadre was made by the Inspector General of Police for the State as a whole on the basis of Statewise select list of approved SubInspectors.	None
Now what happened in this case was that the petitioner who was promoted to the rank of SubInspector from the rank of Head Constable was reverted when a permanent SubInspector returned to the range, as he was the juniormost approved Head Constable officiating as SubInspector in that range, though in other ranges there were many approved Head Constables who were junior to him and yet continued to officiate as SubInspectors.	None
The petitioner thereupon filed a petition under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution challenging the rangewise system of promotion from the rank of Head Constables to the rank of SubInspectors inter alia on the ground that the whole police force being one, the practice of promotion of Head Constables to officiate as SubInspectors rangewise amounted to denial of equality of opportunity under Arts.	None
14 and 16 of the Constitution.	None
While dealing with this ground of challenge the Court pointed out that at the level of Constables and Head Constables local knowledge was conductive to administrative efficiency and that was the reason why recruitment of Constables and their promotion as Head constables was on districtwise basis and even for the post of SubInspector, local knowledge was regarded as useful, and therefore, while widening the area, selections to the post of SubInspector were confined within the range, in regard to the post of Inspector, however, local knowledge was not insisted upon as the work of Inspector is mostly of a supervisory nature and hence promotion to the rank of Inspectors was provided on Statewide basis.	None
The Court then proceeded to observe If the State has evolved the three tier system of giving promotion from constables to headconstables, from headconstables to subInspectors and form SubInspectors to Inspectors, which is done in the interest of administrative efficiency of the police force, it cannot in our opinion be said that such a system should be struck down on the ground that the police force being deemed one for the whole State, promotion throughout from constable upwards should be on the basis of the whole State.	None
Apart from administrative difficulties which may arise if all promotion of members in the police force is concentrated in the hands of the Inspector General of Police which is what the petitioner is contending for, it seems to us that there is a good deal of force in the contention of the State that the three tier system works for the efficiency of the police force of these ranks and is designed with that object On this reasoning the Court negatived the constitutional challenge to the validity of the system of promotion.	None
17.	None
It will be seen from this analysis of the reasoning of the decision in Ram Sarans case, (1964) 7	None
SCR 228 (AIR 1964 SC 1559 ) that far from negativing the contention of the petitioners, it goes a long way towards supporting it.	None
In Ram Sarans case the cadre of SubInspectors was a range cadre and promotion to that cadre in each range was made on the basis of select list of approved Head Constables from that particular range.	None
This mode of promotion which confined promotions from Head Constables to SubInspectors within the range was upheld by this Court because it was calculated to make available the advantage of local knowledge in a post where such local knowledge would be useful in promoting the interest of administrative efficiency of the police force.	None
But the basic feature underlying this mode of promotion was, and that is vital to the understanding of the true ratio of this decision, that in respect of promotion to the range cadre of SubInspectors all the Head Constables in the rangewere eligible for being considered and promotion to such range cadre was made on the basis of rangewise selection list prepared by taking into account the relative merits ofall the Head Constables in the range.	None
Every Head Constable in the range had, therefore, equal opportunity of promotion to the range cadre of SubInspectors.	None
Here in the present case, however, as we have already pointed out above, the procedure adopted by the State Government provided for promotion to the State cadre of Deputy Collectors, not on the basis of State wise select list, but on the basis of divisional select lists of Mamlatdars.	Reasoning
This is a very vital point on which the mode of promotion in the present case differed from that in Ram Sarans case, (1964) 7	None
SCR 228 (AIR 1964 SC 1559 ).	None
If the cadre of Deputy Collectors had been a divisional cadre, there would have been no objection in providing that the promotion to that cadre shall be divisionwise on the basis of divisional select lists.	None
Then the analogy in Ram Sarans case, would have been complete.	None
But here the cadre of Deputy Collectors was admittedly a State cadre and not a divisional cadre and divisionwise promotion to such cadre on the basis of divisional select lists could not, therefore, be justified on the ratio of the decision in Ram Sarans case.	None
It may be noticed that in Ram Sarans case, in regard to promotion to the State cadre of Inspectors, the procedure followed was to have a Statewise select list of approved SubInspectors from all over the State and to make promotion to the State cadre of Inspectors on the basis of such Statewise select list.	None
The promotion to the State cadre of Inspectors was not made rangewise on the basis of separate select lists of SubInspectors of each range.	None
If that had been done, and upheld by this Court, the argument of the respondents would have been almost unassailable.	None
But the promotion to the State cadre of Inspectors was on a Statewise basis.	None
The ratio of the decision in Ram Sarans case, does not, therefore, support the contention that promotion to a State cadre can be made on the basis of divisional select lists.	None
On the contrary, it suggests that if the cadre is a divisional cadre, there can be divisionwise promotion on the basis of divisional select lists, but if it is a State cadre, promotion must be on Statewide basis so that every officer in the State has equal opportunity of promotion to the State cadre.	None
Ram Sarans case, therefore, impliedly supports the view which we have taken on a priori reasoning.	None
The respondents faintly attempted to argue that in the present case there was an intermediate cadre of officiating Deputy Collectors between the cadre of Mamlatdars and the cadre of Deputy Collectors and promotion from the cadre of Mamlatdars lay to the cadre of officiating Deputy Collectors and it was from the cadre of officiating Deputy Collectors that one could obtain promotion to the cadre of Deputy Collectors.	None
The cadre of officiating Deputy Collectors was a divisional cadre, and therefore, promotion to it was divisionwise on the basis of divisional select lists, while the cadre of Deputy Collectors was a State cadre and hence promotion to it was Statewide on the basis of the combined seniority list of all officiating Deputy Collectors in the State.	None
This was in accord with the pattern of promotion in Ram Sarans case, (1964) 7	None
SCR 228 (AIR 1964 SC 1559 ) and was, therefore, valid.	None
This contention of the respondents is without force.	None
The premise on which it is founded is incorrect.	None
It is wholly contradicted by the Rules of 30th July, 1959 which are admittedly statutory rules.	None
These Rules provide that appointment to 50 of the posts of Deputy Collectors shall be made by promotion of suitable.	None
Mamlatdars.	None
The promotion that is spoken of in these Rules is promotion from the cadre of Mamlatdars to the cadre of Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
These Rules completely negative the existence of any intermediate cadre of officiating Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
It is difficult to see how in the face of these Rules which have statutory effect,it can ever be contended that promotion to the cadre of Depty Collectors was not from the cadre of Mamlatdars but from the socalled cadre of officiating Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
Of course it is true that a Mamlatdar cannot be promoted to the cadre of Deputy Collectors unless he has first officiated as Deputy Collector, but when he is promoted, it is from the cadre of Mamlatdars and not from any supposed cadre of officiating Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
In fact there is no legislative rule or executive order providing for the creation of such an intermediate cadre of officiating Deputy Collectors.	Reasoning
18.	None
We, therefore, hold that the second proviso to Rule 1 of the Rules of 30th July, 1959 is void as being violative of Art.	Decision
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
We also declare the procedure for promotion to the cadre of Deputy Collectors followed by the State Government to be invalid on the ground that it denies equality of opportunity of promotion and is therefore hit by Art.	Decision
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
The Government Resolution dated 7th April, 1961 must also be quashed and set aside for the same reason.	Decision
We direct the State Government to readjust the promotions as officiating Deputy Collectors as also the confirmations in the cadre of Deputy Collectors in the light of the principles laid down in this judgment.	Decision
The readjustment shall be made with retrospective effect and the petitioners shall be given the benefit of seniority, pay and other allowances from the respective dates on which they would have been promoted, had the promotions been made on the correct basis indicated in the judgment, subject to the qualification that so far as arrears of pay and other allowances are concerned, they may not be given for the period prior to the filing of the petition.	Decision
The first respondent will pay the costs of the petition to the petitioners.	Decision
19.	None
Before we part with this case we may add a paragraph by way of epilogue.	Reasoning
We find in the course of our judicial experience, and we notice this fact with some apprehension that members of public services in alarmingly large numbers resort to legal remedies in courts of law for agitating their grievances in regard to service matters.	Reasoning
This phenomenon is symptomatic of a sense of injustice and subversive of that undivided and devoted attention of official duties which is so essential for efficient and any dynamic functioning of the Government.	Reasoning
It can, therefore, hardly be overemphasised that there is great need for simplifying and streamlining service rules and giving them statutory shape so as to promote contentment among the services by extending the areas of equal treatment and imparting stability to conditions of service.	Reasoning
It is not desirable that the fortunes of such a vital and strategic instrument of Government as the public services should be left to be governed by mere departmental resolutions and executive instructions.	Reasoning
These cannot take the place of statutory rules which alone can impart stability and security and ensure observance of the rule of law.	Reasoning
Legal rules must govern the recruitment and conditions of public servants so that there is no arbitrariness or inequality in State action in regard to them and the rule of law is not eroded.	Reasoning
And such rules should preferably be framed without avoidable delay and after consultation with groups which apprehend discriminatory treatment as that would go a long way to produce a sense of contentment and satisfaction.	Reasoning
We make these observations not with a view to casting any reflection on the administration but to highlight a problem which has come to our notice quite often, in the hope that it will help appreciate the social dimensions of the problem and the damage to public interest which may be likely to result if the problem is not promptly and satisfactorily resolved.	Reasoning
20.	None
Petition allowed.	None
