 N. BHAGWATI, J.1.	None
These five appeals by special leave raise a short but interesting question of law relating to the applicability of section 171, subsection (6) of the Incometax Act, 1961, (hereinafter referred to as the new Act ).	None
The facts giving rise to these appeals are few and may be briefly stated as follows There was at all material times a Hindu undivided family consisting of one Gulabdas, his wife and five sons.	Facts
The Hindu undivided family had considerable movable properties consisting of shares in limited companies and jewellery and it was also a partner through its manager and karta in two firms which may for the sake of convenience be referred to as the export firm and the mining firm .	Facts
It appears that besides these movable properties, the Hindu undivided family also, owned some immovable properties.	Facts
On 15th November, 1955, there was a partial partition among the members of the Hindu undivided family and the movable properties were divided including the credit balances after taking into account the debit balances in the export firm and the mining firm.	Facts
These movable properties, which formed the subjectmatter of partial partition, were of the value of Rs. 4, 87, 054 and they were divided amongst the members, of the Hindu undivided family in such a manner that Gulabdas got properties worth Rs. 53, 442 his wife got properties worth Rs. 50, 000, while each of the five sons got properties worth Rs. 76, 722.	Facts
The consequence of this partial partition was, that the Hindu undivided family ceased to be a partner in the export firm and the mining firm and thereafter Gulabdas and his son, Govinddas, continued as partners in these two firms in their individual capacity.2.	Facts
When the Hindu undivided family was sought to be assessed for the assessment year 195758, for which the relevant previous year was Samvat year commencing from 16th November, 1955, a claim was made on behalf of the members of the Hindu undivided family that they had effected a partial partition of their movable properties an 15th November, 1955.	Facts
This claim was accepted by the Incometax Officer after due inquiry and a finding was recorded by him in the order of assessment that there was a partial partition of the movable properties of the Hindu undivided, family on 15th November, 1955.	Facts
The result was that from and after the assessment year 195758, no part of the income of the export firm or the mining firm was included in the assessment of the Hindu undivided familyNow, it appears that the assessments of the export firm and the mining firm relating to the assessment years 195051 to 195657 were reopened after the new Act came into force and reassessments were made enhancing the assessable income of the two firms in accordance with the procedure provided in the new Act.	Facts
Consequent upon the reassessments of the income of the two firms for the assessment years 195051 to 195657, notices were issued to the Hindu undivided family for reassessments of its income for those years, since the Hindu undivided family was a partner in these two firms during those years.	Facts
The Incometax Officer, after following the requisite procedure, passed an order of reassessment dated 26th March, 1970, for each of the assessment years 195051 to 195657 enhancing the assessable income of the Hindu undivided family.	Facts
The appeals filed by the two firms against the orders of reassessment made on them partially succeeded before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and, consequently, orders were passed by the Incometax Officer on 25th March, 1971, rectifying the orders orders of reassessment dated 26th March, 1970, made against the Hindu undivided family.	Facts
The two firms obtained some further relief as a result of appeals filed by them before, the Tribunal and, in consequence, further rectification orders dated 3rd September, 1974, were passed by the Incometax Officer rectifying the reassessments of the Hindu undivided family.	Facts
The net effect of these orders, of rectification passed by the Incometax Officer was that ultimately a much larger amount of tax was determined as payable by the Hindu, undivided family than what was found due when the original assessments were made for the assessment years 195051 to 195657.3.	Facts
So far, the members of the Hindu undivided family had no grievance, because what was done by the Incometax Officer was merely to carry outreassessment or rectification of assessment of the income of the Hindu undivided family consequent upon enhancement of the assessable income, of the two firms in which the Hindu undivided family was a partner during the assessment years 195051 to 195657.	Facts
But on 25th January, 1974, the Incometax Officer made certain orders in respect of the assessment years 195051 to 195455 and 195657, which prejudicially affected the interest of the petitioners.	Facts
The Incometax Officer, by these orders, determined the several liability of the members of the Hindu undivided family under section 171, subsection (7), of the new Act by apportioning the tax assessed on the Hindu undivided family for the assessment years 195051 to 195455 and 195657 amongst the members in the proportion of 2/7ths share to Gulabdasthis perhaps also includes the share of his wifeand 1/7th share to each of the five sons.	Facts
These orders were subsequently rectified by orders dated 3rd September, 1974, revising the allocation of the tax liability, consequent upon the rectification made in the orders of assessment against the Hindu, undivided family as a result of the relief granted to the two firms by the Tribunal.	Facts
The orders dated 3rd September, 1974, also proceeded on the same lines and allocated the tax liability of the Hindu undivided family amongst the members in the same shares as the earlier orders.	Facts
The Incometax Officer also passed an order dated 13th August, 1974, allocating the tax liability of the Hindu undivided family for the assessment year 195556 among the members in the same shares under section 171, subsection (7), of the new Act.4.	Facts
This led to the filing of a petition by each of the five sons of Gulabdas in the High Court of Bombay challenging the validity of the orders dated 13th August and 3rd September, 1974, which had the effect of imposing personal liability on each of the members of the Hindu undivided family for the tax liability allocated to him.	Facts
The petitioners in these petitions did not object to the recovery of the tax liability of the Hindu undivided family from out of the joint family properties come to their hands on partial partition, but their argument was that they were not jointly and severally liable for the tax liability nor was the Incometax Officer entitled to proceed against them personally for recovery of any share of the tax liability.	Facts
That raised the question, as to the applicability of subsection (6) read with subsection (7) of section 171 of the new Act, for, it was under this provision that the Incometax Officer claimed to allocate the tax liability amongst the members of the Hindu undivided family and to recover from the petitioners personally the share of the tax liability allocated to them.	Facts
The principal contention of the petitioners was that the provision in section 171, subsections (6) and (7), had no application, where the assessment of a Hindu undivided family was made under the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (hereinafter referred to as the old Act ), and at the time when the tax was sought to be recovered, it was found that the family had effected the partial partition, since this provision had the effect of imposing on the members of the Hindu undivided family a new liability which did not exist before and it could not be construed so as to have retrospective operation.	Facts
This contention was, however, rejected by the High Court, and it was held that subsection (6) read with subsection (7) of section 171 was applicable in the present case and since the Incometax Officer found at the time when he sought to recover the tax liability assessed on the Hindu undivided family, that the family had already effected a partial partition on 15th November, 1955, he was entitled to recover the tax from every member of the Hindu undivided family and each member was severally liable for his share of the tax computed according to the portion of the joint family property allotted to him at the partial partition.	Facts
The High Court also rejected the other contentions advanced, on behalf of the petitioners and dismissed each of the petitions with costs.	Facts
The petitioners thereupon preferred the present appeals with special leave obtained from this courtThough several contentions were raised in the petitions and also argued before the High Court, the petitioners at the hearing of the appeals before us confined their attack against the validity of the orders dated 13th August, 1974, and 3rd September, 1974, to only one contention and that related to the applicability of subsection (6) read with subsection of section 171 of the new Act.	None
The petitioners sought to repel the applicability of subsection (6) of section 171 of the new Act by a twofold argument .	None
In the first place, the petitioners contended that section 25A of the old Act did not impose any personal liability on the members for the tax assessed on the Hindu undivided family in case of partial partition.	Arguments of Petitioner
This liability was created for the first time by subsection (6) of section 171 of the new Act and this subsection could not, therefore, be construed to have retrospective effect so as to apply to assessments made on the Hindu undivided family for any assessment year prior to 1st April, 1962, when the new Act came into force.	Arguments of Petitioner
The present case, which related to the assessment years 195051 to 195657, was in the circumstances governed by section 25A of the old Act in so far as the question of personal liability of the members was concerned and subsection (6) of section 171 of the new Act had no application to it.	None
Secondly, it was urged on behalf of the petitioners that even if section 171, subsection (6), of the new Act were applicable in a case like the present, the conditions of this subsection were not satisfied, as there was no finding of partial partition recorded by the Incometax Officer after making due inquiry as contemplated in subsection (3) of section 171 of the new Act.	None
Of these two arguments, the first is, in our opinion, well founded and hence it is not necessary to consider the secondWe may first look at section 25A of the old Act.	Reasoning
The position which obtained before this section was introduced in the old Act was that though a Hindu undivided family was a unit of assessment, there was no machinery provided in the Act for levying tax and enforcing liability to tax in cases where a Hindu undivided family had received income in the year of account but was no longer in existence as such at the time of assessment.	Reasoning
This difficulty was the more acute by reason of the provision contained in section 14(1) which said that tax shall not be payable by an assessee in respect of any sum which he received as a member of a Hindu undivided family.	Reasoning
The result was that the income of a Hindu, undivided family could not be assessed and the tax could not be collected from the members of the family, if at the time of making the assessment, the family was divided.	Reasoning
This was obviously a lacuna and the legislature, therefore, introduced section 25A in the old Act for assessment of the income of a Hindu undivided family and enforcement of the liability to tax, where the Hindu undivided family was no longer in existence at the date of assessment.	Reasoning
But, as pointed out by this court in Additional Incometax Officer v. Thimmayya, this section went very much beyond what was required for rectifying the defect.	Reasoning
It made two substantive provisions, namely (1) a Hindu undivided family which has been assessed to tax shall be deemed, for the purposes of the Act, to continue to be treated as undivided and therefore liable to be taxed in that status, unless an order is passed in respect of that family recording partition of its property as contemplated by subsections (1) and (2) if, at the time of making an assessment, it is claimed by or on behalf of the members of the family that the property of the joint family has been partitioned among the members or group members in definite portions, i.e., a complete partition of the entire estate is made as distinct from a partial partition, the Incometax Officer shall hold an inquiry and if he is satisfied that the partition has taken place, he shall record an order to that effect.	Reasoning
Where such an order has been passed the Incometax Officer would be entitled to make, an assessment of the total income received by or on behalf of the Hindu undivided family as if no partition had taken place.	Reasoning
Now, ordinarily, when tax is assessed on a Hindu undivided family, it would be payable out of the properties of the joint family, even after they are partitioned amongst the members and no member would be personally liable for discharging the liability to tax.	Reasoning
But subsection (2) made a radical departure and provided that when, upon a total partition, an order under subsection (1) has been recorded, the incometax Officer shall apportion the tax assessed on the total income of the Hindu undivided family and assess each member or group of members in accordance with the provisions of section 23 by adding to the tax for which such member or group of members may be separately liable, tax proportionate to the portion of the undivided family property alloted to him or to the group and all members or groups of members shall be liable jointly and severally for the tax assessed on the total income received by or on behalf of the joint family.	Reasoning
The liability which, so long as an order is not recorded under subsection (1), would be restricted to the assets of the Hindu undivided family, was thus, by virtue of subsection (2), transformed, when the order is recorded, into , personal liability of the members for the amount of tax due by the Hindu undivided family.	Reasoning
But the order could be recorded only if there was total partition as contradistinguished, from partial partition, and on a claim made by or on behalf of the members of the family, the Incometax Officer, after holding an inquiry, was satisfied that such total partition had taken place.	Reasoning
Now, in the present case the partition which took place between the members on 15th November, 1955, was partial as regards the properties of the joint family and there was no total partition effected amongst the members at any time.	Reasoning
Hence, the liability of the Hindu undivided family to tax for the assessment years 195051 to 195657 could be recovered only out of the assets of the joint family and it could not be apportioned amongst the members nor could the members be held jointly and severally liable for payment of such tax liability under section 25A of the old Act.	Reasoning
The question is whether the enactment of subsections (6) and (7) of section 171 of the new Act has made any difference in this positionSection 171 of the new Act corresponds to section 25A of the old Act and provides for an assessment of Hindu undivided family after partition.	Issue
But it has made various changes in the law.	None
The principal change is that to the new section applies not only to cases of total partition, but also to cases of partial partition.	None
Subsection (1) of this section reproduces the same fiction as in section 25A and deems a Hindu family to continue to be a Hindu undivided family except, where and in so far as a finding of partition has been given in respect of the Hindu undivided family.	None
Subsection (2) provides that where, at the time of making an assessment under section 143 or section 144, it is claimed by or on behalf of any member of a Hindu family that a partition, whether total or partial, has taken place among the members of such family, the Incometax Officer shall make an inquiry after giving notice to all the members of the family and subsection (3) proceeds to say that, on the completion of the inquiry, the Incometax Officer shall record a finding as to whether there has been a total or partial partition of the family property and, if there has been such a partition, the date which it has taken place.	Reasoning
Where an order has been made recording the partition, the assessment of the total income received by or on behalf of the joint family as such is required to be made in accordance with the procedure laid down in subsections (4)(a) and (5), which is the same as that under section 25A, although the relevant provisions are differently cast.	None
The procedure is to compute the total income of the joint family up to the date of the partition and also determine the tax payable by the joint family as such as if no partition had taken place and as if the joint, family was still in existence.	None
Subsection(4)(b) makes each member or group of members jointly and severally liable for the whole amount of the tax determined as payable by the joint family.	None
Then follows subsection (6) which is material and reads as follows Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, if the Incometax Officer finds after completion of the assessment of a Hindu undivided family, that the family has already effected a partition whether total or partial, the Incometax Officer shall proceed to recover the tax from every person who was a member of the family before the partition, and every such person shall be jointly and severally liable for the tax on the income so assessed.5.	Reasoning
Subsection (7) provides that for the purposes of this section, that is, for the purposes of subsections (4)(b) and (6), the several liability of any member or group of members shall be computed according to the portion of the joint family property allotted to him or it at the partition, whether total or partial.6.	None
Now, it is clear on a plain grammatical construction of the language of subsections (2) to (5) of section 171 that these subsections contemplate a case where at the time of making assessment under section 143 or 144, a claim is made by or on behalf of any member of a Hindu family that a total or partial partition has taken place among its members.	None
Then the claim would be investigated by the Incometax Officer and if satisfied, the Incometax Officer would record a finding that there has been such partition of the joint family property and the assessment of the total income of the joint family would then be made as if no such partition had taken place.	Reasoning
And in such a case all the members would be jointly and severally liable for the tax assessed as payable by the joint family and, for determining their several liability, the tax assessed on the joint family would be apportioned among the members according to the portion of the joint family property allotted to each of them.	Reasoning
But it may happen that at the time of making assessment under section, 143 or 144 no claim of partition, total or partial, is put forward on behalf of any member of a Hindu family, either because no such partition has taken place or because of inadvertent or deliberate omission on the part of the members of the Hindu family and where that happens, the Hindu family would continue to be assessed as a Hindu undivided family and the tax determined as payable by it would be recoverable only out of the joint family properties and no member would be personally liable for any part of the tax, even though an order recording partition may have been passed after the assessment, since subsection (4)(b) of section 171 would have no application in such a case.	Reasoning
That was also the position under section 25A of the old Act with this difference that under that section the only partition which could be recorded was total partition and not partial partition.	Reasoning
The legislature, while enacting section 171 in the new Act, decided to introduce another radical departure from the old Act by providing in subsection (6) that even where no claim of total or partial partition is made at the time of making assessment under section 143 or section 144 and hence no order recording partition is made in the course of assessment as contemplated under subsections (2) to (5), if it is found, after the completion of the assessment, that the family has already effected a partition, total or partial, all the members shall be jointly and severally liable for the tax assessed as payable by the joint family and the tax liability shall be apportioned among the members according to the portion of the joint family property allotted to each of them.	Reasoning
Subsection (6) of section 171 thus, for the first time imposed, in cases of this kind, joint and several liability on the members for the tax assessed on the Hindu undivided family and this was a personal liability as distinct from, liability limited to the joint family property received on partitionNow, it is a wellsettled rule of interpretation hallowed by time and sanctified by judicial decisions that, unless the terms of a statute expressly so provide or necessarily require it, retrospective operation should not be given to a statute so as to take away or impair an existing right or create a new obligation or impose a new liability otherwise than as regards matters of procedure.	Reasoning
The general rule as stated by Halsbury in volume 36 of the Laws of England (third edition) and reiterated in several decisions of this court as well as English courts is that all statutes other than those which are merely declaratory or which relate only to matters of procedure or of evidence are prima facie prospective and retrospective operation should not be given to a statute so as to affect, alter or destroy an existing right or create a new liability or obligation unless that effect cannot be avoided without doing violence to the language of the enactment.	Reasoning
If the enactment is expressed in language which is fairly capable of either interpretation, it ought to be construed as prospective only.	Reasoning
If we apply this principle of interpretation, it is clear that subsection (6) of section 171 applies only to a situation where the assessment of a Hindu undivided family is completed under section 143 or section 144 of the new Act.	Reasoning
It can have no application where the assessment of a Hindu undivided family is completed under the corresponding provisions of the old Act.	Reasoning
Such a case would be governed by section 25A of the old Act which does not impose any personal liability on the members in case of partial partition and to construe subsection (6) of section 171 as applicable in such a case with consequential effect of casting on the members personal liability which did not, exist under section 25A, would be to give retrospective operation to subsection (6) of section 171 which is not warranted either by the express language of that provision or by necessary implication.	Reasoning
Subsection (6) of section 171 cam be given full effect by interpreting it as applicable only in a case where the assessment of a Hindu undivided family is made under section 143 or section 144 of the new Act.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, consistently with the rule of interpretation which denies retrospective operation to a statute which has the effect of creating or imposing a new obligation or liability, construe subsection (6) of section 171 as embracing a case where assessment of a Hindu undivided family is made under the provisions of the old Act.	Reasoning
Here in the present case, the assessments of the Hindu undivided family for the assessment years 195051, to 195657 were completed in accordance with the provisions of the old Act which included section 25A and the Incometax Officer was, therefore, not entitled to avail of the provision enacted in subsection (6) read with subsection (7) of section 171 of the new Act for the purposes of recovering the tax or any part thereof personally from any members of the joint family including the petitionersBut the revenue authorities then fell back on another contention, namely, that since the assessments of the Hindu undivided family for the assessment years 195051 to 195657 were reopened by the Incometax Officer by issuing notices under section 148 and the reassessments were completed by orders dated 26th March, 1970, under section 147, in virtue of section 297(2)(d) of the new Act, subsection (6) of section 171 was, on plain terms of section 297(2)(d), applicable and the Incometax Officer was entitled to recover personally from the members, the tax reassessed on the Hindu undivided family, as it was found by him that the family had already effected a partial partition.	Reasoning
This contention requires an examination of the true meaning and effect of section 297(2)(d).	None
That subsection as two clauses and it reads as follows (d) where in respect of any assessment year after the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1940, (i) a notice under section 34 of the repealed Act had been issued before the commencement of this Act, the proceedings in pursuance of such notice may be continued and disposed of as if this Act had not been passed (ii) any income chargeable to tax had escaped assessment within the meaning of that expression in section 147 and no proceedings under section 34 of the repealed Act in respect of any such income are pending at the commencement of this Act, a notice under section 148 may, subject to the provisions contained in section 149 or section 150, be issued with respect to that assessment year and all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.7.	None
Admittedly, in the present case, clause (ii) of section 297(2)(d) applied since no proceedings under section 34 of the old Act in respect of escaped income of the Hindu undivided family were pending at the time of the commencement of the new Act and it was for this reason that notices under section 148 were issued by the Incometax Officer for reopening the assessments of the Hindu undivided family for the assessment years, 195051 to 195657.	Reasoning
Now, clause (ii) of section 297(2)(d) provides that when a noticed under section 148 is issued for reopening an assessment all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.	Reasoning
The argument of the revenue authorities, therefore, was that when notices under section 148 were issued for reopening the assessments of the Hindu undivided family, all the provisions of the new Act became applicable and they included subsection (6) of section 171 and, therefore, that subsection was applicable for recovery of the tax reassessed on the Hindu undivided family pursuant to the notices under section 148.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument is without force.	None
It is based on a misconstruction of the words all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly in clause (ii) of section 297(2)(d).	None
These words merely refer to the machinery provided in the new Act for the assessment of the escaped income.	Reasoning
They do not import any substantive provisions of the new Act which create rights or liabilities.	Reasoning
The word accordingly in the context means nothing more than for the purpose of assessment and it clearly suggests that the provisions of the new Act which are made applicable are those relating to the machinery of assessment.	Reasoning
The substantive law to be applied for determining the liability to tax must necessarily be the law under the old Act, for that is the law which applied during the relevant assessment years and it is that law which must govern the liability of the parties.	Reasoning
Though subsections (1) to (5) of section 171 merely lay down the machinery for assessment of a Hindu undivided family after partition, subsection (6) of section 171 is clearly a substantive provision imposing new liability on the members for the tax determined as payable by the joint family.	Reasoning
The words all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly cannot, therefore, be construed as incorporating by reference subsection (6) of section 171 so as to make it applicable for recovery of the tax reassessed on the Hindu undivided family in cases falling within clause (ii) of section 297(2)(d).	Reasoning
This contention of the revenue authorities must accordingly be rejectedIn the circumstances, we allow these appeals and issue a writ in each appeal quashing and setting aside the orders dated, 13th August, 1974, and, 3rd September, 1974.	None
The respondents will pay the costs of the petitioners throughout.8.	Decision
Appeals allowed.	None
