 Baghawat, J.1.	None
These appeals are directed against the orders of the Gujarat High Court passed under Art.	Issue
227 of the Constitution revising the appellate orders of the Bombay Revenue Tribunal modifying certain awards of the Special Deputy Collector, Ahmedabad, claims for compensation under Sections 7 and 14 of the Bombay Taluqdari Abolition Act 1849 (Bombay Act LXII of 1948) were filed before the Collector by the Taluqdars of certain villages in the district of Ahmedabad.	Issue
The Collector made his awards of compensation under Sections 7 and 14.	None
The claimants filed ap peals before the Revenue Tribunal and later petitions under Art 227 of the Constitution to the High Court.	None
The present appeals are flied by the State of Gujarat and some of the claimants.	None
The principal matters in controversy m these appeals relate to the award of compensation under the head (i) difference in jama and full assessment, (ii) solatium of 15 per cent on the market value, (iii) irrigational bunds, tanks and wells and (iv) river and river beds.2.	None
Excellent accounts of the history and incidents of the taluqdari tenures are given in Dr. Govind D. Patels Agrarian Reforms in Bombay, 1950, Mr. J. B. Peiles Report, Government Selection No. CVI New Series, p. 13, Mr. L. Robertsons Report on the conditions of the taluqdars of the Ahmedabad district 1903, statement of objects and reasons for Bill No. 6 of 1885 printed in Bombay Government Gazette, dated the 28th December, 1885, Part V, at p. 65 and Nawab Sardar Narharsinghji Ishvarsinghji v. Secretary of State, 48 Bom LR 167 (AIR 1941 Bom l6l).	Facts
The origin of the Gujarat taluqdars may be traced to Moghul and premoghul times.	Facts
They are found mainly in the districts of Ahmedabad, Kaira, Broach and the Panchmahals.	Facts
The leading characteristics of the taluqdari tenure is that the taluqdari estate is neither alienated nor unalienated but is proprietary.	Facts
Until 1862 the taluqdars were legally though incorrectly regarded as mere lease holders.	Facts
From 1862 till 1888 they were full proprietors with unlimited powers of alienation.	Facts
From 1888 onwards they were full proprietors with restricted powers of alienation.	Facts
Their estates were subject to payment of a jama to the Government.	Facts
Originally the jama was regarded as u tribute but later it became a roughly calculated tax on the rental, then a land tax and finally land revenue.	Facts
Acts were passed from time to time for ameliorating the conditions of the taluqdars.	Facts
Since 1888 the taluqdari villages and estates were governed by the provisions of the Gujarat Taluqdars Act, 1888 (Bom. Act VI of 1888).	Facts
Under Section 2 (1) (c) of this Act jama meant land revenue payable by the taluqdars to the Government.	Facts
Section 4 empowered the Government to direct a revenue survey of a taluqdari estate under the provisions of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879.	Facts
Sections 22 and 23 deal with the taluqdars jama 22.	Facts
(1) If a taluqdars estate, or any portion thereof is not wholly or partially exempt from landrevenue and it liability to payment of land revenue is not subject to special condition or restrictions, the Jama payable to (the Provincial Government) in respect of such estate or portion thereof shall if a survey settlement has been extended thereto, be the aggregate of the survey assessment of the lands composing such estate or such portion thereof minus such deduction if any, as (the Provincial Government) shall in each case direct.(2) The (Provincial Government) may declare the amount of jama so ascertained fixed for any term not exceeding thirty years.23.	Facts
(1) Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to affect the validity of any agreement, heretofore, entered into by or with a taluqdar and still in force as to the amount of his jama nor of any settlement of the amount of jama made by or under the orders of (the Provincial Government) for a term of years and still in force.(2)	Facts
Every such agreement and settlement shall have effect as if this Act had not been passed.3.	None
The jama was usually fixed (uddhad) in respect of the estates in Kaira and Broach but those in Ahmedabad and Panchmahals were liable to revision at every revisional settlement.	None
The fluctuating jama in respect of these latter estates could under S. 22 be fixed at an amount equal to the full survey assessment of all the lands comprised within the estate.	Facts
In practice the jama of the claimants estates in Ahmedabad was limited to about 450 per cent of the full assessment.	Facts
As a measure of agrarian reform the Government decided to abolish the taluqdari tenures altogether.	Facts
Accordingly the Bombay Taluqdari Tenure Abolition Act, 1949 was passed on January 24, 1950.	Facts
It came into force on August 15, 1950.	Facts
It extends to the districts of Ahmedabad, Kaira, Broach and Panchmahals.	Facts
It repealed the Gujarat Taluqdars Act of 1888 and certain other special Act relating to taluqdars.	Facts
Section 3 abolished the taluqdari tenure and extinguished all incidents of the tenure attached to any land comprised in a taluqdari estate save as provided in the Act.	Facts
Under Section 4 all revenue surveys and settlements made under Section 4 of the Gujarat Taluqdars Act, 1888 are deemed to have been made under Chaps.	Facts
VIII and VIIIA of the Land Revenue Code.	Facts
By Section 5 (1) (a) all taluqdari lands are henceforth liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the Land Revenue Code and the rules made thereunder.	Facts
But this provision does not affect the right of any person to hold any taluqdari land wholly or partially exempt from the payment of land revenue under a special contract or any other law for the time being in force S. 5 (2) (a) nor the right of any person to pay jama under any agreement or settlement recognised under Section 23, or under a declaration made under Section 22 of the Gujarat Taluqdars Act so long as such agreement, settlement or declaration remains in force S. 5 (2) (b) .	Facts
Section 5 (1) (b) provides that a taluqdar holding any taluqdari land shall be deemed to be an occupant within the meaning of the Land Revenue Code or any other law for the time being in force.	Facts
Section 6 provides that all public roads, lanes, etc., not situate within the limits of the watans belonging to a taluqdar in a taluqdari estate shall vest in the Government and all rights held by a taluqdar in such property shall be deemed to have been extinguished.	Facts
Section 7 provides for payment of compensation to taluqdars for extinguishment of rights under Section 8.	Facts
Section 14 provides for payment of compensation for extinguishment or modification of any other right in any land where such extinguishment or modification amounts to transference to public ownership of such land or any right in or over such land.	Facts
Section 17 makes applicable provisions of the Land Revenue Code to all taluqdari lands with certain modifications Sections 8, 9 and 10 pro vice for appeals from the Collectors award.	Facts
Section 12 provides that the award made by the Collector and the decision of the Bombay Revenue Tribunal on appeal shall be final and conclusive and shall not he questioned in any suit or proceeding in any court.	Facts
The Act is protected by Article 31B of the Constitution.	Facts
It was amended from time to time.	Facts
Clause (a) of Section 5 (2) was deleted by Bombay Act 42 of 1958.	Facts
Section 5A was inserted by Bombay Act I of 1955.	Facts
Section 5A made a permanent tenant and an inferior holder in possession of any taluqdari land an occupant in respect of such land on payment of compensation to the taluqdar.4.	Facts
In these appeals the taluqdars claim compensation for the loss of benefit of the difference between the jama and the full assessment.	None
The jama payable under the settlements made before the Abolition Act was 60 per cent of the total assessment Their rights to pay the jama, only under those settlements were not affected in view of Section 5 (2) (b).	None
They have obtained the full benefit of the concessional jama while the settlements remained in force.	None
The period of those settlements have now expired and they are now liable to pay full assessment.	None
They have thus suffered a loss of 40 per cent of the land revenue of the villages.	None
They claim compensation for this loss under S. 14 (1) of the Abolition Act which reads 14.	None
(1) If any person is aggrieved by any of the provisions of this Act as extinguishing or modifying any of his rights in any land other than those in respect of which provision for the payment of compensation has been made under Section 7 and if such person proves that such extinguishment or modification amounts to the transference to public ownership of such land or any right in or over such land, such person may apply to the Collector for compensation within a period of twelve months from the date on which this Act comes into force.	None
Any person in Section 14 (1) includes a taluqdar.	None
To get compensation under the section the claimant must establish firstly that his rights in any land other than those for which provision for compensation is made under S. 7 has been extinguished or modified and secondly that such extinguishment or modification amounts to the transference to public ownership of such land or any right in or over such land.	None
The taluqdars contend that they had the right to pay a jama not exceeding 60 per cent of the survey assessment of the lands comprised in the estate.	None
According to them the Government had issued directions under Section 22 (1) of the Gujarat Taluqdars Act, 1888 so limiting the jama.	None
They say that such direction is to be found in the memorandum of the Government of Bombay issued on October 2, 1914 with reference to the recommendation made by the Commissioner.	None
Northern Division.	None
in his letter dated April 13, 1914.	None
The High Court has referred to these documents in some detail.	None
It appears that the Gujarat Taluqdari Bill was then pending before the Legislative Council.	None
The memorandum shows the Governments willingness to incorporate in the Bill suitable provision regarding the fixation of the jama.	None
In our opinion, the memorandum was not a direction under Section 22 (1) nor did it create a legal right in the taluqdars to pay a jama of 60 per cent of the survey assessment.5.	None
The taluqdari estates were always liable to payment of jama or land revenue.	None
As a matter of concession the jama was generally 60 per cent of the survey assessment of the lands comprised in the estate.	None
The taluqdars had no legal right to claim the concession, on the expiry of their current settlements.	None
At the next revisional settlement the Government had the right to withdraw the concession and to impose full assessment on the taluqdari lands.	None
Section 5 (1) (a) of the Abolition Act by imposing full assessment on the taluqdari lands after the expiry of the period of the current settlements did not extinguish or modify any vested right of the taluqdars.6.	None
Mr. Palkhiwala argued that Section 5 effected a transfer of the proprietary rights of the taluqdars in their lands to the Government together with the advantage of paying reduced revenue and a retransfer of the occupancy rights in those lands to the taluqdars and consequently, there was extinguishment or modification of their rights, amounting to transference to public ownership of rights in and over such lands.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument, though ingenious, does not bear scrutiny.	None
Before the High Court the taluqdars made no claim for compensation generally for any loss of proprietary right.	None
Mr. Palkhiwala therefore said that he did not make any claim for compensation for the loss of proprietary right other than the loss arising from the liability to pay full assessment.	None
We have there fore to consider only the claim for compensation for the difference between the jama and the full assessment.7.	None
In Rao Bahadur Kunwar Lal Singh v. Central Provinces and Berar, 1944 FCR 284 (AIR 1944 FC 62) the appellant Rao Bahadur Kunwar Lal Singh held in Zamindari rights certain estates in the Central Provinces.	None
The land revenue in respect of the estates was settled in 1921 under the Central Provinces Land Revenue Act, 1917 for a period of 19 years from July 1, 1919 and July 1, 1920 and thereafter until a fresh settlement was made.	None
Section 88 of the Act provided that if the assessment of an estate had been accepted under the Act, the proprietors would be hound to pay the land revenue assessed thereon from such date and for such term as the Provincial Government might appoint.	None
In that behalf and if at the expiry of such term no new assessment had been made until a new assessment was made.	None
The Central Provinces Revision of the Land Revenue of Estates Act, 1939 enacted that with effect from July 1, 1938 notwithstanding anything contained in the Act of 1917 the land revenue payable to Government in respect of the estates would be enhanced to the amounts mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1939.	None
By an Amending Act of 1941 it was provided that those amounts would be deemed to have been assessed, offered and accepted under the Act of 1917.	None
The appellant contended that as no new settlement had been made, the Act of 1939 extinguished or deprived him of his contractual as well as statutory right to hold his estates subject only to the payment of the takoli fixed in 1921 and thus amounted to an acquisition of his right in land in contravention of Section 299 (2) of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
The Federal Court repelled this contention.	None
Spens, C. J. Observed	None
It is, we think, impossible to hold that the mere increase of an assessment for land revenue involves any acquisition of the land or any rights in or over immovable property.	None
It further seems to us that the word acquisition implies that there must be an actual transference of and it must be possible to indicate some person or body to whom is or are transferred, the land or rights referred to.	None
It is impossible, in our view to suggest that when the land revenue is increased, there is any transference to the Provincial Government or any other person of any land or rights in or over immoveable property, which remains in the same possession or ownership as immediately before the increase of the assessment.	None
In our judgment, the attempt to bring the case within S. 299 (2) must fail.8.	None
It will be noticed that the Zamindar in that case was bound to pay only the fixed land revenue for the period of 19 years and thereafter until a new settlement was made.	Reasoning
The increase in land revenue made by the 1939 Act affected this right.	Reasoning
Nevertheless it was held that the increase in land revenue did not involve any right in or over any immovable property.	Reasoning
The case of the taluqdars in the present case is weaker.	Reasoning
Their right to pay the jama only while the old settlements remained in force was not affected by Section 5.	Reasoning
The increase in land revenue on the expiry of those settlements was not due to any change in ownership.	Reasoning
The enhanced assessment did not affect any contractual or statutory right vested in them.	Reasoning
Even assuming that it modified or extinguished any right, such modification or extinguishment did not amount to transference to public ownership of land or any right in or over land within the meaning of Section 14 of the Bombay Taluqdari Tenure Abolition Act.	Reasoning
The Collector, the Revenue Tribunal and the High Court therefore rightly rejected the claim of the taluqdars for compensation for the difference in the jama and the full assessment.9.	Reasoning
The next claim is for payment of a solatium of 15 per centum on the market value awarded under section 7 of the Abolition Act.	None
The Collector and Revenue Tribunal rejected this claim.	None
The High Court partially allowed it and directed that an amount of 15 per cent should be added to the market value awarded under Section 7 (1) (b) (iii).	None
This ruling is challenged by both the State of Gujarat and the taluqdars.	None
Section 7 (1) reads10.	None
(1) Any taluqdar having any rights in such property shall be entitled to compensation in the manner provided in the following paragraphs namely (a) within a period of twelve months from the date on which this Act comes into force, the taluqdar shall apply in writing to the Collector stating the nature of his right, the grounds of his claim and the amount of compensation claimed by him for the extinguishment of his right(b) the Collector shall hold a formal inquiry in the manner provided in the Code and if the Collector is satisfied that the applicant had any rights in the land and that such rights have been extinguished under the last preceding section, shall make an award in the manner prescribed in Section II of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), subject to the following conditions (i) if the property acquired is waste or uncultivated but is culturable land the amount of compensation shall nor exceed three times the assessment of the landProvided that if the land has not been assessed, the amount of compensation shall not exceed such amount of assessment as would be leviable in the same village on the same extent of similar land used for the same purpose(ii) if the property is land over which the public has been enjoying or acquired a right of way or any individual has any right of casement, the amount of compensation shall not exceed the amount of the annual assessment leviable in the village for uncultivated land in accordance with the rules made under the Code or if such rules do not provide the levy of such assessment, such amount as in the opinion of the Collector shall be the market value of the right or interest held by the claimant(iii) if there are any trees or structures on the land, the amount of compensation shall be the market value of such trees or structures, as the case may beExplanation.	None
For the purpose of this sections the market value shall mean the value as estimated in accordance with the provisions of Sections 23 and 24 of the Land Acquisition Act, l894 (1 of 1894), in so far as such provisions may be applicable.11.	None
Section 7 (1) gives compensation to taluqdars for extinguishment of rights in any property under Section 6.	Facts
The Collector is required by Section 7 (1) (b) to make an award in the manner prescribed in Section 11 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.	Reasoning
The Collector has to make an award of compensation under Section 11 and having regard to Sec.	Reasoning
15 in determining the amount of compensation, he is guided by the provisions of Sections 23 and 24.	Reasoning
Section 23 (1) requires an award of the market value of the land.	Reasoning
Section 23 (2) requires an additional award of a sum of fifteen per centum on such market value, in consideration of the compulsory nature of acquisition.	Reasoning
It follows that under Section 7 (1) (b) of the Abolition Act read with section 11 of the Land Acquisition Act, the taluqdars are entitled to receive as compensation the market value of all rights in any property extinguished under Section 6 and in addition a sum of 15 per centum on such market value.	Reasoning
This right is subject to the conditions and exceptions enumerated in sub clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 7 (l) (b).	Reasoning
In cases falling under clause (i) and in some cases under clause (ii) the amount of compensation is limited.	Reasoning
In cases falling under Clause (iii) and in some cases under Clause (ii) the amount of compensation is the market value which according to the explanation to Section 7 (1) means the value estimated in accordance with Sections 23 and 24 of the, Land Acquisition Act, 1894.	Reasoning
The value so determined includes the solatium of 15 per centum payable under subsection (2) of Section 23.	Reasoning
Where the legislature intended to exclude the application of subsection (2) of Section 23, it has said so, as in section 14 (2) under which compensation is determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of Sections 23 and 24.	Reasoning
It follows that the taluqdar is entitled to the solatium of 15 per centum on the market value, (1) under the main part of Section 7 (1) (b) subject to the provisions the several subclauses thereof (2) in cases falling under Clause (iii) of Section 7 (1) (b) and (3) in cases under Clause (ii) of S. 7 (1) (b) where market value is awarded.	Reasoning
The direction of the High Court is modified accordingly.12.	None
The next claim is with regard to irrigational bunds, tanks and wells.	None
The Collector awarded compensation on the basis of Himayat and water rates of assessment.	None
The Revenue Tribunal confirmed his award.	None
The High Court set aside this award and directed the Collector to award compensation after further inquiry on the basis of twentyfive times the annual profits derivable from the properties.	None
This ruling is challenged by the State of Gujarat and also by the Taluqdars.	None
Mr. Bindra contended that the Tribunals award should be restored.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. A. K. Sen contended that the compensation should be awarded on the basis of reinstatement value.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion both these contentions should be rejected.	None
The duty of the Collector is to award the market value.	Reasoning
The market value is the amount which the land if sold in the open market by a willing seller might be expected to realise.	Reasoning
In the case of land the market value is generally ascertained on a consideration of the prices obtained by sale of adjacent lands with similar advantages.	Reasoning
Where there are no sales of comparable lands, the value must be found in some other way.	Reasoning
One method is to take the annual income which the owner is expected to obtain from the land and to capitalise it by a number of years purchase.	Reasoning
The capitalised value is then taken as the market value which a willing vendor might reasonably expect to obtain from a willing buyer.	Reasoning
In some special cases awards have been given on the basis of the reinstate value which is assessed according to the cost of acquiring an equally convenient land or premises.	None
Cripps Compulsory Acquisition of Land, 11th ed., Arts 4203, p. 907 explains this method thus Before the Acquisition of Land Act, 1919, reinstatement value, instead of market value, was sometimes given so as to give proper effect to the principle of compensation on the basis of value to the owner Generally it was only given in respect of property which was of such a nature (for example, a school, church hospital, house of exceptional character, business premises in which the business could be carried on under special conditions or by means of a special licence) that there was no market or general demand for such property and a market value deducted from the income derived would not constitute a fair basis in assessing the value to the owner.13.	None
The measure of compensation for lands or premises taken under the Lands Clauses Act, 1845 was their value to the owner.	Reasoning
In spe cial cases reinstatement value enabling the owner to replace the lands or premises taken from him was taken to be the correct measure of this value.	Reasoning
This principle was later enacted in Rule 5 of Section 2 of Acquisition of Land (Assessment of Compensation) Act, 1919 which is now replaced by Rule 5 of Section 5 of the Land Compensation Act, 1961.	Reasoning
In Raja Vyricherla Gajapatiraju v. Revenue Divisional Officer, Vizagapatnam, 66 Ind App 104 at p. 113 (AIR 1939 PC 98 at p. 101), Lord Romer said that the general principles for determining compensation under Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 did not differ in any material respect from those upon which compensation was awarded under the Lands Clauses Act of 1845.	Reasoning
In Harish Chandra Neogy v. Secretary of State for India, (1907) 11 Cal WN 875 and Province of West Bengal v. Raja Jhargram, AIR 1955	Reasoning
Cal 392 it was suggested that in special cases the reinstatement value may be awarded as compensation under Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act.	Reasoning
For the purpose of this case it is sufficient to say that this method should not be adopted where the market value deduced from the income derived from the lands would fairly compensate the owner and in no case can reinstatement value be given unless reinstatement in some other place is bona fide intended.	Reasoning
The High Court found that there was no intention to reinstate the bunds.	Reasoning
The owners could be fairly compensated by giving the market value deduced from the estimate yield.	Reasoning
The High Court rightly rejected the reinstatement method.	Reasoning
The value of irrigational bunds, tanks, and wells is not what they cost but what they paid in annual income.	Reasoning
The High Court rightly adopted the yield basis of valuation.	Reasoning
The Himayat assessment and water rates did not give the correct yield.	Reasoning
The High Court therefore directed further inquiries into this claim.14.	None
The next claim for compensation is with regard to river and river beds.	None
The Collector and the Tribunal rejected this claim but the High Court allowed it and directed further inquiries.	None
The State of Gujarat challenges this ruling.	None
Now the taluqdars had no property in running water.	None
They were the owners of the river beds but the submerged river beds were of no value to them.	None
Counsel for the taluqdars therefore conceded that the High Courts ruling cannot be supported.	None
Before us they confined their claim under this head to Bhathas formed in the rivers and other portions of the river beds where cross could be raised during some parts of the year particularly during summer.	None
Counsel for the State did not oppose further inquiries into this limited claim for compensation.	None
We therefore set aside the directions of the High Court in respect of river and river beds.	Decision
We direct the Special Deputy Collector to inquire into the claim for compensation for Bhathas, if any, formed in the rivers, and other portions, it any, of the river beds where crops could be raised.15.	Decision
Counsel for the taluqdars sought to challenge the findings of the High Court with regard to compensations for unbuilt village sites, trees, sim roads and nonirrigational tanks and wells.	Arguments of Respondent
We find no error of principle in the award of compensation under these heads.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no ground for our interference in respect of these claims.16.	None
Mr. Bindra submitted that S. l2 of the Abolition Act makes the decision of the Tribunal final and conclusive and the High Court had no jurisdiction to interfere with this decision, particularly in respect of solatium of 15 per centum and nonirrigational bunds, tanks and wells.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this contention.	None
Article 227 of the Constitution gives the High Court the power of superintendence over all courts and tribunals throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction.	Reasoning
This jurisdiction cannot be limited or fettered by any Act of the State Legislature.	Reasoning
The supervisory jurisdiction extends to keeping the subordinate tribunal within the limits of their authority and seeing that they obey the law.	Reasoning
It was the duty of the Revenue Tribunal to award compensation to the Taluqdars in accordance with the provisions of Sections 7 and 14 of the Act.	Reasoning
The High Court had jurisdiction to revise the decision of the Tribunal where the Tribunal on a misreading of the provisions of Sections 7 and 14 declined to do what was by those provisions of law incumbent on it to do.	Reasoning
Tested in this light it does not appear that the High Court exceeded its jurisdiction under Article 227 in revising the decision of the Tribunal in respect of the solatium and irrigational bunds tanks and wells.	Reasoning
Numerous cases were pending before the Revenue Tribunal in respect of compensation payable to the taluqdars under the Bombay Taluqdari Tenure Abolition Act.	Reasoning
To prevent miscarriage of justice it was necessary for the High Court to lay down general principles on which compensation should be assessed so that the Tribunal may act within the limits of their authority.	Reasoning
On finding that the Tribunal had misconceived its duties under Ss. 7 and 14, the High Court could not only set aside its decision, but also direct it to make further inquiries after taking evidence.	Reasoning
As pointed out in Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmed Ishaque, 19551 SCR 1104 at p. 1120 (AIR 1955 SC 233 at pp. 242243) the High Court in the exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 cannot only annul the decision of the Tribunal but can also issue further direction in the matter.17.	Reasoning
In the result, in modification of the High Courts decision in respect of solatium of 15 per centum on the market value, we direct that in all these cases the taluqdars be awarded solatium in accordance with this judgment.	Decision
We set aside the High Courts decision with regard to river and river beds.	Decision
Instead we direct that the Special Deputy Collector will inquire into the claim for compensation for Bhathas, if any, formed in the river and other portions of the river beds.	Decision
if any, where crops could be raised during some parts of the year, particularly during the summer.	Decision
The Special Deputy Collector will make awards under these two heads after giving opportunity to the parties to adduce evidence.	Decision
Subject to these modifications, the appeals are dismissed and the decision of the High Court in other respects is confirmed.	Decision
As success is divided, there will be no order as to costs.18.	None
Judgment accordingly.	None
