 N. Ray, C.J.1.	None
This appeal by certificate is on the question whether there was any contract of sale pursuant to which goods were moved from the State of Tamil Nadu to the State of West Bengal.2.	Issue
The respondent Cement Distributors Private Limited are the agents of the State Trading Corporation.	Facts
Under the Cement Control Order all manufacturers are required to sell Cement to State Trading Corporation.	Facts
On 22 November, 1961.	Facts
the Regional Cement Officer of the State Trading Corporation in Tamil Nadu authorised the respondent to sell the quantity of Cement mentioned in the authorisation note of that date to persons directed by the Regional Cement Officer, State Trading Corporation, Calcutta.	Facts
The authorisation was in favour of the respondent.	Facts
The factory which was to supply cement was also mentioned in the note as Dalmiapuram factory.	Facts
The authorisation further said that 9,000 metric tons were allotted for the fourth period in 1961 for distribution to Calcutta area as directed by the Regional Cement Officer, State Trading Corporation, Calcutta.3.	Facts
On 4111961, there was another authorisation issued by the Regional Cement Officer at Calcutta.	Facts
The note mentioned the respondent Cement Distributors as suppliers.	Facts
The note said that the authorisation was in favour of the Executive Engineer.	Facts
Howrah Division Construction Board, 94, Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta.	Facts
The quantity allotted.	Facts
was 230 metric tons.	Facts
The name of the factory to supply cement was Dalmiapuram.	Facts
Delivery was exCalcutta Jetty docks.	None
The price was the ruling price on the date of despatch from the factory.4.	Facts
On these documents it is contended on behalf of the State that Cement was shipped by the respondent to their godown at Calcutta for direct sale to the purchaser in whose favour the letter of authorisation note was issued, namely, the Executive Engineer, Howrah Division Construction Board, who was to take delivery at the jetty.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents were assessed by the State under the Central Sales Tax Act on these transactions as interState sales.	None
The respondent company contended that cement was despatched under authorisation order to Calcutta.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent company contended that the company did not enter into any contract for sale of cement with the buyers before or at the time of shipment.	Arguments of Respondent
A contract was made only after an authorisation in favour of the buyer had been issued by the.	Arguments of Respondent
Regional Cement Officer, Calcutta.	Arguments of Respondent
Such an authorisation by Calcutta Officer was subsequent to the shipment.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent company contended that the transaction was not interState sale.6.	None
The only question is whether the contract of sale itself with the Executive Engineer occasioned movement of goods.7.	Issue
Section 3 of the Central Sales Tax Act provides that a sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of interState trade or commerce if the sale or purchase (a) occasions the movement of goods from one State to another, or (b) is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods during their movement from one State to another.	None
The settled view of this Court is that if the movement of goods from one State to another is the result of a covenant or an incident of the contract of sale then the Sale is an interState Sale.	None
(See Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd, v. S. R. Sarkar, (1961) 1	None
SCR 379  (AIR 1961 SC 65 ))	None
.8.	None
In the present case, the goods are despatched by the respondent to themselves at Calcutta according to the directions of the state Trading Corporation.	Reasoning
This was for Consumption in Calcutta area as will appear from the authorisation dated 4 November, 1961.	Reasoning
The other authorisation letter dated 22 November 1961 was issued, after the arrival of the goods, by the Regional Cement Officer, Calcutta authorising the respondent to sell cement.	Reasoning
It is apparent that there was no movement of goods by the respondent company as a result of a contract of sale between the respondent and the buyer at Calcutta.	Reasoning
The shipment was made by the respondent company without any reference to any buyer.	Reasoning
The movement of goods from Madras to Calcutta did not take place as a result of any contract of sale, but in pursuance of instruction contained in authorisation for transfer of stocks from Madras to Calcutta.	Reasoning
The transactions were not interstate sales liable to tax under the Central Sales Tax Act.	None
The movement of goods from one State to another without any of the element of sale within the meaning of the Central Act cannot be subject to tax.	Reasoning
The shipment was movement of stocks of cement belonging to the State Trading Corporation from one place to another.	Reasoning
There was shortage of supply of cement at Calcutta.	Reasoning
The State Trading Corporation moved stocks from Madras to Calcutta.	Reasoning
The area of need and the availability of Stocks of cement were known to the State Trading Corporation.	Reasoning
The transactions could not be subjected to Central Sales Tax.9.	Reasoning
For these reasons, the appeal fails and is dismissed Parties will pay and bear their own costs.10.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
