 Wanchoo, J.1.	None
These two connected matters arise out of an order approving a scheme framed under Chap.	None
IVA of the Motor Vehicles Act, No. IV of 1939, (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and will be disposed of together.	None
The brief facts necessary for present purposes are these.	None
The appellant was plying a bus between Jaipur and Ajmer on a permit granted to him for three years by resolution of the Regional Transport Authority, Jaipur, dated December 16/17, 1958.	Facts
In August, 1960, the State Government promulgated rules under S. 68I of the Act, called the Rajasthan State Road Transport Services (Development) Rules, 1960 (hereinafter called the Rules).	Facts
The Rules were framed for carrying out the purposes of Chap IVA of the Act and provided inter alia for framing of schemes, hearing of objections, determination and payment of compensation, and other incidental matters.	Facts
A draft scheme was published on September 7, 1960, for taking over the JaipurAjmer route.	Facts
The appellant made objections to the draft scheme within the time allowed by the notification thereof.	Facts
The State Government appointed the Legal Remembrancer to hear and decide the objections under R. 7 of the Rules.	Facts
It appears that in the meantime an application was made under Art.226 by some bus operators before the Rajasthan High Court challenging the constitutionality of S. 68D of the Act and the legality of the Rules framed by the State Government.	Facts
This application was dismissed and the High Court inter alia decided while considering R. 7(6) that it was not open to the officer hearing the objections to cancel the draft scheme and seems to have held that there was no such power even under S. 68D (2) of the Act.	Facts
This decision was given on November 9, 1960.	Facts
The draft scheme came up for consideration before the officer appointed to hear objections on November 21, 1960.	Facts
An application was made before him that the appellant should be permitted to give evidence on points of fact which were narrated in the application in order that the officer may be in a position to decide the objections justly.	Facts
This application was rejected by the officer on the ground that there was no provision in the Rules for recording of evidence of witnesses.	Facts
The matter then came up for consideration on November 23. 1960.	Facts
On that date another application was made in which it was said that the appellant wanted to lead evidence to show that the draft scheme must be rejected in its entirety, and it was contended that the view taken by the Rajasthan High Court to the effect that it was not open to the officer to cancel a draft scheme was incorrect.	Facts
This application was also rejected by the officer with the observation that he was bound hand and foot by the decision of the Rajasthan High Court and if there was anything wrong in the interpretation given by the High Court the remedy lay elsewhere.	Facts
Thereafter the officer gave a hearing to the appellant in the sense that he heard arguments on behalf of the appellant, and approved the draft scheme by his order dated December 7, 1960.	Facts
The approved scheme was then published on December 12, 1960.	Facts
On January 9, 1961, the Regional Transport Authority informed the appellant that his permit was cancelled as from January 26, 1961, or such later date from which the buses of Rajasthan State Roadways begin to operate on the abovementioned route.	Facts
In the meantime, the appellant unsuccessfully moved the Rajasthan High Court, and his prayer for leave to appeal to this Court was also rejected.	Facts
The appellant then applied for special leave to appeal to this Court which was granted and that is how the matter has come up before us.2.	Facts
Two main points have been urged before us on behalf of the appellant, namely, (i) the officer was wrong in the view he took that it was not open to him to reject the draft scheme in its entirety, and (ii) the officer was wrong in holding that he could not take evidence, whether oral or documentary, and all that he had to do under S. 68D of the Act was to hear arguments on either side.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that in view of these two wrong decisions of the officer his approach to what he had to do in dealing with objections under S. 68D was quite incorrect, with the result that there was no effective hearing of the objections and any approval given to the scheme in these circumstances is liable to be set aside and the appellant is entitled to be heard in the real sense in which those words were used in S. 68D (2).3. Re.	Arguments of Petitioner
(i).Section 68D (2) with which we are concerned is in these wordsThe State Government may, after considering the objections and after giving an opportunity to the objector or his representatives and the representatives of the State transport undertaking to be heard in the matter, if they so desire, approve or modify the scheme.	None
The view taken by the Rajasthan High Court in its decision of November 9, 1960, seems to be that this section does not justify what it called the cancellation of the scheme.	None
We are of the opinion that this view is not correct.	None
What S. 68D (2) provides is that after hearing the parties, the State Government may approve or modify the draft scheme.	None
This in our opinion clearly implies that the authority which has to approve or modify the scheme has the power also, if it so thinks fit, not to approve the scheme at all.	None
What is before the State Government under S. 68D(2) is a draft scheme.	None
That subsection provides that the State Government may approve or modify the scheme that does not mean that the State Government is bound to approve the scheme with or without modifications.	None
An authority to which power has been given to approve or modify some proposal has certainly in our opinion the power to say that it will not approve the proposal at all, for the words may approve on a reasonable interpretation include may not approve.	Reasoning
If a person may approve he is not bound to approve.	Reasoning
Upto the stage when the hearing takes place under subs.	Reasoning
(2) the draft scheme is merely a proposal before the State Government and it will only become effective if it approves of it with or without modifications.	Reasoning
But this power clearly implies the power to say that it does not approve the draft scheme at all and if it says that, the draft scheme will stand rejected and the State Transport Undertaking may have to submit another scheme for approval.	Reasoning
When S. 68E speaks of cancellation it refers to a scheme already approved under S. 68D (3), and in that context the word cancellation is properly used.	Reasoning
But the fact that S. 68E provides for the cancellation of a scheme which has already been approved, does not mean that it is not open to the State Government under S. 68D (2) to say, after hearing the objections, that it does not approve the scheme at all which is put up before it as a draft for approval.	Reasoning
We are therefore of the opinion that under S. 68D (2) it is open to the State Government to say after hearing objections that it does not approve of the draft scheme at all, in which case the draft scheme will stand rejected and the State Transport Undertaking may have to frame a fresh scheme in accordance with the procedure provided in Chap.	Reasoning
IVA.	Reasoning
The officer therefore was wrong in holding that he had no power to reject the scheme in the sense that he could withhold approval of it altogether, though we may add that he came to that conclusion because of the earlier decision of the Rajasthan High Court.4.	Reasoning
As for R. 7(6) of the Rules it is in similar terms as S. 68D (2) and must therefore mean what we have said above with respect to S. 68D(2).	Reasoning
If, however, by the use of the word shall in R. 7(6) in place of the word may which appears in S. 68D(2) the intention is to curtail the power of the officer hearing the objections, the rule would be bad as going beyond what is provided in S. 68D (2).But we do not think that the use of the word shall in R. 7(6) makes any difference for the word shall had to be used there according to the rules of English Grammar and has no greater force than the word may used in S. 68D (2).5.	None
The learned Additional SolicitorGeneral who appeared for the State of Rajasthan did not contest that what we have said above was the true position in S. 68D(2) and R.7(6).6.	Arguments of Respondent
Re.	None
(ii).The next question is the scope of the hearing under Section 68D(2).	Issue
The officer has held that the scope of the hearing is confined only to hearing of arguments and no more, and that is why he rejected the prayer of the appellant for leading evidence, whether oral or documentary.	None
Now it has been held by this Court in Nageswara Rao v. Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation, (1959)	Reasoning
Sup (1) SCR 319 (AIR 1959 SC 308 ), that a State Government acts as a quasijudicial tribunal when giving a hearing under S. 68D.	None
The purpose of the hearing is that the State Government has to satisfy itself that the opinion of the State Transport Undertaking formed under S. 68C, namely that the scheme is for the purpose of providing an efficient, adequate, economical and properly coordinated road transport service, is correct.	None
The objections are all made to show that the scheme does not provide for an efficient, adequate, economical and properly coordinated road transport service.	Reasoning
In order therefore to arrive at the conclusion that the draft scheme provides for a transport service of this nature, the State Government as a quasijudicial authority may require materials to come to that conclusion.	Reasoning
A hearing before a quasijudicial authority does not merely mean an argument it may in proper cases include the taking of evidence, both oral and documentary.	Reasoning
It seems to us that in the circumstances of the provision contained in S. 68D (2) and the purpose of the hearing thereunder, taking of evidence, whether oral or documentary that may be desired to be produced by either party, may be necessary before the State Government can arrive at a just conclusion with respect to the objections to the draft scheme.	Reasoning
We cannot therefore agree with the officer that there is no warrant for taking any evidence at all at a hearing under S. 68D (2).It seems to us, considering the nature of the objections and the purpose for which the hearing is given that production of evidence, either oral or documentary is comprehended within the hearing contemplated in S. 68D (2).The officer therefore was wrong in holding that it was not open to the parties to produce evidence before him and they were confined only to submit their arguments on the basis of the draft scheme on the one hand and their written objections on the other.7.	Reasoning
We may however point out that the production of evidence (documentary or oral) does not mean that the parties can produce any amount of evidence they like and prolong the proceedings inordinately and the State Government when giving the hearing would be powerless to check this.	Reasoning
We need only point out that though evidence may have to be taken under S. 68D (2) it does not follow that the evidence would be necessary in every case.	None
It will therefore be for the State Government, or as in this case the officer concerned, to decide in case any party desires to lead evidence whether firstly the evidence is necessary and relevant to the inquiry before it.	Reasoning
If it considers that evidence is necessary, it will give a reasonable opportunity to the party desiring to produce evidence to give evidence relevant to the enquiry and within reason and it would have all the powers of controlling the giving and the recording of evidence that any court has, Subject therefore to this overriding power of the State Government or the officer giving the hearing, the parties are entitled to give evidence either documentary or oral during a hearing under S. 68D(2).8.	Reasoning
In view of what we have said above the approach of the officer in this case was wrong on both the points.	None
He was wrong in his view that it was not open to him to reject the scheme in toto and withhold approval altogether.	Reasoning
He was also wrong in the view that it was not open to him to take evidence, whether oral or documentary, though of course, as we have said above the control on this evidence must be in him.	Reasoning
The result of this wrong approach to our mind has certainly been that the appellant did not get a hearing to which he was entitled under S. 68D (2).	Reasoning
In the circumstances we must hold that the approval of the scheme was without a proper hearing under S. 68D(2), which even though arguments were heard in full in this case, vitiates the approval given to the scheme by the officer concerned.	Reasoning
We therefore allow the appeal and set aside the order of the officer concerned approving the scheme and direct that the draft scheme be reconsidered by the said officer or such other officer as the State Government may appoint hereafter after giving a hearing in the light of the observations we have made above.	Reasoning
The appellant will get his costs from the State of Rajasthan.9.	None
In the circumstances no order is necessary in the writ petition, which is hereby dismissed.	Decision
We pass no order as to costs in the writ petition.10.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
