 Mitter, J.1.	None
These two appeals by special leave arise but of an award of the Industrial Tribunal, Allahabad following two references dated 24th January, 1962 by the State of U. P. under Section 4K of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act.	None
1947.	None
The subject matter of both the references was, whether the employers (the appellants before this Court) should be required to pay bonus to their workmen for the year 196061, and if so, at what rate?2.	None
The U. P. Electric Supply Co., Ltd. (the appellants herein) had two electricity undertakings, one at Allahabad and the other at Lucknow.	Facts
It carried on the business of generation and distribution of electricity under two licences one for Allahabad and the other for Lucknow within the areas specified therein.	Facts
In pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 12 of the said licences the U. P. Electricity Board compulsorily acquired the said undertakings of the company including the business of generation and distribution of electricity in the areas covered by the licences with effect from 16th September, 1964.	Facts
The Tribunal had however entered on the reference on 29th January 1962 and its proceedings continued down to 16th November 1965 when a common award was made directing the employers to pay three months basic wages as bonus to all the workmen entitled thereto for the year 196061.	Facts
These appeals are against the said award.3.	Facts
On behalf of the appellant, a preliminary point was raised, viz., that after the appellants undertaking was taken over in September, 1964 the industrial dispute, if any, between it and its workmen ceased to exist.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reasoning behind the argument was that if the industry itself disappeared any adjudication with regard to a dispute which had arisen in the past would be a fruitless errand and any award made on the reference thereafter would be ineffective.	None
Our attention was drawn to certain decisions of this Court in support of the above reasoning.	None
Before we proceed to do so, we think, it will be proper to examine the question as if it were res integra.4.	None
In our view, the broad proposition put forward by counsel for the appellant that as soon as a particular industry ceases to function any adjudication in respect of a dispute which had occurred prior thereto becomes abortive cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
It may be that an adjudication which concerns only the future working of the industry becomes redundant when the industry itself comes to an end.	Reasoning
If the dispute is one which relates to the past working of the industry and in particular where the claim of the workmen is for benefits which according to their view had accrued to them in the past it can hardly be said that the adjudication is without any purpose.	Reasoning
If the workmen ask for better service conditions like the revision of wage scales, dearness allowance, medical and other facilities, gratuity etc.	Reasoning
it would be useless for the Tribunal to complete the adjudication and award how the dispute vice conditions etc, ought to be bettered or revised where the industry is non est.	Reasoning
Where however the dispute as in this case, is over a claim to benefits by way of bonus for work done in the past, it would be the duty of a for Tribunal to complete the adjudication and make its award.	Reasoning
If the Tribunal finds that because of the service rendered by the workers in the past an industry reaped profits whereof a portion should go to the workmen it should not lie in the mouth of the employers to say that inasmuch as they have ceased to carry on business their obligation to pay for service rendered in the past should be wiped out.	Reasoning
There is no logic in the submission made on behalf of the appellants that the ascertainment of the liability even with regard to the working of the industry in the past can take place only during the subsistence of the relationship of master and servant between the employers and the employed.5. Counsel for the appellant referred to certain provisions in Chapter VA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 as illustrative of his argument that in cases where legislature felt it necessary to provide for relief to workers even after the closure or transfer of an industry it made express provisions therefor.	Reasoning
In particular reference was made to Ss.	None
25FF and 25FFF to show that by the first of the above provisions the legislature had provided for compensation to certain workmen.	None
where the ownership or management of an undertaking was transferred, whether voluntarily or by operation of law.	None
Similarly compensation had been provided for in S. 25FFF for workmen in cases where on the closing down of an undertaking for any reason whatever workmen were to be treated as having been retrenched thus giving them the benefit of retrenchment compensation.	None
Reference was also made to S. 33C of the Act under which a workman could approach the appropriate Government for recovery of moneys due to him under, a settlement or an award under the provisions of Ch. VA of the Act.	None
In our view, by these provisions the legislature sought to give redress to work in the contingencies mentioned in the said sections which are of common occurrence.	None
These sections do not lay down that on the closure or transfer of an undertaking the employers were to be relieved of all other obligations to or claims of the workers.	Reasoning
The preamble to the Industrial Disputes Act which expressly aims at preventing strikes and lockouts is in pari materia to the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act i.e. to make provision for the investigation and settlement of industrial disputes, and for certain other purposes cannot be read down to mean that the statute was being enacted only for the purpose of securing industrial peace so far as the future working of the industry was concerned.	Reasoning
No doubt the main object of the Act is to ensure industrial peace but equally important is the purpose behind the Act that the workmen should not be deprived of by the legitimate share of profits made by the industry.	Reasoning
The central object of the Act is to preserve industrial harmoney which would be meaningless if the workers of a particular industry were to be deprived of benefits of services rendered in the past.6.	Reasoning
The first decision of this Court which bears on this points is the case of Pipraich Sugar Mills, Ltd, v. Pipraich Mills Mazdoor Union., 1956 SCR 872 (AIR 1957 SC 95 ).	None
The facts in that case were shortly as follows Owing to continued losses suffered by the appellant its management asked the State Government either to increase its quota of sugarcane or to permit it to sell the mills.	None
In pursuance of the Governments permission to sell, the mills were sold to a Madras party.	None
As the crushing season was on at that time the appellant obtained from the purchaser a lease of the mills for the then current season agreeing to deliver possession of the mills on the termination of the lease.	None
There were negotiations between the appellant and the Madras party for the former dismantling the machinery and erecting it at Madras for a lump consideration expecting to perform the contract through its own workmen.	None
On coming to know of this the workmen assumed a hostile attitude to the whole transaction and gave a notice of strike.	None
There were negotiations between the parties thereafter which averted the strike and the crushing went on till the season came to an end.	None
Thereafter the workmen refused to help in the dismantling of the mills.	None
The Government however declined to interfere with the sale of the machinery and the management discharged the workers.	None
In view of the inability of the appellant to take up the contract, the purchaser entered into direct negotiations with the workmen and concluded an agreement with them for dismantling the machinery.	None
The net result was that the appellant lost the contract, on which as admitted by the respondent, it would have earned a profit of at least Rs. 2 lakhs.	None
The workers having taken the benefit of a direct contract with the purchaser for dismantling the machinery, next turn their attention to the appellant, and on the basis of certain earlier letters sent a notice to it on 19th April, 1951 asking for distribution among the workers of the 25 labourshare of the profits on sale of machinery.	None
The State Government referred to an Industrial Tribunal the disputeWhether the services of workmen, if so how many, were terminated by the concern without settlement of their due claims and improperly and if so, to what relief, are the workmen concerned entitled?The Tribunal held the closure of the business and the sale of the machinery to be bona fide, that the conduct of the workmen had been throughout unfair and, such as to disentitle them to compensation but that the promise contained in certain letters of the company to pay 25 per cent profits realised by the sale of the mills was binding on the management.	None
It was held that Rs. 45,000/ was thus payable to the workmen.	None
The appeal of the management to the Labour Appellate Tribunal being rejected, the matter came to this Court by special leave.	None
One of the points urged on behalf of the appellants was that it was a condition precedent to the exercise by the State of its power under S. 3 of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act that there should be an industrial dispute and that there could be no industrial dispute unless there was a subsisting relationship of an employer and an employee and inasmuch as the appellant had sold its mills and discharged the workmen on 21st March 1951 no question of any relationship of employer and employee surviving thereafter could arise and the notification under S. 3 of the Act on November 16, 1951 was incompetent.7.	None
It was pointed out by this Court that the entire scheme of the Act assumed that there was in existence a dispute and the provisions of the Act relating to lockout, strike, lay off, retrenchment, conciliation and adjudication proceedings, the period during which the awards are to be in force have meaning only if they refer to an industry which is running and not one which is closed.	None
Reference was made to Messrs. Burn and Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, 1956 SCR 781 (AIR 1957 SC 38 ) and the observation of this Court that the object of all labour legislation was firstly to ensure fair terms to the workmen, and secondly to prevent disputes between employers and employees, so that production might not be adversely affected and the larger interests of the public might not suffer.	None
Both these objects can have their fulfillment only in an existing industry and not a dead industry.	None
The Court observed that it the contention of the workmen that the management by their letters dated January 3, 1951 and January 10, 1951 had agreed to make payments to them was well founded, the dispute related to a claim which arose while the industry was in existence and between persons who stood in the relationship of employer and employees and that would clearly be an industrial dispute as defined in the Act.	None
It was further remarked that section 3 only requires, apart from other conditions, with which we are not concerned, that there should be an industrial dispute before there can be a reference, and we have held that it would be an industrial dispute if it arises out of an existing industry.	None
If that condition is satisfied, the competence of the State for taking action under that section is complete, and the fact that the industry has since been closed can have no effect on it.	None
It is pertinent to note the Courts observation that if the contention of the appellant was correct there was nothing to prevent an employer who intended for good and commercial reasons to close his business from indulging on a largescale any unfair labour practices, in victimisation and in wrongful dismissals and escaping the consequences thereof by closing down the industry.	None
The Court finally held that on a true construction of S. 3, the power of the State to make a reference under that section must be determined with reference not to the date on which it is made but to the date on which the right which is the subjectmatter of the dispute arises, and that the machinery provided under the Act would be available for working out the rights which had accrued prior to the dissolution of the business.	None
On the merits however this Court held against the agreement put forward by the workmen and allowed the appeal setting aside the award of compensation made by the Tribunal.8.	None
Turning to Burn and Companys case, 1956 SCR 781 (AIR 1957 SC 38 ) (supra) which was decided by the same Bench of Judges it may be noted that one of the disputes which led to the reference by the State Government was regarding bonus claimed by the workers.	None
With regard to this the Court observed that the reasons for the grant of bonus was that the workers should share in the prosperity to which they have contributed In The Associated Cement Companies Ltd, v. Its Workmen, 1959 SCR 925 at p. 955 (AIR 1959 SC 967 )	None
it was said that grant of bonus to workmen was based on a twofold consideration i.e. (1) labour was entitled to a share of the profits because it had partially contributed to the same and (2) it was entitled to claim that the gap between actual wage and living wage shall within reasonable limits be filled up.9.	None
Banaras Ice Factory Ltd, v. Its Workmen, 1957 SCR 143 (AIR 1957 SC 168 ) referred to by the learned counsel for the appellant is clearly distinguishable.	None
There the question arose as to the applicability of Ss. 22 and 23 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 and referring to the Case of The Automobile Products of India Ltd, v, Rukmaji Bala, (1955) 1	None
SCR 1241 (AIR 1955 SC 258 )	None
it was pointed out that the object of S. 22 of the said Act was to protect the workmen concerned in disputes which formed the subjectmatter of pending proceedings against victimisation and to ensure that proceedings in connection with industrial disputes already pending should be brought to a termination in a peaceful atmosphere and that no employer should during the pendency of these proceedings take any action of the kind mentioned in the sections which may give, rise to fresh disputes likely to further exacerbate the already strained relations between the employer and the workmen.	None
Clearly there objects were capable of fulfillment in a running or continuing industry only and not in a dead industry.10.	None
In our view the decision of this Court in Hariprasad Shivshankar Shukla v. A. D. Divelkar, 1957 SCR 121 (AIR 1957 SC 121 ) does not support the appellants contention.	None
The facts in one of the appeals which was the subject matter of that decision were that the Barsi Light Railway Company served a notice on its workmen on.	None
November 11, 1953 intimating that as a result of the Government of Indias decision to terminate the contract of the railway company and take over the railway from January 1, 1954 the services of all workmen of the railway company would be terminated with effect from the afternoon of December 31, 1953.	None
The notice further showed that the Government of India intended to employ such of the staff of the company as would be willing to serve the railway on terms, and conditions which would be notified later.	None
These were actually intimated by the Railway Board on December 15, 1953.	None
In substance the new terms and conditions as embodied in the letter and three specified forms stated that the service of the staff employed by Government would be treated as continuous for certain specific purposes only, such as contribution to provident fund, leave, passes and privilege ticket orders, educational and medical facilities etc.	None
But it was made clear that previous service under the railway company would not count for the purpose of seniority.	None
Soon thereafter the President of the Railway mens Union filed a large number of applications on behalf of the erstwhile workmen of the railway company under S. 15 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 for payment of retrenchment compensation to the said workmen under cl.	None
(b) of S. 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	None
The applications were made to the Civil Judge of Madha, the authority under the Payment of Wages Act.	None
The issues framed by the Civil Judge were (1) Whether the authority under the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, had jurisdiction to deal with and adjudicate on the claim of retrenchment compensation (2) whether the erstwhile workmen were entitled to claim compensation under cl.	None
(b) oi S. 25F of the Act and (3) whether they had been retrenched by their former employer.	None
The Civil Judge found against the workmen on issue No. 1 but in their favour on the other two issues.	None
In writ petition before the High Court of Bombay the parties agreed that the matter should be decided on merits and not on the question of jurisdiction.	None
The High Court held that the workmen were entitled to claim compensation under S. 25F (b) of the Act and the railway company was liable to pay such compensation.	None
The main argument turned on the question as to whether the definition clause regarding retrenchment i.e. S. 2 (oo) of the Act, covered the cases of closure of business when the closure was real and bona fide.	None
It was in these circumstances that the court observed that (p. 135) . .	None
except perhaps S. 25FF (inserted in 1956 . ) which can be said to bring a closed or dead industry within the purview of the Act the provisions of the Act, almost in their entirety, deal with an existing or continuing industry.	None
All the provisions relating to lay off in Ss. 25A to 25E are also inappropriate in a dead business.	None
On the question as to whether on the death of an employer or on the reconstruction of a company the former business carried on by the heirs or by the reconstructed company the workmen, would be entitled to retrenchment compensation though they continued in service as before, this Court observed that there must be compelling reasons in the words of the statute before it could be held that such was the intention of the legislature.11.	None
In our view neither the observations in this case nor in U. P. Electric Supply Co. Ltd, v. R. K. Shukla, (1970) 1	Reasoning
SCR 507 (AIR 1970 SC 237 ) have any application to the facts in the case before us.	Reasoning
Retrenchment has been specially provided for by the legislature and the questions of closure of an industry and the transfer of an industry have been expressly Provided for in the Industrial Disputes Act.	Reasoning
Although the main purpose of the Act is to provide for collective settlement of disputes and maintances of industrial peace we cannot hold that a tribunal which is called upon to adjudicate on a dispute relating to a share of the profits earned by the company in the past on behalf of the workmen becomes functus officio or that the dispute becomes incapable of determination under the Act when the industry is closed.	Reasoning
The claim, as already pointed out is for services rendered in the past and the dispute was a live one at the time when the reference was made by the State Government and indeed continued so for more than three years thereafter.	Reasoning
It was only because of the protracted proceedings of the tribunal that the award came to be made as late as November 1965.	Reasoning
The closure of the business long after the rendering of the services by the workmen and the preference of the dispute to the tribunal cannot wipe out the claim of the workmen or annul the adjudication in respect thereof.12.	Reasoning
This brings us to the merits of the case.	Reasoning
The profits of the company for working out the Labour Appellite Tribunal Full Bench formula as found by the Tribunal far the relevant year was Rs. 23,42,352/. The tribunal however added back thereto three claims made by the workmen, namely, (1) excess debit to coal and fuel consumption Rs. 67,817 (2) estimated revenue for one month Rupees 1,85,519 and (3) notional revenue on the basis of units produced but not accounted for Rs. 2,50,000/, which would raise the figure of profits to Rupees 28,54,803.	Reasoning
We find ourselves unable to accept any of the above additions made by the tribunal referred to above.13.	None
The workmen submitted a number of interrogatories for reply by the company and one of these related to the break up of Rs. 59,67,466 shown as coal and fuel in the revenue and profit and loss account of the company.	None
In their reply the company gave the following figuresRs.1.(a) Contractors bill for carting stacking and putting coal into hoppers  6,67,47768(b) Contractors Bill for crushing coal  18,98639(c)	None
Miscellaneous Charges (being charges for insurance, rent of land for stacking deal etc.)  	None
8,00150(d)	None
Proportionate wages to staff9,06324  7,03,52881(e) Price of coal consumed  52,63,9388559,67,46766The Companys witness M. Ghosh gave evidence on this and other subjects before the tribunal.	None
It appears that his examination went on from 27th October 1964 to 10th August 1965.	None
In his examinationinchief Ghosh referred to various accounts prepared from the books of account and records of the company and audited by a firm of well known chartered accountants.	None
He gave the figures of coal consumed both at Allahabad and Lucknow and the average price per metric ton these were 69,432.02 metric tons in .	None
Lucknow at Rs. 4528 per ton exhopper and 60,67303 metric tons at Allahabad at Rs. 4542 per ton exhopper.	None
He also said that the cost of fuel oil was Rs. 67,95002 for the two units.	Reasoning
He was closely crossexamined with regard to the statements produced by him and the revenue ledgers disclosed by the company.	None
He said in his crossexamination under date 21st January 1965 that the figure of Rs. 59,67,467 66 shown at page 6 of the profit and loss account included not only Rupees 52,63,93885 mentioned in the interrogatories but also the other following itemsRs.A. Contractors bill for carting, stacking and putting coal into hoppers (including cost of fuel amounting to Rs.	None
67,950026,67,47768B. Contractors bill for crushing coal18,98639C. Miscellaneous charges (being charges for insurance, rent of land for stacking coal etc.)8,00150D. Proportionate wages to staff9,06324He was closely examined with regard to the accounts and with respect to many figures when he said that without looking into the journals he could not say what was included in the sundry account.	None
There can be little doubt that the company was using a diesel engine for the generation of electricity the hire of which alone cost the company Rs. 2,00, 000 in the relevant year and mention is made of the use of the diesel engine in the Directors report D  28th August, 1961.	Reasoning
This is also borne out by the answer to interrogatory No. 4 submitted by the workmen to the employers.	Reasoning
In his crossexamination Ghosh said that the figure of Rs.	Reasoning
59,67,46766 had been taken from the revenue ledger of the head office and without reference to the revenue account statements he could not say whether the value shown against coal and fuel was in respect of the coal consumed or wins the amount spent for purchase of coal during the month.	Reasoning
According to him coal was purchased both at the units and through the head office.	Reasoning
The tribunal wrongly observed that it was for the first time in his crossexamination that Ghosh had stated that the contractors bill of Rs.	Reasoning
6,67,47768 included the cost of fuel amounting to Rs. 67,95202.	Reasoning
As already noted Ghosh in his examinationinchief had mentioned the cost of fuel oil at Rs. 67,95002.	Reasoning
The Tribunal also observed that the company had not produced any record and what ever they had stated in reply to the interrogatories or in reply to the workmens comments, after inspection, did not corroborate the statement of Ghosh that out of the contractors bill for Rs.	Reasoning
6,67,47768 a sum of Rs. 67,95202 was in respect of the cost of fuel oil The tribunal went by the two certificates Exs.	Reasoning
E2 arid E3 issued by the chartered accountants both dater 22nd December 1961 giving the figure of coal consumed at the two generating stations and their average price Per metric ton and on that basis reached the conclusion that the company had spent Rs. 58,98,65090 on fuel for the relevant year and contrasting this figure with Rs.	Reasoning
59,67,46766 concluded that there was an excess expenditure on this item in the sum of Rupees 67,817/.14.	Reasoning
In our view the Tribunals conclusion cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
It was the same firm of chartered accountant who issued Exs. E2 and E3 who were responsible for preparation of the balancesheet and profit and loss account of the company which were accepted by, the incometax department.	Reasoning
While it is true that merely because a figure is to be found in the audited balancesheet of the company an industrial tribunal is not bound to accept the said figure if challenged.	Reasoning
It must be said that when the figures for expenses incurred in connection with fuel given in the balancesheet are also deposed to by a witness who gives the breakup thereof and says even in his examinationinchief that the cost of fuel oil was Rs. 67,95002 which is repeated in crossexamination and the witness is not asked in particular as to how this figure was arrived at, although the witness was examined for nearly 10 months, the tribunal should not have discarded his evidence on this point.	Reasoning
The break up of the figure Rs.	Reasoning
59,67,46766 was disclosed as early as 25th August 1962 of which Rs. 7,03,52881 accounted for (1) contractors bills for carting, stacking and putting cool into hoppers, (2) contractors bill for crushing coal, (3) miscellaneous charges (4) proportionate wages to staff and (5) price of coal consumed and the books of account and records of the company were made available for inspection to the workers.	Reasoning
In these circumstances the different figures of the break up should not have been disregarded by the tribunal more so, because the chartered accountants were giving certificates only in respect to the expenses for coal delivered into the hoppers in the accounting year.	Reasoning
It being undisputed that the company was using a diesel plant for generating electricity it would be surprising if no expenses were incurred for purchasing the diesel oil to run it with.	Reasoning
It may be that in the different accounts of the company cost of fuel oil was not separately recorded but was put under the general head of raw material for running and working the turbines namely, coal.	Reasoning
Not one of the several witnesses examined on behalf of the workmen had made any statement that fuel oil was not required by the company for the relevant year of account.	Reasoning
In our view, the figure of Rs.	Reasoning
59,67,46766 as shown in the balancesheet should have been accepted by the tribunal from which there should have been no deduction of the figure Rs. 67,817/.15.	Reasoning
The Tribunal added back a sum of Rs. 1,85,519/ to the figure of profits on the ground that the company had included only the revenue of 11 months and not of 12 months as it should have done for the working out of the Full Bench formula.	None
The preliminary objection of the workmen before the examination of the witnesses was that the revenue on account of light and power shown in the revenue account was much less than the real revenue as it did not take into account various items of revenue.	None
After inspection of the accounts, the workmen filed a specific objection that one months revenue amounting to Rupees 1,85,51914 had not been accounted for and the profits had been reduced to the said extent.	None
According to the appellant this discrepancy is accounted for by the fact that it changed its system of accounting in February 1962 which was given effect to trim the month of January 1962.	None
One of the witnesses for the workmen A. P. Saxena who was an old account clerk of the company gave evidence to the effect that it was his duty to prepare bills of all bulk supply consumers, temporary connections and sundry sales and that it was also his duty to maintain bulk supply consumer ledgers and prepare its summary every month.	None
He added thatIn the disputed year through office order No. 12 dated 23261 the revenue on account of all bulk supply came to be entered in the month subsequent to the month in which it had accrued.	None
This practice is still continuing.	None
This change came about in January 1961.	None
Prior to January 1961, the revenue was entered in the month in which it accrued.	None
The result of this change was that the revenue for March 1961 amounting to Rs. 1,85,51914 was taken as the revenue of the succeeding year and in the disputed year revenue from bulk supply consumers was shown for only 11 months.	None
In the bulk supply ledger the income from bulk supply consumers for January 1961 is shown as blank.	None
In the consumer ledger summary for January 1961 also the entry against bulk supply consumers is blank.	None
In his crossexamination be admitted that the bill on account of bulk supply consumed in January 1961 was sent in February 1961.	None
This is also home out by two office orders dated 15th February 1961 and 23rd February 1961.	None
According to the first, the revenue statistics for the month of March was to be sent by the latest by 3rd of April.	None
This was also emphasised on by the document dated 23rd February 1961 that bills for bulk supply and cinema and other categories of consumers should be completed by the third week of March 1961 and in order that this may be facilitated the meter readings taken in the month of March or February should be debited in the months of March or February notwithstanding that such meter reading might relate to the consumption for the month of January.	None
It is not as if the company was depriving the workmen of the benefit of one months revenue as regards the bonus due to them.	None
What really happened was that for the year ending March 1961 only 11 months revenue was taken into account and the bill for the month of March for bulk supplies etc. was sent in April 1961.	None
Whatever income the company had for such supply in the month of March was taken into account in the succeeding year.	None
The noninclusion of one months revenue in respect of bulk supplies etc. was bona fide caused by the switching over to a different basis of accounting which the employer could lawfully have done and the tribunal was not justified in adding back the sum of Rs.1,85.51914 to the profits as it had done.16.	None
With regard to the third item of Rs. 2,50,000/ added back to the balance of profit and loss account by the tribunal, it must be noted that the original claim of the workmen was that the employers had failed to account for units of electricity generated of the value of Rs. 28,20,30650 in the relevant year of account.	None
After inspection of the records by the company the workmen stated that no less than 2,25,62,452 units of energy had not been accounted for at Allahabad and Lucknow and the minimum value of these units at 12 p. per unit came to Rs.	None
28,20,30650 and the same should be added back.	None
The reply of the company was that the unaccounted for units represented the loss in transmission, distribution and also loss of units due to errors in meters and leakage in lines and this was a normal and unavoidable feature in electricity supply undertakings.	None
The workmen filed statements Exs. W1 and W2 showing the total number of units generated and purchased by the employers from others as well as the total number of units Sold to consumers or otherwise used in power stations and auxiliaries besides the number of units unaccounted for.	None
They also filed a statement Ex.	None
W3 showing the revenue earned during the year.	None
The tribunal found that Exs. W1 and W2 were in fact copies of some of the items contained in Ex. W31.	None
Ex.	None
W1 is a chart showing (1) units generated at Allahabad and Lucknow (2) units purchased at Allahabad and Lucknow (3) units used on power station and auxiliaries at Allahabad and Lucknow (4) units sold at Allahabad and Lucknow and (5) units unaccounted for at Allahabad and Lucknow.	None
All the figures are for the period April 1960 to March 1961.	None
It is worthy of note that both at Allahabad and at Lucknow the figures fur units unaccounted for were very high.	None
At Allahabad the highest figure was for the month of January 1961 viz, 2868847 units and at Lucknow the highest figure was reached in July 1960, viz., 1739855 units.	None
The lowest figure of units unaccounted for at Allahabad was reached in February 1961 viz., 138705 while that for Lucknow was also reached in the same month 151764.	None
The figures of units unaccounted for at both places do not follow any particular pattern.	None
The figure next below 2868847 for January 1961 for Allahabad was 1291679 for Allahabad in March 1961, while at Lucknow the units unaccounted for were well over a million in 6 months out of 12 at Allahabad the million mark was crossed only on three occasions.	None
The companys witness.	None
Ghosh, admitted that in January 1961 the unaccounted for units at Allahabad were as high as 61.7 per cent of the total units generated and he only ventured to guess that there was a heavy loss or waste of energy through breakdown or unexpected leakages.	None
The Tribunal was alive to the fact that a certain amount of loss was bound to occur in transmission, distribution and conversion but took the view that the same should not have exceeded 10 to 15 per cent of the electricity generated and after allowing a margin of wastage of about 8 lakhs units out of 28 lakhs unaccounted for the month of January 1961 at Allahabad he took the view that the value of 20 lakhs of units at the minimum rate of 12 p. per unit i.e. Rupees 2,50,000 ought to be added back to the profits.	None
In our view, the tribunals approach to the question was wholly unwarranted.	None
The loss of electric energy was fairly high in all the months both at Allahabad and at Lucknow except for one or two months out of the year.	Reasoning
There was no suggestion on behalf of the workmen that electric energy could have been surreptitiously dealt with by the company either for depriving the workmen of their share of the profit or for any other purpose.	Reasoning
Electric energy as is well known cannot be transmitted except through transmission lines and without any surreptitious manipulation of the meters of which there was no allegation all energy produced at the power station as also those supplied to consumers whether in bulk or otherwise would be duly recorded in the meters.	Reasoning
What was not so recorded could only be due to loss in transmission or conversion.	Reasoning
unusually high wastage would certainly indicate serious leakage and inefficient working unless it was explained by some break down.	Reasoning
But in applying the Full Bench formula the employers cannot be charged with any notional profits which they should have made although the formula itself is notional.	None
In the Associated Cement Companies case, 1959 SCR 925 (AIR 1959 SC 967 ) (supra) it was pointed out by this CourtThe working of the formula (the Full Bench formula) begins with the figure of gross profits taken from the profit and loss account which were arrived at after payment of wages and deamess allowance to the employees and other items of expenditure.	None
As a general rule the amount of gross profits thus ascertained is accepted without submitting the statement of the profit and loss account to a close scrutiny.	None
If however, it appears that entries have been made on the debit side deliberately and mala tide to reduce the amount of gross profits, it would be open to the tribunal to examine the question and if it is satisfied that the impugned entries have been made mala fide it may disallow them.	None
Approving of the dictum in M s. J. K. Cotton Manufacturers Ltd., Kanpur v. Their Workmen, 1954 Lab AC 716 at p. 745 (LATILuck) thatif managing agents deliberately divert profits to the selling agents with a view to deprive labour of their bonus and pay commission to the selling agents at high rates then certainly the matter must be taken into consideration in the determination of available surplus balancethis Court said thatIt would likewise be open to the parties to claim the exclusion of items either on the credit or on the debit side on the ground that the impugned items are wholly extraneous and entirely unrelated to the trading profits of the year.	None
In considering such a plea the tribunal must resist the temptation of dissecting the balancesheet too minutely or of attempting to reconstruct it in any manner.	None
It is only glaring cases where the impugned item may be patently and obviously extraneous that a plea for its exclusion should be entertained.	None
Where the employer makes profits in the course of carrying on his trade or business, It would be unreasonable to inquire whether each one of the items of the said profit is related to the contribution made by the labour.	None
In such matters the tribunal must take an overall, practical and commonsense view.	None
Thus it may be stated that as a rule the gross profits appearing at the foot of the statement of the profit and loss account should be taken as the basic figure while working out the formula once it is realised that in working out the formula the bonus year is taken as a unit selfsufficient by itself, the decisions of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in regard to the refund of excess profits tax and the adjustment of the previous years depreciation and losses against the bonus years profits must be treated as logical and sound.	None
It has never been held by this Court that if through the inefficiency in the working of the industry or by reason of use of defective machinery or apparatus full profits are not received with the result that notional the labour is deprived of a share thereof, the tribunal adjudicating on the question of bonus payable to labour for a particular year should add back to the gross profits as shown in the balancesheet the amount of profit lost through the inefficiency or negligence of the employers.17.	Reasoning
The above remarks apply to the case of adding back of Rupees 2.50,000 for unaccounted units of electrical energy as also to the figure of Rupees 67,817 added back by the Tribunal to the balance of gross profits of Rupees 23,51,467/18.	None
If the said three amounts are not to be added back to the profit according to the balancesheet we have to start with the figure of Rupees 23,51,467 in the working sheet.	None
The tribunal allowed Rupees 5,83,520 as expenses claimed by the employers as prior charge out of the said figure as also notional normal depreciation of Rupees 13,16,804.	None
This would leave a surplus of Rupees 4,51,143/.	None
The next figure of prior charge which the Tribunal allowed was Rs. 2,80,000 at 5 per cent, on the share capital while the management claimed it at 6 per cent.	None
i.e. Rupees 3,36,000/.	None
As far back as 1960 in M s. Peirce Leslie and	None
Co. Ltd.	None
Kozhikode v. The Workmen (1960) 3	None
SCR 194 (AIR 1960 SC 826 ) this Court held that a return of 6 is ordinarily considered to be a fair return on the capital invested in the case of paid up capital.	None
The Court also said that in a particular industry where the risk in the business was great there will be a good cause for providing for 6 per cent.	None
Our attention was drawn to the case of National Engineering Industries Ltd. v. Its Workmen, (1968)	None
ISCR 779 (AIR 1968 SC 538 ).	None
In this case it appears that the Tribunal had allowed 7 1/4 per cent on the paid up capital instead of 8.57 per cent claimed by the company.	None
Referring to the Associated Cement Companys case, 1959 SCR 925 (AIR 1959 SC 967 ) (supra)that although 6 per cent would be a fair provision for payment of interest this Court observed that the rule was not to be regarded as inflexible, and in awarding interest if the tribunal were to find that it were to grant 6 interest on paid up capital, nothing or no appreciable amount would be left for bonus, it can adjust the rate of interest so as to accommodate reasonably the claim for bonus and thus meet the demands of both as reasonably as possible.	None
The Tribunal awarded 5 interest basing its conclusion on the fact that in the year 1.96061 the bank rate of interest was 4 andthat on an earlier occasion i.e. Adjudication Case No. 57/1958 5 had been allowed.	None
In our view, the addition of 2 to 3 per cent over the bank rate is quite proper as formulated in M s, Price Leslie Companys case, and provisions for 6 interest on paid up capital is normally quite appropriate.	None
We may in this connection mention that only very recently in the case of M s. Bareilly Electricity Supply Co. Ltd. v. The Workmen, C. A. No. 1254 of 1966, D  1681971 (SC) this Court had approved of the computation of interest at 6 on the share capital and we see no reason to depart therefrom.19.	None
It was urged on behalf of the workers that the company had been a prosperous one that it had built up large reserves and was paying dividend to its shareholders and as such the proper figure for interest would be 5 and not 6 per cent.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the decisions of this Court we find ourselves unable to accede to this argument.	None
Allowing return on share capital at 8 we have to deduct Rupees 3,36,000 from the surplus balance already mentioned, namely, Rupees 4,51,143 which reduces the balance to Rupees 1,15.143/. In this view of the matter it is not necessary to go into the question as to whether and if so what amount should be provided for as prior charges by way of return on working capital or rehabilitation requirement.	Reasoning
But what we cannot ignore is the statutory contingency reserve and the statutory development reserve the figures for which put forward by Company and accepted by the tribunal were Rupees 1,07,291 and 2,02,709 making a total of Rupees 3,10,000/ while it is true that these amounts cannot be considered as prior charges for the purpose of finding out the available surplus they have to be taken into consideration when the question of distribution to the workers out of the available surplus arises See Mathura Prasad Srivastava v. Saugor Electric Supply Co. Ltd, (1966) 2 Lab LJ 307 (SC).20.	Reasoning
In this case the tribunal awarded no less than three months basic wages by way of bonus.	Reasoning
The monthly basic wage bill of all the employees was between Rupees 74.000 and Rupees 75,000/.	Reasoning
It was contended on behalf of the workers that if Rs. 2,25,000/ was to be paid as bonus the company would get a rebate of 45 thereof by way of Incometax which would give the company an additional sum of Rupees 1,01,250 .Even	Reasoning
so the available surplus together with this would not be enough to meet the provision for statutory contingency reserve and statutory development reserve.	Reasoning
Even if we were to provide for one months basic wages by way of bonus, there would not be way of money in the hands of the company to make provision for the said resetves.21.	Reasoning
In the result, we must hold that the tribunal went wrong in allowing any bonus to the workers, on the facts of this case.	Decision
The appeals must therefore be allowed and the provision for payment of bonus in the award set aside.	Decision
But in view of the divided success in the appeal, and particularly in view of the preliminary point as to jurisdiction which was canvassed at sortie length on behalf of the employers, the proper order for costs would be to leave the parties to meet their own expenses.22.	Decision
There will therefore be no order as to costs.23.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
