 Sikri, J.1.	None
This judgment will dispose of 12 appeals from the judgments of the High Court of Bombay, dated March 17, 1958 whereby the High Court answered the questions referred to it partly in favour of the assessee and partly in favour of the Department.	Facts
The four questions answered by the High Court are 1.	None
Whether the initiation of action under S. 34 for the purpose of bringing to tax the net dividend income of Rs. 579 (suitably grossed) was valid?2.	Issue
Whether the said portion of the dividend income forms part of the assessed total income as that term is defined in S. 2 (13) of the Indian Incometax Act.	Facts
1922?3.	Issue
Whether having regard to the provision of the IndoPakistan Agreement, the assessee is entitled to any relief on the said P. portion of dividend income?4.	Issue
D. Whether the other moiety of the dividend of Rs. 1,71,992 declared by the Company on 14101952 is properly includible in the total income of the assessee of the previous year S. Y.2008 for the assessment year 195354?The figures in these questions are in respect of Shri Purshottamdas Thakurdass.)2.	Facts
In C. A. 709/63 and C. A. 713/68 questions 1, 2 and 3 arise.	Facts
Only questions 2 and 3 arise in C. A. 710/63, C. A. 711/63 C. A. 704/63, C. A. 707/63, C.A. 714/63 and C. A. 706/63, Question D arises in C. A. 712/63, C. A. 705/63, C. A. 708/63, C. A. 712/63 and C. A. 715/63.	Facts
The appeals involving question D are by the Commissioner of Incometax and appeals involving questions 1 to 3 are by assessees.3.	Facts
It will be convenient to give the facts in the case of the assessee, the late Shri Purshottamdas Thakurdass, hereinafter referred to as	Facts
assessee A.	Facts
He was a shareholder in Narandas Rajaram Ltd., which carries on business both in India and Pakistan.	Facts
Profits accused to it both in India and Pakistan.	Facts
The company declared dividend out of the above profits.	Facts
In the case of assessee A, the portion of the dividend attributable to the profits that accrued in Pakistan amounted to Rs. 2,722 for the assessment year 194950.	Facts
On May 20, 1952, the I.T.O. included this sum of Rs. 2.722 in the total income but held that no income tax or supertax was payable in respect of this amount.	Facts
The Incometax Officer reopened the assessment of 194950 because assessee A was a shareholder in Industrial Corporation Ltd., and an order had been passed under S. 23 A of the Indian Incometax Act. 1922 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) in respect of this Corporation.	Facts
As a result of this order, Rs. 579 was deemed to have accrued to him.	Facts
But in his reassessment order, dated January 17, 1955, the Incometax Officer brought to charge not only the said Rs. 579 but also the said sum of Rs. 2,722, i.e., the Pakistan portion of the dividend received from Narendass Rajaram Ltd.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner upheld the assessment order both in respect of Rs. 579 and Rs. 2,722.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal also upheld the order.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal then referred the first three questions to the High Court but refused to refer the following questionWhether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the relief allowed in the assessment under S. 23 (3) on that portion of dividend income from Narandas Rajaram and Co. Private Ltd., which is attributable to the income of the Company arising in Pakistan can be withdrawn while making reassessment under S. 34(1)(b)?4.	Facts
Assessee A took out a notice of motion for a reference of the said question.5.	Facts
The High Court, by its judgment dated March 17, 1958, answered the three questions against the Assessee.	Facts
The High Court also directed the Appellate Tribunal to refer the above question, hereinafter to be referred to as the Supplementary question which the Appellate Tribunal had declined to refer, on the Appellate Tribunal referring the said question, the High Court by its judgment dated April 14, 1960 answered the question in favour of the assesse.6.	Facts
On February 7, 1961, the High Court granted the necessary certificate to Assessee A.	Facts
The Commissioner of Incometax, however, did not appeal against the judgment of the High Court on the supplementary question.7.	Facts
For the assessment year 195253, the net dividend received by Assessee A from Narandas Rajaram and Co., Ltd., was Rs, 1,12,867 out of which Rs. 28,167 was attributable to the profits of that company which accrued in Pakistan.	Facts
The I. T. O, charged this sum to tax and the assessment was confirmed both by the Appellate Assistant commissioner and the Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
Two questions were referred to the High Court.	Facts
The second question is the same as question No. 3 reproduced in the beginning of the judgment.	Facts
The first question was in substance the same as question No. 2.	Facts
The High Court on July 10. 1959, granted the certificate of fitness under S. 66A (2) of the Act.8.	Facts
The fourth question D arose in the case of Assessee A for the assessment year 195354 under the following circumstances.	Facts
On October 14, 1952, the following resolution was adopted at the ordinary general meeting of Narandas Rajaram and Co. Ltd.	None
Dividends, as mentioned below, be and are hereby declared out of the profits of the Company(a)	None
A Dividend of 4 per cent on A Preference Shares and 4 per cent on B Preference Shares.(b)	Facts
A Dividend of 32 per cent free of incometax on the Ordinary Shares and a consequential additional dividend at the rate of 13 per cent free of incometax on B Preference Shares.(c)	Facts
A moiety of the amount of the dividend be paid to the shareholders on and after 16th October 1952 whose names appear on the Register of the Company as on 6th October, 1952, and the other moiety be postponed for payment within two months from the date on which remittances from Pakistan become free and the moneys are actually received.9.	Facts
The certificate issued by the company under S. 20 of the Act also stated that half of the amount of the dividend was payable on or after October 16, 1952, and the balance was payable within 2 months after remittances from Pakistan become free.	Facts
The Incometax Officer included the entire amount of Rs. 1,71,902 in the total income of Assessce A Both the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Appellate Tribunal confirmed this.	Facts
On an application of Assessee A, the Tribunal referred three questions the first question is Question D, the second question is similar to the question No. 2 and the third similar to question No. 3, reproduced, in the beginning of the judgment.	Facts
The High Court answered question D in the negative (i.e. against the Commissioner of Incometax and the others as in the other reference, against the assessee.	Facts
The High Court granted certificates under S. 66A (2) of the Act both to the Assesses A and the Commissioner of Incometax.10.	Facts
It is not necessary to give the facts in the cares of other assessees for, apart from the amount of dividend involved, the facts are similar.11.	Facts
It is not necessary to discuss the first question which raises the point of the validity of proceedings under S. 34 of the Act.	Reasoning
because it is common ground that it has become academic.	Reasoning
This common ground is based on the fact that the Commissioner of Incometax has not appealed against the judgment of the High Court, dated April 14, 1960.	Reasoning
By this judgment the High Court had answered the supplementary question in favour of the Assessee A12.	Reasoning
Regarding the second question.	Reasoning
Mr Vishwanath Sastri rightly concedes that the Pakistan portion of the dividend forms part of the assessees total income as defined in S. 2 (15) of the Act.	Reasoning
The High Court had followed its earlier judgment in the Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay City II v. Shanti K. Maheshwari, 195833 ITR 313 (AIR 1958 Bom 478).We hold that the High Court was right in answering this question against the Assessee A.13.	Reasoning
The next question involves the interpretation of S. 49AA of the Act, as it existed at the relevant time, and the IndoPakistan Agreement dated December 10, 1947.	None
Mr. Sastri contends that on the true interpretation of the agreement each Dominion is entitled to charge only on the proportion of income allotted to it under the Agreement.	None
The reply on behalf of the Revenue is that each Dominion is entitled to asseess an assessee on the total income in the normal way but it has to allow, an abatement subject to the conditions mentioned in the agreement being satisfied.14.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 49AA was in the following termsThe Central Government may enter into an agreement with Pakistan or the United Kingdom for the avoidance of double taxation of income, profits and gains under this Act and under the corresponding law in force in Pakistan or the United Kingdom and may, by notification in the official gazette, make such provision as may be necessary for implementing the agreement.	None
In pursuance of this section, agreement for the avoidance of double taxation of income was entered into between the Government of the Dominion of India and the Government of the Dominion of Pakistan.	None
The following portions of the agreement are relevant for disposing of the point argued before usArticle IV  Each Dominion shall make assessment in the ordinary way under its own laws and, where either Dominion under the operation of its laws charges any income from the sources or categories of transactions specifled in column 1 of the Schedule to this Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the schedule) in excess of the amount calculated according to the percentage specified, in columns 2 and 3 thereof, that Dominion shall allow an abatement equal to the lower amount of tax payable on such excess in either Dominion as provided for in Article VI.Article VI.(a)	None
For the purposes of the abatement to be allowed under Art.	None
IV or V, the tax payable in each Dominion on the excess or the doubly taxed income, as the case may be shall be such proportion of the tax payable in each Dominion as the excess or the doubtly taxed income bears to the total income of the assessee in each Dominion.(b) Where at the time of assessment in one Dominion, the tax payable on the total income in the other Dominion is not known, the first Dominion shall make a demand without allowing the abatement, but shall hold in abeyance for a period of one year (or such longer period as may be allowed by the Incometax Officer in his discretion) the collection of a portion of the demand equal to the estimated abatement.	None
If the assessee produces a certificate of assessment in the other Dominion within the period of one year or any longer period allowed by the Incometax Officer, the uncollected portion of the demand will be adjusted against the abatement allowable under this Agreement if no such certificate is produced, the abatement shall cease to be operative and the outstanding demand shall be collected forthwith.15.	None
It seems to us that the opening sentence of Art.	None
IV of the Agreement that each Dominion is entitled to make assessment in the ordinary way under its own laws clearly shows that each Dominion can make an assessment regardless of the Agreement.	Reasoning
But a restriction is imposed on each Dominion and the restriction is not on the power of assessment but on the liberty, to retain the tax assessed.	Reasoning
Art.	Reasoning
IV directs each Dominion to allow abatement on the amount in excess of the amount mentioned in the Schedule.	Reasoning
The scheme of the Schedule is to apportion income from various sources among the two Dominions.	Reasoning
In the case of Dividends each Dominion is entitled to charge in proportion to the profits of the company chargeable by each Dominion under this agreement.	Reasoning
This refers us back to the other items.	Reasoning
For instance, in respect of goods manufactured by the assessee partly in one Dominion and partly in the other, each Dominion is entitled to charge on 50 of the profits.	Reasoning
But the Schedule does not limit the power of each Dominion to assess in the normal way all the income that is liable to taxation under its laws.	Reasoning
The Schedule has been inserted only for the purpose of calculating the abatement to be allowed.16.	Reasoning
Article VI also leads to the same conclusion.	Reasoning
For if no assessment could be made on the amount on which abatement is to be allowed, there could be no question of making a demand without allowing the abatement and holding in abeyance for a period the collection of a portion of the demand equal to the estimated abatement.17.	Reasoning
It is common ground that no certificate of assessment in the other Dominion has been produced before the Incometax Officer.	Reasoning
We agree with the High Court that the answer to this question is in the affirmative.18.	Reasoning
The other question that remains is question D, set out above.	None
The High Court approached the question in the light of the decision of the Bombay High Court in Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay City II v. Laxmidas Mulraj Khatau, 194816 ITR 248 (AIR 1948 Bom 404 ).	None
It came to the conclusion that the resolution created only a contingent liability, and, therefore, the dividend could not be said to have been paid in the previous year of the asessment year 195354.	None
Mr. Gupte, the learned Additional Solicitor General, has urged that this view is wrong but that in view of the recent decision of this Court in J. Dalmia v. Commissioner of Incometax, New Delhi,196453 ITR (SC) 83 (AIR 1964 SC 1866 ), it is not necessary to decide this point as this Court has dissented from the decision in 194816 ITR 248 (AIR 1948 Bom 404 ).	None
He, however, urged that the amount had been credited within the meaning of S. 16 (2) of the Act.	None
He said that the profit and loss Account of the Company was debited with Rs. 5,85,000, that being the total amount of dividend declared.	None
The corresponding credits, he points, out were given as followsTo seventh Dividend Account (being the amount payable to shareholders).	None
5,74,14440To Incometax Reserve Account (being the amount of incometax deducted on dividend warrant) 10,50000Nonresident shareholder supertax Account (being the amount of supertax deducted from the dividend payable to nonresident shareholders).	None
355120.19.	None
Subsequently, after making payment, the seventh dividend account showed a credit balance of Rs. 2,92,500 representing a moiety of the dividend that remained to be paid out of the total dividend declared of Rs. 5,85,000.20.	None
We are unable to accept the contention.	None
In 196453 ITR (SC) 83 (AIR 1964 SC 1866 ), Shah, J., speaking for the Court had observedIn general, dividend may be said to be paid within the meaning of S. 16 (2) when the Company discharges its liability and makes the amount of dividend unconditionally available to the member entitled thereto.	None
This condition must also be fulfilled in case a dividend is credited.	None
In other words, the credit must be in such form that the dividend is unconditionally available to the member.21.	None
It will be noticed that the dividend due to the assessee has not been credited to any separate account of the assessee, so that he could, if he wished, draw it.	Reasoning
Before the High Court it was never suggested that the dividend was credited or distributed.	Reasoning
Accordingly we hold that the Pakistan portion of the dividend has not been credited or paid within the meaning of S. 16 (2) of the Incometax Act.	Reasoning
The answer to the question is, therefore, in the negative.22.	None
In the result, all the appeals fail.	Decision
All the parties will bear their own costs in this Court.23.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
