 Hegde, J. (with Sikri, C. J., Mitter and Bhargava JJ.)1.	None
This is an execution appeal.	None
The decreeholders are the appellants herein.	None
This case has a long and chequered history.	Facts
The decreeholders obtained a decree against the respondents in the Court of SubJudge, Bankura (West Bengal) for a sum of over Rs. 12,000/, on December 3, 1949.	Facts
On March 28, 1950 they applied to the Court which passed the decree to transfer the decree together with a certificate of nonsatisfaction to the Court at Morena in the then State of Madhya Bharat for execution.	Facts
It was ordered accordingly.	Facts
The execution proceedings commenced in the Court of Additional District Judge at Morena on September 21, 1950 (Money Execution Case No. 8 of 1950).	Facts
The judgmentdebtors resisted the execution on the ground that the Court had no jurisdiction to execute the same as the decree was that of a foreign Court and that the same had been passed ex parte.	Facts
The Court accepted that contention and dismissed the execution petition on December 29, 1950.	Facts
On April 1, 1951 the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, (Act II of 1951) came into force.	Facts
As a result of that the Code of Civil Procedure (in short the Code) was extended to the former State of Madhya Bharat as well as to various other places.	Facts
Meanwhile the decreeholders appealed against the order of the learned Additional District Judge, Morena dismissing the execution petition, to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The Madhya Pradesh High Court allowed their appeal.	Facts
As against that the judgmentdebtors appealed to this Court.	Facts
This Court allowed the appeal of the judgment debtors and restored the order of the learned Additional District Judge, Morena.	Facts
The decision of this Court is reported in Hansraj Nathu Ram v. Lalji Raja and Sons of Bankura, (1963) 2	Facts
SCR 619 (AIR 1963 SC 1180 ).	Facts
Therein this Court ruled that the transfer ordered by the Bankura Court was without jurisdiction as on that date the Code did not apply to the Morena Court.	Facts
This Court held that Morena Court not being a Court to which the Code applied, the decree could not have been transferred to it.	Facts
It further held that Sections 38 and 39 of the Code did not afford justification for such a transfer.	Facts
It may be noted that at the time the Bankura Court ordered the transfer of the decree, the Morena Court was governed by the Indian Code of Civil Procedure as adapted by the Madhya Bharat Adaptation Order, 1948.	Facts
In other words it was governed by a law passed by the then Madhya Bharat State.	Facts
In the course of its judgment this Court observed that under the Code a decree can be executed by a Court which passed the decree or to which it was transferred for execution and the decree which could be transferred has to be a decree passed under the Code and the Court to which it could be transferred has to be a Court which was governed by the Indian Code of Civil Procedure.	Facts
The first stage of the execution proceedings came to an end by the decision of this Court rendered on April 30, 1962.2.	Facts
On February 15, l963, the decreeholders filed another execution case before the Bankura Court.	Facts
Therein they prayed for the transfer of the decree again to the Morena Court for execution.	Facts
As noticed earlier, by that time the Code had been extended to the Madhya Bharat State which later became a part of the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The Bankura Court again ordered the transfer of the decree to the Morena Court.	Facts
The execution proceedings were started afresh in the Morena Court on August 31, 1963 (Execution Case No. 1 of 1963).	Facts
The judgmentdebtors resisted the execution on various grounds viz, (a) that it is barred by res judicata in view of the decision of this Court referred to earlier.	Facts
(b) that it is barred by Section 48 of the Code (c) that it is barred by limitation and (d) that the decree is not executable as it is a decree of a foreign Court.3.	Facts
The learned Additional District Judge rejected the objections raised by the judgmentdebtors.	Facts
The judgmentdebtor, appeals against that order to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The High Court agreed with the executing Court that the execution petition is neither barred by res judicata nor by Section 48 of the Code, nor is there any bar of limitation but it disagreed with that Court and held that the decree was not executable as the Court which passed the decree was a foreign Court.	Facts
In arriving at that conclusion it purported to rely on the decision of this Court in Raj Rajendra Sardar Moloji Narsingh Rao Shitole v Sri Shankar Saran, (1963) 2	Facts
SCR 577 (AIR 1962 SC 1737 ).	Facts
Aggrieved by that decision, the decreeholders have brought this appeal by special leave.4.	Facts
From the contentions advanced before us, two questions arise for decision.	None
They are (1) whether the decree under execution is not executable by Courts situate in the area comprised in the former State of Madhya Bharat and (2) whether the decree is barred by Section 48 of the Code.5.	Issue
The contention of the judgmentdebtors is that the decree under execution being a decree of a foreign Court is a nullityqua the Courts in the former State of Madhya Bharat and therefore the same is not executable in the Morena Court.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the decreeholders the decree in question is not a decree of a foreign Court as contemplated by the Code and the Court to which the decree is transferred for execution namely the Morena Court is a Court as contemplated by Sections 38 and 39 of the Code and therefore there can be no valid objection to its execution in the Morena Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before referring to the decided cases on the point it is necessary to read the relevant provisions of the Code as the execution is sought in accordance with provisions therein.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Foreign Court is defined in Section 2 (5) of the Code.	None
That definition as it stood on the date the decree under execution was passed read thusforeign Court means a Court situate beyond the limits of British India which has no authority in British India and is not established or continued by the Central Government.7.	None
A new definition of foreign Court was substituted by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, II of 1951.	None
That definition readsforeign Court means a Court situate outside India and not established or continued by the authority of the Central Government.8.	None
Whether we take the earlier definition or the present definition into consideration the Bankura Court cannot be considered as a foreign Court within the meaning of that expression in the Code.	None
Foreign judgment is defined in the Code as the judgment of a foreign Court.	None
(Section 2 (6) of the Code).	None
Hence the decree under execution cannot be considered as a foreign decree for the purpose of the Code.9.	None
Section 13 of the Code provides that A foreign judgment shall be conclusive as to any matter thereby directly adjudicated upon between the same parties or between parties under whom they or any of them claim litigation under the same title except(b) where it has not been given on the merits of the case10.	None
The judgment with which we are concerned in this case was an ex parte judgment.	None
The Bankura Court had no jurisdiction over the judgmentdebtors.	None
The judgmentdebtors did not submit themselves to the jurisdiction of that Court though they were served with a notice of the suit.	None
Hence if the Bankura Court can be considered as a foreign Court then Section 13 (b) would have come to the rescue of the judgmentdebtors and it would have enabled them to plead that the judgment in question was not conclusive and consequently the decree is not binding against them.	None
But as the judgment in question cannot be considered as a judgment of a foreign Court, they can take no assistance from Section 13 (b).	None
But assistance was sought to be taken from Section 13 (d) which says that the foreign judgments are not conclusive where the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained are opposed to natural justice.	None
It was urged on behalf of the judgmentdebtors that as the decree under execution was an ex parte decree, we must hold that the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice.	None
We are unable to accede to this contention.	Reasoning
As mentioned earlier, the judgmentdebtors were served with the notice of the suit.	Reasoning
They did not choose to appear before the Court.	Reasoning
Hence there is no basis for the contention that any principle of natural justice had been contravened.	Reasoning
Further as held earlier the judgment question is not a foreign judgment.11.	None
Reliance was placed on Private International Law in support of the contention that in a personal action, a decree pronounced in absentem by a foreign Court, to the jurisdiction of which the defendant had not in anyway submitted himself is an absolute nullity.	None
It was urged that the Bankura Court had no jurisdiction over the judgmentdebtors and therefore the decree passed being one pronounced in absentem is a nullity.	None
In support of this contention reliance was placed on the decision of the Judicial Committee in Sirdar Gurdyal Singh v. The Rajah of Faridkote.	None
(1894) 21 Ind App 171.	None
Therein the Judicial Committee observedIn a personal action, to which none of these causes of jurisdiction apply, a decree pronounced in absentem by a foreign Court.	None
to the jurisdiction of which the Defendant has not in any way submitted himself.	None
is by International Law an absolute nullity,But the Board qualified those observations by the following words He is under no obligation of any kind to obey it and it must be regarded as a mere nullity by the Courts of every nation except (when authorised by special local legislation) in the country of the forum by which it was pronounced.12.	None
The above remarks of the Board indicate that even a decree which is pronounced in absentem by a foreign Court is valid and executable in the country of the forum by which it was pronounced when authorised by special local legislation.	None
A decree passed by a foreign Court to whose jurisdiction a judgmentdebtor had not submitted is an absolute nullity only if the local legislature had not conferred jurisdiction on the domestic Courts over the foreigners either generally or under specified circumstances.	None
Section 20 (c) of the Code confers jurisdiction on a Court in India over the foreigners if the cause of action arises within the jurisdiction of that Court.	None
Hence the observation of the Board quoted in some of the decisions of the Courts in India including the decision of this Court in Shitoles case, (1963) 2	None
SCR 577 (AIR 1962 SC 1737 )	Arguments of Respondent
(supra) that such a decree is an absolute nullity may not be apposite.	None
It may be more appropriate to say that the decree in question is not executable in Courts outside this country.	None
The board itself had noticed that this rule of Private International Law is subject to special local legislation.	Reasoning
Clause (c) of Section 20 of the Code provided at the relevant time and still provides that subject to the limitations mentioned in the earlier sections of the Code, a suit can be instituted in a Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises.	Reasoning
There is no dispute in this case that the cause of action for the suit which led up to the decree under execution arose within the jurisdiction of Bankura Court.	Reasoning
Hence it must be held that the suit in question was a properly instituted suit.	Reasoning
From that it follows that the decree in question is a valid decree though it might not have been executable at one stage in Courts in the former Indian States.13.	Reasoning
This takes us to Ss. 38 and 39 of the Code.	None
Section 38 provides that a decree may be executed either by the court which passed it, or by the court to which it is sent for execution.	None
Section 39 (l) to the extent it is material for our present purpose	None
prescribesThe Court which passed a decree may, on the application of the decree holder, send it for execution to another Court (a) if the person against whom the decree is passed actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business, or personally works for gain within the local limits of the jurisdiction of such other Court .	None
.Section 40 prescribeswhere a decree is sent for execution in another State, it shall be sent to such Court and executed in such manner as may be prescribed by rules in force in that State.14.	None
Rules are defined in S. 2 (12) as meaning Rules and Forms contained in the 1st Schedule or made under S. 122 or S. 125 of the Code.	None
On a combined reading of Ss. 2 (12), 38, 39 and 40, it follows that a decree can be transferred for execution only to a court to which the Code applies.	None
This is what was ruled by this Court in (1963) 2	None
SCR 619 (AIR 1963 SC 1180 ) (supra).	Facts
But by the date the impugned transfer was made, the Code had been extended to the whole of India.	None
In fact the court to which the decree was transferred is now an entirely new court in the eye of the law  see the decision of this Court in Shitoles case, (1963)	None
2 SCR 577 (AIR 1962 SC 1737 ) (supra).15.	Facts
From the foregoing discussion, it follows that the decree under execution is not a foreign decree and its transfer to the Morena court is in accordance with the provisions of the Code.	None
That being so, the decree under execution satisfies the dictum of this Court in (1963) 2	None
SCR 619 (AIR 1963 SC 1180 ) (supra) thata decree can be executed by a court which passed the decree or to which it was transferred for execution and the decree which could be transferred has to be a decree passed under the Code and the Court to which it could be transferred has to be a Court which was governed by the Indian Code of Civil Procedure.16.	None
It was next urged on behalf of the judgmentdebtors that in view of the decision of this Court in Shitoles case, (1963) 2	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 577 (AIR 1962 SC 1737 )	Arguments of Respondent
(supra) we must hold that the decree is a nullity and that it cannot be executed at all in the courts situate in the former State of Madhya Bharat.	Arguments of Respondent
In Shitoles case, (1963) 2	None
SCR 577 (AIR l962 SC 1737)	Arguments of Respondent
(supra) this Court was called upon to consider a converse case.	None
Therein the decree under execution was one passed by a court in Gwalior State in a suit instituted in May 1947.	None
The defendants were the residents of U. P.	None
They did not appear before the Gwalior Court though served with the notice.	None
An ex parte decree was passed against them in November, 1948.	None
On September, 1951, the Gwalior court transferred the decree for execution to Allahabad and on October 16, 1951 the decreeholder filed an application for execution of the decree before the Allahabad court.	None
The judgmentdebtors contended that the decree being a decree of a foreign court to whose jurisdiction they had not submitted, was a nullity and the execution application in respect thereof was not maintainable.	None
That contention was accepted by this Court.	None
It may be noted that the Gwalior Court was not a court constituted under the provisions of the Code.	None
It was admittedly a foreign court for the purpose of any proceedings under the Code.	None
The ratio of that decision is wholly inapplicable to the present case.	Reasoning
The question whether a decree is a foreign decree or whether it can be transferred to another court for execution has to be judged by the provisions of the Code.17.	Reasoning
It was next contended that in view of S. 20 cl.	None
(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1951 by which the Code is extended to Madhya Bharat and other areas, the judgmentdebtors right to resist the execution of the decree is protected.	Reasoning
Section 20 (1) of the Act deals with Repeals and Savings.	None
That section to the extent relevant for our present purpose readsIf, immediately before the date on which the said Code comes into force in any part B State corresponding to the said Code, that law shall on that date stand repealed.	None
Provided that the repeal shall not affect(b) any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any law so repealed as if this Act had not been passed.18.	None
This provision undoubtedly protects the rights acquired and privileges accrued under the law repealed by the amending Act.	Reasoning
Therefore the question for decision is whether the nonexecutability of the decree in the Morena court under the law in force in Madhya Bharat before the extension of the Code can be said to be a right accrued under the repealed law.	Reasoning
We do not think that even by straining the language of the provision it can be said that the nonexecutability of a decree within a particular territory can be considered as a privilege.	Reasoning
Therefore the only question that we have to consider is whether it can be considered as a right accrued within the meaning of S. 20 (1) (b) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1951.	Reasoning
In the first place, in order to get the benefit of that provision, the nonexecutability of the decree must be a right and secondly it must be a right that had accrued from the provisions of the repealed law.	Reasoning
It is contended on behalf of the judgmentdebtors that when the decree was passed, they had a right to resist the execution of the decree in Madhya Bharat in view of the provisions of the Indian Code of Civil Procedure (as adapted) which was in force in the Madhya Bharat at that time and the same is a vested right.	Reasoning
It was further urged on their behalf that that right was preserved by Section 20 (1) (b) of the Code of Civil Procedure Amendment Act, 1951.It is difficult to consider the nonexecutability of the decree in Madhya Bharat as a vested right of the judgmentdebtors.	Reasoning
The nonexecutability in question pertains to the jurisdiction of certain courts and not to the rights of the judgmentdebtors.	Reasoning
Further the relevant provisions of the Civil Procedure Code in force in Madhya Bharat did not confer the right claimed by the judgmentdebtors.	Reasoning
All that has happened in view of the extension of the Code to the whole of India in l951 is that the decrees which could have been executed only by courts in British India are now made executable in the whole of India.	Reasoning
The change made is one relating to procedure and jurisdiction.	Reasoning
Even before the Code was extended to Madhya Bharat the decree in question could have been executed either against the person of the judgmentdebtors if they had happened to come to British India or against any of their properties situate in British India.	Reasoning
The execution of the decree within the State of Madhya Bharat was not permissible because the arm of the Code did not reach Madhya Bharat.	Reasoning
It was the invalidity of the order transferring the decree to the Morena court that stood in the way of the decreeholders in executing their decree in that court on the earlier occasion and not because of any vested rights of the judgmentdebtors.	Reasoning
Even if the judgmentdebtors had not objected to the execution of the decree the same could not have been executed by the court at Morena on the previous occasion as that court was not properly seized of the execution proceedings.	Reasoning
By the extension of the Code to Madhya Bharat, want of jurisdiction on the part of the Morena court was remedied and that court is now made competent to execute the decree.19.	Reasoning
That a provision to preserve the right accrued under a repealed Act was not intended to preserve the abstract rights conferred by the repealed ActIt only applies to specific rights given to an individual upon happening of one or the other of the events specified in statute see Lord Atkins observations in Hamilton Gell v. White, (1922) 2 KB 422.	None
The mere right, existing at the date of repealing statute, to take advantage of provisions of the statute repealed is not a right accrued within the meaning of the usual saving clause see Abbot v. Minister for Lands (1895)	None
AC 425 and G. Ogden Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. Lucas, (1969) 1	None
All ER 121.20.	None
From what has been said above, it follows that the view taken by the High Court that the decree in question is a nullity qua the Morena court cannot be accepted as correct.	None
The decree in question is neither a foreign decree as contemplated by the Code nor its transfer to the Morena court impermissible under the Code.	None
By the provisions of the Code the Morena court is required to proceed with the execution unless there is any valid objection.21.	None
We now come to the question whether the execution is barred by S. 48 of the Code.	None
(That section was repealed in 1963).	None
Both the executing court as well as the High Court have taken the view that on the facts of this case, the limitation prescribed in S. 48 of the Code is extended under S. 14 (2) of the Limitation Act, 1908.	None
Both those courts have concurrently come to the conclusion that the previous execution proceedings had been prosecuted by the decreeholders with due diligence and with good faith and the same became infructuous in view of the fact that the Morena Court had no jurisdiction to proceed with the execution.	Reasoning
The finding that the previous execution proceedings were carried on with due diligence and good faith and that the same became infructuous for want of jurisdiction on the part of the Morena court was not challenged before us.	Reasoning
But it was urged on behalf of the judgmentdebtors that S. 48 prescribed a bar and not a period of limitation and consequently the decreeholders cannot take the benefit of Section 14 (2) of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
It is necessary to examine the correctness of this contention.22.	None
Section 48 read thus(1)	None
Where an application to execute a decree not being a decree granting an injunction has been made, no order for the execution of the same decree shall be made upon any fresh application presented after the expiration of 12 years from (a) the date of the decree sought to be executed, or,(b) where the decree or any subsequent order directs any payment of money or the delivery of any property to be made at a certain date or at recurring periods, the date of the default in making the payment or delivery in respect of which the applicant seeks to execute the decree.(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed (a) to preclude the Court from ordering the execution of a decree upon an application presented after the expiration of the said term of twelve years where the judgmentdebtor has, by fraud or force, prevented the execution of the decree at some time within twelve years immediately before the date of the application or(b) to limit or otherwise affect the operation of Article 183 of the First Schedule to the Indian Limitation Act, 1908.23.	None
Article 183 of the Indian an Limitation Act, 1908 read thusDescription of application.	None
Period of Limitation.	None
Time from which period begins to run.	None
To enforce a judgment, decree or order of any Court established by Royal Charter in the exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction or an order of the Supreme Court.	None
Twelve Years.	None
When a present right to enforce the judgment decree or order accrues to some person capable of releasing the rightProvided that when the judgment decree or order has been revived, or some part of the principal money secured thereby or some interest on such money has been paid, or some acknowledgement of the right thereto has been given in writing signed by the person liable to pay such principal or interest or his agent, to the person, entitled thereto or his agent, the twelve years shall be computed from the date of such revivor, payment or acknowledgment or the latest of such revivors payments or acknowledgments, as the case may be.24.	None
At this stage it is also necessary to read Art.	None
181 of the Limitation Act of 1908.	None
That Article prescribed that an application for which no period of limitation is provided elsewhere in the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1908 or by S. 48 of the Code, the period of limitation is three years and that period begins to run when the right to apply accrues.	None
Article 182 of that Act provided that for the execution of a decree or order of any Civil Court not provided for by Article 183 or by S. 48 of the Code, the period of limitation is three years or where a certified copy of the decree or order has been registeredsix years, The time from which the period was to run is set out in the 3rd column of the Schedule.25.	None
The argument advanced on behalf of the judgmentdebtors is that S. 48 is a selfcontained Code and the period prescribed therein is a bar and not a period of limitation and hence the decreeholders cannot take the benefit of S. 14 (2).	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this argument reliance is placed on subsection 2 (a) of S. 48 of the Code.	Arguments of Respondent
That subsection undoubtedly lends some support to the contention of the judgmentdebtors.	None
It indicates as to when the period prescribed under S. 48 (1) can be extended.	Reasoning
By implication it can be urged that the period prescribed under S. 48 (1) of the Code can only be extended under the circumstances mentioned in that clause and not otherwise.	Reasoning
But in assessing the correctness of that contention we have to take into consideration cl.	Reasoning
(b) of subsection (2) of S. 48 of the Code as well as Arts.	Reasoning
181 and 182 of the Limitation Act, 1908.These provisions clearly go to indicate that the period prescribed under S. 48 (1) of the Code is a period of limitation.	Reasoning
This conclusion of ours is strengthened by the subsequent history of the legislation.	Reasoning
By the Limitation Act 1963, S. 48 of the Code is deleted.	Reasoning
Its place has now been taken by Art.	Reasoning
136 of the Limitation Act of 1963.26.	None
At one stage, there was considerable conflict of judicial opinion as to whether S. 48 is controlled by the provisions of the Limitation Act 1908.	None
But the High Courts which had earlier taken the view that S. 48 prescribes a bar and not limitation have now revised their opinion.	None
The opinion amongst the High Courts is now unanimous that S. 48 of the Code is controlled by the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1908see Kandaswami Pillai v. Kannappa Chetty AIR 1952 Mad 186 (FB) Durg v. Pancham ILR (l939) All 647 (AIR 1939 All 403 )	None
Sitaram v. Chunnilalsa, ILR (19441 Nap 250 (AIR 1944 Nag 155) Amarendra v. Manindra, AIR 1955	None
Cal 269 Krishna Chandra v. Paravatamma, AIR 1953 Orissa 13 and Ramgopal v Sidram, AIR 1943	None
Bom 164 .27.	None
We are of the opinion that the ratio of the above decisions correctly lay down the law.	None
That apart, it would not be appropriate to unsettle the settled position in law.28.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned above this appeal is allowed and the order of the High Court is set aside and that of the trial court restored.	Decision
The executing court is directed to proceed with the execution.	Decision
The respondents shall pay the costs of the appellants bath in this Court as well as in the High Court.	Decision
Jaganmohan Reddy, J.29.	None
I agree with my learned brother Hedge J., that the Appeal should be allowed.	None
In the case of Kishendas v Indo Carnatic Bank Ltd., AIR 1958 Andh Pra 407, I had while delivering the Judgment of the Bench expressed certain views which may appear to conflict with the view now taken.	None
In that case the executability of a decree passed by the Madras High Court in 1940 by the City Civil Court Hyderabad on the ground of its being a foreign decree was called in question.	None
The Respondent went into liquidation and a liquidator was appointed by the original side of Madras High Court.	None
The liquidator filed an application under Section 191 of the Indian Companies Act for the recovery of a sum of Rs. 1375 from the Appellant who was a subject of H. E H. the Nizam and a resident of Hyderabad on account of unpaid calls and the Court passed an ex parte decree on 1581940 against the Appellant.	None
The liquidator filed an execution petition in that Court praying for a transfer of the decree to the City Civil Court Hyderabad which was ordered on 1531951 when the Hyderabad Civil Procedure Code was in force in the Hyderabad State, under which the decree of the Madras High Court would be a foreign decree and the only way in which the liquidator could recover the decretal amount was by filing a suit on that decree.	None
No doubt the Madras High Court could not on that date i.e. 1531951 pass an order directing the transfer of the decree as it was to a Court which was not governed by the Indian Civil Procedure Code (hereinafter called the Code) nor on that date were there any reciprocal arrangements for executing those decrees in the Hyderabad State.	None
Madras High Court could not therefore transfer a decree passed by it for execution to a Court which did not satisfy the provisions of Sections 43 to 45 on that date.	None
It did not also appear from the facts of that case whether any notice was served on the Appellant but following the decision of the majority of the High Courts in this Country and also relying on the observations of their Lordships of the Privy Council in (1894)	None
21 Ind App 171 that a decree pronounced in absentem by a foreign Court the jurisdiction to which the defendant has not in any way submitted himself is by international law a nullity.	None
I also took the view that the nonexecutability of the decree is to be determined as on the date on which it was passed and that no distinction can conceivably be made between the decree passed by British Indian Courts before the merger or before the Independence when it was a foreign decree and a decree passed by the Courts of a native State before the Independence or mergerin both cases the character of the Judgment would be that of a foreign Judgment and if it suffers from any want of jurisdiction or otherwise it will continue to be subject to that defect.	None
This Court had also expressed a similar view in Raj Rajendra Sardar Maloji Narsingh Rao Shitole v. Sri Shankar Saran, (1963) 2	Facts
SCR 577 (AIR 1962 SC 1737 )	Arguments of Respondent
when it held that an ex parte decree passed in 1948 by the Gwalior Court against residents of U. P. who did not appear was not executable in Allahabad even though the Gwalior Court had transferred the decree in October 1957 after the Civil Procedure Amendment Act 11 of 1951 came into force after which the Gwalior Court was a Court under the Code.	None
It was held by a majority that the decree passed by the Gwalior Court did not change its nationality in spite of subsequent constitutional changes or amendments in the Code of Civil Procedure, that if a decree was unenforceable in a particular Court at the time it was passed it would not become enforceable and valid simply because of the political changes that took place unless there is a specific provision to the contrary and that the decree being a nullity outside the Courts of the United States (Madhya Bharat) in the absence of any specific provision it could not be enforced in the United States (Madhya Bharat).	None
Kapur J., speaking for himself, Rajagopala Ayyangar and Mudholkar JJ., observed at page 594595 (of SCR) (at p. 1744 of AIR) thusIt will not be correct to say that the decree which was a nullity before the Constitution came into force suffered only from the defect of enforceability by execution.	None
Section 13 creates substantive rights and is not merely procedural and therefore defences which were open to the Respondents were not taken away by any Constitutional changes in the absence of a specific provision to the contrary.	None
It is erroneous to say therefore that the decree of the Gwalior Court was unenforceable when passed because of some impediment which the subsequent Constitutional changes had removed but that decree suffered from a more fundamental defect of being a nullity and the rights and liabilities created under it remained unaffected by subsequent changes.30.	None
The contention that the decree of the Gwalior Court could be executed after its transfer on September 14, 1951 when the Civil Procedure Code came into force throughout India by virtue of Act II of 1951 and that therefore the Gwalior Court had the power to transfer the decree which the Allahabad Court had under the law authority to execute was also negatived for the reason that the Court which made the order of transfer in September 1951 was then not the Court which passed the decree within the meaning of Section 39.	None
Das Gupta J., with whom Sarkar J., as he then was, concurred, did not find it necessary to deal with the question of foreign decree which as he said the Allahabad Court rightly, considered a nullity.	None
On the second and third question he held that Allahabad Court had no power to execute the decree under Section 38 of the Civil Procedure Code as there was no valid transfer to it from the Court which passed the decree nor did Section 43 of the Civil Procedure Code as it stood applied to the execution of that decree.31.	None
Even though the observations in Kishendass case, AIR l958 Andh Pra 891, find support in the above Judgment the ratio of the decision in that case being that the Madras Court on the date of the order could not transfer the decree to the Hyderabad Court, the facts of this case however do not warrant an application of the principles of international law or of the decree being a nullity.	None
The earlier execution proceedings ended unsuccessfully with the decision in (1963) 2	None
SCR 619 (AIR 1963 SC 1180 ).	Facts
It was decided in that case, that Morena Court not being a Court to which the Code applied the decree could not have been transferred and that Sections 38 and 39 of the Code did not afford jurisdiction for such transfer as the Morena Court at the time of transfer was governed by the Madhya Bharat Civil Procedure Code and not by the Code.	None
What is relevant in the present case is that when the decreeholder again applied to the Bankura Court for execution of his decree by the Morena Court after the decision of this Court in Hansrajs case, both the Court that passed the decree and the Court to which it is transferred for execution were Courts under the Code, as such no question of the Bankura decree being a foreign decree or it being a nullity could arise.	None
The Morena Court on the date when the order of transfer of the decree was passed by the Bankura Court is not a Court governed by the Gwalior law or Madhya Bharat law as such the impediment to executability of the Bankura decree no longer exists nor could it be considered in the light of Section 20 (c) of the Amendment Act II of 1951 as having saved any right or privileges under the repealed Procedure Code of Gwalior or Madhya Bharat.	None
Whatever may be the views expressed in the several decisions a view which I was also inclined to take in the decision referred to, though on the facts of that case it may not have been necessary, on a further and fuller consideration I agree with great respect with the views of my learned brother Hegde J., that no question of a vested right or a privilege arises to entitle the Respondent to challenge the execution proceedings in Morena Court.	None
The decree granted by Bankura Court was executable by the Courts governed by the same Code by the Court which passed it or by the Court to which it is transferred.	None
Once the Code is made applicable to the whole of India by the Amendment Act II of 1951 the decree is no longer a foreign decree qua the Morena Court which its a Court under the Code to which the Bankura Court could transfer the decree for execution.	None
No doubt in Shitoles case, (1963) 2	None
SCR 577 (AIR 1962 SC 1737 )	Arguments of Respondent
it was observed that Section 13 of the Code creates substantive rights and not merely procedural and therefore defences that were open to the Respondents were not taken away by any Constitutional changes but the ratio of the decision was that the Gwalior Court not being a Court that passed the decree after the coming into force of Act II of 1951 the Allahabad Court could not execute it.	None
That impediment does not exist now in that the Bankura Court has transferred the decree to a Court under the Code.	None
The plea that Section 48 Civil Procedure Code presents a bar of limitation is also not tenable.	None
In the result I agree that the Appeal should be allowed as directed by my learned brother.32.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
