 P. JEEVAN REDDY, J. These six petitions are filed seeking leave to appeal against a common judgment of the Bombay High Court dated November 29, 1991 directing the Registrar of the High Court to file a complaint against M s. Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Private Limited and some of its officers and dealers under Section 192 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
This order was made under Section 340 of the Criminal Procedure Code, on the Court being satisfied prima facie that the said persons have committed an offence punishable under Section 193 of the Indian Penal Code and that it is expedient in the interests of justice that they should be tried therefor.	None
Of the six Special Leave Petitions filed, the petitioner in Special Leave Petition (C) No. 20051 of 1991, Sri K. S. Gurumurthy, died pending the Special Leave Petition.	None
The said Special Leave Petition has, therefore, become infructuous and is accordingly dismissed.	Issue
One of the petitioners in Special Leave Petition (C) No. 20049 of 1991, Mrs. Ameen fourth petitioner has also expired pending the Special Leave Petition.	Issue
The said Special Leave Petition accordingly becomes infructuous insofar as the said petitioner is concerned.	Issue
Of course, so far as other petitioners are concerned, the Special Leave Petition still survives.	Issue
Leave granted.	None
Heard learned counsel for the parties.	None
Godrej, one of the corporate giants of this country, manufactures, among other goods, refrigerators.	Facts
These refrigerators are packed in polythene covering only when they are to be delivered to dealers situated at a short distance from the factory but where they have to be delivered at distant places, they are packed in Corrugated Fibre Containers C.F.Cs.	Facts
to protect them from damage in the course of transport and for convenient handling.	Facts
In the proceedings relating to valuation under Section 4 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 for the period 197678, the question arose whether the value of C.F.Cs.	Facts
should be included in the value of refrigerators for the purpose of value under Section 4 of the Central Excise Act.	Facts
Godrej pleaded for exclusion which plea was rejected by the Asstt.	Facts
Collector.	Facts
On Appeal, the Collector (Appeals) upheld Godrejs contention.	Facts
The matter ended there so far as the said period is concerned.	Facts
In 198283, the Revenue served demand notices for a subsequent period, again including the value of C.F.Cs.	Facts
in the value of refrigerators.	Facts
Godrej went to Bombay High Court by way of Writ Petition No. 1110 of 1983 questioning the said notices.	Facts
The Writ Petition came up for final hearing before a learned Single Judge in March, 1984.	Facts
Meanwhile, this Court had delivered the judgment in Union of India Ors.	Facts
v. Bombay Tyre International in May, 1983, laying down the principles governing the said issue among others.	Facts
At the hearing of the writ petition before the learned Single Judge, Godrej wanted to rely upon certain letters said to have been addressed to it by its dealers to support its claim for exclusion of the value of C.F.Cs.	Facts
The Counsel for the Revenue opposed the admission of the said letters at that stage.	Facts
In view of the said objection, the learned Single Judge declined to admit or rely upon the said letters.	Facts
The writ petition was, however, allowed on other grounds.	Facts
The letters which were actually handed over to the learned Single Judge in the Court it is stated, remained in the record of the Court.4.	Facts
The Revenue filed a Letter Patent Appeal (No. 429 of 1986) against the decision of the learned Single Judge which was dismissed by the Division Bench in June, 1986.	Facts
The Division Bench too did not refer to or rely upon the said letters.	Facts
A Special Leave Petition was preferred by the Revenue in this Court against the judgment of the Division Bench in the year 1987.	Facts
Meanwhile certain developments took place, which are of immense relevance to the controversy herein.	Facts
In June, 1987, the premises of Godrej all over the country were searched and several documents seized.	Facts
One of the documents seized was a letter dated June 1, 1983, written by Sri Hathi (one of the appellants before us) addressed to certain Branch Managers.	Facts
At that time Sri Hathi was the General Manager (Marketing) of Godrej.	Facts
Under this letter, Sri Hathi requested the Branch Managers to obtain from certain trusted dealers antedated letters stating facts which supported Godrejs case for exclusion of the value of the C.F.Cs.	Facts
The letters from the dealers were to be obtained as if they were written between May, 1976 and February, 1979.	Facts
It were these letters prepared with an eye upon the principles enunciated in Bombay Tyre International which were sought to be filed before the learned Single Judge at the hearing of Writ Petition No. 1110 of 1983 in March, 1984 but which were not actually looked into or relied upon by the learned Single Judge in view of the objection raised by the Revenue.	Facts
At the time the letters were sought to be filed, the Revenue was, of course, not aware that they were fabricated.	Facts
But the seizure of the said letter written by Sri Hathi (in course of searches conducted in June, 1987) convinced the Revenue that the said letters were all fabricated to buttress Godrejs case in the light of the decision in Bombay Tyre International.	Facts
In the Special Leave Petition filed in this Court, the Revenue filed copies of the said letters along with the aforementioned letter of Sri Hathi contending that Godrej was guilty of fabricating evidence and of trying to mislead the Court by producing such fabricated evidence.	Facts
It prayed that the writ petition filed by Godrej should be dismissed on the said ground alone without going into merits of the case.	Facts
The Special Leave Petition came up for orders before a Bench of this Court on September 4, 1989.	Facts
The Special Leave Petition was allowed and the matter remitted to the High Court under the following Order Special leave granted.	Facts
We have heard counsels for the parties.	Facts
Out attention has been drawn to certain letters (appearing at pages 102 to 122) of the present S.L.P. Paper Book).	Facts
The said letters were indisputably not before the High Court or the authorities below at any relevant time.	Facts
We are of the opinion that the questions herein should be considered in the light of these letters.	Facts
The judgment and order of the High Court in that light require to be set aside.	Facts
We accordingly set aside the judgment and order of the High Court and remand the matter to the High Court for consideration of the question afresh involved herein in the light of these letters.	Facts
The High Court will consider the question of admissibility, relevance the value of these letters and then come to a conclusion about the question of assessable value of the refrigerators and the consequence of that determination.	Facts
The appeal is disposed of accordingly without any order as to costs.	Facts
The matter was accordingly posted before a Division Bench of the High Court which thought it appropriate that the matter be heard by the very same learned Single Judge who had disposed of the writ petition earlier.	Facts
Accordingly, it was posted before the learned Single Judge.	Facts
By this time, however, Godrej had become thoroughly demoralised.	Facts
Caught in the act of fabrication of evidence, it chose to abandon its case for exclusion of the value of C.F.Cs.	Facts
It gave up the fight.	Facts
It approached the Revenue authorities including the Central Board of Excise Customs for a settlement.	Facts
It said, it was prepared to accept the Revenues case and pay up all the duty due on that basis.	Facts
It also offered to refund the amounts which were refunded to it on the basis of the orders of the Court.	Facts
It is stated by the learned Counsel for Godrej that they even offered to pay up the duty for the period which had become time barred.	Facts
There was no settlement.	Facts
At that stage, the writ petition came up for hearing before the learned Single Judge.	Facts
A few weeks before the writ petition actually came up for hearing, Godrej filed an application seeking to withdraw the writ petition.	Facts
It was opposed by the Revenue who has been contending all along, i.e., before this Court as well as the Bombay High Court that inasmuch as Godrej has indulged in clear fabrication of evidence and has tried to defraud the court on the basis of such documents, it should be dealt with sternly so that it would serve as a lesson to others.	Facts
It was submitted that any indulgent attitude in such matters will send a wrong signal and would serve as an encouragement to persons similarly minded.	Facts
The writ petition was, however, disposed of under what is called Minutes of the Order on March 12, 1990.	Facts
The Order reads MINUTES OF THE ORDER.	None
Petitioners agree and undertake to pay on or before 15th March, 1990 the sum of Rs. 3.80 crores (approximately) comprising of the excise duty of Rs. 26 lakhs (approximately) for the period April, 1979 to March, 1980 and Rs. 3.54 crores (approximately) for the period February, 1983 to February, 1987 being amount of duty payable on secondary packing.	Facts
The aforesaid payment will be without prejudice to the rights and contentions of both the parties in all pending petitions before High Court (save and except those relating to the question of inclusion of cost of secondary packing in assessable value).2.	Facts
In so far as the question whether assessment made on RT12 (save and except assessment in respect of secondary packing as stated above) are provisional or final, this being a question of fact will be determined on the basis of record and as per the provisions of Central Excise Act Rules, thereunder.3.	Facts
Affidavit in reply dated 8th January, 1990 filed by the Respondents on 10th January, 1990.	Facts
Affidavit in Rejoinder dated 28th February, 1990 to the aforesaid affidavit handed over by the petitioner to the Respondents and Affidavit in surrejoinder dated 9th March, 1990 on behalf of the Respondents are all taken on file of the Court and form the part of the record of these proceedings.	Facts
On the above, Petitioners are permitted to withdraw the petition.	Facts
It is agreed before us that the above order was not an agreed order but an order of the Court though it was signed by Counsel for both sides for the purpose of identification.	None
The Order dated March 12, 1990, it is relevant to note, does not contain any reference to Revenues allegation of fabrication of evidence by Godrej nor to its request not to permit withdrawalmuch less to the request of the Revenue, which is supposed to have been made before the learned Single Judge to prosecute Godrej, its officers and its dealers in a criminal court.	Reasoning
The order merely provides for payment of duties due from Godrej subject to certain observations.	Reasoning
Fifteen months later, i.e., on June 25, 1991, the Revenue took out a notice of motion before a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court requesting that appropriate criminal proceedings be initiated against Godrej, its officers and dealers for the aforesaid act of fabrication of evidence and its attempt to defraud the Court on that basis.	None
We may pause here for a moment and mention as to why the said notice of motion was taken out before a Division Bench and was entertained by it and not before the learned Single Judge.	None
It appears that prior to October, 1990 all the writ petitions in the High Court were being heard by a learned Single Judge but in October, 1990, there was a change in the procedure, according to which writ petitions pertaining to Central Excise were to be heard by a Division Bench alone.	None
It is for this reason that the notice of motion was taken out before the appropriate Division Bench according to the allocation of work by the learned Chief Justice of that Court.	None
The Division Bench heard Godrej and Sri Nauroji (NonExecutive Director of Godrej) and passed orders impugned herein, directing the Registrar of the Court to lay a complaint before an appropriate criminal court under Section 192 of the Indian Penal Code in accordance with law against (1) Godrej (2) Sri K. N. Nauroji (3) Sri P. D. Law (4) Dr. K. R. Hathi (5) K. S. Gurumurthy (6) P. C. Shah (7) N. H. Wadia (8) A. D. Shah (9) Mandakini Ameen (10) J. V. Udani and (11) M. K. Nanavati.	None
Of the eleven persons, six to eleven are the dealers.	None
These Special Leave Petitions were entertained by this Court on December, 1991 and the operation of the impugned order stayed.	None
It was directed that Special Leave Petitions shall be posted for hearing in the first week of March, 1992.	None
The Special Leave Petitions, however, surfaced only after a period of more than three years when they were posted before the Bench of Honble Mr. Justice S. P. Bharucha and Honble Mr. Justice B. N. Kirpal on October 19, 1995.	None
The Bench directed that the Special Leave Petitions be posted before a Bench of which Honble Mr. Justice S. P. Bharucha is not a Member.	None
The matters were then posted before a Bench comprising one of us B. P. Jeevan Reddy, J) on December 4, 1995, on which date the matters were directed to be listed for final hearing on February 20, 1996.	None
The entire thrust of the submissions made by learned Counsel for appellants is not with respect to the truth of fabrication aforesaid	Arguments of Petitioner
but with respect to several procedural aspects.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that six dealers aforesaid were not even heard before making the direction to prosecute them and that this omission vitiates the direction with respect to all.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the documents were not tendered in High Court but in the Supreme Court and that the Supreme Court alone could have taken action under Section 340 of the Criminal Procedure Code but not the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted alternately that only the learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court who had heard and disposed of the writ petition could have made that direction but not the Division Bench.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also argued that in the facts and circumstances of the case, it cannot be said that it is expedient in the interests of justice to direct the prosecution of the said persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
A prosecution should be ordered, it is argued, not merely because there is evidence indicating prima facie guilt it must also be found expedient to direct the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that the question of expediency should have been decided only with notice to and after hearing the affected parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such an order, it is pointed out, is an appealable one.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, it is suggested that on the facts of the case, Section 192 is not attracted because, at worst, it was a case of fabricating evidence to support a genuine claim rather an involved argument, we must say, if not a convoluted argument, and in either case, unacceptable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Additional Solicitor General, Sri Jayaram, appearing for the Revenue, however, supported the reasoning and conclusion of the Division Bench.	Arguments of Respondent
He disputed the correctness of the several contentions urged by the Counsel for appellants and submitted that persons who indulge in such crimes should be dealt with sternly and deterrent punishment imposed.	Arguments of Respondent
For considering the contentions urged before us, it is first necessary to ascertain the facts and the developments in the matter.	None
What are they?	None
The Godrej did indulge in an act of fabricating evidence which was un worthy of such a major company.	Reasoning
It sought to buttress its case before the learned Single Judge on the basis of the said documents.	Reasoning
It is another matter that they succeeded in their writ Petition de hors the said fabricated material.	Reasoning
When, however, the letter of Sri Hathi was discovered during the searches conducted by the Revenue in June, 1987 and its misdeed stood exposed, Godrej was put on the defensive.	Reasoning
The initiative passed to Revenue which contended not only that the writ petition filed by Godrej should be dismissed on the said ground but that it should be dealt with in a manner that it serves as a lesson to others.	Reasoning
It is for this reason that the Special Leave Petition filed by the Revenue was allowed by this Court and the matter sent back to the High Court for deciding the writ petition in the light of the said letters.	Reasoning
The High Court was asked to look into the relevance, validity and admissibility of the said letters which admittedly included the genuineness of the letters.	Reasoning
With this turn of events, Godrej naturally became nervous.	Reasoning
It did not want to proceed with the writ petition.	Reasoning
It approached the Central Excise authorities at various levels for a settlement but that did not materialise.	Reasoning
It also sought to withdraw its writ petition, which was opposed by the Revenue.	Reasoning
But that happened when the writ petition came up for hearing before the learned Single Judge is important.	Reasoning
The writ petition was disposed of under what is called Minutes of the Order providing for payment of duties by Godrej subject to certain observations.	Reasoning
The Order neither refers to the contention of the Revenue relating to fabrication of evidence by Godrej nor does it refer to any request of Revenue to dismiss the writ petition on the ground of fraud sought to be perpetrated by Godrej.	Reasoning
The Order does not also say that any request was made by the Revenue to direct the prosecution of Godrej, its officers and dealers responsible for the said Act.	Reasoning
This circumstance assumes significance in view of the fact that the last para of the Minutes of the Order says that the affidavit of Godrej dated February 28, 1990 and the surrejoinder (dated March 9, 1990) are taken on the file of the Court and are made part of the record.	Reasoning
In the affidavit dated January 8, 1990, Revenue had set out its case regarding fabrication by Godrej and asked for dismissal of the writ petition on that ground alone.	Reasoning
Neither this affidavit not the surrejoinder, however, contain any request or prayer to direct the prosecution of Godrej and its officers and dealers.	Reasoning
Two inferences follow (sic) from the above.	Reasoning
The Revenue chose not to persist in its submission to dismiss the writ petition on the ground of the aforesaid fabrication and, at any rate, did not also ask for a direction to prosecute Godrej and its officers and dealers for the said act or it did put forward the said submissions but they were rejected.	Reasoning
If the first inference is correct, then it is evident that not having asked for the prosecution at the appropriate stage, it cannot be allowed to ask for such prosecution after a gap of fifteen months.	Reasoning
Its silence can be construed as abandonment of its pleas for dismissal of writ petition and or for prosecution.	Reasoning
If, on the other hand, the second inference is the correct one, then the Revenue ought to have either applied for review, pressing for appropriate directions or filed an appeal against the order disposing of writ petition.	Reasoning
It did neither.	Reasoning
It kept quiet for fifteen months and then moved a notice of motion to prosecute Godrej and other persons responsible.15.	Reasoning
While we agree that the Division Bench was not wrong in making the direction which it did on the merits of the case, it does not appear to have bestowed sufficient attention to the above aspect and its impact while deciding upon the expediency contemplated by Section 340 of the Criminal Procedure Code.	Reasoning
The Division Bench should have considered whether it is expedient to direct prosecution when the learned Single Judge had chosen not to make such a direction for one or the other reason pointed out above and on account of the silence on the part of Revenue for a period of fifteen months.	Reasoning
It is quite possible that the Revenue was satisfied with the Order Minutes of the Order dated March 12, 1990 but changed its minds after fifteen months.	Reasoning
It is not a question of jurisdiction or power but one touching the question of expediency contemplated by Section 340 of the Criminal Procedure Code.16.	Reasoning
On a consideration of the relevant circumstances mentioned supra including the fact that Godrej has paid up all amounts due accepting the contentions of the Revenue, we think that an order levying penal interest would meet the ends of justice instead of the direction for prosecution made in the impugned order.	Reasoning
We may mention that when during the course of hearing, we suggested this alternate course and wanted to know the response of the appellants thereto, they agreed with alacrity to the course indicated by us.17.	Reasoning
For the reasons given above, we set aside the impugned order and in its place substitute the following order 18.	Decision
Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Private Limited, shall pay penal interest at the rate of twenty per cent per annum on all the amounts which were withheld by it, for the period commencing March 1, 1979, whether on the basis of the Order of the learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court dated March 10, 1984 allowing Writ Petition No. 1110/83 or otherwise as well as on the amounts which it had obtained by way of refund but which it ultimately paid back to the Revenue.	Decision
The interest shall be payable for the period commencing from the date when the said amount amounts became due and payable and ending with the last date of full payment.	Decision
The observations in the nature of qualifications or reservations contained in the Order Minutes of the Order dated March 12, 1990, insofar as they relate to inclusion of value of C.F.Cs.	Decision
in the value of refrigerators shall stand deleted.	Decision
In other words, Godrej shall not dispute the inclusion of the value of C.F.Cs.	Decision
in the value of refrigerators for the period covered by the demand notices impugned in Writ Petition No. 1110/83 and upto March 12, 1990, the date of Minutes of the Order aforesaid.19.	Decision
The appeals are disposed of in the above terms.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
