 M. Khanwilkar, J. These appeals under Section 22F of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (for short, the 1956 Act) take exception to the judgment and order passed by the Securities Appellate Tribunal at Mumbai( for short, the Tribunal) in Appeal No. 84 of 2009 dated 13.01.2009 and in Appeal No. 118 of 2015 dated 04.06.2019.	Issue
CIVIL APPEAL NO. 2690 OF 2009 In this appeal, the appellant challenges the judgment order dated 13.01.2009 of the Tribunal wherein it had upheld the order of expulsion against the appellant, from the membership of the National Stock Exchange of India Limited(for short, NSE or the Exchange, as the case may be.)  	Issue
Respondent 1.	Issue
The said order was passed in the aftermath of the withdrawal of trading facilities of the appellant on 13.10.1997 and consequent closing out of all outstanding positions on 14.10.1997 by the National Securities Clearing Corporation Limited(for short, NSCCL or Clearing Corporation, as the case may be)  	Facts
Respondent 2.	Issue
The appellant herein, desirous of functioning as a stock broker in the stock market, registered itself as a Trading Member with NSE Exchange in November, 1994.	Facts
As a precondition of such registration, the appellant was obliged to and did submit an undertaking in favour of the Exchange so as to strictly comply with the practice and stipulations in the applicable Byelaws, Rules, Regulations and other instructions of the Exchange issued from time to time.	Facts
The said undertaking was given by the appellant on 19.06.1995.	Facts
As per the conditions prescribed in the Bye Laws, Regulations and Rules of the Exchange, the appellant was obliged to maintain a set of deposits with the Exchange, namely Interest Free Security Deposit (IFSD), security deposit (bank guarantee), margin money in cash and margin money in the form of bank guarantee.	Facts
The sum total of these deposits of the appellant, collectively termed as the Base Capital of the trading member, amounted to Rs.1.29 crores.	Facts
In the year 1996, NSE transferred its clearing and settlement functions to its wholly owned subsidiary company NSCCL Clearing Corporation.	Facts
In furtherance of the original undertaking given by the appellant in favour of the Exchange, the Board of Directors of the appellant executed a subsequent undertaking dated 19.03.1996 in favour of the Clearing Corporation, whereby the appellant unconditionally resolved to abide by all Rules, Regulations, circulars etc., of the Corporation.	Facts
Consequently, the appellant was admitted as a Clearing Member of the Clearing Corporation.	Facts
On 19.05.1997, the Exchange adopted and circulated the Circular No. NSCC CM CS/030, originally issued by the Clearing Corporation, to all the trading clearing members.	Facts
The circular prescribed certain conditions to be complied with by the members during trading, including those relating to Gross Exposure Limits for daily functioning of the members.	Facts
The circular further provided for Effect of violation of gross exposure limit and Effect of failure to pay margins, whereby it specified various actions that the Corporation and Exchange could take against a member in case of contravention of the circular.	Facts
Such actions included the withdrawal of trading facilities, closing out of all outstanding positions and other actions as per the Byelaws.	Facts
The introductory note specifying this position is relevant which reads thus Circular No. NSCC CM CS/030 dated 19.5.1997 issued by National Securities Clearing Corporation Limited (NSCCL) to the Clearing Members of NSCCL is enclosed.	Facts
All Trading Members of the Exchange who are also the Clearing Members of the Clearing Corporation are required to comply with the said Circular and any modifications thereto as may be issued by the Clearing Corporation from time to time.	Facts
Noncompliance with the said Circular will be treated as breach of the Rules, Byelaws and Regulations of the exchange.	Facts
The Clearing Corporation will monitor the compliance and take suitable action for noncompliance.	Facts
On 13.10.1997, the appellant was found to have exceeded the gross exposure limits while trading (as prescribed by the aforesaid circular) by more than 10 and consequently, the trading facility of the appellant was withdrawn forthwith by the respondents.	Facts
Consequent thereto, communication ensued between the appellant and the Clearing Corporation on the same day whereby the appellant was asked to bring in an additional deposit of Rs.40.70 lakhs (calculated as per the circular) in order to enhance the trading limits.	Facts
Additionally, the appellant was also asked to deposit a margin of Rs.29.10 lakhs towards unsettled trades done on 10.10.1997, along with Rs.41,42,253.25 in lieu of short delivery under Settlement No. N1997039 and Rs.6,585.50 in lieu of bad delivery under Settlement No. N1997038.	Facts
As per the communication, the said amounts were to be deposited before 1030 AM on 14.10.1997 failing which all open positions of the appellant in various securities were to be closed out forthwith.	Facts
The appellant failed to deposit the said amounts and consequently, the Clearing Corporation closed out all the open positions of the appellant.	Facts
Subsequent to the withdrawal of trading facilities and closing out of positions, the appellant pursued legal action, both civil and criminal, against the respondents at various forums, including the High Court of Calcutta and the Securities Exchange Board of India(for short, SEBI).	Facts
The details of various legal proceedings instituted at the behest of the appellant, being unnecessary for deciding the subject matter brought before us, are not adverted to.	Facts
After an unfruitful litigious relationship of 7 years, the Exchange addressed to the appellant a letter dated 01.11.2004 informing about the periodical appropriation of certain amounts made by the Exchange from the security deposits of the appellant in lieu of various membership charges due from time to time.	Facts
The Exchange also called upon the appellant to deposit additional sums to meet the shortfall created in the Interest Free Security Deposit, in accordance with Rule 32 of Chapter III of Exchange Rules, to retain the membership of the Exchange.	Facts
In the communication that followed the aforesaid letter, the appellant denied any such obligation to pay as its trading facilities had stood suspended throughout this period.	Facts
The appellant was then granted a hearing and upon being dissatisfied with the response, NSE decided to suspend the membership of the appellant with effect from 16.02.2005.	Facts
The reasons behind this decision were communicated to the appellant vide letter dated 30.03.2005 titled Relevant Extract of Minutes of the Relevant Authority.	Facts
The relevant extract reads thus In view of the above, the Committee after careful consideration of the various contentions of RSL was not satisfied of the merits of the contentions raised by RSL.	Facts
The Committee concluded that RSL failed to substantiate the failure to meet the capital adequacy requirements for continued admittance of trading membership of the Exchange.	Facts
Therefore, the Committee decided to suspend the membership of RSL with effect from February 16, 2005.	Facts
Post suspension, another showcause notice was served upon the appellant by NSE on 20.10.2005.	Facts
This time for the expulsion of membership.	Facts
Despite the second show cause, the appellant refused to fulfil additional requirements relating to the maintenance of deposits as indicated by the Exchange.	Facts
Resultantly, the Committee on Declaration of Defaults, on 05.01.2006, decided to expel the appellant from the membership of the Exchange primarily citing two reasons  failure to comply with the requirement of maintaining IFSD and failure to meet continued admission norms despite suspension.	Facts
The relevant extract of the communication dated 05.01.2006 reads thus You have neither replenished the shortfall in deposits nor appeared to show cause before the relevant authority on January 05, 2006.	Facts
The relevant authority, at its meeting held on January 05, 2006, after duly considering the material on record has decided to expel you from the trading membership of the Exchange with immediate effect.	Facts
The order of expulsion was unsuccessfully challenged by the appellant before the Tribunal at Mumbai.	Facts
The appellants primary challenge rested in reference to respondents decision of withdrawal of trading facility and subsequent action of closing out of open transactions.	Facts
While upholding the decision of closing out of all the outstanding positions of the appellant under clauses 17 and 18, the Tribunal observed thus 5 Byelaw 17 permits closing out of outstanding transactions only on failure to complete the same by the trading member by the due date.	Facts
However, this Byelaw is not exhaustive and does not preclude closing out the dealings in securities under other circumstances.	Facts
Interpreting the combined effect of both the clauses, the Tribunal, in the same para, further observed thus 5	Facts
It is a cardinal rule of interpretation that these provisions have to be read harmoniously and one cannot be read in isolation without appreciating the import of the other.	Facts
Byelaw 18 clearly permits closing out of contracts or dealings in securities in such manner and within such time frame and subject to the conditions and procedures as may be prescribed from time to time by the relevant authority.	Facts
Closing out the contracts and the conditions and procedures subject to which it could be done under Byelaw 18 is in addition to the closing out under Byelaw 17.	Facts
As already observed, Byelaw 17 permits closing out only on the failure of a trading member to settle the transaction by the due date where as under Byelaw 18, closing out could be resorted to for any other reason subject to such conditions and procedures as may be prescribed by the relevant authority.	Facts
If Byelaw 17 is read to mean, as was argued by the learned counsel for the appellant, that its provisions are exhaustive and that under no other circumstances can NSE close out the open positions of a trading member, then Byelaw 18 becomes otiose.	Facts
Where was then the need to provide in Byelaw 18 that closing out of contracts shall be in such manner within such time frame and subject to such conditions and procedures when all these have been prescribed in Byelaw 17.	Facts
Obviously, Byelaw 18 contemplates reasons and circumstances for a close out other than that mentioned in Byelaw 17.	Facts
Relevant authority has been defined in the Byelaws to include NSE.	Facts
As regards the validity of the circular, the Tribunal confirmed that the circular holds binding value and observed thus 5	Facts
The word prescribed as used in Byelaw 18 has not been defined and the conditions and procedures as contemplated by this Byelaw could be prescribed in any manner including through a circular.	Facts
It is not in dispute that NSE adopted the circular dated May 19, 1997 which was issued by NSCCL (which is also a relevant authority) and circulated the same to its trading members for compliance making it clear that noncompliance would be treated as a breach of Rules, Byelaws and Regulations of the Exchange.	Facts
This circular undoubtedly provides for a closing out of outstanding positions of the trading members even before the due date in the event of withdrawal of their trading facilities and that too, without any further notice to the trading member.	Facts
In other words, withdrawal of trading facilities of a trading member as contemplated by the circular furnishes yet another ground to the NSE to close out the outstanding positions or dealings in securities.	Facts
The Tribunal also recorded certain observations regarding the necessity of a power of this nature with the Exchange and noted thus 5We cannot lose sight of the fact that a stock exchange which is a primary level market regulator has also a duty to protect the interest of the investors and the integrity of the securities market.	Facts
The conclusion that we have arrived at based on the interpretation of Byelaws 17 and 18 would advance that object.	Facts
We are also of the view that it is essential that a stock exchange should have the power to close out the open transactions of a trading member when it finds that he (the trading member) is trading recklessly beyond his gross exposure limit as such limits, backed as they are by requisite margins, are prescribed with a laudable objective of investor protection.	Facts
Such a power is essential to discipline the recalcitrant trading members.	Facts
In the absence of such a power, the market and the investors would be exposed to a serious threat and the stock exchange would be reduced to the position of a mute spectator.	Facts
In the present appeal, the appellant has argued at length on various aspects of the entire transaction.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the decision of expulsion from membership, it is the case of the appellant that the said decision was founded on an illegality as its trading facility was wrongly withdrawn.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant has contended that since the trading facility itself was interdicted, it could not have been expected to keep up with various margins and deposits prescribed by the respondents as no trading was being permitted.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	Arguments of Petitioner
The primary contention of the appellant relates to the vires of the circular under which the trading facility of the appellant was withdrawn.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been submitted that the Tribunal failed to appreciate that the said circular was in contravention of the Byelaws, Rules and Regulations.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that the adoption of the said circular by the Exchange amounted to a violation of 1956 Act and thus being void ab initio, the appellant was not bound by the said circular.	Arguments of Petitioner
To buttress this submission, it is argued that NSCCL is merely a clearing house of the Exchange and any circular issued by it cannot be accorded a legal sanctity at par with the Byelaws, Rules and Regulations of the Exchange.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further argued that the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Exchange must be exercised only in accordance with the Byelaws and not any circular.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the prescription of the said circular by the Exchange to all trading members vide communication dated 19.05.1997, it has been submitted that by virtue of this communication, the Exchange effectively indulged in amending its own Byelaws by adopting the indirect route of issuing a circular and thus, the communication was violative of Section 9(1) and 9(4) of 1956 Act along with Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next submission relates to the closing out of the outstanding positions of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the closing out was not done in accordance with clauses 17 and 18 of the Byelaws as it was done before the due date.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument stems from the contention that clause 17 enjoins the Exchange and Clearing Corporation not to close out any outstanding position of a trading member until and unless such member has failed to complete the delivery or payment by the due date.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant has further submitted that clause 18 is nothing but a concomitant provision of clause 17 and comes into play only after closing out is done in accordance with clause 17 by complying with the requirement of due date.	Arguments of Petitioner
Impugning the observation of the Tribunal, it has been urged that clause 18 does not provide for additional conditions reasons of closing out and does not operate independently of clause 17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Instead, both clauses supplement each other.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Furthermore, the appellant has contended that on a proper interpretation of clauses 17 and 18, it can be concluded that once the relevant authority has closed out a transaction by exercising power under clause 17, such closing out would take place in such manner, within such time frame and subject to such conditions and procedures as may be prescribed from time to time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Closing out, as per the appellants contention, begins in clause 17 and culminates in clause 18.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
To counter the submissions of the appellant, the respondents have submitted that both for admission and continuation of membership, the Byelaws of the Exchange provide for payment of fees, security deposit and other monies as may be specified by the Board or the relevant authority from time to time.	Arguments of Respondent
Furthermore, they also provide for maintaining various margins with the Exchange and Clearing Corporation, and state that any contravention of the same is proceeded against as per the Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
Similar provisions for admission and continued admission are provided in the Byelaws of the Clearing Corporation as well.	Arguments of Respondent
Addressing the challenge to the Tribunals interpretation of clauses 17 and 18, the respondents have submitted that the Tribunal has rightly concluded that clause 17 is not exhaustive as far as the action of closing out is concerned, and there could be other circumstances wherein the action of closing out ought to be taken in the investors interest.	Arguments of Respondent
Clause 17 does not preclude invoking other just circumstances.	Arguments of Respondent
As per the respondents, such circumstances are covered by clause 18 which operates in addition to clause 17.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that a stock exchange must have the power to close out transactions of a trading member when it discovers any reckless conduct in the market, including exceeding the specified gross exposure limits subject to which the trading platform is allowed to the trading members.	Arguments of Respondent
In reference to the existence of authority of the Clearing Corporation to issue such circular, the respondents have submitted that the appellant had extended an unconditional undertaking in favour of the Clearing Corporation whereby it undertook to comply with and be bound by the Rules, Byelaws, Regulations, circulars etc. issued by the Corporation from time to time.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the appellant is estopped from going back on its undertaking.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the circular does not override or contravene any of the Byelaws, Rules or Regulations framed by the Exchange.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the decision of expulsion, the respondents have submitted that the appellant was liable to maintain the Interest Free Security Deposit with the Exchange as he continued being a member of the Exchange despite the suspension of trading facility.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been further submitted that the appellant was granted multiple opportunities to make good the shortfall in deposits but failed to comply with its obligations even after the decision of suspension.	Arguments of Respondent
Addressing the challenge regarding the requirement of prior approval for the subject circular from SEBI Central Government as per 1956 Act, the respondents have submitted that the Byelaws of the Exchange were brought into operation only after the approval of the Central Government, as mandated under the Act, and the said circular was issued in furtherance of the powers of the Exchange in the Byelaws.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, since the Byelaws were brought into force after approval of the Central Government, no further approval was necessary for taking action under the said Byelaws.	Arguments of Respondent
To reinforce, it is urged by the respondents that the designated authority of the Exchange, under clause 18, is vested with the power to prescribe the due date, manner, time frame and conditions and procedures as regards the action of closing out and thus, any such action does not warrant any further approval from SEBI.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard learned counsels for both the parties at length.	None
Having examined the submissions of the parties and documents on record, we are of the view that the following questions of law emerge for our consideration in the present appeal  Whether prior approval of SEBI Central Government was essential for enforcing the circular dated 19.05.1997 against trading clearing members?	Issue
Whether the circular is invalid as being in conflict with the Byelaws of the Exchange, particularly regarding the manner of closing out prescribed therein?	None
Whether the appellant is legally bound by the subject circular which allows the withdrawal of trading facility and forthwith closing out of open positions?	None
Whether the appellant was obligated to maintain the prescribed Interest Free Security Deposit and other deposits, despite the withdrawal of its trading facilities, for continued membership of the Exchange?	Issue
The intertwined nature of the provisions involved in the determination of the aforesaid questions requires us to analyse at length the scheme and scope of the Byelaws, Rules and Regulations of the Exchange and the Clearing Corporation visavis the 1956 Act and Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (for short, the 1992 Act).	None
The 1956 Act was brought into force to prevent undesirable transactions in securities by regulating the securities market.	None
In furtherance of this objective, the legislature provided for recognition of a stock exchange under Section 4 of the Act on the following terms 4.	None
(1) If the Central Government is satisfied, after making such inquiry as may be necessary in this behalf and after obtaining such further information, if any, as it may require, (a) that the Rules and Byelaws of a stock exchange applying for registration are in conformity with such conditions as may be prescribed with a view to ensure fair dealing and to protect investors it may grant recognition to the stock exchange subject to the conditions imposed upon it as aforesaid and in such form as may be prescribed.	None
After specifying that the Byelaws and Rules of a stock exchange require prior approval of the Central Government, subsection (5) of Section 4 imposes the same condition on any amendment of such Rules in the following terms No Rules of a recognised stock exchange relating to any of the matters specified in subsection (2) of section 3 shall be amended except with the approval of the Central Government.	None
On a plain reading of the aforequoted provisions, it is seen that the central scheme of 1956 Act reveals that the requirement of prior approval, in relation to matters specified in subsection (2) of Section 3, of the Central Government, be it at the time of original framing of Rules of the Exchange or upon amendment thereof, is essential or prerequisite.	None
This mandate of Central Government was later entrusted to SEBI vide S.O. 672 (E), dated 13091994, published in the Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Section 3 (ii), Dated 13091994 (for prior approval at the time of framing) and vide S.O. 573 (E), dated 30071992, published in the Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Section 3 (ii), dated 30071992 (for prior approval at the time of amendment) by issuing orders under Section 29A of the 1956 Act, which at the relevant point of time read thus 29A. Power to delegate.	None
The Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, direct that the powers exercisable by it under any provision of this Act shall, in relation to such matters and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, be exercisable also by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.	None
Be it noted that the legislature has omitted the usage of the word Regulations or circulars in the parent Act and as far as the governance of a stock exchange is concerned, the supervision or control of the Central Government SEBI at the time of granting recognition to the stock exchange is limited to being satisfied that the Rules and Byelaws of the stock exchange applying for registration are in conformity with such conditions as may be prescribed for ensuring fair dealing and protecting investors.	None
The domain of framing Regulations is kept separately in a standalone manner in the Byelaws of the Exchange and not in the Act.	None
The framing of Regulations concerning governance of stock exchange is reserved for the Exchange.	None
For deciding the first question, we may now advert to NSE Byelaws, 1994, to understand the true import of the subject circular.	None
In the chapter on Definitions, clause (10) defines Regulations to include business rules, code of conduct and such other Regulations prescribed by the relevant authority from time to time for the operations of the Exchange and they are declared to be subject to the provisions of the 1956 Act, Rules and 1992 Act.	None
The definition is merely an inclusive definition and not exhaustive.	None
The relevant authority here is the Board of the Exchange.	None
Such Regulations can be prescribed on a wide range of matters as indicated in Chapter III  Regulations, including capital adequacy norms or any other matter as may be decided by the Board.	None
Thus, the scope of Regulations that can be prescribed by the Exchange is expansive so as to cover all issues relating to governance of the Exchange.	None
Coming to Chapter V Trading Members of the Byelaws, clause (2) specifies certain Conditions for the Trading Members.	None
Subclause (a) of clause (2) is instructive which reads thus Trading members shall adhere to the Bye Laws, Rules and Regulations of the Exchange and shall comply with such operational parameters, rulings, notices, guidelines and instructions of the relevant authority as may be applicable.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The above clause signifies that apart from framing Regulations, the Byelaws also empower the Exchange to issue instructions regarding operational parameters, guidance etc. for the trading members.	None
The term operational parameters is crucial.	None
Chapter IX of the Byelaws, in clauses (5) and (6), titled Transactions and Settlements specifies certain operational parameters for trading.	None
Clause (5) empowers the relevant authority of the Exchange to determine and announce from time to time certain operational parameters which may include trading limits and capital adequacy norms as per clause (6).	None
Clauses (5) and (6) read thus Operational Parameters for Trading The relevant authority may determine and announce from time to time operational parameters regarding dealing of securities on the Exchange which trading members shall adhere to.	None
The operational parameters may, inter alia, include(a) trading limits allowed which may include trading limits with reference to net worth and capital adequacy norms Notably, clause (5) of Chapter IX of the Byelaws uses the phrase the relevant authority may determine and announce the operational parameters.	None
Both determination and announcement of such parameters is therefore, within the competence of the Exchange.	Reasoning
Such announcement can be made by the Exchange by circulating a communication amongst the members, as it rightfully did in the present case by way of the subject circular.	Reasoning
A similar clause has been inserted in Chapter VI of the Byelaws of the Clearing Corporation as well, thereby empowering the Clearing Corporation to issue operational parameters relating to trading limits and consequent actions in case of noncompliance.	Reasoning
The subject matter of the circular in question pertains to trading exposure limits coupled with sanctions in case of noncompliance.	Reasoning
That falls squarely within the ambit of operational parameters (as seen in clauses produced above), which can be determined and notified by the Exchange from time to time.	Reasoning
In this case, the Exchange adopted the circular from the Clearing Corporation and notified it in the form of operational parameter.	Reasoning
Nothing is brought to our notice from the text of this circular that it would militate against the norm of fair dealing and protection of investors.	Reasoning
In any case, no requirement of prior approval is provided for notifying such operational parameters and as the name suggests, they are meant to tackle operational concerns as and when they emerge before the Exchange or the Clearing Corporation.	Reasoning
The power and mode of prescription of such circular falls within the residuary powers reserved for the Exchange.	Reasoning
At this stage, we consider it apposite to make a brief reference to Section 9 of the 1956 Act which provides for the power of a recognised stock exchange to make Byelaws for regulation and control of contracts.	None
The terms regulation and control cannot be narrowed down and must receive a wide meaning.	None
For, the contours of circumstances that may emerge between an exchange and a trading member in the process of regulation and control cannot be comprehended or cabined beforehand and thus, the Act permits the Byelaws to be armoured with a diverse set of measures so as to enable the Exchange to deal with unspecified situations that may emerge during such regulation and control of contracts.	None
Subsection (2)and (3) further signify that matters relating to clearing house, settlements, suspension and expulsion from membership etc. are best left to be dealt under the Byelaws.	None
Relevant extract of subsection (3) reads thus Power of recognised stock exchanges to make byeLaws (1) xxx	None
xxx xxx (2)	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The Byelaws made under this section may (a)	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx (b) provide that the contravention of any of the Byelaws shall render the member concerned liable to one or more of the following punishments, namely  fine expulsion from membership suspension from membership for a specified period any other penalty of a like nature not involving the payment of money.	None
This provision reinforces that the power to regulate and control the trading contracts enables the Exchange not only to make Byelaws and Regulations but to provide for everything therein which might be necessary (and permissible) for ensuring efficacy and vigour in the exercise of just power of control and regulation.	None
It is in this light that the operational parameters or Regulations framed under the Byelaws are to be understood.	None
For, without such power, the Exchange would be rendered toothless in controlling and regulating the contracts.	None
A priori, it must follow that the legislature has bestowed upon the Exchange sufficient freedom of action to effectively control and regulate the functioning of stock brokers who use the Exchange as a means to enter into financial relationships with the investors and common public.	Reasoning
This freedom of action is guaranteed in the preapproved Byelaws which enable the Exchange to frame Regulations, instructions, operational parameters, notice etc. and bring them into force without subjecting them to any added condition of prior approval of the Central Government SEBI.	Reasoning
The only limitation on this power of the Exchange is that such Regulations or operational parameters issued under the Byelaws are subject to 1956 Act, 1992 Act and Rules framed thereunder.	Reasoning
Strictly speaking, this limitation does not ipso facto mean that such Regulations or operational parameters are subject to prior approval, as argued.	Reasoning
To say that would result in rewriting of the provisions in question.	Reasoning
The same is forbidden.	Reasoning
The import of this subjection clause is merely to specify that any such Regulation operational parameter must not run counter to the provisions of 1956 Act or 1992 Act, as the case may be, including the Rules framed thereunder.	Reasoning
Indubitably, the Exchange provides a middle ground to the stock brokers and investors dealing with public funds investments, and considering the nature of activities undertaken in a stock market, it is the bounden duty of the Exchange to fortify the public trust.	Reasoning
In doing so, the Exchange is required to prevent and remedy all possible mischief on a real time basis.	Reasoning
To that end, it may prescribe a set of parameters for fulfilling its objective of regulating and controlling the stock market, as stated in the Preamble of the Act.	Reasoning
Since the Byelaws and Rules of the Exchange are duly approved by the Central Government SEBI, it can safely be stated that actions taken by the Exchange under the Byelaws or Regulations  by prescribing such operational parameters in the form of a circular and in consequence thereof as discussed above  would assume enforceable character.	Reasoning
The appellant having submitted an undertaking to comply with such instructions, notice etc., cannot be heard to argue to the contrary.	Reasoning
The Court by interpretative process ought not to limit the efficacy of such a valid document by additional preconditions such as prior approval, not envisaged by the lawmakers or regulation framing authorities.	Reasoning
To do so would entail in undermining the authority of the Exchange to regulate and control the stock market, directly or indirectly.	Reasoning
The act of adoption of this circular by the Exchange and circulation of the same amongst the trading members was within the domain of the Exchange in terms of its Byelaws, and unless a case for such instructions to be ultra vires the Byelaws or the Act is made out, there is no reason to undermine its intended effect.	Reasoning
The contention of the appellant that the act of adoption of this circular by the Exchange amounts to an indirect amendment of the Byelaws is a tenuous argument.	Reasoning
For, if every regulation or instruction concerning any procedural matter for effective regulation and control of the stock market prescribed by the Exchange, in furtherance of its powers coupled with duty under the Byelaws, is to be deemed as an amendment merely because it provides for something in addition to the Byelaws (but not repugnant thereto), it would make various other operational clauses of the Byelaws repugnant.	Reasoning
That cannot be countenanced.	None
The operational freedom of the Exchange cannot be stifled on mere assumptions and the burden lies on the claimant to demonstrate a real conflict between the exercise of power and source of power.	Reasoning
Arguendo, had it been a deviation from the Byelaws, in the sense that the circular was defeating and not furthering the scope and objective of the Byelaws, it could have been examined as a constructive amendment or amendment by implication.	Reasoning
Blacks Law Dictionary 11th Edition defines an amendment by implication as Amendment by Implication (1868).	None
A rule of construction that allows a repugnant provision in a statute to be interpreted as an implicit modification or abrogation of a provision that appears before it.	None
Therefore, the principle of constructive amendment signifies that unless a clear case of repugnancy is made out, the later provisions could not be treated as modification or abrogation, more so when such provisions further the intent of the source provisions.	Reasoning
The appellant, in our view, has failed to impress us on this count.	Reasoning
In order to assail the validity of the circular, the appellant has attempted to demonstrate a conflict between the circular and the Byelaws regarding the manner of closing out contemplated in the two.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the case of the appellant that the circular contravenes clause 17 of the Byelaws and thus, invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
37.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the same default, closing out action is contemplated both under the Byelaws of the Exchange and the subject circular.	Reasoning
Clauses 17 and 18 of the Byelaws of the Exchange provide for closing out.	Reasoning
It is pertinent to note that since action is open under both, it is necessary to ascertain whether these corresponding closing out provisions entail any conflict amongst each other, as alleged.	None
In order to understand the scheme, it is important to reproduce the relevant provisions.	None
Closing out under clauses 17 and 18 of the Byelaws of the Exchange is provided as under Closing out Subject to the Regulations prescribed by the relevant authority from time to time, any dealing in securities made on the Exchange maybe closed out by buying in or selling out on the Exchange against a trading member and or Participant as follows (a) in case of the selling trading member Participant, on failure to complete delivery on the due date and (b) in case of the buying trading member Participant, on failure to pay the amount due on the due date, and any loss, damage or shortfall sustained or suffered as a result of such closing out shall be payable by the trading member or participant who failed to give due delivery or to pay amount due.	Facts
Closing out of contracts or dealings in securities and settlement of claims arising therefrom shall be in such manner within such time frame and subject to such conditions and procedures as may be prescribed from time to time by the relevant authority.	None
Under clause 17, closing out is permitted under specified and narrow circumstances i.e. only when a member of the Exchange has failed on delivery or on payment.	Reasoning
The phrase on failure to complete delivery and on failure to pay the amount due signify the clear scope of operation of clause 17.	Reasoning
Understood thus, clause 17 gets activated only when the default is in payment of amount due in case of buying members or in delivery of shares in case of selling members and not otherwise.	Reasoning
Succinctly put, clause 17 envisages closing out for failure to complete the settlement operation.	Reasoning
That, however, has no relation whatsoever to a situation of closing out due to failure to trade within defined limits, as specified by the Exchange, amounting to violation of the Byelaws of the Clearing Corporation, as in the present case.	Reasoning
Whereas, clause 18 caters to another situation and is textually different.	Reasoning
Let us now see how the action of closing out is envisaged in the circular.	Issue
The circular provides for the effect of violation of the exposure limits and lays down that any such violation shall be treated as a violation of the Byelaws of the Clearing Corporation, without prejudice to the power of the Exchange to withdraw the trading facilities.	Reasoning
This withdrawal is contemplated as an imminent action to protect the market from being exposed to unsecured financial exposure.	Reasoning
Consequent thereto, closing out of open positions has been contemplated.	Reasoning
The relevant extract of the circular dated 19.5.1997 reads thus Effect of violation of IntraDay Turn Over Limit and Gross Exposure Limit.	None
Any violation of exposure limits will be treated as violation of the Bye Laws of the Clearing Corporation and will entail appropriate action under the Bye Laws and Rules of the Clearing Corporation.	None
In addition, and without prejudice to the foregoing, the Clearing Corporation may, within such time as it may deem fit, advise the Exchange to withdraw any or all of the membership rights of the TM clearing member including the withdrawal of trading facilities without any notice.	None
In the event of withdrawal of trading facilities, the outstanding positions of the TM clearing member may be closed out forthwith or any time thereafter by the Exchange, at the discretion of the Clearing Corporation, to the extent possible, by putting counter orders in respect of the outstanding position of the TM clearing member without any notice to the TM clearing member.	None
(emphasis supplied) Strictly speaking, the circular, as discussed above, triggers a closing out action upon fulfilment of two conditions exceeding the gross exposure limits while trading failure to deposit additional capital within such time as may be granted by the Exchange Clearing Corporation for continuance of trading.	None
It must be carefully noted that the nature of closing out prescribed in the circular does not envisage any failure in delivery or in payment to complete the settlement, unlike in clause 17.	Reasoning
The conditions in the circular operate on a more basic level and are concerned essentially regarding the eligibility of a trading clearing member venturing beyond the market exposure limits defined in the context of the advance security deposit.	Reasoning
That is the condition and procedure prescribed from time to time by the relevant authority for dealing in securities by the member.	Reasoning
For such noncompliance, the power ascribable in clause 18 may be attracted.	Reasoning
After venturing beyond such limits, it may very well be possible that such member is still in a position to deliver the securities or to make the payment (depending on buying or selling).	Reasoning
For, merely venturing beyond the exposure limits does not ipso facto render a trading member incapable of completing the settlement.	Reasoning
But the circular does not go that far and attacks the mischief of exceeding the predefined limits in a reckless fashion.	Reasoning
That is to preserve the interests of the unwary investors.	Reasoning
The very fact that a member has overexposed itself in the market while trading is enough to give rise to the cause of action under the circular.	Reasoning
The action of forthwith closing out is of an inchoate nature as it seeks to curb continued reckless transaction, before it unfolds fully and damages the sanctity of the market in an irreparable manner.	Reasoning
Therefore, what is being done under the circular is not the same as what is being done under clause 17.	Reasoning
Clause 18, on the other hand, is of a residuary nature and confers on the relevant authority of the Exchange the power to close out certain positions on grounds not specified in clause 17.	Reasoning
The relevant authority, under clause 18, is empowered to determine and prescribe the manner, time frame and conditions and procedures in accordance with which such closing out can take place.	Reasoning
The key words used here are wide in scope and are targeted to enable the Exchange to act effectively and promptly according to the prevalent dynamic state of the market by prescribing manner, conditions, procedures and time frame for a closing out action.	Reasoning
The mischief creators in a stock market operate in a myriad set of ways and one cannot preset or comprehend all possible methods of undermining the health of the market.	Reasoning
Thus, residuary situations of closing out may emerge and clause 18 enables the Exchange to promptly act against such attempt.	Reasoning
The provision is premised on necessity.	Reasoning
By reading in any requirement of due date in clause 18, on the lines of clause 17, the court would be doing violence to the clear intent of the clauses and the broad scheme of the Byelaws.	Reasoning
Clause 18, as the Tribunal observed, would be rendered nugatory.	Reasoning
Even logically, by importing a fictional requirement of due date in clause 18, the Exchange cannot be expected to gloss over a clear case of excessive reckless trading and allow the mischief to continue until the due date has arrived.	Reasoning
Thus, there is no occasion to control the scope of clause 18 by establishing a fictional link with clause 17.	Reasoning
Be it noted that clause 18 does not specify the mode of prescribing the manner, time frame, conditions and procedures necessitating closing out.	Reasoning
In the present case, the appellant violated the condition and procedure prescribed by the Exchange Clearing Corporation vide subject circular.	Reasoning
Thus, the manner of closing out contemplated in the circular is borne out by clause 18 and we do not find any conflict, as suggested.	Reasoning
Apart from the circular, clause 16 of the Byelaws of the Clearing Corporation also provides for closing out on failure of a clearing member to comply with any of the provisions relating to delivery, payment and settlement of deals or on any failure to fulfil the terms and conditions subject to which the deal has been made.	Reasoning
Clause 16 reads thus CLOSING OUT	None
A deal admitted for clearing and settlement may be closed out on failure of a clearing member to comply with any of the provisions relating to delivery, payment and settlement of deals or on any failure to fulfil the terms and conditions subject to which the deal has been made, or such other circumstances as the relevant authority may specify from time to time.	None
The deal may be closed out by the Clearing Corporation in such manner, within such time frame and subject to such conditions and procedures as the relevant authority may prescribe from time to time.	None
The nature of action contemplated under clause 16 is in furtherance of the basic mandate laid down under Section 9 of the 1956 Act.	Reasoning
For, section 9 of the Act clearly provides that all contracts deals on the market are subject to the Byelaws (including Regulations, operational parameters etc. issued under the Byelaws) and Rules of the Exchange.	Reasoning
One of the consequences of not acting in accordance with the Byelaws is provided under clause 16, apart from other provisions.	Reasoning
Understood thus, this clause is yet another selfcontained provision envisaging forthwith closing out, which goes on to show that forthwith closing out is not a new phenomenon in the overall scheme of things.	Reasoning
We do not delve any deeper into the scope of clause 16, for that is not the question before us.	Reasoning
To summarize, on a comprehensive view of the scheme of closing out under the Byelaws of the Exchange, Byelaws of the Clearing Corporation and the circular, we are of the view that an action of forthwith closing out is permissible under the said scheme, particularly clause 18, and thus, the circular is not ultra vires clauses 17 and 18 of the Byelaws.	Reasoning
Rather, the circular furthers the spirit underlying clause 18.	Reasoning
Let us now examine the third question i.e., whether the appellant was bound by the circular dated 19.05.1997.	Issue
As we move forward, we note that the SEBI (Stock Brokers SubBrokers) Regulations, 1992 were framed under Section 30 of the 1992 Act, with an objective to regulate the functioning of stockbrokers by prescribing certain conditions.	None
Regulation 9 specifies that any registration granted by SEBI shall be subject to the conditions prescribed therein and reads thus Any registration granted by the Board under regulation 6 shall be subject to the following conditions, namely (a) xxx xxx xxx	None
(b) he shall abide by the Rules, Regulations and Byelaws of the stock exchange which are applicable to him The same intent is advanced in Rule 9 of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957 which reads Contracts between members of recognised stock exchange.	None
All contracts between the members of a recognised stock exchange shall be confirmed in writing and shall be enforced in accordance with the Rules and Byelaws of the stock exchange of which they are members.	None
A stock exchange is primarily engaged in three activities buying, selling and dealing in securities.	Reasoning
In order to give effect to these activities, the Exchange performs an array of operations of which clearing and settlement form an integral part.	Reasoning
As per the Byelaws of the Exchange, the functions of clearing and settlement were transferred to the Clearing Corporation by the Exchange.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the Clearing Corporation framed its own Byelaws, similar to the Byelaws of the Exchange, for conducting its operations.	Reasoning
The appellant tendered an unconditional undertaking in favour of both the entities  NSE and NSCCL stating that it shall abide by all the Rules, Regulations, Byelaws, circulars etc. of both the entities.	Reasoning
The undertaking dated 19.3.1996 reads thus That we shall abide by, comply with and be bound by the Rules, Byelaws and Regulations of the Corporation as in existence or as modified amended by the relevant authority, from time to time and also with any circular, order, direction, notice, instruction issued and as modified or amended from time to time by the relevant authority.	None
Notably, the undertaking given by the appellant to the respondents fell within the broad scheme of the Byelaws Rules, and was a quintessential requirement for obtaining registration as a stock broker as both 1956 Act and Byelaws subjected the members to such conditions.	Reasoning
Thus, the appellant is bound by the undertaking so given.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, assuming the absence of undertaking, the very fact that a valid circular originated from the statutory scheme of the Byelaws is sufficient to bind the appellant with its provisions.	Reasoning
Thus, the emergent legal position is that the appellant had subscribed to both statutory as well as contractual obligations with the respondents for functioning as a stock broker.	Reasoning
Any deviation from the said circular could invite action under multiple provisions spreading across the Byelaws of the Exchange and Byelaws of the Clearing Corporation, in addition to the sanctions provided in the circular itself.	Reasoning
Understood thus, we are of the view that the appellant is squarely bound by the circular and any breach of the same is to be viewed accordingly.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation in observing that the view taken by us is reinforced by the Master Circular for Stock Brokers issued by SEBI on 01.06.2018 bearing headnote that This Master Circular is a compilation of relevant circulars issued by SEBI, which are operational as on date of this circular.	Reasoning
Annexure4 of the Master Circular titled Rights and Obligations of Stock Brokers, SubBrokers and Clients reiterates the correct legal position under clause 2 thereof which provides that the stock brokers are bound by all the Rules, Byelaws and Regulations of the Exchange and circulars notices issued in furtherance of such Byelaws and Rules.	Reasoning
The clause reads thus The stock broker, subbroker and the client shall be bound by all the Rules, Byelaws and Regulations of the Exchange and circulars notices issued thereunder and Rules and Regulations of SEBI and relevant notifications of Government authorities as may be in force from time to time.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
We now advert to the question of expulsion.	Issue
In light of the above discussion, it is clear that the scheme of 1956 Act enables the Exchange to resort to suspension and expulsion of the members, in accordance with its approved Byelaws and Rules.	Reasoning
Section 3(2) of the Act specifies certain matters that must be appropriately covered in the Byelaws or Rules.	Reasoning
Clause (c) of the said subsection expressly provides that matters of admission, qualification, exclusion, suspension, expulsion and readmission of members must be covered in the Byelaws Rules.	Reasoning
It reads thus Application for recognition of stock exchanges.	None
(1) xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
Every application under subsection (1) shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed, and shall be accompanied by a copy of the byelaws of the stock exchange for the regulation and control of contracts and also a copy of the rules relating in general to the constitution of the stock exchange, and in particular, to  (a)	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx (b)	None
xxx xxx xxx (c) the admission into the stock exchange of various classes of members, the qualifications for membership, and the exclusion, suspension, expulsion and readmission of members therefrom or thereinto In 1992, SEBI issued letter No. SMDI/11087/92	None
dated 04.11.1992 titled Capital Adequacy Norms for Brokers whereby the stock exchanges were directed to provide for norms relating to capital adequacy in their Byelaws.	None
Apart from specifying certain requirements, the letter went on to state that the stock exchange shall continue to have the authority to impose suitable margins as per their judgment in the context of the market situation.	None
Therefore, a stock exchange stood empowered not only to specify capital adequacy requirements for the trading members but also to take action against the defaulting members.	None
Accordingly, for effectuating the mandate accorded upon the Exchange as per the Act, NSE Rules, 1994 and the abovesaid directive, it is obliged to deal with the subject of termination of membership on that basis.	None
Rule 28 thereof provides that a trading membership can be terminated, apart from other ways, by expulsion in accordance with the provisions contained in the Byelaws, Rules and Regulations.	None
Rules 31 and 32 of Chapter III are relevant operative provisions for our consideration which lay down various obligations for continued admittance of membership and read thus Failure to pay Charges Save as otherwise provided in the Bye Laws, Rules and Regulations of the Exchange if a member fails to pay his annual subscription, fees, charges or other monies which may be due by him to the Exchange or to the Clearing House within such time as the relevant authority may prescribe from time to time after notice in writing has been served upon him by the Exchange, he may be suspended by the relevant authority until he makes payment and if within a further period of fifteen days he fails to make such payment, he may be expelled by the relevant authority.	None
Continued Admittance	None
The relevant authority shall from time to time prescribe conditions and requirements for continued admittance to trading membership which may, inter alia, include maintenance of minimum net worth and capital adequacy.	None
The trading membership of any person who fails to meet these requirements shall be liable to be terminated.	None
The same regulatory intent is reflected in the Byelaws as well.	None
Clause (1)(b) of ChapterV of NSE Byelaws, 1997 (the operative Byelaws as regards the question of expulsion) empowers the relevant authority to specify prerequisites, conditions, formats and procedures for application for admission, termination, readmission etc. of trading members.	None
Furthermore, clause (1)(c) of the same chapter provides that the members desirous of admission or of continued admission may be asked to deposit fees security deposit in lieu of the same.	None
The clause reads thus Appointment and Fees (1) (a) xxx xxx xxx	None
(b)	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
Such fees, security deposit and other monies as are specified by the Board or relevant authority would be payable on appointment as trading member and for continued appointment thereof.	None
Consequence of failure to maintain the necessary deposits is addressed in Chapter XII of the Byelaws wherein clause (1) provides that such a member could be declared as a defaulter, which in itself is a ground for expulsion in the NSE Rules, 1994.	None
The clause reads thus Declaration of Default A trading member may be declared a defaulter by direction circular notification of the relevant authority of the trading segment if (a) he is unable to fulfil his obligations or A holistic view of the scheme exposited above vividly reveals that the Exchange not only had the authority to specify various deposit related requirements but also had the power to expel a member in case of default.	None
In the present case, it is not in dispute that the Interest Free Security Deposit to be maintained by the appellant actually fell short of the required margins during the relevant period.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are neither on question of existence of power to expel nor on the factum of whether or not the deposits fell short of the prescribed margins.	Reasoning
What falls for our examination, here, is the sole question as to whether the obligation of the appellant to keep up with the adequacy of deposits continued despite the withdrawal of its trading facility.	Reasoning
An affirmative answer would justify the expulsion.	Reasoning
Be it noted that the relationship between a stock exchange and trading member runs across various levels.	Reasoning
Admission to membership, continuation of membership, denial of trading facilities, imposition of fines, calling for additional deposits, suspension of membership and expulsion of membership are various facets of this relationship.	Reasoning
Action against members is to be taken only upon violation of conditions and procedures therefor.	Reasoning
It is a serious matter and resorted to only upon the fulfilment of conditions specified in the Byelaws, Rules, Regulations or even in operational parameters, as seen above.	Reasoning
Notably, the conditions required for withdrawing the trading facility are distinguishable from the conditions required for suspension expulsion of membership.	Reasoning
Under the relevant provisions, withdrawal could take place upon a standalone violation of certain operational parameters on a given trading day (like exceeding the exposure limits as in the present case).	Reasoning
Whereas, expulsion would take place upon a sustained violation of membership obligations (like failure to maintain the base capital and also for failure to replenish the prescribed amount)within the time frame specified therefor.	Reasoning
The two actions vary not only in their texture, but also in their resultant effect.	Reasoning
Withdrawal, for instance, does not extinguish the membership.	Reasoning
It acts like a halt for indulging in further trading activity.	Reasoning
To say that mere withdrawal of trading facility would ipso facto absolve a trading member from keeping up with other obligations towards the Exchange for continuation of membership would result into an anomalous situation.	Reasoning
It would amount to the diffusion of one stage of the relationship with the other, and would become a concocted way to extend benefit for its own wrong to a defaulting member.	Reasoning
Such a consequence could not be intended to result from an action of withdrawal of trading facility.	Reasoning
For, the withdrawal of trading facility is a temporary or interim action which is taken against an erring member to prevent him from continuing on a mischievous path during the trading hours and to take corrective steps forthwith.	Reasoning
The nature of this action is preventive and the provisions governing this action provide for certain remedial acts, like depositing additional sums to increase the exposure limits, the performance of which can help a member in resuming his trading operations.	Reasoning
The obligations for continued admission as a member are entirely different and merely because trading has been halted due to a members own default, it does not result in a hiatus situation or extricate him from membership obligations.	Reasoning
If that were to be the case, there was no need for the Byelaws to provide these actions separately.	Reasoning
Pertinently, the capital adequacy norms, as discussed above, are meant both for admission as a member and for continuation as a member.	Reasoning
Even the language of the governing provision i.e. Rule 32, signifies that requirements relating to capital adequacy are meant for continued admittance to trading membership and thus, the mandatory obligations would continue, as long as membership is formally continued.	Reasoning
Despite the temporary action of withdrawal of trading facility, a member continues to be a member of the Exchange with all corresponding rights and obligations intact on both sides.	Reasoning
A member can always resign from the membership of the Exchange and move out of all fiscal obligations after settling his dues, but as long as he opts to retain his membership of the Exchange, there is nothing in the governing provisions to support the view that withdrawal of trading would automatically extricate the defaulting member from his obligation regarding annual charges and margin requirements, as the case may be.	Reasoning
The timely fulfilment of these requirements has been envisaged in the Byelaws as a precondition for admission or continued admission in the Exchange.	Reasoning
Despite closer examination of the Byelaws, Rules and Regulations of the Exchange, we could not find anything to support a contrary view.	Reasoning
The continuation of membership and fulfilment of capital adequacy norms run coterminously with each other, and failure to comply with the latter would automatically put the former in jeopardy.	Reasoning
Having observed that the appellant failed to maintain the requisite membership margins with the Exchange for a long period and refused to make up for the shortfalls when called upon to do so by the Exchange, there is nothing to deviate from the view taken by the Tribunal that the appellant acted in contravention of the Byelaws and Rules of the Exchange necessitating unto termination.	Decision
The actions taken by the Exchange, thus, were in accordance with the law.	Decision
ScheduleII of the SEBI (Stock Brokers and SubBrokers) Regulations, 1992 prescribes a Code of Conduct for the stock brokers and clause 5 thereof specifies that compliance with statutory requirements is a mandatory aspect of code of conduct of a stock broker.	Decision
The appellant consistently failed to comply with the requirements and acted in a manner which was prejudicial to the sanctity of a MemberExchange relationship.	Decision
To conclude, we hold that the Tribunal rightly confirmed the order of expulsion and we uphold the same.	Decision
CIVIL APPEAL NO.	None
9571 OF 2019	None
The seminal question involved in this appeal is about the mode of dealing with withheld securities of a defaulting member by NSE NSCCL, consequent to his expulsion.	Issue
The cause espoused in this appeal is in the backdrop of the decision of withdrawal of trading facilities of the appellant dated 13.10.1997, followed by withholding of various securities by the Exchange, purportedly belonging to the appellant.	Facts
Concededly, there was no immediate challenge by the appellant against this decision of withholding of securities.	Facts
It was only in Appeal No. 84 of 2008filed before the Tribunal on 05.05.2008, the appellant had made grievance about the nonreturn of stated withheld securities.	Facts
Thereafter, further communication ensued between the parties as regards the withholding of securities.	Facts
On 20.10.2008, representatives of the appellant were permitted by the respondent Exchange to inspect the physical records of securities at the premises of the Exchange and as reflected in the records, such inspection did take place.	Facts
However, no legal action was initiated by the appellant after this event for securing the release of the stated securities.	Facts
The appellant, after a gap of almost six years, called upon the Exchange vide letter dated 21.02.2014 to return the withheld securities.	Facts
It was done purportedly to prevent the flow of corporate benefits on those securities to third parties in whose name the securities stood registered in the books of the companies.	Facts
Similar communications were sent on 04.04.2014 and 03.05.2014 to NSE and SEBI respectively.	Facts
The appellant then approached the Securities Appellate Tribunal in Appeal No. 238 of 2014 praying for the release of withheld securities.	Facts
On 09.09.2014, the counsel for the Exchange proposed to hear the appellant as regards the question of withheld securities and accordingly, the Tribunal relegated the parties before NSE for passing a reasoned order on the said question.	Facts
The Defaulters Committee of the Exchange heard the appellant and passed an elaborate order dated 04.12.2014 justifying the withholding of securities.	Facts
This order was finally challenged by the appellant before the Tribunal on 17.01.2015 in Appeal No. 118 of 2015.	Facts
The challenge was turned down by the Tribunal vide order dated 04.06.2019 (impugned order).	Facts
To understand the present challenge, it is apposite to note that the Tribunal decided the appeal on a narrow question which finds mention in para 5 of the impugned judgment as The basic question raised in this appeal therefore is whether the respondent NSE is legally entitled to withhold the securities of the appellant who has been suspended expelled with effect from 2005/2006.	Facts
The Tribunal, after adverting to the relevant provisions, in para 8, opined that the stated issue had been and stands answered in Appeal No. 84 of 2008, wherein the order of expulsion was upheld.	Facts
The Tribunal then went on to answer the question on merits and observed thus In any case dehors this ground of multiple litigations, on merit we find that the question of dues owed by the appellant to NSE and NSCCL has been communicated to the appellant multiple times giving calculations etc.	Facts
The appellant has never questioned the calculations except stating that sufficient funds were available with the respondent in October 1997 which could have been utilized towards settlement obligation.	Facts
However, given the trajectory of the legal recourse resorted to by the appellant and thereby limiting the powers of the respondent in utilizing those deposits, this contention that the respondent could have utilized the money available does not stand any merit Subsequent to this observation, the Tribunal determined the total liability of the appellant towards the respondents (Exchange) and arrived at a final figure of Rs.2.41 crores.	Facts
It further stated that the respondents were well within their rights to withhold the securities and realise the amount owed to them.	Facts
The relevant extract of the impugned order in this regard reads thus After carefully perusing the documents and the submissions made by the parties we have no doubt that the appellant owe an amount of Rs.2.41 crore to respondent NSE NSCCL.	Facts
Since the appellant is not ready to give this amount Respondent no. 1, is well within its rights to use the securities of the appellant withheld by them, to the tune of Rs.2.41 crore.	Facts
Such calculations should also include corporate benefits such as bonus, dividends etc. if any accrued to NSE over the period as beneficial owner of the withheld securities.	Facts
Needless to say that if any excess value is received or if the amount of Rs.2.41 crore is received by disposing of part of the securities withheld either the excess value or the remaining securities or both shall be returned to the appellant within one month from the date of this order.	Facts
While assailing the order of the Tribunal before this Court, the appellant has primarily contended that the Tribunal misled itself by answering whether the respondents could have withheld the securities of a defaulting member, whereas, the real question was whether such securities could have been withheld despite the respondents being in possession of deposits equivalent to an amount exceeding the claim of the respondents and also whether such securities could have been withheld without getting them registered in the name of the respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
71.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the case of the appellant that on the relevant date, the alleged amount due from the appellant stood at Rs. 1.32 crore and the amount of deposits retained by the respondents was around Rs. 1.34 crore and since the security deposit already exceeded the amount due, there was no occasion for the respondents to withhold the securities in order to realise any amount over and above the stated liability.	Arguments of Petitioner
72.	Arguments of Petitioner
The thrust of the appellants challenge is that as and when securities of the defaulting member are withheld by the Exchange, the Exchange being trustee thereof is under an obligation to get such securities registered in its name so as to prevent third parties from unduly deriving the corporate benefits (bonus, rights issues, dividends etc.)	Arguments of Petitioner
thereon, as and when they may accrue.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the case of the appellant that in the present case, the Exchange merely sat over the withheld securities without further dealing with them in any manner whatsoever and for its inaction the appellant cannot be made to suffer.	Arguments of Petitioner
73.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though not addressed by the Tribunal in the impugned judgment, the appellant had also raised a question as regards the applicability of Rule 20(f) of Chapter IV of the NSE Rules as the said rule came into effect from July, 2001 onwards.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellant, since the original decision of withdrawal of trading facilities was taken in 1997, the said rule could not be applied to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Be it noted that the said rule permits the application of Chapter XII Defaults of NSE Byelaws enabling realisation of withheld assets of the expelled member.	Arguments of Petitioner
74.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, the respondents would contend that it was not open to them to use the deposits worth Rs. 1.34 crore to settle the dues owed by the appellant for the reason that the appellant had initiated a bunch of legal proceedings at various forums across the country from 1997 to 2006.	Arguments of Respondent
Resultantly, the securities had to be withheld as per the rules in order to secure the liability and because the appellant had failed to meet its settlement obligations.	Arguments of Respondent
It was not because of his expulsion as such.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, such withholding was in tune with the Regulations of NSE and NSCCL and with the circular dated 19.05.1997.	Arguments of Respondent
Responding to the appellants contention regarding the appropriate manner of dealing with the withheld securities, the respondents have extensively relied upon Regulation 9.12 of NSE (Capital Market) Regulations whereby they are empowered to deal with the withheld securities at such times and in such manner as they may deem fit.	Arguments of Respondent
Placing reliance upon the bare language of the Regulation, it has been submitted that such manner of dealing may include appropriating the withheld securities for the discharge of outstanding obligations, closing out the withheld securities or registering such securities in the name of the respondent or any other entity as the case may be.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, the manner of dealing by the respondents cannot be constricted.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents would submit that upon expulsion of a member, the Exchange is well within its rights to realize the withheld securities in fulfilment of the obligations of defaulting member in accordance with Rule 20(f) of Chapter IV of NSE Rules which specifies the consequences of expulsion.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further urged that Rule 20(f) became operative on 29.06.2000 whereas the appellant was expelled on 05.01.2006 and thus, the said rule was applicable to the case of appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
An objection has also been raised by the respondents as regards the maintainability of the original appeal before the Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been urged that the appeal was barred by the principles underlying Order II Rule 2 of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908( for short, the 1908 Code) and or res judicata as the same issue was raised and not pressed rejected before the Tribunal in Appeal No. 84 of 2008.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we proceed, we hasten to note that the real issue is not about the existence of power and authority of the respondents to withhold the securities or other assets of a trading clearing member in cases of default.	Issue
That is not disputed even by the appellant.	Issue
Thus, our examination revolves essentially around the mode of dealing with the withheld securities.	Issue
Having gone through the impugned judgment, submissions of the parties and documents on record, we are of the view that the following questions emerge for our consideration in this appeal Whether the respondents are obliged to forthwith realise the withheld securities and appropriate the sale proceeds towards the dues payable by the appellant in terms of Rule 20(f) of Chapter IV of NSE Rules read with Chapter XII on Defaults?	Issue
As a consequence of withholding of securities of a defaulting member, whether the respondents are under a legal obligation to deal therewith as a prudent person and more so as a trustee, and in discharge of fiduciary trust responsibility are obliged to get the same registered with a view to protect the financial interests of the defaulting member and persons claiming through him?	None
Before answering the questions of law on merits, it falls upon us to briefly examine the maintainability of the original appeal before the Tribunal for relief relating to withheld securities.	Issue
Notably, in previous appeal registered as Appeal No. 84 of 2008, apart from challenging the expulsion of membership, the appellant had also prayed for the release of withheld securities.	Reasoning
The prayer reads thus (d) that the securities due to the Appellant and its constituents and now retained by the first and second Respondents may be paid out return to the Appellant.	Reasoning
It seems that the said relief was not pursued by the appellant before the Tribunal in right earnest or taken to its logical end.	Reasoning
For, what is clear is that the aforequoted relief prayed in the previous appeal whilst questioning the expulsion, was not answered granted by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Either way, the legal consequence is that the second round of proceedings for the same relief would not be maintainable.	Reasoning
If the relief was prayed for and given up during the course of the appeal without seeking leave for agitating it at a later stage, the principle underlying Order II Rule 2 of the 1908 Code may be attracted.	Reasoning
Alternatively, if the prayer was duly pursued before the Tribunal in the previous appeal but not granted, in law, it would deem to be refused.	Reasoning
In which case, the principle of constructive res judicata would act as a legal bar in the subsequent proceedings for that very relief.	Reasoning
We do not wish to dilate on this aspect as no such plea was raised by the respondents in the stated proceedings in 2014.	Reasoning
Rather, that appeal was allowed and claim regarding withheld securities was relegated to the Defaulters Committee.	Reasoning
That remand order was acted upon by all concerned and against which the present appeal arises before us.	Reasoning
The appellant would then contend that cause of action accrued only after the Defaulters Committees order dated 04.12.2014, justifying the withholding of securities.	Arguments of Petitioner
This plea is ex facie untenable.	Reasoning
The said order of the Defaulters Committee did not result in the withholding of securities.	Reasoning
It merely supplied reasons and justification for such withholding.	Reasoning
The cause of action, if at all any, had arisen to the appellant from the moment their securities were withheld in 1997.	Reasoning
Merely because a subsequent order is passed to justify a prior action, it cannot be a case of accrual of fresh cause of action to the aggrieved.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, we forbear from nonsuiting the appellant on this technical objection, but as aforesaid, in the peculiar facts of this case, we deem it appropriate to examine the subject matter on merits.	Reasoning
As per the general scheme of regulation of a trading clearing member, it is settled position that a member whose membership has been terminated or who has been expelled is not absolved from fulfilling his contractual or other obligations in any manner.	Reasoning
Rule 8(2) of Chapter IV and Rule 18(4) of Chapter V of NSCCL Rules textualize this position.	None
Rule 8(2), for instance, reads thus TERMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP (1)	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The termination of Clearing Membership shall not in any way absolve the Clearing Member from any obligations and liabilities incurred by the Clearing Member prior to such termination.	None
In the factual scheme of the present case, the foremost thing to be noted is that there are two sets of assets in control of the respondents  first, security deposits and second, withheld securities.	Reasoning
The security deposits came to be deposited on account of membership obligations and the securities were withheld on account of failure to complete settlements.	Reasoning
Though the challenge is limited to withheld securities, the provisions relating to such securities address both these categories of assets collectively and thus, they are being discussed accordingly for a comprehensive view of their scope and operation.	Reasoning
As per clause (11) of Chapter XII of the NSE Byelaws titled Default, the Exchange is vested with the power to realise the assets of a defaulter member in due course.	None
Clause (23) complements this action and provides for the order of priority for satisfying the claims.	None
Clause (11) reads thus Vesting of assets in the Exchange The Defaulters Committee shall call in and realise the security deposits in any form, margin money, other amounts lying to the credit of and securities deposited by the defaulter and recover all moneys, securities and other assets due, payable or deliverable to the defaulter by any other Trading Member in respect of any transaction or dealing made subject to the Byelaws, Rules and Regulations of the Exchange and such assets shall vest ipso facto, on declaration of any trading member as a defaulter, in the Exchange for the benefit of and on account of any dues of the Exchange, National Securities Clearing Corporation Limited, Securities and Exchange Board of India, other trading members, Constituents and registered subbrokers of the defaulter, approved banks and any other persons as may be approved by the Defaulters Committee and other recognised stock exchanges.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is noted that clause (11) provides for realisation of three categories of assets security deposits, margin moneys and other deposits securities which have been deposited by the defaulter member and moneys, securities and other assets due, payable or deliverable to the defaulter by any other Trading Member and recovered by the Exchange.	None
Pertinently, different kinds of assets are subject to a different procedure of realisation.	None
After examining what all can be realised under clause (11), we may now understand the modalities of realisation.	None
Realisation of security deposits Out of the three categories covered under clause (11), security deposits can be called in and realised per se without any additional condition.	Reasoning
There is no requirement of vesting with respect to such deposits neither in the language of clause (11) nor in the overall scheme.	Reasoning
It is so because the Exchange enjoys a statutory lien over such deposits by way of clause (24) of Chapter IX  Transactions and Settlements, NSE Byelaws which categorically provides that the Exchange has a first and paramount lien over the monies, bank deposits and other securities deposited by the trading member for any sum due to the Exchange.	Reasoning
It reads thus Lien on Margins The monies, Bank Deposit Receipts and other securities and assets deposited by a trading member by way of margin under the provisions of these Bye Laws and Regulations shall be subject to a first and paramount lien for any sum due to the Exchange.	Reasoning
Subject to the above, the margin shall be available in preference to all other claims of the trading member for the due fulfilment of its engagements, obligations and liabilities arising out of or incidental to any bargains, dealings, transactions and contracts made subject to the Bye Laws, Rules and Regulations of the Exchange or anything done in pursuance thereof.	Reasoning
Be it noted that it covers only those assets which are voluntarily deposited by the member with the Exchange.	Reasoning
Forfeited withheld assets are not included herein.	Reasoning
It is so because the property in the deposited assets may vest in the Exchange by operation of membership obligations, whereas such is not the case with withheld securities.	Reasoning
It is true that mere existence of lien may not entitle the lienee to sell off the property for satisfaction of debt without a court order.	Reasoning
However, the same principle is not absolute and the cases in which the statutory contractual scheme itself provides for such sale realisation fall outside its purview.	Reasoning
It is settled that when lien itself is a creation of Byelaws, Rules or Regulations etc., the scope, extent and operation of such lien would also be governed by the same scheme.	Reasoning
In Unity Company Private Ltd. vs. Diamond Sugar Mills and Ors., AIR 1971 Cal 18 , it was observed thus The lien in the instant case has been created by the agreement contained in the Articles of Association of the defendant company.	Reasoning
The nature, extent, scope and effect of the lien will, therefore, have to be determined with reference to the Articles of the Company.	Reasoning
While discussing Issue No. 2, I have earlier held that the lien created by the Articles in the instant case, cannot be equated to a mere equitable charge and the lien is wider in its extent, scope and effect.	Reasoning
Express and specific power has been conferred on the company by Article 36 to sell the shares in enforcement of the lien and by Article 37, to apply the sale proceeds in satisfaction of the debt.	Reasoning
The Articles, to my mind, clearly and unequivocally express the intention that the company, by itself, is competent to enforce the lien by sale of the shares which are subject to such lien and to apply the sale proceeds in satisfaction of the debt or loan without recourse to an action in a Court of Law for enforcement of the lien.	Reasoning
Therefore, if provisions provide for realisation of such lien property, the same may be given effect to in accordance with the provisions.	Reasoning
No external conditions can be read in such a scheme.	Reasoning
Clause (11) expressly provides for realisation of security deposits as and when a member becomes subject to the provisions relating to defaulters.	Reasoning
The phrase shall call in and realise signifies that realisation is warranted as an imminent action upon declaration of defaulter in case the security deposits are insufficient.	Reasoning
The effect of this phrase is that once a trading member has been declared a defaulter, the Exchange is duty bound to realise the security deposits retained by it to satisfy its obligations and return the remaining deposits, if any.	Reasoning
If the Exchange fails to do so, it may become liable to make good the loss of interest to the defaulter on any amount over and above the monetary obligation.	Reasoning
However, in the present case, no fault can be found in the conduct of the Exchange as it had actually realised the deposits at various points of time owing to the inability of the appellant to keep up with the statutory margin requirements.	Reasoning
As reflected in the records, out of the total deposit of Rs.1.34 crores, amounts equivalent to Rs.91,72,163.49 and Rs.41,00,000 had already stood adjusted in favour of NSCCL and NSE respectively from 1997 to 2006.	Reasoning
Thus, a total of Rs. 1,32,72,163.49 was in fact realised by the Exchange and it holds no merit to state that the Exchange failed to perform its duty to realise the security deposits.	Reasoning
The amount of Rs.1.34 crores came to be added to the total obligation again in 2017 when the Exchange returned the security deposit amount pursuant to an order of this court passed at the insistence of the appellant herein and thus, in law, that cannot be held against the Exchange in any manner.	Reasoning
Withheld securities Unlike the money deposits, no legal requirement of forthwith realisation is envisaged in the case of withheld securities, as discussed hitherto.	None
To understand the procedure of vesting and realisation of withheld securities, it is essential to segregate the two kinds of securities and analyse it appropriately.	None
The withheld securities can be categorised as  securities in which the appellant was a receiving member (receiving securities) and securities in which the appellant was an introducing member (introductory securities).	None
A member is termed as a receiving member when it is supposed to receive the securities for orders placed by it in a purchase transaction, subject to complete settlement and payment.	None
NSCCL Byelaws define a receiving member as RECEIVING MEMBER Receiving Member means a clearing member who has to receive or has received documents in fulfilment of contracts to which these rules, byelaws and regulations apply unless the context indicates otherwise.	None
Whereas, a member is termed as an introducing member when it introduces some securities to be transferred to the buyers in a sale transaction, subject to the securities being free from any objections.	None
During the trading period from 24.09.1997 to 30.09.1997, the appellant defaulted in Settlement No. N1997039 and delivered short of payment in lieu of securities for which purchase orders were placed.	Reasoning
An amount of Rs.45,56,513 became due.	Reasoning
Thereafter, during the trading period from 01.10.1997 to 14.10.1997, an amount of Rs.29.10 lakhs became due as margins for trading on 01.10.1997 in Settlement No. N1997040.	Reasoning
In both these transactions the appellant was a receiving member.	Reasoning
On account of failure of appellant to complete the aforesaid settlements by making complete payment, the Exchange withheld the payouts of securities at various points of time.	Reasoning
The remaining securities were withheld wherein appellant was acting as an introducing member in the market.	Reasoning
The companies refused to complete the sale transactions initiated by the appellant and to register the said securities in the names of the purchasers citing some unresolved objections on the said securities.	Reasoning
Resultantly, they were returned back to the Exchange and it became a case of bad delivery.	Reasoning
As per the standard procedure in force at the relevant point of time, the Exchange participated in an auction in open market to procure the required securities free from objections so as to complete the purchase orders.	Reasoning
Therefore, the objected securities were withheld by the Exchange as a lien on the money paid by it in the auction purchase.	Reasoning
SEBI circular dated 16.07.1996 titled Uniform Norms for Good Bad Deliveries specifies this procedure.	Reasoning
The relevant extract thereof reads thus iii)	None
All stock exchanges shall adhere to the following time schedule for dealing with the cases of bad deliveries.	None
In case of deliveries coming under objection (objection cases), the first introducing broker of the same stock exchange shall be required to rectify the defects replace the shares alongwith accrued benefits within 21 calendar days from the date of receipt of the objection and share certificates from the last buying broker of that exchange.	None
If the former fails to rectify the defects or replace the shares or transfer deeds, the exchange shall hold an auction for shares in the immediately following Auction Session according to the usual exchange procedure.	None
The shares obtained from such an auction shall be given by the Exchange to the concerned buying broker.	None
Further, the exchange shall debit the price of the shares to the account of the introducing broker of that Exchange.	None
In case the shares are not available through auction, the exchange shall close out the transaction according to the procedure of the exchange and the close out amount shall be debited to the first introducing broker and credited to the last buying broker of the exchange.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
As regards the introductory securities, it must be noted at the very outset that these securities fall outside the purview of our examination on vesting.	Reasoning
For, they simply could not have been realised by the Exchange at any point of time as they were merely introduced by the appellant and did not belong to it.	Reasoning
These introductory securities were registered in the names of third persons who are not parties to this proceeding.	Reasoning
Concededly, there could have been no loss to the appellant relating to corporate benefits on these securities as it did not have any right therein, to receive any such benefit.	Reasoning
Property in those securities neither vested in the appellant nor in the Exchange and they were held by the Exchange only as a lien on the physical copies of shares to the limited extent of obliging the appellant to fulfil its obligations.	Reasoning
The benefits on those securities remained in third parties, as they must have, and no one has approached this court to raise the grievance that they have suffered any wrongful loss as regards those benefits.	Reasoning
Even if any grievance exists between two clearing members as regards the receipt or nonreceipt of those benefits, the best course of action would have been to proceed by way of a separate proceeding in that regard.	Reasoning
Clause (11) of Chapter VI, NSCCL Byelaws categorically provides for a privity of contract between delivering and receiving clearing members.	Reasoning
The interests of those third parties are not a part of the present lis.	Reasoning
Indisputably, the introductory securities have been marked as objectionable by the companies and securities with outstanding objections are of no use to the Exchange for the purpose of recovery so long as such objections are not removed.	Reasoning
The introductory securities fall outside the purview of the vesting provision.	Reasoning
Further, the responsibility of the Exchange was limited to providing the appellant an opportunity to remove the objections and continue withholding the securities in the interim.	Reasoning
Any enquiry regarding the legality or illegality of objections could have taken place between the introducing member and the respective companies.	Reasoning
The same also cannot form a part of the subject matter before us.	Reasoning
Therefore, actual recovery qua the appellant defaulting member could only be made from the receiving securities as those securities were due deliverable to the appellant and were withheld as a collateral for the sole reason of nonpayment.	Reasoning
No thirdparty stake is involved therein.	None
Be that as it may, unlike money deposits, the receiving securities withheld or recovered by the respondents require legal vesting before they could be realised for the satisfaction of dues.	Reasoning
Here, it may be useful to advert to clause (11).	None
The question is, what procedure ought to be followed for realisation of receiving securities.	Issue
Is it forthwith realisation, or only upon its vesting in law?	Issue
The provisions relating to withholding and vesting of securities are provided in two separate documents.	Reasoning
Whereas vesting is provided under ChapterXII of NSE Byelaws titled Default, withholding is provided under Chapter 9 of NSCCL Regulations titled NonDelivery and NonPayment.	Reasoning
It falls upon us to harmonise the two sets of provisions in order to understand the procedure in a holistic manner.	Reasoning
Regulation 9.5 provides that when a clearing member fails to pay for securities on payin day, the Clearing Corporation is entitled to withhold the securities thus 9.5 Securities On Hold Or SellingOut On Failure To Pay If a CM clearing member fails to pay on payin day for the securities to be received by him, the Clearing Corporation shall be, without further notice or intimation to the member, entitled to withhold the securities due to the member or sellout any all of such securities in accordance with the Bye Laws and Regulations relating to closingout.	None
The above provision also enables the Corporation to sellout such withheld securities to recover their dues in accordance with the following provisions.	None
Thereafter, Regulation 9.6 provides that failure to make payment empowers the Corporation to declare such member as defaulter.	None
It reads thus 9.6 Declaration Of Default A CM clearing member failing to deliver the documents due from him or pay the amount due by him may be declared a defaulter as provided in these Bye Laws and Regulations.	None
It is crucial to note that declaration of defaulter upon nonpayment is not an express prerequisite for the recovery of dues here.	None
Regulation 9.7 provides that all deliveries of securities which were due to the defaulter shall be handed over to the Clearing Corporation so as to enable it to realise their dues from those deliverable securities.	None
It reads thus 9.7 Deliveries Due To The Defaulter All deliveries, deliveries or otherwise, and payment due to the defaulter shall be handed over to the Clearing Corporation.	None
The Clearing Corporation shall reserve the right to dispose of the securities to make good nonpayment of funds or nondelivery of securities by the defaulting member in such manner it deems necessary.	None
Upon receipt of securities as per this Regulation, the action of withholding is contemplated in Regulation 9.9 (Regulation 9.11 in NSE Regulations).	Reasoning
In the present case, it is seen that securities deliverable to the appellant as a receiving member were withheld by the respondents to clear their dues.	Reasoning
On withholding, the stage of vesting comes in and this stage is important as vesting is a prerequisite for dealing with the securities in any manner.	Reasoning
There can be no action, be it of sale or registration, against a property unless the property vests in the entity.	Reasoning
Nemo dat quod non habet is the fundamental principle of transfer of property which, if literally translated, means no one gives what they do not have.	Reasoning
Thus, unlike money deposits, withheld securities cannot be realised without legal vesting under clause (11).	Reasoning
We may now discuss the time stage of vesting.	Reasoning
Though the requirement of declaration as defaulter may be a discretionary one under the NSCCL Regulations, the same is a mandatory requirement for vesting in clause (11).	Reasoning
For, vesting takes place upon declaration of any trading member as a defaulter.	Reasoning
The expression and such assets shall vest ipso facto, on declaration of any trading member as a defaulter reinforces the view.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the main vesting provision is included in the chapter on defaults and therefore, such declaration is necessary unless otherwise excluded.	Reasoning
Therefore, the right of the Corporation to dispose of or realise these securities is circumscribed by the requirement of declaring such member as a defaulter.	Reasoning
In this case, no such declaration came to be made.	Reasoning
However, despite the absence of any such declaration, vesting took place by way of Rule 20(f) in Chapter IV of NSE Rules.	Reasoning
Rule 20(f) does away with the requirement of express declaration of defaulter upon expulsion.	None
It specifies that Chapter XII on defaults would automatically become applicable upon a member expelled from the Exchange.	None
As per this Rule, declaration of defaulter runs synonymous with the expulsion of a member.	None
It reads thus Consequences of Expulsion The expulsion of a trading member shall have the following consequence, namely (a)  (e)	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx Consequences of declaration of defaulter to follow The provisions of Chapter XII and Chapter XIII of the Byelaws pertaining to default and Protection Fund respectively, shall become applicable to the Trading Member expelled from the Exchange as if such Trading Member has been declared a defaulter.	None
The emergent position of law, therefore, is that vesting does not take place in favour of the respondent Exchange unless a formal expulsion order is passed.	Reasoning
The relevant point of time, therefore, is the date of expulsion.	Reasoning
Without such legal vesting, the Exchange only sits upon the withheld assets as a custodian.	Reasoning
There is no question of realisation.	Reasoning
Such withholding is done to serve two purposes  first, to persuade the defaulting member to fulfil its obligations during the continuation of membership if it so wishes and second, to secure the liability at the earliest available opportunity as a preventive measure.	Reasoning
If liabilities continue to be unfulfilled, expulsion becomes an inevitable consequence and the withheld assets vest in the Exchange.	Reasoning
It is thus clear that realisation cannot be done unless vesting is complete and there is no obligation on the Exchange Corporation to forthwith realise the securities upon withholding.	Reasoning
Expulsion or declaration of defaulter, as the case may be, is a precondition for realisation, which, in this case, took place only in 2006.	Reasoning
Even on applying rule of prudence, such forthwith realisation would not be appropriate as such action would deprive the defaulting member from an opportunity to correct its mistake by settling liabilities within due course of time without giving up membership.	Reasoning
Before proceeding further, we may note that a question has been raised by the appellant regarding the applicability of Rule 20(f) in this case.	Issue
For, the Rule was not in existence when trading facility of the appellant was withdrawn.	Reasoning
This plea, in our opinion, is misconceived.	Reasoning
In that, the Rule clearly signifies that it applies to expelled members and the moment a member is expelled from membership, this rule will automatically become operative.	Reasoning
Literally understood, the relevant point of time for checking the applicability of this rule is the date of expulsion.	Reasoning
In the instant case, expulsion of the appellant took place in 2006, whereas the said rule was inserted beforehand in 2001.	Reasoning
Thus, the rule was very much in force when the appellant was in fact expelled.	Reasoning
Consequently, the respondents were well within their powers to realise the withheld securities in accordance with clause (11) soon after expulsion in 2006.	Reasoning
We now deal with the issue regarding the manner of dealing with withheld securities and requirement of registration.	Issue
Upon withholding followed by vesting, the manner of dealing is provided under Regulation 9.10, NSCCL Regulations (Regulation 9.12, NSE Regulations), which reads as 9.10.	None
Withheld Securities and Funds  How dealt with The securities and funds withheld pursuant to regulation 9.9 and regulation 9.9A above shall be dealt with the relevant authority at such times and in such manner as it may deem fit, which may include appropriating the withheld funds for the purpose of fulfilling the obligations of the clearing member, closing out of the withheld securities or registering the withheld securities in the name of the Clearing Corporation or any other entity as decided by the Clearing Corporation.	None
The funds received out of closing out of withheld or registered securities may be dealt with by the Clearing Corporation at such time and in such manner as it may deem fit.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
This Regulation predicates that the Clearing Corporation is armoured with a set of measures as regards the withheld securities.	None
The first part of the Regulation vests the Corporation with the power to deal with the securities at such times and in such manner as it may deem fit.	None
The Regulation then specifies certain measures which may include a. closing out the withheld securities in the name of Exchange or any other entity or b. registering the withheld securities in the name of Exchange or any other entity Thereafter, in the concluding sentence it is further specified that the funds received out of closing out of withheld or registered securities may also be dealt with in such manner and at such times as the Exchange may deem fit.	None
It is therefore clear that the respondents had two courses of action open for dealing with the securities  closing out and registration.	Reasoning
Chapter 10 of NSCCL Regulations titled Closing out of Contracts delineates the manner of closing out.	Reasoning
Regulation 10.6 provides that once a member is declared defaulter, the Corporation shall determine all outstanding deals by closingout against the defaulter member.	Reasoning
It reads thus 10.6 ClosingOut Contracts With Defaulter CM clearing member If a CM clearing member be declared a defaulter, the Clearing Corporation shall determine all outstanding deals by closingout against him in accordance with the Bye Laws and Regulations relating to default.	None
Thus, the Corporation is duty bound to close out all outstanding deals against the defaulter and determine them for the purpose of its recovery.	None
Regulation 10.9 specifies the manner of such determination and reads thus 10.9 ClosingOut How Effected Closing out shall be effected against the CM clearing member by the Clearing Corporation in any of the following manners (a) by buyingin or sellingout against the CM clearing member through an auction initiated by the Clearing Corporation (b) by declaring a closingout at such prices as may be decided by the relevant authority (c) by buyingin or sellingout against the CM clearing member by placing order in the specified exchange (d) in any other manner as the relevant authority may decide from time to time.	None
The Corporation is empowered with a set of methods to close out the outstanding deals against the appellant.	Reasoning
Upon vesting, it could have sold out the withheld securities through an auction or by placing an order of sale in Exchange or in any other permissible manner.	Reasoning
The other action contemplated in Regulation 9.10 is of registration.	Reasoning
The grievance is that the Exchange held on to the securities without registration.	Reasoning
According to the appellant, it was abuse of discretionary powers and the respondents ought to have registered the securities in its name forthwith.	Reasoning
To determine the requirement of registration, we need to resort to a true construction of Regulation 9.10.	Reasoning
Once an action of withholding is taken, multiple interests come into play and both the parties assume different roles as regards the withheld securities.	Reasoning
We proceed to examine these roles separately  role of Exchange and role of defaulting member.	Reasoning
Any further action relating to such securities would depend upon the fulfilment of these roles, as we shall see.	Reasoning
Role of Exchange It is trite to note that the primary role of the Exchange is manifested in the phrase shall be dealt with by the relevant authority at such times and in such manner.	Reasoning
That takes within its ambit a power coupled with a duty.	Reasoning
The power of the Exchange to deal with the withheld securities in the manner of its choice runs parallel with its duty to mandatorily deal with such securities as a prudent person would after coming in possession of securities.	Reasoning
The usage of the word shall before the word dealt is conscious and instructive here, and its vigour cannot be toned down in a light manner.	Reasoning
In other words, the Regulation requires the Exchange not to sit idle on the withheld securities and instead, obliges it to deal with them in an appropriate manner.	Reasoning
This requirement is a manifestation of the basic duty of care implicit in regulatory relationships where one member is in a position to control the functionality of the other.	Reasoning
The raison detre underlying this duty is to protect the interests of a member and to prevent any undue damage to its interests as a crucial element of the market.	Reasoning
No doubt, such dealing could be in any of the manners specified in the Regulation or even in any other unspecified manner, but to say that the respondents could sit idle on the withheld securities of an amount exceeding the amount owed by the defaulting member, without protecting them from being exploited by third parties in any manner, would be akin to permitting a free abuse of this provision.	Reasoning
The role of the Exchange is broadly premised on the principle analogous to fiduciary relationship.	Reasoning
Propriety guides that when one party holds some property on behalf of the other, even for the fulfilment of any liability, it must treat the property in a manner in which a prudent person would.	Reasoning
It is so because the property is not directly in dispute between the parties, rather, what is in dispute is an outstanding liability for the discharge of which the property is being held as a mere security.	Reasoning
Ordinarily, the sanctity of such security needs to be preserved.	Reasoning
An implied element of trust is involved in any action of withholding, which is the basic foundation of a fiduciary relationship.	Reasoning
In Robert L.Hodgkinson vs. David L. Simms, 1994 3 SCR 377 the Supreme Court of Canada referred to Frame vs. Smith, 1987 2	None
SCR 99 wherein three basic characteristics of fiduciary relationship were laid down thus In Frame vs. Smith 1987 2	None
SCR 99 at p. 136, Wilson J. defined the characteristics of a fiduciary relationship as follows Relationships in which a fiduciary obligation have been imposed seem to possess three general characteristics The fiduciary has scope for the exercise of some discretion or power.	None
The fiduciary can unilaterally exercise that power or discretion so as to affect the beneficiarys legal or practical interests.	None
The beneficiary is peculiarly vulnerable to or at the mercy of the fiduciary holding the discretion or power.	None
In the present case, it is clear that the manner of dealing with the withheld securities is not circumscribed under strict parameters.	Reasoning
The Exchange is bestowed with a discretion to choose amongst the available options and the appellant holds no control over such choice.	Reasoning
To this limited extent, the role of the Exchange as regards the withheld assets is of a fiduciary character, obligating it to choose the just course of action out of the available options.	Reasoning
We are conscious of the fact that traditionally speaking, the relationship of MemberExchange may not be regarded as a fiduciary one.	Reasoning
But we are not examining the nature of this relationship as a generalised enquiry.	Reasoning
Our concern is limited to the dynamics of this relationship qua the withheld securities in light of the regulatory scheme.	Reasoning
Notably, Professor Frankel, in Fiduciary Law The Judicial Process and the Duty of Care(The 1993 Isaac Pitblado Lectures, Fiduciary Duties Conflicts of Interest (1993)) highlights the existence of a limited fiduciary relationship thus The law aims at deterring fiduciaries from misappropriating the powers vested in them solely for the purpose of enabling them to perform their functions.	None
Therefore, it is only for the purpose of performance of functions that a fiduciary character is recognised in this relationship.	None
In Hospital Products Ltd. vs. United States Surgical Corporation Ltd., (1984) 156	None
C.L.R. 41 it was rightly observed that the scope of fiduciary duties is moulded according to the nature of the relationship and facts of the case.(Snells Equity, 32nd Edition)	None
The proposition gets strengthened by the equitable principle of constructive trust, which received a reasonably acceptable definition in Paragon Finance plc vs. DB Thackerar Co., 1999 1	None
All ER 400 thus A constructive trust arises by operation of law whenever the circumstances are such that it would be unconscionable for the owner of property (usually but not necessarily the legal estate) to assert his own beneficial interest in the property and deny the beneficial interest of another	None
It is thus clear that constructive trust arises by operation of law in specific factual scenarios and not by any statute or contract.	Reasoning
However, such trust, and rights and obligations under it would depend strictly upon the prevailing set of facts and governing provisions.	Reasoning
Though the standalone question of law as regards the respondents duty to act as a prudent person in respect of the withheld securities stands answered, what remains to be examined is whether such duty of the respondent is an unqualified duty so as to make unilateral registration a mandatory obligation, as claimed.	Reasoning
Additionally, could it be said that the respondent is obliged to deal with the securities in a particular way despite there being a clear discretion in the relevant provision?	Issue
The principles of constructive trust and fiduciary relationships are equitable principles, and equity never operates in an absolute manner or in a vacuum.	Reasoning
In fact, the very basis of the law of equity is its flexibility to take care of mutual concerns of the parties.	Reasoning
Equity is about balancing the competing interests by preventing the erosion of interests of one party while ensuring a free exercise of legally enshrined discretionary powers to the other.	Reasoning
No doubt, specific fiduciary duties could definitely be recognised in the specific facts of the case but the manner of performance of such duties cannot be dictated in regulatory matters.	Reasoning
Legal recognition of the role of a trustee and fixing actual obligations to be performed under such role are two separate matters.	Reasoning
The latter is dependent on the nature of discretion and on the diligence of other party, as we shall see.	Reasoning
In Equity Trusts(Equity Trusts, Alastair Hudson, 2nd Edition), Alastair Hudson, after noting the existence of constructive trust in certain matters, notes  what remains is the extent to which a constructive trustee would be liable, which signifies that the exact liability of a constructive trustee is determinable in the specific facts of the case.	None
The duties of a trustee can be broadly classified into mandatory duties and discretionary duties.	Reasoning
The court is always circumspect in enforcement of discretionary duties.	Reasoning
A perusal of Regulation 9.12 succinctly reveals that the measure of registration is not provided as an exclusive one, rather, it is in addition to other residuary steps that an Exchange is entitled to take.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is no express statutory or contractual requirement of mandatory registration in the applicable law.	Reasoning
A clear element of discretion is involved in the manner of dealing.	Reasoning
It is true that such discretion cannot be exercised in a legally perverse manner, but it is equally true that a discretion cannot be converted into a mandatory obligation, more so when such discretion is provided expressly by a statutory provision.	Reasoning
In Ashburners Principles of Equity(Ashburners Principles of Equity, Denis Brownie, 2nd Edition.), the discretionary duties of a trustee are noted in a succinct manner.	Reasoning
It is stated that such discretion must be exercised freely, intelligently and in a bona fide manner.	Reasoning
More importantly, an exercise of such discretion in commercial relationships is guided by the nature of things, as they exist or vary from time to time.	Reasoning
Illustratively, in the present case, it was out of this sound exercise of discretion that the Exchange did actually get some of the securities registered in its name.	Reasoning
Equitable common law principles cannot be used to create mandatory legal obligations.	Reasoning
Role of defaulting member Even if we consider the argument that the Exchange ought to have registered forthwith upon appellants demand, if not suo motu, such an enquiry cannot be undertaken in isolation.	None
It is the fundamental principle of an equitable examination that the one who seeks equity must do equity.	Reasoning
This brings us to the role of the defaulting member (appellant) qua the withheld securities.	Reasoning
Registration of securities or any property for that matter is done in favour of an entity only upon fulfilment of certain allied conditions, including but not limited to the supply of consideration.	Reasoning
Without such consideration, contract itself becomes void, let aside entertaining a demand for registration.	Reasoning
Upon withholding, it becomes the duty of the stock broker to raise a request for the registration of securities and to comply with the payment shortfall and other requirements.	Reasoning
During the period commencing from 1997 to 2008, the appellant did not pursue the cause of dealing with the withheld securities in a proactive manner, seemingly because of two reasons first, the appellant was pursuing multiple legal actions against the respondents at various forums and second, such a request would have to be preceded by fulfilment of conditions relating to settlement and payment.	Reasoning
For, the Exchange could not get the securities registered in the name of any entity until and unless such entity settles the transaction by making complete payment for the purchased securities.	Reasoning
Clause (3) of ChapterVI of NSCCL Byelaws titled Clearing and Settlement of Deals expresses the same view and notes thus CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF CLEARING AND SETTLEMENT The relevant authority may grant admission of deals dealt in the Exchange provided all the conditions and requirements specified in the Bye Laws and Regulations and such other conditions and requirements as the relevant authority may prescribe from time to time are complied with.	None
Clause (10) further notes that CLEARING AND SETTLEMENT Settlement shall be effected by clearing members giving and receiving delivery and paying and receiving funds as may be specified by the relevant authority from time to time in the Bye Laws and Regulations.	None
Be it noted that the appellant never offered to make such payment in lieu of registration.	Reasoning
In fact, on one occasion when the Defaulters Committee passed the order justifying the withholding on 04.12.2014, the respondents offered to release the securities to the appellant for removal of objections subject to the submission of a bank deposit to secure the liability.	Reasoning
The directions issued by the Defaulters Committee read thus Without prejudice to the above, the Committee directs that the securities which have been withheld as per the list of securities given in Annexure2 of this Order may be released to RSL, on as is where is basis, to (i) enable it to remove the Objections in respect of securities for which RSL is an introducing member and (ii) transfer the securities in its name in respect of securities for which RSL is a receiving member and return the securities to NSE in demat form, provided  RSL furnishes an undertaking that it has no other claim against NSE or NSCC and that it will return the securities within a period of one year from the date of release after duly removing the objections and transferring in RSLs name as the case may be.	None
RSL provides a deposit of or a bank guarantee for Rs. 1,00,70,529.82 (i.e. the outstanding dues of RSL payable to NSCC of Rs.	None
1,07,72,098.17 less Rs.7,01,568.35 being the value at closing price on NSE as on December 4, 2014 of securities already transferred in the name of NSCC  list enclosed as Annexure 3) to protect NSE against failure to return the securities.	None
RSL provides the undertaking and the deposit or bank guarantee within a period of three months from the date of receipt of this Order.	None
Thus, the Committee did propose to hand over physical possession of the securities to the appellant for getting them registered in its name.	Reasoning
The appellant refused to comply with the direction of payment and instead, challenged this decision of the Defaulters Committee by filing M.A. No. 295 of 2015 before the Tribunal wherein a consent order was passed upon an undertaking given by the Exchange that it has no objection in performing its duty as trustee in respect of the unregistered withheld securities and taking appropriate steps by registeringthem in its name.	Reasoning
Be it noted that even this order was a conditional one as it specified that such registration shall not affect the legal rights and liabilities of parties in any manner.	Reasoning
In pursuance of this order on 23.09.2015, the respondents got the securities transferred in their name and realised them after the impugned order in 2019.	Reasoning
It is thus clear from the state of affairs discussed above that the respondents were cognizant of their duty towards the withheld securities pending determination of final claim.	Reasoning
However, no action of registration could have been taken without complying with other conditions.	Reasoning
The role of the defaulting member was of an enabler and unless the Exchange was placed in a position to register, it could not have exercised its discretion to register.	Reasoning
It is important to note that permitting the Exchange to register forthwith as a matter of obligation would also be counterproductive to the interests of the defaulting member.	Reasoning
For, such a blanket action would have the effect of converting a limited right of lien into that of absolute ownership over the withheld assets without giving the defaulter sufficient time to get his assets released much less before a declaration of being a defaulter or an order of expulsion.	Reasoning
Such can never be the purpose of withholding.	Reasoning
To summarize, registration could only have been done on fulfilment of the following conditions request by the defaulting member request to be preceded by fulfilment of conditions relating to payment request to be accompanied with undertaking that any such registration in the name of the Exchange would be subject to final outcome of the case.	Reasoning
The appellant has contended that it has suffered loss of corporate benefits due to nonregistration by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same is unacceptable.	Reasoning
Firstly, the receiving securities legally vested in the Exchange as on the date of expulsion to the extent of liability.	Reasoning
The appellant could not have claimed any right therein to further corporate benefits as regards these securities.	Reasoning
Even before the date of expulsion, the respondents cannot be held liable for any loss on the withheld securities as the appellant always had the opportunity of making payment and protecting its interests.	Reasoning
The appellant cannot fail to discharge its obligations for a period of 23 years and then turn around and claim loss of benefits in this manner.	Reasoning
Acceding to such a claim would be akin to rewarding a wrong.	Reasoning
Understood thus, the liability for the loss incurred by the appellant, if at all any, on account of corporate benefits (dividends, bonus etc.) accrued on withheld shares would not fall upon the Exchange, in the fact situation of the present case.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the respondents decision of not realising the securities or taking any adverse action during the pendency of multiple proceedings cannot be out rightly termed as an abuse of discretion.	Reasoning
For, the decision of expulsion (and thus, of vesting) itself became subjudice along with various other civil and criminal proceedings.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the appellant had gone to the extent of initiating proceedings for criminal misappropriation against the Directors of respondents for using security deposits in regular course of business.	Reasoning
This inevitably resulted in reluctance of the respondents to sell off the securities amidst pending proceedings.	Reasoning
It is settled law that statutory appeal is a continuation of the original proceedings and once an appeal was filed, the question of expulsion remained subjudice unto these appeals.	Reasoning
We may revert to the manner in which the issue under consideration has been dealt with by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The Tribunal misinformed itself by observing that this issue had already stood answered in the previous judgment of the Tribunal in Appeal No. 84 of 2008.	Reasoning
The Tribunal simply entered into an examination of the provisions relating to withholding whereas the real question was regarding the manner of dealing with the withheld securities.	Reasoning
Having said thus, what remains for our consideration is the determination and recovery of liabilities for final culmination of the controversy.	Issue
The Tribunal determined the final liability of the appellant to be Rs.2.41 crore in para 10, where it noted 10.	None
It is abundantly clear that the appellant owed Rs.1.07 crore after adjusting for the deposits etc. in October 1997 and since the said deposit amount of Rs.1.34 crore has been subsequently returned the unadjusted amount of dues stands at Rs.2.41 crore.	None
It is pertinent to note that the amount of Rs.1.34 crore was required to be returned by the respondents in SLP (Crl.)	Reasoning
No. 96429643 of 2011, which it had held as an interest free security deposit.	Reasoning
It was meant to be utilised for the purpose of discharging the monetary obligation of the appellant during the period between withdrawal and expulsion.	Reasoning
The appellants have advanced an erroneous proposition that the return of this amount by the respondents signified that there was no liability owed by the appellant towards them.	Reasoning
We must reiterate that the return of the security deposit was driven by a desire of the officials of the respondents to avoid the continuation of criminal proceeding against them resorted to by the appellant.	Reasoning
It was neither a confession that they had misappropriated the said deposit nor an undertaking that they had no claim over the said amount for adjustment against the penalties.	Reasoning
The effect of the said return was limited to the quashment of criminal proceedings involved therein.	Reasoning
The order of this Court dated 02.11.2017 is selfeloquent, as it categorically notes that This order will not affect any other proceedings which may be dealt with independently in accordance with law.	None
The matters in issue in the present set of appeals are distinct from those involved in the stated special leave petition (criminal).	Reasoning
Therefore, the loss caused to the Exchange due to return of interest free security deposit amount ought to be reckoned in determining the total liability of the appellant and the same ought to be adjusted by the respondents appropriately.	Reasoning
The quantum of amount due from the appellant to the respondents, being a question of fact, has been decided by the Tribunal and we do not wish to interfere therewith.	Reasoning
For, no serious error has been pointed out in any factual determination made by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Further, the scope of Section22F is limited to entertaining an appeal on questions of law, and we have proceeded accordingly.	Reasoning
The Tribunal gave one months time for recovery of payment and return of remaining securities to the appellant.	Reasoning
It is on record that an amount of Rs.1.74 crores has been recovered by the respondents from the transferred securities, fixed deposits and corporate benefits so far and an amount equivalent to Rs.66.81 lakhs (approximately) is remaining.	Reasoning
We hereby issue the following directions for full and final settlement of all claims between the parties NSE to evaluate and get the remaining transferrable securities, if any, transferred in its favour and recover the remaining amount using the same evaluation criteria adopted in respect of other withheld securities of the appellant within 6 weeks, After realisation, the surplus amount be returned forthwith to the appellant along with interest at the rate of 12 P.A. from the date of determination of claim date of vesting until the date of payment.	Decision
Respondents to return the unrealised securities including those with outstanding objections to the appellant within 6 weeks from today, In case recovery is not possible from the remaining securities, for any reason whatsoever, the respondents may communicate the same to the appellant forthwith and the appellant shall then pay the amount so demanded (including interest, if any), to the respondents within 6 weeks from the date of receipt of such communication, NSE is directed to oversee the evaluation and realisation of remaining securities, and settlement of claims.	Decision
Accordingly, both appeals are disposed of in the aforesaid terms and directions with no further order as regards costs.	Decision
Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of.	Decision
