Sujata V. Manohar, J. Leave grarited in S.L.P (C) No. 12051 of 1988.	None
Ali these appeals raise a common question of lw whether a debt which is barred by the law of limitation can be recovered by resorting to recovery proceedings under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act of 1968.	Issue
A Divisioinal Bench of the Kerala High Court in the impugned common judgment dated 2111987 in C.A. No. 4211 of 1988, C.A. No. 4303 of 1988 and C.A. No. 4175 of 1988 held that in the absence of any provision in the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act creating a substantive right to recover time barred debts, the said Act which provides for summary recovery cannot be availed of once the period prescribed for recovery under the Limitation Act has expired.	Issue
This judgment of the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court was followed by a subsequent Division Bench in its judgment dated 2911988 which is the subject matter of appeal arising from SLP(C)	Issue
No. 12051 of 1988.	Issue
The above decisions of the Division Bench, however have been overruled by a Full Bench of the Kerala High Court by its judgment dated 1041996 which is the judgment under appeal in C.A. Nos. 12393 and 12394 of 1996.	Issue
All these appeals, have, therefore, been heard together.	Issue
The Kerala Revenue Recovery Act, 1968 is an Act to consolidate and amend the laws relating to recovery of arrears of public revenue in the State of Kerala.	Facts
u s 5 of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act of 1968, whenever public revenue due on and is in arrear, such arrear, together with interest, if any, and cost of the process may be recovered by one or more of the modes set out in that section.	Facts
One of the modes so prescribed is attachment and sale of the defaulters movable or immovable property.	Facts
u s 68 of the said Act, all sums due to the Government on account of quit rent or revenue other than public revenue dues on land, as also all sums declared by any other law for the time being in force to be recoverable as arrear of public revenue due on land or land revenue can be recovered under the provisions of the said Act.	Facts
u s 2(a) of the said Act arrears of public revenue due on land is defined to mean the whole or any portion of any list of installment of such revenue not paid on the day on which it falls due according to the kist bandy or an engagement or usage.	Facts
Under Subsection (j)of Section 2 public revenue due on land means the land revenue charged on the land and includes all other taxes, fees and cesses on land, whether charged on land or not, and all cesses or other dues payable to the Government on account of water used for purposes of irrigation.	Facts
The Act, therefore, provides a method for speedy recovery of arrears of public revenue.	Facts
Under.	Facts
Section 71, however, there is a provision for extending the Act to recovery of certain other dues if the Government is satisfied that it is necessary to do so in public interest.	Facts
u s 71 it is provided as follows Power of Government to declare the Act applicable to any institution The Government may, by notification in the Gazette, declare, if they are satisfied that it is necessary to do so in public interest, that the provisions of this Act shall be applicable to the recovery of amounts due from any person or class of persons to any specified institution or any class or classes of institutions and there upon all the provisions of this Act shall be applicable to such recovery.	Facts
In exercise of its powers u s 71, the State Government has issued notification bearing SRO.	Facts
No. 797 of 79 by which the provisions of the said Act have been made applicable to the recovery of the amounts due from any person to any bank on account of any loan advanced to such person by that bank for agriculture or agricultural purposes.	Facts
Under another notification SRO.	Facts
No. 851 of 79 issued u s 71 by the State Government the provisions of the said Act are also made applicable to the recovery of amounts due from any person or class of persons to the Kerala Financial Corporation.	Facts
Thus in public interest the State Government has made the said Act applicable for speedy recovery of loans given by a bank for agricultural purposes as well as for speedy recovery of loans given by the Kerala Financial Corporation.	Facts
The overall scheme of the Act, therefore, is to provide for speedy recovery not merely of public revenue but also of certain other kinds of loans which are required to be recovered speedily in public interest.	Facts
Explaining analogous provisions of the U.P. Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues)Act, 1965, this Court in Director of Industries, U.P. and Others Vs.	Facts
Deep Chand Agarwal, held that the said Act is passed with the object of providing a speedier remedy to the State Government to realise the loans advanced by it or by the Uttar.	Facts
Pradesh Financial Corporation.	Facts
Explaining the need for speedy recovery, it says that the State Government while advancing loans does not act as an ordinary banker with a view to earning interest.	Facts
Ordinarily it advances loans in order to assist the people financially in establishing an industry in the State or for the development of agriculture, animal husbandry or for such other purposes which would advance the economic wellbeing of the people.	Facts
Moneys so advanced have to be recovered expeditiously so that fresh advances may be made for the same purpose.	Facts
It is with the object of avoiding the usual delay involved in the disposal of suits in Civil Courts and providing for an expeditious remedy that the U.P. Act had been enacted.	Facts
It was on this ground that this Court upheld the classification of loans which are covered by the said U.P. Act in a separate category.	Facts
It held that this is a valid classification and the provisions of the Act are not violative of Article 14.	Facts
The same reasoning would apply to the loans which are covered by the said notifications u s 71 of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.	Facts
Agricultural loans and loans by the State Financial Corporation are also loans given in public interest for the purpose of economic advancement of the people of the State, to help them in agricultural operations or establishment of industries.	Facts
For this reason the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act has been made applicable to such loans so that there can be a speedy recovery of such loans and the amounts can be utilised for similar objects again.	Facts
Civil Appeal Nos. 4211 of 1988, 4393 of 1988 and 4175 of 1988 pertain to agricultural loans given by a bank while Civil Appeal Nos. 12393 of 1996 and 12394 of 1996 pertains to loans given by the Kerala Financial Corporation.	Facts
Looking to the object of Section 71 we have to examine whether time barred claims of the State Financial Corporation and the banks can be recovered under it.	Issue
Is the object is only speed of recovery or is it also enlargement of the right to recover?	None
The Respondentinstitutions rely on the words amount due in Section 71 as encompassing time barred claims also, Now, what is meant by the words amounts due used in Section 71 of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act as also in the notifications issued u s 71?	Issue
Do these words refer to the amounts repayable under the terms of the loan agreements executed between the debtor and the creditor irrespective of whether the claim of the creditor has become timebarred or not?	Issue
Or do these words refer only to those claims of the creditor which are legally recoverable?	Issue
An amount due normally refers to an amount which the creditor has a right to recover.	None
Wharton in Law Lexicon defines due as anything owing that which one contracts to pay to another.	None
In Blacks Law Dictionary, 6th Edn.	None
at page 499 the following comment appears against the word due.	None
The word due always imports a fixed and settled obligation or liability but with reference to the time for its payment there is considerable ambiguity in the use of the term, the precise signification being determined in each case from the context.	Reasoning
It may mean that the debt or claim in question is now (presently or immediately)matured and enforceable, or that it matured at sometime in the past and yet remains unsatisfied, or that it is fixed and certain but the day appointed for its payment has not yet arrived.	Reasoning
But commonly and in the absence of any qualifying expressions, the word due is restricted to the first of these meanings, the second being expressed by the term overdue and the third by the word payable.	Reasoning
There is no reference in these definitions to a timebarred debt.	Reasoning
In every case the exact meaning of the word due will depend upon the context in which that word appears.	Reasoning
In the case of Abdullah Ashgar Ali v. Ganesh Das, AIR (20) 1933 PC 63 the Privy Council was required to interpret the words money due u s 186 of the Companies Act, 1913.	Reasoning
Section 186 dealt with the recovery of any money due to the Company from a contributory.	Reasoning
Interpreting the words money due, the Privy Council said that the phrase would only refer to those claims which were not time barred.	Reasoning
It noted that the section is concerned only with moneys due from a contributory.	Reasoning
A debtor who is not a contributory is not affected by it.	Reasoning
Moneys due from him can be recovered only by a suit in the companys name.	Reasoning
Secondly, the section creates a special procedure for obtaining payment of money.	Reasoning
It is not a section which purports to create a foundation upon which to base a claim for payment.	Reasoning
It creates no new rights.	Reasoning
Thirdly, the power of the court to order payment under that Section is discretionary.	Reasoning
It may refuse to act under that section, leaving the liquidator to sue in the name of the company.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Respondent under the procedure of Section 186 cannot be deprived of some defence or answer open to him in a suit for the same moneys.	Reasoning
The same reasoning would apply in the present case also.	Reasoning
The Kerala Revenue Recovery Act does not create any new right.	Reasoning
It merely provides a process for speedy recovery of moneys due.	Reasoning
Therefore, instead of filing a suit, (or an application or petition under any special Act), obtaining a decree and executing it, the bank or the financial institution can now recover the claim under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.	Reasoning
Since this Act does not create any new right, the person claiming recovery cannot claim recovery of amounts which are not legally recoverable nor can a defence of limitation available to a debtor in a suit or other legal proceeding be taken away under the provisions of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.	Reasoning
In fact, u s 70 of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act, it is provided that when proceedings are taken under this Act Act against any person for the recovery of any sum of money due from him, such person may, at any time before the commencement of the sale of any property attached in such proceedings, pay the amount claimed and at the same time deliver a protest signed by himself to the officer issuing the demand or conducting the sale as the case may be.	Reasoning
Subsection (2)of Section 70 provides that when the amount is paid under protest, the officer issuing the demand or the officer at whose instance the proceedings have been initiated, shall enquire into the protest and pass appropriate orders.	Reasoning
If the protest is accepted, the officer disposing of the protest shall immediately ordense refund of whole or part of the money paid under protest.	Reasoning
Under Subsection (3)of Section 70, the person making a payment under protest shall have the right.	Reasoning
to institute a suit for the refund of the whole or part of the sum paid by him under protest.	Reasoning
Therefore, u s 70(3) a person who has paid under protest can file a suit for refund of the amount wrongly recovered.	Reasoning
In law he would be entitled to submit in the suit that the claim against which the recovery has been made is time barred.	Reasoning
Hence no amount should have recovered from him.	Reasoning
When the right to file a suit u s 70(3) is expressly preserved, there is a necessary implication that the shield of limitation available to a debtor in a suit is also preserved.	Reasoning
He cannot, therefore, be deprived of this right simply by making a recovery under the said Act unless there is anything in the Act which expressly brings about such a result.	Reasoning
Provisions of the said Act, however, indicate to the contrary.	Reasoning
Moreover, such a wide interpretation of amount due which destroys an important defence available to a debtor in a suit against him by the creditor, may attract Article 14 against the Act.	Reasoning
It would be ironic if an Act for speedy recovery is held as enabling a creditor who has delayed recovery beyond the period of limitation to recover such delayed claims.	Reasoning
In the case of New Delhi Municipal Committee Vs.	None
Kalu Ram and Another, relying on the Privy Council decision in Abdullah Ashgar Ali v. Ganesh Das, AIR (20) 1933 PC 63 this Court interpreted Section 7 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants)Act, 1958 in a similar way.	None
Under that Section where any person is in arrears of rent payable in respect of any public premises, the Estate Officer may, by order, require that person to pay the same within such time and in such installments as may be specified in the order.	None
While considering the meaning of the words arrears of rent payable this Court examined whether Section 7 creates a right to realise arrears of rent without any limitation of time.	None
The court observed that the word payable is somewhat indefinite in import and its meaning must be gathered from the context in which it occurs.	None
In the context of recovery of arrears of rent u s 7, this Court said that if the recovery is barred by the Law of Limitation, it is difficult to hold that the Estate Officer could still insist that the said amount was payable.	None
When a duty is cast on an authority to determine the arrears of rent the determination must be in accordance with law.	None
Section 7 only covers arrears not otherwise time barred.	None
The responder institutions, however, placed reliance on Khadi Gram Udyog Trust Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Ram Chandraji Virajman Mandir, Sarasiya Ghat, Kanpur, This case turned on the interpretation of Section 20 of the U.P. Buildings (Regulation of Letting, Rent and Eviction)Act, 1972.	None
u s 20(2)(a) a suit for eviction against a tenant may be instituted on the ground that the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months and has failed to pay the same to the landlord within one month from the date of service upon him of a notice of demand.	Reasoning
A further opportunity of payment of rent is provided to the tenant u s 20(4) which provides that if, at the first hearing of the suit, the tenant unconditionally pays r tenders the entire amount of rent and damages due from him together with interest the court may pass an order relieving the tenant against his liability for eviction.	Reasoning
The court said that Section 20(4) is meant to give a last opportunity to the tenant to retrieve his position.	Reasoning
It confers a benefit on the tenant to avoid a decree of eviction.	Reasoning
Hence the entire amount of arrears due would have to be tendered including time barred rent also.	Reasoning
This reasoning however, does not have any application to the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.	Reasoning
There is no indication in any of the sections of the said Act that the entire amount due whether time barred or not, can be recovered by resorting to the procedure under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.	Reasoning
13.	None
In our view if such a wide interpretation is put on the words amount due under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act, there is every likelihood of the provisions of the Article 14 being attracted.	Reasoning
this Court in the case Director of Industries, U.P. and Others Vs.	Reasoning
Deep Chand Agarwal, justified the special procedure for recovery of certain debts under the U.P. Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues)Act, 1965 on the ground that the amount which were advanced by the State or by the financial institutions were for the economic betterment of the people of that State.	Reasoning
Speedy recovery of these amounts was necessary so that these amounts was necessary so that these amounts could be reutilised for the same public purpose.	Reasoning
It is doubtful if this public purpose would extend to granting exemption to these claims from the statutes of limitation.	Reasoning
The law of limitation itself rests on the foundations of public interest.	Reasoning
The courts have expressed at least three reasons for supporting the existence of statutes of limitation (1)that long dormant claims have more of cruelty than justice in them (2)that a Defendant might have lost the evidence to disprove a stale claim and (3)that persons with good causes of action should pursue them with reasonable diligence.	Reasoning
(See Halsbury 4th Edn.	Reasoning
Vol.28 para.605),	Reasoning
In Nav Rattanmal and Others Vs.	Reasoning
The State of Rajasthan, , the Statutes of Limitation have been considered as Statutes of Repose and statutes of Peace.	Reasoning
The generally accepted basis for such statutes is that they are designed to effectuate a beneficent public purpose.	Reasoning
Whether public purpose of speedy recovery would outweigh public purpose behind a statute of limitation is a moot point.	Reasoning
But we need not examine this aspect any further in view of our interpretation of the words amounts due in Section 71.	Reasoning
It has been submitted before us that the statute of limitation merely bars the remedy without touching the right.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the right to recover the loan would remain even though the remedy by way of a suit would be time barred.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on Khadi Gram Udyog Trust Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ram Chandraji Virajman Mandir, Sarasiya Ghat, Kanpur, )in this connection.	Arguments of Petitioner
The court there observed that though a debt may be time barred, it would still be a debt due.	None
The right remains untouched and if a creditor has any means of enforcing his right other than by action or set off, he is not prevented from doing so.	None
In Punjab National Bank and others Vs. Surendra Prasad Sinha, at page 503 this Court held that the rule of limitation are not meant to destroy the rights of the parties.	None
Section 3 of the Limitation Act only bars the remedy but does not destroy the right which the remedy relates to.	None
Excepting cases which are specifically provided for, as for example, u s 27 of the Limitation Act, the right to which the remedy relates subsists.	None
Though the right to enforce the debt by judicial process is barred, that right can be exercised in any manner other than by means of a suit.	None
For example, a creditors right to make adjustment against time barred debts exists.	None
There is no question, however, in the present case of any payment voluntarily made by a debtor being adjusted by his creditor against a time barred debt.	Reasoning
The provisions in the present case are statutory provisions for coercive recovery of amounts due, Although the necessity of filing a suit by a creditor is avoided, the extent of the claim which is legally recoverable is not thereby enlarged.	Reasoning
u s 70(2) of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act the right of a debtor to file a suit for refund is expressly preserved.	Reasoning
Instead of the bank or the financial institution filing a suit which is defended by the debtor, the creditor first recovers and then defends his recovery in a suit filed by the debtor.	Reasoning
The rights of the parties are not thereby enlarged.	Reasoning
The process of recovery is different.	Reasoning
An Act must expressly provide for such enlargement of claims which are legally recoverable, before it can be interpreted as extending to the recovery of those amounts which have ceased to be legally recoverable on the date when recovery proceedings are undertaken.	Reasoning
Under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act such process of recovery would start with a written requisition issued in the prescribed form by the creditor to the collector of the District as prescribed u s 69(2) of the said Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, all claims which are legally recoverable and are not time barred on that date can be recovered under the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.	Reasoning
In view of the interpretation which we have put on Section 71 of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act it is not necessary for us to consider whether by making a requisition u s 69(2) a creditor sets in motion a process of recovery which is a judicial process which would attract the Law of Limitation.	Reasoning
There is a clear provision for adjudication u s 70(3) of the said Act.	Reasoning
This right u s 70(3) of the said Act.	Reasoning
This right u s 70(3)is not affected by Section 72 of the said Act as was contended before us by the Respondents.	Reasoning
Section 72 merely provides that every question arising between the Collector or the authorised officer and the defaulter relating to execution, discharge or satisfaction of a written demand issued under this Act will be determined not by a suit but under the provisions of the said Act.	Reasoning
Section 72 does not cover the right of a person making a payment under protest to institute a suit which is expressly provided for u s 70,Subsection (3).Looking to the scheme of recovery and refund under Sections 70 and 71, amounts due u s 71 are those amounts which the creditor could have recovered had he filed a suit.	Reasoning
In the premises u s 71 of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act claims which are time barred on the date when a requisition is issued u s 69(2) of the said Act are not amounts due u s 71 and cannot be recovered under the said Act.	Decision
Our conclusion is based on the interpretation of Section 71 in the light of the provisions of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.	Decision
In the premises, Civil Appeals Nos. 12393 and 12394 of 1996 are allowed while Civil Appeals Nos. 4211 of 1988, 4393 of 1988, 4175 of 1988 and Civil Appeal No. 1945 of 1999 (arising out of SLP (C) No. 12051 of 1988)are dismissed.	Decision
There will, however, be no order as to costs.	Decision
Order accordingly.	Decision
