 Raghubar Dayal, J. 1.	None
Bhaurao Shankar Lokhande, appellant No. 1, was married to the complainant Indubai in about 1956.	Issue
He married Kamlabai in February 1962, during the lifetime of Indubai.	Issue
Deorao Shankar Lokhande, appellant No. 2, is the brother of the first appellant.	Issue
These two appellants, together with Kamlabai and her father and accused No. 5, a barber, were tried for an offence under S. 494, I.P.C. The latter three were acquitted by the Magistrate.	Issue
Appellant No. 1 was convicted under S. 494, I. P.C. and appellant No. 2 for an offence under S. 494 read with S. 114 I.P.C.	Issue
Their appeal to the Sessions Judge was dismissed.	Issue
Their revision to the High Court also failed.	Issue
They have preferred this appeal by special leave.	Facts
2. The only contention raised for the appellants is that in law it was necessary for the prosecution to establish that the alleged second marriage of the appellant No. 1 with Kamlabai in 1962 had been duly performed in accordance with the religious rites applicable to the form of marriage gone through.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged for the appellants that the essential ceremonies for a valid marriage were not performed during the proceedings which took place when appellant No. 1 and Kamlabai married each other.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the State it is urged that the proceedings of that marriage were in accordance with the custom prevalent in the community of the appellant for gandharva form of marriage and that, therefore, the second marriage of appellant No.1 with Kamlabai was a valid marriage.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also urged for the State that it is not necessary for the commission of the offence under S. 494, I.P.C. that the second marriage be a valid one and that a person going through any form of marriage during the lifetime of the first wife would commit the offence under S. 494, I.P.C. even if the later marriage be void according to the law applicable to that person.	Arguments of Respondent
3. Section 494, I.P.C readsWhoever, having a husband or wife living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by reason of its taking place during the life of such husband or wife, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Prima facie, the expression whoever. . . . .	None
marries must mean whoever. . . . . .	None
marries validly or whoevermarries and whose marriage is a valid one if the marriage is not a valid one, according to the law applicable to the parties, no question of its being void by reason of its taking place during the life of the husband or wife of the person marrying arises.	None
If the marriage is not a valid marriage, it is no marriage in the eye of law.	None
The bare fact of a man and a woman living as husband and wife does not, at any rate, normally, give them the status of husband and wife even though they may hold themselves out before society as husband and wife and the society treats them as husband and wife.	None
4. Apart from these considerations, there is nothing in the Hindu law, as applicable to marriages till the enactment of the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955, which made a second marriage of a male Hindu, during the lifetime of his previous wife, void.	None
Section 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act provides that a marriage may be solemnized between any two Hindus if the conditions mentioned in that Section are fulfilled and one of those conditions is that neither party has a spouse living at the time of the marriage.	None
Section 17 provides that any marriage between two Hindus solemnized after the commencement of the Act is void if at the date of such marriage either party had a husband or wife living, and that the provisions of Ss. 494 and 495, I.P.C. shall apply accordingly.	None
The marriage between two Hindus is void in view of S. 17 if two conditions arc satisfied (i)the marriage is solemnized after the commencement of the Act (ii) at the date of such marriage, either party had a spouse living.	None
If the marriage which took place between the appellant and Kamlabai in February 1962 cannot be said to be solemnized, that marriage will not be void by virtue of S. 17 of the Act and S. 494, I.P. C. will not apply to such parties to the marriage as had a spouse living.	Decision
5.	None
The word solemnize means, in connection with a marriage, to celebrate the marriage with proper ceremonies and in due form, according to the Shorter Oxford Dictionary.	None
It follows, therefore, that unless the marriage is celebrated or performed with proper ceremonies and due form it cannot be said to be solemnized.	None
It is, therefore, essential, for the purpose of S. 17 of the Act, that the marriage to which S. 494, I.P.C. applies on account of the provisions of the Act, should have been celebrated with proper ceremonies and in due form.	None
Merely going through certain ceremonies with the intention that the parties be taken to be married, will not make the ceremonies prescribed by law or approved by any established custom.	None
6.	None
We are of opinion that unless the marriage which took place between appellant No. 1 and Kamlabai in February 1962 was performed in accordance with the requirements of the law applicable to a marriage between the parties, the marriage cannot be said to have been solemnized and, therefore, appellant No.1 cannot be held to have committed the offence under S. 494, I.P.C. 7.	Decision
We may now determine what the essential ceremonies for a valid marriage between the parties are.	None
It is alleged for the respondent that the marriage between appellant No. 1 and Kamlabai was in gandharva form, as modified by the custom prevailing among the Maharashtrians.	None
It is noted in Mullas Hindu Law, 12th Edition, at p. 605	None
The Gandharva marriage is the voluntary union of a youth and a damsel which springs from desire and sensual inclination.	None
It has at times been erroneously described as an euphemism for concubinage.	None
This view is based on a total misconception of the leading texts of the Smritis.	None
It may be noted that the essential marriage ceremonies are as much a requisite part of this form of marriage as of any other unless it is shown that some modification of those ceremonies has been introduced by custom in any particular community or caste.	None
8.	None
At p. 615 is stated (1) There are two ceremonies essential to the validity of a marriage, whether the marriage be in the Brahma form or the Asura form, namely (1) invocation before the sacred fire, and (2) saptapadi, that is, the taking seven steps by the bridegroom and the bride jointly before the sacred fire.	None
(2) A marriage may be completed by the performance of ceremonies other than those referred to in subsection (1), where it is allowed by the custom of the caste to which the parties belong.	None
9.	None
It is not disputed that these two essential ceremonies were not performed when appellant No. 1 married Kamalbai in February 1962.	None
There is no evidence on record to establish that the performance of these two essential ceremonies has been abrogated by the custom prevalent in their community.	None
In fact, the prosecution led no evidence as to what the custom was, it led evidence of what was performed at the time of the alleged marriage.	None
It was the counsel for the accused in the case who questioned certain witnesses about the performance of certain ceremonies and to such questions the witnesses replied that they were not necessary for the gandharva form of marriage in their community.	None
Such a statement does not mean that the custom of the community deemed what took place at the marriage of the appellant No. 1 and Kamlabai, sufficient for a valid marriage and that the performance of the two essential ceremonies had been abrogated.	None
There ought to have been definite evidence to establish that the custom prevalent in the community had abrogated these ceremonies for such form of marriage.	None
10.	None
What took place that night when appellant No. 1 married Kamlabai, has been stated thus, by P.W. 1The marriage took place at 10 p.m.	None
Patwooden sheets were brought.	None
A carpet was spread.	None
Accused No. 1 then sat on the wooden sheet.	None
On the other sheet Accused No. 3 sat.	None
She was sitting nearby Accused No. 1.	None
Accused No. 4 then performed some Puja by bringing a Tambyapitcher.	None
Betel leaves and coconut was kept on the Tambya.	None
Two garlands were brought.	None
Accused No. 2 was having one, and Accused No. 4 having one in his hand.	None
Accused No. 4 gave the garland to Accused No. 3 and Accused No. 2 gave the garland to Accused No. 1.	None
Accused Nos. 1 and 3 then garlanded each other.	None
Then they each struck each others forehead.	None
In crossexamination this witness statedIt is not that Gandharva according to our custom is performed necessarily in a temple.	None
It is also not that a Brahmin Priest is required to perform the Gandharva marriage.	None
No Mangala Ashtakas are required to be chanted at the time of Gandharva marriage.	None
At the time of marriage in question, no Brahmin was called and Mangala Ashtakas were chanted.	None
There is no custom to blow a pipe called Bher in vernacular.	None
Sitaram, witness No. 2 for the complainant, made a similar statement about what happened at the marriage ceremony and further stated, in the examinationinchief Surpan is the village of Accused No. 3s maternal uncle and as the custom is not to perform the ceremony at the house of maternal uncle, so it was performed at another place.	None
There is no custom requiring a Brahmin Priest at the time of Gandharva.	None
He stated in crossexaminationA barber is not required and Accused No. 5 was not present at the time of marriage.	None
There is a custom that the father of girl should make to touch the foreheads of the girl and boy to each other and the Gandharva is completed by the act.	None
11.	None
It is urged for the respondent that as the touching of the forehead by the bridegroom and the bride is stated to complete the act of Gandharva marriage, it must be concluded that the ceremonies which, according to this witness, had been performed, were all the ceremonies which, by custom, were necessary for the validity of the marriage In the absence of a statement by the witness himself that according to customs these ceremonies were the only necessary ceremonies for a valid marriage, we cannot construe the statement that the touching of the foreheads completed the Gandharva.	Arguments of Respondent
form of marriage and that the ceremonies gone through were all the ceremonies required for the validity of the marriage.	Reasoning
12.	None
Bhagwan, witness No. 3 for the complainant, made no statement about the custom, but stated in crossexamination that it was not necessary for the valid performance of Gandharva marriage in their community that a Brahmin priest was required and Mangal Ashtakas were to be chanted.	Reasoning
The statement of Jeebhau, witness No. 4. for the complainant, does not show how the custom has modified the essential forms of marriage.	Reasoning
He stated in crossexaminationI had witnessed two Gandharvas before this.	Reasoning
For the last 5 or 7 years a Brahmin priest, a Barber and a Thakur are not required to perform the Gandharva but formerly it was essential.	Reasoning
Formerly the Brahmin used to chant Mantras and Mangal Ashtakas.	Reasoning
It was necessary to have a maternal uncle or any other person to make touch the foreheads of the spouses together.	Reasoning
A Brahmin from Kasara and Dhadana comes to our village for doing rituals but I do not know their names.	Reasoning
This statement too, does not establish that the two essential ceremonies are no more necessary to be performed, for a Gandharva marriage.	Reasoning
The mere fact that they were probably not performed in the two Gandharva marriages Jeebhau had attended, does not establish that their performance is no more necessary according to the custom in that community.	Reasoning
Further, Jeebhau has stated that about five or seven years earlier the performance of certain ceremonies, which, till then, were essential for the marriage, were given up.	Reasoning
If so, the departure from the essentials cannot be said to have become a custom, as contemplated by the Hindu Marriage Act.	Reasoning
13.	None
Clause (a) of S. 3 of the Act provides that the expressions custom and usage signify any rule which, having been continuously and uniformly observed for a long time, has obtained the force of law among Hindus in any local area, tribe, community, group or family.	Reasoning
14.	None
We are, therefore, of opinion that the prosecution has failed to establish that the marriage between appellant No. 1 and Kamlabal in February 1962 performed in accordance with the customary rites as required by S. 7 of the Act.	Reasoning
It was certainly not performed in accordance with the essential requirements for a valid marriage under Hindu law.	Reasoning
15.	None
It follows, therefore, that the marriage between appellant No. 1 and Kamlabai does not come within the expression solemnized marriage occurring in S.17 of the Act and consequently does not come within the mischief of S.494, I.P.C. even though the first wife of appellant No. 1 was living when he married Kamlabai in February 1962.	Decision
16.	None
We have not referred to and discussed the cases referred to in support of the contention that the subsequent marriage referred to in S. 494, I.P.C, need not be a valid marriage, as it is unnecessary to consider whether they have been correctly decided, in view of the fact that the marriage of appellant No. 1 with Kamlabai could be a void marriage only if it came within the purview of S. 17 of the Act.	Decision
17.	None
The result is that the conviction of appellant No. 1 under S.494, I.P.C. and of appellant No. 2 under S. 494 read with S. 114, I.P.C. cannot be sustained.	Decision
We, therefore, allow their appeal, set aside their convictions and acquit them.	Decision
The bail bonds of appellant No. 1 will stand discharged.	Decision
Fines, if paid, will be refunded.	Decision
18.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
