 Abdul Nazeer, J.1.	None
Leave granted.2.	None
The appellant, in these appeals, has challenged the legality and correctness of the judgment and order dated 29.9.2011 in A.P.O. No.213/2009 in A.P. No.35/2006 whereby the Division Bench of the High Court of Calcutta has set aside the judgment and order of the learned Single Judge in A.P. No.35/2006 dated 27.1.2009.3.	Issue
Brief facts necessary for the disposal of these appeals are as follows4.	Facts
On 20.3.1991, respondent invited tender for the execution of balance of earth for formation of banks for laying railway line, roads, platforms and miscellaneous work in connection with new goods terminal yard of SouthEastern Railway at Sankrail in Howrah District.	Facts
The appellants tender dated 23.3.1991 for Rs.61,24,159/ was accepted by issuance of Letter of Acceptance dated 17.6.1991.	Facts
In this connection, an agreement was entered into between the appellant and the respondent on 22.8.1991.	Facts
In the said agreement, General Conditions of the Contract (for short GCC) were incorporated and the parties were bound by the terms and conditions thereof.5.	None
Various disputes and differences arose between the parties regarding execution of work and its purported abandonment.	Facts
The respondent issued notice dated 24.10.1991, seeking termination of the agreement.	Facts
Another notice dated 15.11.1991 was issued to the appellant under Clause 62(1) of the GCC for rescission of the contract.	Facts
However, at the request of the appellant through letter dated 2.4.1992, the validity of the contract was extended till 30.6.1992.	Facts
The respondent further granted extension of time to complete the work upto July 1993.	Facts
According to the appellant, the delay and or hindrances occurred due to breaches committed by the Railway Administration.	Facts
The remaining work was abandoned by the appellant w.e.f. 3.11.2003.6.	Facts
The appellant raised the claim before the respondent by his letter dated 30.10.1996.	Facts
By a subsequent letter dated 22.6.1998, the appellant demanded reference of the dispute to the arbitration.	Facts
Finally, the appellant filed an application under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short the 1996 Act) for appointment of an Arbitrator for adjudication of the claims and disputes before the High Court of Calcutta.	Facts
The Chief Justice of the High Court of Calcutta passed an order dated 6.12.2001, whereupon the General Manager, SouthEastern Railway, was directed to appoint Arbitrators from their panel within four weeks from the said date.	Facts
Pursuant to the said order, the Arbitral Tribunal was constituted which adjudicated the disputes and claims raised by the appellant, as also the respondent.7.	Facts
The Arbitral Tribunal passed an award on 20.9.2006.	Facts
The respondent moved an application, being A.P. No.35 of 2006 under Section 34 of the 1996 Act, for setting aside the said award.	Facts
The said application was dismissed by the Single Judge of the High Court.	Facts
The respondent assailed the order of the learned Single Judge by filing an appeal in A.P.O. No. 213 of 2009, wherein it was contended that the appellant had issued a No Claims Certificate to the respondent, thereby forfeiting his right for any claim from the respondent in regard to which the dispute could not be adjudicated by the Arbitral Tribunal.	Facts
As noticed above, the Division Bench has set aside the order of the learned Single Judge and also the award and directed holding of fresh reference by the Arbitral Tribunal.8.	Facts
Learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submits that the Division Bench failed to appreciate the question that issuance of No Claims Certificate by the appellant was not urged before the Chief Justice in the proceedings under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said plea was not even urged before the Arbitral Tribunal or before the learned Single Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
The issue relating to existence of any live claim or the arbitrability of the dispute ought to have been urged in the proceedings under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act or at least before the Arbitral Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question as to whether there was any arbitral dispute or not, could not have been entertained by the Division Bench for the first time.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the Tribunal has rightly passed an award and granted preaward and pendente lite interest from 17.7.1992 till the realization of the award amount.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondent submits that having regard to the No Claims Certificate issued by the appellant, the appellant has no right to make any claim except for security deposit of Rs.15,000/ from the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
There was no arbitral dispute between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the claim itself was not maintainable.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further argued that, at any rate, the appellant was not entitled for any interest having regard to the terms of the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
He prays for dismissal of the appeals.10.	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to the contentions urged, the first question for our consideration is whether the Division Bench was justified in considering the arbitrability of the dispute for the first time in the appeal.	None
It is evident from the materials on record that the dispute had arisen between the parties in relation to the contract in question.	Reasoning
Therefore, the appellant filed an application before the Chief Justice of the High Court of Calcutta under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act, for appointment of an Arbitrator in terms of the contract which was allowed and an Arbitral Tribunal was constituted for adjudication of the dispute.	Reasoning
The Arbitrator after giving the parties opportunities of hearing and after considering the materials placed on record made and published the award.	Reasoning
The amounts claimed and the amounts awarded against each item of the claim are briefly mentioned as followsCLAIMCLAIMED AMOUNT (RS.)AWARDED AMOUNT (RS.)1.	None
Balance amount payable45,37,230/2,39,657/2.	None
Claim for price variation due to rise in price of materials, labour and fuel21,82,719.581,17,060/3.	None
Claim for security deposit.15,000/15,000/4.	None
Claim on account of advance payment towards labour supplier51,000/15,300/5.	None
Claim for advance payment to the earth supplier.1,80,000/54,000/6.	None
Claim for remaining idle wage payment.1,80,000/54,000/7.	None
Claim for overhead charges, i.e., staff salary and house rent22,000/15,000/8.	None
Claim for blockage of capital and business loss12,75,000/6,03,119/9.	None
Claim for interest1,58,23,193.1612,44,546/11.	None
Learned Single Judge had dismissed the application filed by the respondent for setting aside the said award.	None
The issue relating to arbitrability of the dispute was not raised in the proceeding under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act.	None
One of the issues which can be considered by the Chief Justice under this provision is whether the claim is a live claim.	None
This issue can also be kept open to be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal provided the said plea is urged before the Chief Justice.	None
(See National Insurance Company Limited vs. Boghara Polyfab Private Limited (2009) 1 SCC 267 ).	None
The respondent had not raised the said plea before the Chief Justice.	None
Be that as it may, the respondent has not urged the said plea either before the Arbitral Tribunal or before the learned Single Judge in the proceedings under Section 34 of the 1996 Act.12.	None
This Court, in Mcdermott International Inc. vs. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. and Others (2006) 11 SCC 181 , has held that the party questioning the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator has an obligation to raise the said question before the Arbitrator.	None
It has been held as under51.	None
After the 1996 Act came into force, under Section 16 of the Act the party questioning the jurisdiction of the arbitrator has an obligation to raise the said question before the arbitrator.	None
Such a question of jurisdiction could be raised if it is beyond the scope of his authority.	None
It was required to be raised during arbitration proceedings or soon after initiation thereof.	None
The jurisdictional question is required to be determined as a preliminary ground.	None
A decision taken thereupon by the arbitrator would be the subjectmatter of challenge under Section 34 of the Act.	None
In the event the arbitrator opined that he had no jurisdiction in relation thereto an appeal thereagainst was provided for under Section 37 of the Act.13.	None
It is also necessary to observe that intervention of the court is envisaged only in few circumstances like fraud or bias by the Arbitrators, violation of natural justice.	Reasoning
The court cannot correct the errors of the Arbitrators.	Reasoning
That is evident from para 52 of the judgment in Mcdermott International Inc (supra), which is as under52.	None
The 1996 Act makes provision for the supervisory role of courts, for the review of the arbitral award only to ensure fairness.	None
Intervention of the court is envisaged in few circumstances only, like, in case of fraud or bias by the arbitrators, violation of natural justice, etc.	Reasoning
The court cannot correct errors of the arbitrators.	Reasoning
It can only quash the award leaving the parties free to begin the arbitration again if it is desired.	None
So, the scheme of the provision aims at keeping the supervisory role of the court at minimum level and this can be justified as parties to the agreement make a conscious decision to exclude the courts jurisdiction by opting for arbitration as they prefer the expediency and finality offered by it.14.	None
Therefore, the Division Bench was not justified while considering the arbitrability of the disputes for the first time, particularly, when the respondent has not urged the issue relating to No Claims Certificate before the Chief Justice, Arbitral Tribunal or before the learned Single Judge.15.	Reasoning
The next question for consideration is whether the Arbitral Tribunal was justified in awarding interest on the delayed payments in favour of the appellant.	None
The total interest awarded by the Arbitral Tribunal is Rs.12,44,546/ which includes interest for the prereference period and also pendente lite interest.	None
Section 31(7)(a) of the 1996 Act provides for payment of interest, as under31(7)(a)  	None
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where and insofar as an arbitral award is for the payment of money, the arbitral tribunal may include in the sum for which the award is made interest, at such rate as it deems reasonable, on the whole or any part of the money, for the whole or any part of the period between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made.	None
In this Section, a specific provision has been created, whereby if the agreement prohibits award of interest for the preaward period (i.e. prereference and pendente lite period), the Arbitrator cannot award interest for the said period.16.	None
Admittedly, the GCC, governing the contract between the parties, contains a clause which bars the payment of interest, which is as under16(2)	None
No interest will be payable upon the earnest money or the security deposit or amounts payable to the contractor under the contract, but government securities deposit in terms of subclause (1) of this clause will be repayable (with) interest accrued thereon.17.	None
Relying on a decision of this Court in M s. Ambica Construction vs. Union of India (2017) SCC OnLine SC 678, (C.A.No.410 of 2008, disposed of on 26.04.2017) learned senior counsel for the appellant submits that mere bar to award interest on the amounts payable under the contract would not be sufficient to deny payment on pendente lite interest.	None
Therefore, the Arbitrator was justified in awarding the pendente lite interest.	None
However, it is not clear from M s. Ambica Construction (supra) as to whether it was decided under The Arbitration Act, 1940 (for short the 1940 Act) or under the 1996 Act.	None
It has relied on a judgment of Constitution Bench in Secretary, Irrigation Department, Government of Orissa and Others.	Reasoning
vs. G.C. Roy (1992) 1 SCC 508.	Reasoning
This judgment was with reference to the 1940 Act.	Reasoning
In the 1940 Act, there was no provision which prohibited the Arbitrator from awarding interest for the prereference, pendente lite or post award period, whereas the 1996 Act contains a specific provision which says that if the agreement prohibits award of interest for the preaward period, the Arbitrator cannot award interest for the said period.	Reasoning
Therefore, the decision in M s. Ambica Construction (supra) cannot be made applicable to the instant case.18.	None
Learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondent submits that the position of law for cases covered under the 1996 Act, i.e. if agreement prohibits award of interest then the grant of preaward interest is impermissible for the Arbitrator, has been reiterated by this Court in various judgments.19.	Arguments of Respondent
In Sayeed Ahmed and Company vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others (2009) 12 SCC 26 , this Court noted that the 1940 Act did not contain any provision relating to the power of the Arbitrator to award interest.	None
However, now a specific provision has been created under Section 31(7)(a) of the 1996 Act.	None
As per this Section, if the agreement bars payment of interest, the Arbitrator cannot award interest from the date of cause of action till the date of award.	None
The Court has observed that in regard to the provision in the 1996 Act, the difference between prereference period and the pendente lite interest has disappeared insofar as award of interest by the Arbitrator is concerned.	None
Section 31(7)(a) recognizes only two periods, i.e. preaward and postaward period.20.	None
In Sree Kamatchi Amman Constructions vs. Divisional Railway Manager (Works), Palghat and Others (2010) 8 SCC 767 , this Court was dealing with an identical case wherein Clause 16 of the GCC of Railways had required interpretation.	None
This is the same Clause 16(2) of the GCC prohibiting grant of interest which is also applicable in the facts of the present case.	None
The Court held that where the parties had agreed that the interest shall not be payable, the Arbitral Tribunal cannot award interest between the date on which the cause of action arose to the date of the award.21.	None
In Union of India vs. Bright Power Projects (India) Private Limited (2015) 9 SCC 695 , a threeJudge Bench of this Court, after referring to the provisions of Section 31(7)(a) of the 1996 Act, held that when the terms of the agreement had prohibited award of interest, the Arbitrator could not award interest for the pendente lite period.	None
It has been held thus10.	None
Thus, it had been specifically understood between the parties that no interest was to be paid on the earnest money, security deposit and the amount payable to the contractor under the contract.	None
So far as payment of interest on government securities, which had been deposited by the respondent contractor with the appellant is concerned, it was specifically stated that the said amount was to be returned to the contractor along with interest accrued thereon, but so far as payment of interest on the amount payable to the contractor under the contract was concerned, there was a specific term that no interest was to be paid thereon.11.	None
When parties to the contract had agreed to the fact that interest would not be awarded on the amount payable to the contractor under the contract, in our opinion, they were bound by their understanding.	None
Having once agreed that the contractor would not claim any interest on the amount to be paid under the contract, he could not have claimed interest either before a civil court or before an Arbitral Tribunal.	None
Therefore, it is clear that the appellant is not entitled for any interest on the amount awarded by the Arbitral Tribunal.22.	None
The Arbitral Tribunal had determined the amount payable to the appellant in a sum of Rs.11,13,136/ and interest of Rs.12,44,546/. A sum of Rs.38,82,150/ was deposited by the respondent which includes the award amount, interest for the prereference period, pendente lite and postaward interest.	Reasoning
We have held that the appellant is not entitled for any interest.	Reasoning
The appellant has already withdrawn 50 of the amount deposited by the respondent, which is in excess of the award amount exclusive of interest.	Reasoning
Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, we deem it proper to direct the respondent not to recover the excess amount withdrawn by the appellant.	Decision
Ordered accordingly.23.	Decision
The appeals are partly allowed and disposed of in the aforesaid terms without any order as to costs.	Decision
