 Abhay Manohar Sapre, J.1.	None
Leave granted.2.	None
This appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 21.12.2015 passed by the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam in W.P.(C) No.18354 of 2010 whereby the High Court allowed the writ petition filed by the respondent herein and set aside the award dated 23.09.2009 of the Labour Court, Ernakulam in I.D.No.32 of 2006.3.	Facts
In order to appreciate the controversy involved in the appeal, which is essentially legal in nature, mentioning of few undisputed facts would suffice.	Facts
Facts in brief4.	Facts
The respondent is the Cooperative Society registered under the Kerala Cooperative Societies Act, 1969 (hereinafter referred to as the KCS Act).	Facts
The appellant was an employee of the respondentSociety.	None
By order dated 22.03.2005, the respondentSociety dismissed the appellant from service.5.	None
The appellant, felt aggrieved of her dismissal order, filed a complaint with the State Government against the respondentSociety under the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the ID Act).	Facts
The conciliation having failed, the appropriate Government made an industrial reference to the Labour Court, Ernakulum under Section 10 of the ID Act for deciding the legality and correctness of the appellants dismissal and to pass appropriate consequential orders, if any.6.	Facts
The Labour Court, by award dated 23.09.2009 answered the reference in appellants favour.	Facts
It was held that the dismissal order is bad in law and was accordingly set aside.	Facts
It was held that during the pendency of the reference, the appellant has attained the age of superannuation on 31.05.2007, therefore, she was entitled to get all monetary and other service benefits as are permissible in law.7.	Facts
The respondent, felt aggrieved of the award of the Labour Court, filed Writ Petition (Civil) No.18354 of 2010 in the High Court of Kerala and questioned its legality and correctness.8.	Facts
At this stage, it is necessary to state as to how the question involved in the writ petition, which eventually reached to this Court was decided by the different Benches of the Kerala High Court prior torespondents filing the writ petition and during its pendency.9.	Facts
The question, which frequently came up for consideration before the different Benches of the High Court of Kerala since 1978, was when a service dispute arises between an Employee of any Cooperative Society and his Employer (Cooperative Society), whether such dispute is triable by the forum prescribed under the ID Act or under the KCS Act or under both the Acts as per the choice of an aggrieved person to select the forum under any of the two Acts for deciding such service dispute.10.	Facts
In other words, the question was whether a service dispute arising between the Cooperative Societys Employee and his Employer is capable of being tried by the forum prescribed under the KCS Act or by the machinery provided under the ID Act or it is capable of being tried under both the Acts leaving the aggrieved person to select one forum under any of the Acts of his choice out of the two for getting his her service dispute decided by such forum.11.	Issue
The aforesaid question was first decided by two Full Benches of the Kerala High Court in K. Balachandran vs. The Dy. Registrar, Cooperative Societies Ors., AIR 1978 Kerala 126 1978 KLT 249 and Sherly M.U. vs. The President, Parappuram Milk Producers Coop.	None
Society Ltd.	None
Ors., 2007(1)KLT 809	None
wherein it was held on the facts involved in both the cases that the dispute, which had arisen between the Cooperative Societys Employee and his her Employer, was not capable of being decided under Section 69 of the KCS Act as it stood then.12.	None
This question again came up for consideration before a Single Judge of the High Court in Board of Directors, Edava Service Cooperative Bank vs. The Cooperative Arbitration Court Ors., 2008(3) KLT 780 wherein it was held that a service dispute between a Cooperative Societys employee and his her employer is capable of being tried under both the Acts inasmuch as both the Acts enjoy concurrent jurisdiction to try and decide such service dispute.13.	None
In other words, according to the Single Judge, one Act does not exclude the other and, therefore, both the Acts possess concurrent jurisdiction to decide such dispute leaving the aggrieved person to choose the forum of his her choice under any Act out of the two Acts.14.	None
This question was again considered by the Division Bench in Thodupuzha Taluk General Marketing Cooperative Society vs. Michael Sebastian, 2010 (1) KLT 938 wherein the Division Bench concurred with the view of the Single Judge taken in Board of Directors, Edava Service Cooperative Bank (supra).	None
It was accordingly reiterated.15.	None
Lastly, this question was considered by another Single Bench in W.P.(C) No.30854/2007 entitled Chirayinkeezhu Service Cooperative Bank Ltd. No.115 vs. K. Santosh Anr.	None
and then by the Division Bench in Writ Appeal No.2516/2009, arising out of the said writ petition.	None
While hearing the writ appeal, a doubt was raised before the Division Bench about the correctness of the earlier decision rendered in the case of Thodupuzha Taluk General Marketing Cooperative Society(supra) contending that the said decision requires reconsideration for various reasons.16.	None
Acceding to this prayer, the case was referred to the larger Bench to reconsider the law laid down in Thodupuzha Taluk General Marketing Cooperative Society(supra).	None
This is how the case was placed before the larger Bench comprising of three learned Judges.17.	None
While the larger Bench was hearing the case, it was noticed that the earlier two decisions of the Full Bench also need reconsideration because the Single Judge and the Division Bench, subsequent to the decisions of the Full Bench, have taken a slightly different view, which appears to be in conflict with the two Full Bench decisions, resulting in cleavage of opinions amongst the various Benches of the same High Court on one question.	None
It is for this reason, there arose a need to constitute a larger Bench comprising of five Judges to examine the question afresh to settle the controversy.18.	None
The Bench of three Judges then formulated as many as 9 questions to enable the Bench of five Judges to answer the questions referred by the ThreeJudge Bench.19.	None
By order dated 14.09.2015, the FiveJudge Bench answered the questions referred in the case of Chirayinkeezhu Services Cooperative Bank Ltd. vs. Santosh, 2015(4) KLT 163(LB).	Reasoning
However, there was a difference of opinion amongst the five Judges (32) on the questions referred.20.	Reasoning
So far as the majority view of three Judges is concerned, it held that the service dispute arising between the Cooperative Societys Employee and the Employer (Cooperative Society) is triable only by the forum prescribed under the KCS Act, 1969 and the jurisdiction of the ID Act is excluded and barred to try such service dispute.21.	Reasoning
So far as the minority view of two Judges is concerned, it held that such service dispute is triable under both the Acts, i.e., the KCS Act and the ID Act.	Reasoning
In other words, it held that both the Acts possess and enjoy concurrent jurisdiction to decide such service dispute and it is for the aggrieved person to choose the forum of his her choice out of the two Acts to get the service dispute settled subject to proving the ingredients of the definition of Workman, Industrial Dispute and the cooperative Society to be the Industry as defined under the ID Act, if he she desires to invoke the jurisdiction of the ID Act for deciding the service dispute.22.	Reasoning
Relying upon the majority view, the writ petition filed by the respondent(employer) in the case at hand was allowed by the learned Single Judge, resulting in setting aside of the award of the Labour Court, giving rise to filing of this appeal by way of special leave before this Court by the employee.23.	None
Heard Mr. P.V. Surendranath, learned senior counsel for the appellant and Mr. Ramesh Babu, learned counsel for the respondent.24.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant (employee) while assailing the legality, correctness and the reasoning of the majority Judges (3) contended that the majority view does not appear to be in conformity with the law laid down by this Court in Dharappa vs. Bijapur Coop.	Arguments of Petitioner
Milk Producers Societies Union Ltd. (2007) 9 SCC 109 whereas the view taken by the minority Judges (2) appears to be in conformity with the law laid down in the case of Dharappa(supra) and, therefore, the minority view, according to learned counsel, deserves to be upheld by this Court.25.	Arguments of Petitioner
Placing strong reliance on the ratio laid down in the case of Dharappa(supra), learned counsel contended that if the ratio of Dharappas case is applied in its correct perspective to the facts of the case at hand, the question involved in the appeal has to be answered in appellants favour by upholding the view of the minority Judges which rightly held that both the Acts, i.e., the KCS Act and the ID Act, possess and enjoy concurrent jurisdiction to decide the service disputes arising between the Cooperative Societys Employee and his her EmployerCooperative Society.26.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel urged that the award of the Labour Court impugned in the writ petition by the respondent, therefore, deserves to be upheld and the case needs to be remanded to the writ court (Single Judge) for deciding the writ petition on merits.27.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is this submission, which the learned counsel elaborated by placing reliance on the decision of Dharappa(supra), the relevant provisions of the KCS Act, 1969 and the Karnataka Cooperative Societies Act, 1959 (hereinafter referred to as Karnataka CS Act).28.	Arguments of Petitioner
In reply, learned counsel for the respondentSociety (Employer) contended that the view taken by the majority of the Judges (3) being in accordance with law, it does not call for any interference.29.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel elaborated his submission by referring to the ratio of Dharappas case, relevant provisions of KCS Act and Karnataka CS Act in support of his submission.30.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and on perusal of the record of the case, we find force in the submission of learned counsel for the appellant (Employee).31.	Reasoning
In our considered view, we are inclined to uphold the minority view for the reasons given infra.32.	Reasoning
At the outset, it is considered necessary to set out the relevant Sections of the KCS Act, which have bearing over the controversySection 2(i)2(i) dispute means any matter touching the business, constitution, establishments or management of a society capable of being the subject of litigation and includes a claim in respect of any sum payable to or by a society, whether such claim be admitted or not.	None
Unamended Section 6969.Disputes to be referred to Registrar(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, if a dispute arises(a) among members, past members and persons claiming through members, past members and deceased members or(b) between a member, past members or person claiming through a member, a past member or deceased member and the society, its committee or any officer, agent or employee of the society or(c) between the society or its committee and any past committee, any officer, agent or employee or any past officer, past agent or past employee or the nominee, heirs or legal representatives of any deceased officer, deceased agent or deceased employee of the society or(d) between the society and any other society or (e) between a society and the members of a society affiliated to it or(f) between the society and a person other than a member of the society, who has been granted a loan by the society or with whom the society has or had business transactions or any person claiming through such a person or(g) between the society and a surety of a member, past member, deceased member or employee or a person other than a member, who has been granted a loan by the society whether such a society is or is not a member of the society or(h) between the society and a creditor of the society, such dispute, shall be referred to the Registrar for decision, and no court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or other proceeding in respect of such dispute.	None
Explanation	None
In this section and in Section 70, the term Registrar means the Registrar of Cooperative Societies appointed under subsection (1) of Section 3 and includes any person on whom the powers of the Registrar under this Section and Section 70 are conferred.(2)	None
For the purposes of subsection (1), the following shall also be deemed to be disputes, namely(a) a claim by the society for any debt or demand due to it from a member or the nominee, heirs or legal representatives of a deceased member whether such debt or demand be admitted or not(b) a claim by a surety against the principal debtor where the society has recovered from the surety any amount in respect of any debt or demand due to it from the principal debtor as a result of the default of the principal debtor, whether such debt or demand is admitted or not(c) any dispute arising in connection with the election of the Board of Management or any officer of the societyExplanation A dispute arising at any stage of an election commencing from the convening of the general body meeting for the election shall be deemed to be a dispute arising in connection with the election.(3)	None
No dispute arising in connection with the election of the Board of Management or an officer of the society shall be entertained by the Registrar unless it is referred to him within one month from the date of the election.(4)	None
If any, question arises whether a dispute referred to the Registrar under the section is a dispute as defined in clause (i) of Section 2 the decision thereon of the Registrar shall be final.	None
Amended Section 69 by Amending Act1/2000 w.e.f. 02.01.200369.	None
Disputes to be decided by Cooperative Arbitration Court and Registrar(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, if a dispute arises(a) Among members, past members and persons claiming through members, past members and deceased members or(b) Between a member, past member or person claiming through a member, a past member or deceased member and the society, its committee or any officer, agent or employee of the society or(c) Between the society or its committee and any past committee, any officer, agent or employee or any past officer, past agent or past employee or the nominee, heirs or legal representatives of any deceased officer, deceased agent or deceased employee of the society or(d) Between the society and any other society or(e) Between a society and the members of a society affiliated to it or(f) Between the society and a person, other than a member of the society, who has been granted a loan by the society or with whom the society has or had business transactions or any person claiming through such a person or(g) Between the society and a surety of a member, past member, deceased member or employee or a person, other than a member, who has been granted a loan by the society, whether such a surety is or is not a member of the society or(h) Between the society and a creditor of the society, such dispute shall be referred to the Cooperative Arbitration Court constituted under Section 70A in the case of nonmonetary disputes and to the Registrar, in the case of monetary disputes and the Arbitration Court, or the Registrar, as the case may be, shall decide such dispute and no other Court or other authority shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or other proceedings in respect of such dispute.(2)	None
For the purposes of subsection (1), the following shall also be deemed to be disputes, namely(a) a claim by the society for any debt or demand due to it from a member or the nominee, heirs or legal representatives of a deceased member, whether such debt or demand be admitted or not(b) a claim by a surety against the principal debtor, where the society has recovered from the surety any amount in respect of any debt or demand due to it from the principal debtor, as a result of the default of the principal debtor, whether such debt or demand is admitted or not(c) any dispute arising in connection with the election of the Board of Management or any officer of the societyExplanation A dispute arising at any stage of an election commencing from the convening of the general body meeting for the election, shall be deemed to be a dispute arising in connection with the election(d) Any dispute arising in connection with employment of officers and servants of the different classes of societies specified in subsection(1) of S.80, including their promotion and inter se seniority.(3) No dispute arising in connection with the election of the Board of Management or an officer of the society shall be entertained by the Cooperative Arbitration Court unless it is referred to it within one month from the date of the election.	None
Unamended Section 7070.	None
Decision and award on disputes(1)	None
The Registrar may, on receipt of the reference of a dispute under Section 69(a) elect to decide the dispute himself or(b) transfer it for disposal to any person who has been invested by the Government with powers in that behalf or(c) refer it for disposal to an arbitrator appointed by the Registrar.	None
Provided that a transfer under clause (b) or a reference under clause (c) shall not be made to a person equal or superior to him in rank.(2)	None
The Registrar may withdraw any reference transferred under clause (b) of subsection (1) or referred under clause (c) of that subsection and he may elect to decide the dispute himself or transfer it to any other person under clause (b) of subsection (1) or refer it to any other arbitrator under clause (c) of that subsection.(3) The Registrar or such person shall decide the dispute, or the arbitrator shall pass an award, in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and the byelaws and such decision or award shall, subject to the provisions of S.82, be final.	None
Pending decision or award, the Registrar, such person or arbitrator as the case may be, may make such interlocutory orders as he may deem necessary in the interest of justice.(a)	None
the nature of the allegations showing that the elections were vitiated.(b) the existence of prima facie case which means whether respondents have a chance of success and(c) whether the interest of justice require that an interlocutory order must be made.	None
Amended Section 70 by Amending Act 1/200070.	None
Award on disputes (1) the Cooperative Arbitration Court, on receipt of reference of a dispute under subsection (1) of Sec. 69, shall pass an award within one year in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and the byelaws made thereunder and such award shall, subject to the provisions of Sec. 82, be final.(2)	None
The Cooperative Arbitration Court may, pending award of a dispute referred to it under Section 69, make such interlocutory orders as it may deem necessary in the interests of justice.(3)	None
The Cooperative Arbitration Court shall have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), while trying a suit in respect of the following matters, namely(i) the summoning and enforcing the attendance of any defendant or witness and examining the witness on oath(ii) the discovery and production of any document or other material object producible as evidence(iii) the reception of evidence on affidavits(iv) issuing of any commission for the examination of any witness and(v) any other matter which may be prescribed.(4)	None
The Registrar may, on receipt of the reference of a dispute under subsection(1) of Sec.	None
69(a) elect to decide the dispute himself or(b) transfer it for disposal to any person who has been invested by the Government with powers in that behalf or(c) refer it for disposal to an arbitrator appointed by the RegistrarProvided that a transfer under clause (b) or a reference under clause (c) shall not be made to a person equal or superior to him in rank.(5)	None
The Registrar may withdraw any reference transferred under clause (b) of subsection (4) or referred under clause (c) of that subsection and he may elect to decide the dispute himself or transfer it to any other person under clause (b) of subsection (4) or refer it to any other arbitrator under clause (c) of that subsection.(6)	None
The Registrar or the person invested with powers in this behalf shall, decide the dispute or the arbitrator shall pass an award in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and the byelaws and such decision or award shall, subject to the provisions of Sec. 82, be final.	None
Pending decision or award, the Registrar, such person or the Arbitrator, as the case may be, may make such interlocutory orders as he may deem necessary in the interests of justice.100.	None
Bar of jurisdiction of courts No civil or revenue court shall have any jurisdiction in respect of any matter for which provision is made in this Act.(Emphasis supplied)33.	None
Before we examine the question, it is apposite to take note of the findings of the majority as well as minority Judges on the question.34.	None
We find that both majority and minority Judges examined the questions largely in the light of the ratio laid down by this Court in Dharappas case (supra).	None
Indeed, the learned counsel, in their submissions before us, did not make any attempt to contend that the law laid down in the case of Dharappa (supra) needs reconsideration on any issue.	Reasoning
On the other hand, both sides proceeded to make their submissions that, firstly, Dharappas case has laid down the correct principle of law on facts involved therein and secondly, what needs to be examined is whether its ratio applies to the facts of this case and, if so, how and to what extent.35.	Reasoning
In our opinion also, it may not be necessary to examine the issue involved in this case in the light of any other decision except confining its examination to the ratio laid down in Dharappas case because Dharappas case has discussed all earlier decisions of this Court on the subject in extenso.36.	Reasoning
So far as the view of majority (3) Judges, one concurring with two, is concerned, though they discussed several issues in detail in their concurring opinion but in substance, in our view, their findings on material issues are as under37.	None
First, the language of Section 69 of the KCS Act as it originally stood is materially different from the language used in its counter part Sections of two earlier repealed Kerala Cooperative Societies Acts of 1932 and 1951.	None
This departure made in the language employed in Section 69 of the KCS Act qua language of earlier two repealed Acts is significant and has a material bearing while answering the questions.	None
(Para 17/18)38.	None
Second, since the KCS Act, 1969 has received the Assent of the President on 11.04.1969, it was not necessary for the State to have obtained another Assent of the President for enacting Amending Act (1/2000) by which some provisions of the KCS Act, 1969 were amended w.e.f. 02.01.2003.39.	None
In other words, once the KCS Act of 1969 has received the Assent of the President, it is not necessary for the State to obtain another Assent of the President for passing the Amendment Act 1/2000.	None
It is more so when it has received the Assent of the Governor (Para 45).40.	None
Third, on interpreting the relevant provisions of the KCS Act, whether independently or and in juxtaposition, it is clear that the KCS Act, 1969 as originally stood and as amended by Act (1/2000) overrides any other law for the time being in force including the ID Act, 1947 insofar as it deals with the service disputes arising between the Cooperative Societys Employee and his her Employer.41.	None
In other words, the KCS Act, 1969 has an overriding effect on the ID Act 1947 since its inception insofar as it deals with the service disputes arising between a Cooperative Societys Employee and his her Employer and thus excludes the applicability of the ID Act.42.	None
Any service dispute arising between a Cooperative Societys Employee and his her Employer (Cooperative Society) is, therefore, triable only by the authorities and the forum specified under the KCS Act 1969, whether prior to or after the amendments made by the Amendment Act No.1 of 2000 and not by any authority Court Tribunal under any law for the time being in force.43.	None
A fortiori, the jurisdiction of the Labour Court and Industrial Tribunal under the ID Act is, excluded and barred to decide any such service dispute.44.	None
Fourth, the language of Section 69 of the KCS Act, 1969 as it originally stood including the amended one and that of Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act which fell for interpretation in Dharappas case is not in pari meteria with each other and not being identical, the ratio of Dharappas case may not apply to that extent while interpreting Section 69 of the KCS Act.45.	Reasoning
Fifth, the Amendment Act (1 of 2000), which amended Section 69(2)(d) of the KCS Act, is only by way of an abundant caution and it has no effect on Section 69 of the KCS Act.46.	None
So far as the view of minority Judges (2) is concerned, in substance, it held47.	Reasoning
First, the question involved in the case is squarely covered by the ratio laid down in Dharappas case.48.	None
Second, Section 69 of the KCS Act and Section 70 as it originally stood and as amended by first Amendment Act (19 of 1976) of the Karnataka CS Act, are identically worded and, therefore, the ratio of Dharappas case would apply while interpreting Section 69 of the KCS Act.49.	Reasoning
Third, the Assent of the President was required for passing the Amendment Act No.1 of 2000 of the KCS Act.50.	Reasoning
Fourth, since no Assent of the President was obtained, the Amendment Act (1 of 2000) did not make any effect on the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the forum under the ID Act.	Reasoning
That apart, Section 69 or Section 100 of the KCS Act also does not have a clause akin to Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act as amended by Amendment Act (2 of 2000) providing therein a clause for express exclusion of the jurisdiction of the Civil Court, the Labour Court and the Industrial Tribunal from deciding the service dispute.51.	Reasoning
Fifth, the jurisdiction of Section 69 under the KCS Act before and after the amendment of the KCS Act by Amendment Act (1 of 2000) remains intact.52.	Reasoning
Sixth, the jurisdiction of both the Acts, i.e., the KCS Act and the ID Act is concurrent.53.	Reasoning
A fortiori, any service dispute arising between a Cooperative Societys Employee and his her Employer (Cooperative Society) is triable under both the Acts and it is for the aggrieved person to select one forum of his her choice out of the two to get his her dispute settled subject to proving that he she is a workman, the dispute is an industrial dispute and the Cooperative Society is an industry as defined in the ID Act.54.	Reasoning
Seventh, notwithstanding the amendment brought about in Section 69 of the KCS Act by Amendment Act (1 of 2000), the jurisdiction of the Labour Court under the ID Act is not excluded and thus not barred.55.	Reasoning
And lastly, in the light of these findings, all decided cases taking this view are held correctly decided and, therefore, do not need any reconsideration.56.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the fate of this appeal depends upon the question as to what extent the ratio of Dharappas case applies to the issues involved in the case at hand.57.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, necessary to first examine the facts and the ratio of Dharappas case.58.	None
Dharappa was a daily wager working in the Karnataka Milk Federation Unit Bijapur (hereinafter referred to as the Federation), which is a Cooperative Society registered under the Karnataka CS Act.	None
The Federation on 01.03.1980 terminated Dharappas services.59.	None
Dharappa felt aggrieved of his termination, filed an application to the Labour Court, Hubli under the ID Act.	None
The application was later transferred to the Labour Court, Bijapur.	None
According to Dharappa, his termination order was bad and illegal inasmuch as the Federation failed to ensure compliance of mandatory requirements of Section 25F of the ID Act prior to passing his termination order.	None
According to Dharappa, he had continuously worked for more than 240 days in one calendar year, hence he was entitled to enjoy the protection available to a workman under the ID Act before terminating his services.60.	None
The respondentFederation denied Dharappas claim.	None
Parties adduced their evidence.	None
The Labour Court, by award dated 15.10.1996, allowed Dharappas application and set aside the termination order.	None
The Labour Court held that the termination order was bad because Dharappa had worked for more than 240 days continuously in one calendar year and yet the Federation prior to his termination did not pay him any retrenchment compensation as provided in the ID Act.	None
The Labour Court, however, awarded 50 back wages to Dharappa because it was noticed that he approached the Labour Court almost after 10 years from the date of his termination.61.	None
The Federation, felt aggrieved of the award of the Labour Court, filed a writ petition in the Karnataka High Court questioning therein the legality and correctness of the award.	None
During the pendency of the writ petition, the Division Bench of the same High Court in another case (Veerashaiva Coop.	None
Bank Ltd. vs. Presiding Officer, Labour Court, (2001)	None
3 Kar.LJ 519) held that since the remedy and the procedure prescribed under the Karnataka CS Act was comprehensive, the service disputes arising between a Cooperative Societys Employee and his Employer (Cooperative Society) has to be tried under the Karnataka CS Act and the jurisdiction of the Labour Court under the ID Act to decide such disputes is barred.62.	None
The Full Bench of the same High Court in another case in Karnataka Sugar Workers Federation vs. State of Karnataka, (AIR 2003 Kar HCR 1802) later approved this view of the Division Bench.63.	None
Relying upon the aforesaid view of the Division Bench and the Full Bench, the learned Single Judge allowed the Federations writ petition and quashed the award of the Labour Court.	None
It was held that the provisions of the ID Act are not applicable to a service dispute raised by an Employee of a Cooperative Society against his Employer.	None
A liberty was granted to Dharappa to take recourse to the appropriate remedy under the Karnataka CS Act to challenge his termination order.64.	None
Dharappa felt aggrieved and filed a writ appeal before the Division Bench.	None
The Appellate Court placing reliance on the view of the Full Bench in Karnataka Sugar Workers Federations case (supra) dismissed the appeal.	None
It was inter alia held that the appropriate remedy of Dharappa lies in invoking Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act by filing a dispute before the specified authority for its adjudication.	None
It is against this decision, Dharappa felt aggrieved and filed appeal by special leave in this Court.65.	None
Before this Court, Dharappa raised two points, out of which we are concerned only with one point, viz., whether jurisdiction of the Labour Court under the ID Act for deciding the service dispute arising between a Cooperative Societys Employee and his Employer is barred by virtue of Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act and, if so, from which date.66.	None
It is this question, which was examined by this Court extensively in the light of the relevant provisions including Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act as it stood originally and later amended twice coupled with a question as to what is the effect of the grant of the Assent of the President given to the second amendment of Section 70 made in the Karnataka CS Act by Amendment Act (2/2000) and the previous case law on the subject.67.	None
It was noticed that the Karnataka CS Act was enacted by the State of Karnataka after obtaining the Assent of the President on 11.08.1959.	None
Section 70 of the Act as it originally stood deals with the disputes arising between the parties named therein and provides a forum for the adjudication of such disputes, which also includes service disputes.68.	None
Section 70 was first amended by the State of Karnataka by the Amendment Act (19/1976).	None
It received the Assent of the Governor on 07.03.1976.	None
The Amending Act came into force on 21.01.1976.	None
By this Amending Act, two clauses, namely, clauses (d) and (e) were added to Section 70.69.	None
Section 70 was then amended second time by the State in 1997 by Amendment Act (2 of 2000).	None
This Amending Act, however, received the Assent of the President on 18.03.2000 and was thereafter brought in force with effect from 20.06.2000.	None
This Amending Act specifically provided therein for the first time no Civil or Labour or Revenue Court or Industrial Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or other proceedings in respect of any dispute specified in Section 70.70.	None
The learned Judge Raveendran, J. speaking for the two Judge Bench succinctly dealt with the issue in question in Paras 13, 14, 16 and 17 and held as under13.	None
The effect of the amendments to Section 70 of the KCS Act, by Act 2 of 2000 is that if any dispute (including any dispute relating to the terms of employment, working conditions and disciplinary action), arose between a cooperative society and its employees or past employees or heirs legal representatives of a deceased employee, on and from 2062000, such dispute had to be referred to the Registrar for decision and no civil court or Labour Court or Industrial Tribunal would have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of such dispute.14.	None
Even prior to 2062000, having regard to the amendment to Section 70 of the KCS Act by Act 19 of 1976 with effect from 2011976, any dispute between a cooperative society and its employees or past employees or heirs legal representatives of a deceased employee including a dispute regarding the terms of employment, working conditions and disciplinary action taken by a cooperative society, was deemed to be a dispute touching the constitution, management, or business of a cooperative society which had to be referred to the Registrar for adjudication.	None
But prior to 2062000, there was no express exclusion of the jurisdiction of the Labour Court and Industrial Tribunal.	None
As a result, if an employee of a cooperative society answered the definition of workman and the dispute between the cooperative society and its employee fell within the definition of an industrial dispute, then the employee had the choice of two alternative forums either to raise a dispute before the Registrar under Section 70 of the KCS Act or seek a reference to the Labour Court Industrial Tribunal under Section 10(1)(c) of the ID Act or approach the Labour Court by an application under Section 10(4A) of the ID Act.16.	None
Though the Karnataka Cooperative Societies Act, 1959 was reserved for the assent of the President and received his assent on 1181959, the Amendment Act 19 of 1976 which added Clause (d) to subsection (2) of Section 70 (whereby a dispute between a cooperative society and its present or past employee(s) in regard to any disciplinary action or working conditions was deemed to be a dispute touching the constitution, management, or the business of a cooperative society), was neither reserved for, nor received the assent of the President.	None
In the absence of the assent of the President, Clause (d) of Section 70(2) could not be called in aid to contend that Section 70(1)(c) of the KCS Act would prevail over the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
Consequently, even after the 1976 Amendment to the KCS Act, the Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals functioning under the ID Act continued to have jurisdiction in regard to disputes between a society and its workmen if the cooperative society answered the definition of an industry and the dispute was an industrial dispute.	None
But when subsection (1) of Section 70 of the KCS Act was further amended by Act 2 of 2000 by specifically excluding the jurisdiction of Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals with the simultaneous addition of the words notwithstanding anything contrary contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 in Clause (d) of Section 70(2) of the KCS Act, the said Amendment Act (Act 2 of 2000) was reserved for the assent of the President and received such assent on 1832000.	None
The amended provisions were given effect from 2062000.	None
Therefore, only with effect from 2062000, was the jurisdiction of Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals excluded in regard to disputes between a cooperative society and its employees (or past employees) relating to terms of employment, service conditions or disciplinary action.	None
It follows therefore that in the year 1996, the Labour Court had the jurisdiction to make an award in regard to such a dispute.	None
The High Court could not have interfered with it on the ground that Section 70 of the KCS Act was a bar to the jurisdiction of the Labour Court to decide the dispute.17.	None
The 1976 Amendment to the KCS Act did not bring about any inconsistency with the provisions of the ID Act nor did it purport to prevail over the provisions of the ID Act.	None
Its effect was merely to provide an additional or alternative forum for adjudication of the disputes between cooperative societies and its employees, relating to employment, working conditions and disciplinary action.	None
The 1976 Amendment Act, therefore, was valid, even in the absence of the assent of the President.	None
On the other hand, the 2000 Amendment specifically excluded the jurisdiction of Industrial Tribunals and Labour Courts under the ID Act, and intended to prevail over the provisions of the ID Act in regard to adjudication of disputes.	None
The said Amendment required the assent of the President and was, in fact, reserved for the assent of the President and obtained his assent.	None
If the 1976 Amendment was to be read as excluding the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunals and Labour Courts, then it was necessary to read the provisions of Section 70, as amended by the 1976 Act, as prevailing over the provisions of the ID Act.	None
In which event, it would have required the Presidents assent, and in the absence of such assent, the amendment to the extent it purported to prevail over the Central enactment, would have been void.	None
Therefore, the only way to read the 1976 Amendment is to read it in a literal and normal manner, that is, as not excluding the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunals and Labour Courts but as merely conferring a concurrent jurisdiction on the Registrar under Section 70 of the KCS Act.71.	None
The learned Judge then in concluding Paras 24 and 25 held as under 24.	None
The resultant position can be summarised thus(a) Even though Clause (d) was added in Section 70(2) with effect from 2011976, Section 70(1) did not exclude or take away the jurisdiction of the Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals under the ID Act to decide an industrial dispute between the society and its employees.	None
Consequently, even after insertion of Clause (d) in Section 70(2) with effect from 2011976, the Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals under the ID Act, continued to have jurisdiction to decide disputes between societies and their employees.(b)	None
The jurisdiction of Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals to decide the disputes between cooperative societies and their employees was taken away only when subsection (1) and subsection (2)(d) of Section 70 were amended by Act 2 of 2000 and the amendment received the assent of the President on 1832000 and was brought into effect on 2062000.(c)	None
The jurisdiction to decide any dispute of the nature mentioned in Section 70(2)(d) of the KCS Act, if it answered the definition of industrial dispute, vested thus(i) exclusively with Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals till 2011976(ii) concurrently with Labour Courts Industrial Tribunals under the ID Act and with Registrar under Section 70 of the KCS Act between 2011976 and 2062000 and(iii) exclusively with the Registrar under Section 70 of the KCS Act with effect from 2062000.25.	None
We therefore hold that the award of the Labour Court was not without jurisdiction.	None
We, however, make it clear that this decision shall not be applied to reopen matters decided relying on Veerashaiva Coop. Bank1 and Karnataka Sugar Workers Federation2 which have attained finality.72.	None
In our considered opinion, the ratio of Dharappas case is that firstly, Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act as it originally stood and amended by first Amendment Act 19 of 1976 adding therein two clauses (d) and (e) to Section 70, whether one reads it independently or and in juxtaposition with other Sections would find that it did not provide for express ouster or exclusion of the jurisdiction of the Labour Court Industrial Tribunal under the ID Act.73.	Reasoning
In other words, it did not create any express bar for the Labour Court Industrial Tribunal from deciding the service disputes arising between a Cooperative Societys Employee and his her Employer (Cooperative Society).74.	None
Second, any Cooperative Societys Employee satisfying the definition of the expression Workman, Industrial Dispute and the Cooperative Society to be an Industry as defined under the ID Act has the choice to select one forum out of the two forums for filing a case in relation to his service dispute, i.e., either to file a case under the Karnataka CS Act or to seek an industrial reference under Section 10 of the ID Act or to file an application under Section 10(4A) of the ID Act.(Para 14).75.	None
Third, both the Acts, namely, Karnataka CS Act and the ID Act possessed and enjoyed concurrent jurisdiction over such service disputes till 20.06.2000.76.	Reasoning
Fourth, consequent upon the second amendment made by the State of Karnataka in Section 70 by Amendment Act 2/2000, which received the Assent of the President on 18.03.2000 and was brought into force on 20.06.2000, the State legislature, for the first time, provided an express provision for exclusion of the jurisdiction of the Civil Court or Labour Court or Industrial Tribunal to decide any service dispute arising between a Cooperative Societys Employee and his her Employer (Cooperative Society).77.	None
The effect of introducing such amended provision was that the provisions of the ID Act were held no longer applicable for deciding such service disputes.	None
In other words, jurisdiction of the ID Act then stood excluded from deciding such service disputes from 20.06.2000 onwards.	None
A fortiori, only the authorities specified under the Karnataka CS Act were held competent and possessed jurisdiction to try such disputes from 20.06.2000 onwards.78.	None
Fifth, by way of rule of caution, the question of such nature should be decided by the Courts primarily keeping in view the language employed in the concerned State Act.79.	None
Sixth, Article 254 of the Constitution is attracted when there is a repugnancy between any provision(s) of the State Act such as Karnataka CS Act and the provision(s) of any existing law enacted by the Parliament on the subject falling in concurrent list such as the ID Act.80.	None
The inconsistency should be so irreconcilable that it must come in direct head on collusion with any provision of the Central Act in the field thereby creating a situation that obeying one Act would result in disobeying the other.81.	None
Seventh, if such a situation arises in any case, the State law (Karnataka CS Act) which is reserved for Presidents Assent and on receiving the Presidents Assent, will prevail over the Central law (ID Act) in that State by virtue of Article 254 (2) of the Constitution.82.	None
Now coming to the facts of the case at hand, when we examine the question in the light of the ratio of Dharappas case, culled out above, on comparison, we find substantial similarity between the language of Section 69 of the KCS Act as it originally stood and later amended by the Amendment Act 1 of 2000 with that of the language employed in Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act as it originally stood along with amended one by first Amendment Act 19/ 1976.83.	Reasoning
In other words, we notice that the phraseology and language of both unamended and amended Section 69 of KCS Act and Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act as amended by first amendment by Act 1/2000 are in pari materia with each other.84.	Reasoning
First, the KCS Act and the Karnataka CS Act have received the Assent of the President at the time of their respective enactment.85.	None
Second, the KCS ActAmendment Act 1/2000 received the Assent of the Governor so also Amendment Act 19/76 of Karnataka CS Act received the Assent of the Governor.86.	None
Third, Section 69 and Section 70 start with a nonobstante clause, viz.,	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, if a dispute arises .87.	None
Fourth, Section 69 and Section 70 end with the words such dispute shall be referred to the Registrar and no court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or other proceeding in respect of such dispute.88.	None
Fifth, (the KCS Act and the Karnataka CS Act) had no provision expressly providing for ouster of the jurisdiction of Civil Court, Labour Court and the Industrial Tribunal from deciding service disputes alike the one introduced by Karnataka State for the first time in Section 70 by the Amendment Act of 2 of 2000 with effect from 20.06.2000 with the Assent of the President.89.	None
This, in our view, indicates that till 20.06.2000, there was similarity between the KCS Act and Karnataka CS Act.	Reasoning
However, after Section 70 was amended by Act No.2/2000 w.e.f.	Reasoning
20.06.2000 providing therein a specific clause expressly excluding the jurisdiction of the Civil, Labour and Revenue Court and Industrial Tribunal to decide the service disputes, the scheme of the two Acts no longer remained similar.90.	Reasoning
Similarly, we find that the identical wording occurring in the beginning and the end of Section 69 and Section 70 was interpreted in Dharappas case wherein it was held that such provisions cannot be construed as providing an express exclusion of the jurisdiction of other Courts including that of the Labour Court and the Industrial Tribunal under the ID Act.	Reasoning
On the other hand, it was held that the Karnataka CS Act possesses concurrent jurisdiction for deciding the services disputes upto 20.06.2000.	Reasoning
(see para 14/16 of Dharappa)91.	Reasoning
This interpretation of Dharappas case, in our view, would squarely apply to the provisions of the KCS Act if Section 69 is also suitably amended by the State of Kerala by making Section 69 at par with amended Section 70 of Karnataka CS Act.	Reasoning
As on date, it is not so.92.	Reasoning
Though the KCS Act was amended by Amendment Act 1 of 2000 (w.e.f. 02.01.2003) but it did not bring about any kind of inconsistency or repugnancy in the KCS Act qua any provision of the ID Act, 1947.	Reasoning
Had the KCS Act including the amending one by Act 1/2000 brought about any kind of inconsistency or repugnancy between the provisions of the KCS Act and the ID Act such as the one brought about by the second Amendment Act (2/2000) in Section 70 of Karnataka CS Act w.e.f.	Reasoning
20.06.2000 qua the ID Act and had such amended provisions of the KCS Act received the Assent of the President, the provisions of the KCS Act too would have prevailed over the ID Act in the State by virtue of Article 254 (2) of the Constitution.93.	Reasoning
Such is not the case here because though the KCS Act received the Assent of the President at the time of its enactment so also the Karnataka CS Act received, this Court while interpreting Section 70 as amended by Act No.19/1976 of the Karnataka CS Act with the Assent of the Governor, has held in Dharappas case that Section 70 did not create any inconsistency or and repugnancy with any provisions of the ID Act and possessed concurrent jurisdiction over such service dispute.	Reasoning
This ratio of Dharappas case would apply to Section 69 of the KCS Act because we have held that Section 69 is in pari materia with Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act.94.	None
That apart, the amending KCS Act (1 of 2000) having received the Assent of the Governor did not bring about any inconsistency or repugnancy with the provisions of the ID Act.	None
In any event, in the absence of the Assent of the President to the amending KCS Act 1/2000, even if any inconsistency or repugnancy exists between the provisions of the KCS Act and the ID Act, it is the ID Act which will prevail over the KCS Act by virtue of Article 254 (1) of the Constitution but not viceaversa.95.	Reasoning
The law in relation to Article 254 of the Constitution and how it is applied in a particular case is fairly well settled by the series of decisions of this Court.	Reasoning
This Article is attracted in cases where the law is enacted by the Parliament and the State Legislature on the same subject, which falls in List III  Concurrent list.96.	Reasoning
In such a situation arising in any case, if any inconsistency or and repugnancy is noticed between the provisions of the Central and the State Act, which has resulted in their direct head on collusion with each other which made it impossible to reconcile both the provisions to remain in operation inasmuch as if one provision is obeyed, the other would be disobeyed, the State Act, if it has received the Assent of the President will prevail over the Central Act in the concerned State by virtue of Article 254 (2) of the Constitution.97.	Reasoning
A fortiori, in such a situation, if the State Act has received the Assent of the Governor then the Central Act would prevail over the State Act by virtue of Article 254 (1) of the Constitution.98.	Reasoning
It is this principle, which was applied by this Court in the case of Dharappa while comparing the provisions of the Karnataka CS Act including its two amendments with that of the provisions of the ID Act.99.	Reasoning
This takes us to examine another question.	Reasoning
The majority Judges, as we find, proceeded to examine the questions by attempting to compare the language employed in the relevant Sections of the two repealed KCS Acts of 1932 and 1951 with that of the language of Section 69 of the KCS Act 1969 and noticing some departure in the language employed in Section 69, came to a conclusion that the language of Section 69 is comprehensive enough to exclude the jurisdiction of the Labour Court under the ID Act.	Reasoning
The majority Judges also took note of some more Sections of the KCS Act and noticing some dissimilarity in the scheme of the KCS Act and Karnataka CS Act held that Section 69 of the KCS Act overrides the provisions of the ID Act since inception.	Reasoning
We find ourselves unable to agree with the approach of the majority.100.	Reasoning
In our view, when this Court in Dharappas case has interpreted the language of Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act, the questions involved herein should have been examined by comparing the language employed in Section 69 of the KCS Act with the language employed in Section 70 of the Karnataka CS Act rather than to compare with the repealed provisions.101.	Reasoning
In other words, once on comparing the language of Section 69 and that of Section 70 as amended by the first amendment, a conclusion is reached that both Sections are akin to each other till 20.06.2000, a fortiori, the law laid down in Dharappas case insofar as it interprets Section 70 as it originally stood and amended by Amendment Act 19/1976 would apply to Section 69 of the KCS Act.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the ratio will not apply after 20.06.2000 because from that date, there was a change in the language of Section 70 which provided a clause to exclude the Jurisdiction of other Courts in express terms by Amendment Act of 2/2000.102.	Reasoning
In the light of foregoing discussion, we are of the considered opinion that the view of majority Judges cannot be upheld whereas the view of the minority Judges deserves to be upheld and is accordingly upheld.103.	Reasoning
We accordingly hold that the KCS Act and the ID Act both possess and enjoy the concurrent jurisdiction to decide any service dispute arising between the Cooperative Societys Employee and his her Employer (Cooperative Society).104.	Reasoning
We also hold that it is the choice of the Employee concerned to choose any one forum out of the two forums available to him her under the two Acts (the KCS Act and the I.D. Act) to get his her service dispute decided.	Reasoning
It is, however, subject to satisfying the test laid down under the ID Act that the employee concerned is a workman, the dispute raised by him her is an industrial dispute and the Cooperative Society (Employer) is an Industry as defined under the ID Act.105.	Reasoning
In the light of the aforesaid finding, all those cases, which have taken contrary view, stand overruled.106.	Decision
As a result of our conclusion, in our view, the Labour Court in this case was competent to decide the service dispute raised by the Employee (appellant herein) under the ID Act.	Decision
The case is accordingly remanded to the writ Court to decide the respondents writ petition for examining the legality and correctness of the award of the Labour Court on merits in accordance with law.107.	Decision
In view of foregoing discussion, the appeal succeeds and is, accordingly, allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgment is set aside.	Decision
