 Leave granted.	None
In the accident that occurred on 28.6.2008, Mr. Palash Kumar who was working as Senior Editor in Asian Age, Mumbai which is under Deccan Chronicle Holding Limited lost his life.	Issue
He left behind his wife, daughter and parents.	Issue
The Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Alwar (hereinafter called as MACT) awarded compensation of Rs. 1,37,25,000 taking income of the deceased at Rs. 12 lakh per year.	Issue
The MACT deducted 25 of the income towards personal expenses and adopted the multiplier as 15.	Issue
It has held that the lorry which was involved in the accident was fully responsible and consequently, the Respondent Insurance Company herein is liable to reimburse the compensation.	Issue
The High Court in appeal, reduced the compensation to Rs. 1,03,50,000 holding that the driver of the car that is the deceased Mr. Palash Kumar was responsible to the extent of 50.	Issue
The claimants Appellants are before this Court.	Issue
Learned Counsel for the Respondent Insurance Company submitted that the High Court was justified in concluding that the accident was due to contributory negligence of both the drivers and, therefore, Respondent Insurance Company is liable to pay 50 of the compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that the wife of the deceased has relinquished her share in favour of her inlaws and got certain properties in lieu thereof and, therefore, the wife of the deceased is not entitled to any compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court in its judgment has wrongly recorded that the breadth of the road was 9.5 feet.	Reasoning
On the contrary, the breadth of the road was 9.5 steps, which means about 20 feet breadth.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that the deceased Mr. Palash Kumar was coming from Kishangarh side to Alwar side and the Lorry was coming from Alwar to Kishangarh and there was a collision between two vehicles.	Reasoning
The car was coming in correct side.	Reasoning
It is clear from the record that the lorry went towards wrong side (right hand side of the road) and collided with the car of the deceased at point A and dragged the car from point A to point B i.e. to the extreme side of the road.	Reasoning
These facts would clearly reveal that the driver of the lorry was not only reckless but also negligent in driving the vehicle and collided at point A which was the wrong side of the lorry driver and dragged the car to point B. Looking into the entire discussion made by the High Court in its judgment, it is clear that the High Court has fallen into error by wrongly considering the breadth of the road.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel for the Appellant submits that the assessment of compensation by the MACT as well as by the High Court is improper inasmuch as the Appellant is entitled to enhanced compensation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The future prospects of the deceased was not taken into consideration by the MACT as well as by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our considered opinion, learned Counsel for the Appellant is justified in arguing that the MACT as well as the High Court is not justified in awarding the future prospects in favour of the deceased.	Reasoning
The deceased was the Senior Editor in Asian Age.	Reasoning
Though, it is not considered as a permanent job, 40 of the income of the deceased needs to be added for computing the compensation as future prospects.	Reasoning
It is also to be taken note that 25 of income as personal expenses is to be deducted while quantifying the compensation.	Reasoning
The MACT as well as the High Court has awarded Rs. 2,75,000 under conventional heads.	Reasoning
Having regard to the totality of the facts and circumstances, the Appellants are entitled to compensation of Rs. 2,06,75,000 in toto.	Reasoning
The argument of the learned Counsel for the Respondent Insurance Company with regard to the relinquishment of her share in favour of the other claimants and consequently she is not entitled to compensation, cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
It is in between the family members to make arrangement with regard to the family affairs.	Reasoning
The grant of compensation by the MACT or by the Court in respect of accidental death of a person will not be affected by the family arrangement of the parties inasmuch as the compensation as per law has to be awarded by the Court in favour of the dependants.	Reasoning
The internal family matter of the parties will not affect the award of compensation.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the arguments of the Respondent Insurance Company are not sustainable.	Decision
Compensation of Rs. 2,06,75,000 in toto is awarded.	Decision
The same shall be shared by the family members of the deceased in the same proportion as is awarded by the MACT.	Decision
The appeals of the claimants Appellants are allowed and consequently the appeal of the Insurance Company is dismissed.	None
