 K. Thakker	None
, J. This appeal is filed by the Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (Company for short) against an order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Calcutta on January 28, 2002 dismissing Review Petition filed by the appellant herein.	Issue
The facts of the case are that the appellant is Government Company under Section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
A scheme was formulated by the Company to offer employment to a person who is a land loser for 1 acre of land which has been acquired, purchased or used by the Company.	Facts
Subsequently, the policy was changed and it was also provided that those who do not intend to get employment may be offered 800 Metric Tons (MTs) of coal in lieu of employment of a family member whose one acre of land has been acquired, purchased or used by the Company.	Facts
The policy was again modified in 1996 and entitlement was increased to 1600 MTs.3.	Facts
It is the case of the Company that it purchased land of the respondent admeasuring 1.26 acres and registered sale deed No. 2006, dated February 17, 1989 was executed at Dhanbad.	Facts
In the light of the policy then in vogue, the respondent was offered 1008 MTs of coal on the basis of 800 MTs per acre since the sale was for 1.26 acres of land.	Facts
The respondent accepted the said decision on February 23, 1989 and a written communication was addressed to the General Manager stating therein that the land owner was not interested in getting employment and he would be thankful if 1008 MTs of coal would be given to him.	Facts
The Authorities accepted the request and the appellant Company vide a letter dated May 22, 1989, passed an order to release 1008 MTs of steam Coal, GradeD.	Facts
It was stated that the coal would be released on fulfilling the terms and conditions mentioned in the said communication.	Facts
According to the Company, everything was over and nothing further was required to be done in the matter.	Facts
The respondentwritpetitioner was paid consideration for land which was sold by registered sale deed.	Facts
Over and above compensation, as per the policy in force, they offered 1008 MTs of coal which was accepted by the respondent and quantity was also released.	Facts
It was accepted by the respondent without any protest, objection or reservation and the matter ended there.4.	Facts
After considerable delay of about a decade, a petition came to be filed being Writ Petition No. 770 of 1999 contending therein that writ petitioner (respondent herein) was entitled to additional quantity of 1008 MTs of coal and an appropriate direction be issued to the Company to release the goods.	Facts
The writ petition was placed for first hearing on September 6, 1999, and on the same day, it was disposed of by the Court observing inter alia that no affidavit in opposition has been filed, and the learned counsel for the Company submitted that usual order be passed in the matter.	Facts
Accordingly, the Company was directed to allot balance quantity of 1008 MTs of coal to the writpetitioner.5.	Facts
The said order read as under Mr. D.P. Majumdar, Adv.	Facts
with Mr. G. Patra, Adv. appears and submits.	Facts
Mr. A.K. Mitra, Adv. with Md. Iairsh, Adv. appears and submits.	Facts
The Court No affidavitinopposition has been filed.	Facts
The Learned Lawyer for the respondent submits that usual order may be passed in this matter.	Facts
Accordingly, I passed the following orderThe respondents are directed to allot balance quantity of 1008 M.T. to the petitioner in terms of the release order dated 25.5.1989 from Nayandanga Coliery, Mugma Area.	Facts
The writ petition is disposed of.	Facts
All parties are to act on a signed copy of the minutes of this order on the usual undertaking.	Facts
It is stated by the appellantCompany that after the order dated September 6, 1999, on September 13, 1999, again the matter was mentioned by the writpetitioner without filing any application and the High Court modified its earlier order dated September 6, 1999 and the balance quantity which was mentioned in the earlier order of September 6, 1999 as 1008 MTs was enhanced to 6800 MTs.	Facts
Again, the matter was mentioned on September 15, 1999 and the order was corrected.7.	Facts
The Company, being aggrieved by the order passed by the learned Single Judge, preferred an appeal being APOT No. 94 of 2004 challenging the orders passed by the learned single Judge.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court, however, dismissed the appeal on February 17, 2000 observing that when the order was passed by the learned single Judge on September 6, 1999, the counsel for the Company appeared and no reply was filed by the Company.	Facts
In the circumstances, the Company had to blame itself.	Facts
The matter was thereafter taken up by the learned single Judge and even at that stage, no reply was filed.	Facts
According to the Court, therefore, there was no reason to interfere with the order of the single Judge and the appeal was dismissed.8.	Facts
The Company challenged the order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court by filing Special Leave Petition No. 8238 of 2000.	Facts
When the matter came up for admission hearing, it was withdrawn on May 12, 2000.	Facts
The said order mentioned that the learned counsel for the Company stated that the Company would file Review Petition in the High Court.	Facts
The special leave petition was accordingly dismissed as withdrawn.	Facts
Thereafter Review Petition was filed by the Company in the High Court and as stated above, the Review Petition was also dismissed by the Court observing that there was no apparent error to review the order.	Facts
The said order is challenged in the present appeal.9.	Facts
Initially when the matter was placed for admission hearing, notice was issued on August 12, 2002.	Facts
It appears that the Special Leave Petition was dismissed on February 12, 2003, but the said order was recalled by the Court on September 12, 2003.	Facts
On January 12, 2004, leave was granted, printing was dispensed with and the appeal was ordered to be heard on SLP paper books.	Facts
Parties were granted liberty to file additional documents.	Facts
Original record was requisitioned.	Facts
Interim stay against the order passed by the High Court was also granted.	Facts
On March 7, 2008, a Bench of this Court presided over by Honble the Chief Justice of India directed final hearing of the matter during summer vacation and accordingly the matter was placed before us for final disposal on May 27, 2008.	Facts
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
The learned counsel for the appellantCompany contended that the orders passed by the High Court are liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that admittedly, the transaction of sale took place in Dhanbad.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both the parties  the appellant as well as respondent were residing at Dhanbad.	Arguments of Petitioner
The entire cause of action thus arose within the territorial jurisdiction in the State of Bihar (now within Jharkhand area).	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court of Calcutta, therefore, had no territorial jurisdiction to entertain, deal with and decide the writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that ground alone, the orders passed by the High Court of Calcutta are liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that admittedly sale deed was executed in February, 1989 by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Company paid the amount of consideration and offered 1008 MTs coal under the policy then in force over and above the amount of consideration of property.	Arguments of Petitioner
The writpetitioner accepted the offer, release order was issued and the goods had been delivered to him which the writ petitioner accepted without any protest or objection.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was after about 10 years that a writ petition was filed which was entertained and orders were passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellant, there was gross delay and laches on the part of the writ petitioner in approaching the Court and on that ground also, no order could have been passed granting relief in favour of the writ petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, there was no rightduty relationship between the writ petitioner and the Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The right of the writ petitioner was limited to consideration in lieu of land sold to the Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said amount had already been paid to the writ petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was only on the basis of the policy that coal was offered to the writpetitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even if it is assumed that the writ petitioner had right to get coal as per the policy adopted by the Company, the quantity to which the respondent was entitled was given to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter there was no cause for making grievance against the Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only on the basis of 1996 Policy that additional quantity was demanded by the writpetitioner by filing writ petition in 1999 to which there was no entitlement on the part of the writ petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even on that ground, therefore, the petition was liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel also argued that when the writ petitioner was paid consideration for land as also coal under the policy in force and when it was accepted without any protest, the writ petitioner was estopped under the doctrine of equitable estoppel to challenge the said decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
By his conduct, writ petitioner made it abundantly clear that he was satisfied as to the quantity which was offered to him and after acceptance thereof, it was not open to challenge the said decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also urged that the learned single Judge was not right in observing that the writ petitioner was entitled to relief as prayed in the writ petition on the ground that no counter affidavit was filed by the Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The record reflects that writ petition was filed by the writ petitioner on February 18, 1999.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was placed for first hearing on September 6, 1999 and on the same day, the matter was disposed of.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, not proper for the Court to observe that since no affidavit was filed by the Company, the prayer of the petitioner should be granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
A grievance was also made that even after the decision on September 6, 1999, without there being any application, the order was modified on mentioning the matter and the quantity was enhanced from additional 1008 MTs to 6800 MTs which was clearly illegal and without jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Letter Patents Appeal also, the fact of nonfiling of affidavit by the Company weighed with the Division Bench, but as already stated, the matter was taken up and disposed of on one and the same day at the first hearing by the learned single Judge and there was no default on the part of the Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted by the counsel that when the grievance was made against the order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court in the Special Leave Petition, this Court had observed that the counsel for the Company wanted to file Review Petition and SLP was, therefore, dismissed as withdrawn.	Arguments of Petitioner
But even thereafter the Division Bench dismissed the Review Petition which necessitated the Company to approach this Court again.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, submitted that the orders passed by the High Court may be set aside by allowing the appeal and holding that the writ petitioner was not entitled to additional quantity of coal and the High Court should not have ordered the Company to supply coal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondentwrit petitioner supported the orders passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the learned single Judge was wholly right in observing that no affidavit was filed by the Company.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, the learned counsel for the Company appeared in the Court and made a statement that usual order be passed.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, the order was passed and thereafter it was not open to the Company to raise an objection against such order.	Arguments of Respondent
An objection as to territorial jurisdiction of the Court also looses its significance in the light of the statement made by the counsel appearing for the Company.	Arguments of Respondent
In the affidavitinreply, it was stated by the writ petitioner that several similarly situated persons were granted the benefit and additional quantity of coal was given to them.	Arguments of Respondent
Copies of the orders in favour of all those persons were placed on record in the counteraffidavit.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further stated that the policy was modified in 1996 and additional quantity of coal was given to land losers.	Arguments of Respondent
Such benefit was also granted to other persons.	Arguments of Respondent
Refusal to grant similar benefit to the writ petitioner was violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel submitted that in the circumstances, the Division Bench was right in not entertaining intracourt appeal on the ground that if counter was not filed by the Company, the Company had to thank itself.	Arguments of Respondent
Again, it is not true to say that liberty was granted by this Court to file Review Petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Special Leave Petition was dismissed as withdrawn but this Court did not grant liberty to file Review Petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, the Review Petition itself was not maintainable.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel also contended that even in the present proceedings, the prayer is only to set aside an order passed in Review on January 28, 2002.	Arguments of Respondent
The main order passed in intracourt appeal (dismissing the appeal) has not been challenged.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, therefore, submitted that on all these grounds, no interference is called for and the appeal deserves to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, in our opinion, the appeal deserves to be partly allowed.	Reasoning
So far as the technical objection raised by the Company with regard to territorial jurisdiction of the High Court of Calcutta is concerned, in our opinion, it would not be appropriate to set aside the order passed in favour of the writ petitioner on that ground.	Reasoning
It is clear from the record that the writ petition came up for admission hearing on September 6, 1999 and the counsel for the appellantCompany was present.	Reasoning
Not only that he did not raise any objection as to territorial jurisdiction of the Court, he expressly made a statement before the Court to pass usual order.	Reasoning
Accordingly, an order as passed directing the Company to allot balance quantity of 1008 MTs of coal to the writ petitioner.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, unable to uphold the contention of the learned counsel for the appellantCompany that the High Court of Calcutta had no territorial jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition.14.	Reasoning
But we are also unable to uphold the contention of the writ petitioner that the appeal is not maintainable since the Company had challenged the order passed in Review Petition dated January 28, 2002 and not the main order dated February 17, 2000 dismissing intraCourt appeal.	Reasoning
It was submitted by the learned counsel for the appellant that when Review Petition was dismissed, the order passed by the Division Bench in intraCourt appeal got merged in the order of Review Petition.	Reasoning
But even otherwise, when the order passed in the Review Petition is challenged, it would not be proper to dismiss this appeal particularly when leave was granted in SLP after hearing the parties.	Reasoning
We, therefore, reject the objection raised by the writ petitioner.15.	Reasoning
As to delay and laches on the part of the writ petitioner, there is substance in the argument of learned counsel for the appellantCompany.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled that under Article 226 of the Constitution, the power of a High Court to issue an appropriate writ, order or direction is discretionary.	Reasoning
One of the grounds to refuse relief by a writ Court is that the petitioner is guilty of delay and laches.	Reasoning
It is imperative, where the petitioner invokes extraordinary remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution, that he should come to the Court at the earliest reasonably possible opportunity.	Reasoning
Inordinate delay in making the motion for a writ is indeed an adequate ground for refusing to exercise discretion in favour of the applicant.	Reasoning
Under the English law, an application for leave for judicial review should be made promptly.	None
If it is made tardily, it may be rejected.	None
The fact that there is breach of public law duty does not necessarily make it irrelevant to consider delay or laches on the part of the applicant.	None
Even if leave is granted, the question can be considered at the time of final hearing whether relief should be granted in favour of such applicant or not.	None
(Vide R. v. Essex Country Council, 1993 COD 344).	None
In R. v. Dairy Produce Quota Tribunal, (1990) 2 AC 738, 749 (1990) 2 All ER 434 (1990) 2 WLR 1302, the House of Lords stated The public interest in good administration requires that public authorities and third parties should not be kept in suspense as to the legal validity of a decision the authority has reached in purported exercise of decision making powers for any longer period than is absolutely necessary in fairness to the persons affected by the decision.	None
The underlying object of refusing to issue a writ has been succinctly explained by Sir Barnes Peacock in Lindsay Petroleum Co. v. Prosper Armstrong, (1874) 5 PC 221 22 WR 492 thus Now the doctrine of laches in Courts of Equity is not an arbitrary or a technical doctrine.	None
Where it would be practically unjust to give a remedy, either because the party has, by his conduct, done that which might fairly be regarded as equivalent to a waiver of it, or where by his conduct and neglect he has, though perhaps not waiving that remedy, yet put the other party in a situation, in which it would not be reasonable to place him if the remedy were afterwards to be asserted, in either of these cases, lapse of time and delay are most material.	None
But in every case, if an argument against relief, which otherwise would be just, is founded upon mere delay, that delay of course not amounting to a bar by any statute or limitations, the validity of that defence must be tried upon principles substantially equitable.	None
Two circumstances, always important in such cases, are, the length of the delay and the nature of the acts done during the interval, which might affect either party and cause a balance of Justice or injustice in taking the one course or the other, so far as it relates to the remedy.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
This Court has accepted the above principles of English law.	None
In Tilokchand Motichand v. H.B. Munshi, (1969) 2	None
SCR 824 and Rabindra Nath Bose v. Union of India, (1970) 1	None
SCR 697, this Court ruled that even in cases of violation or infringement of Fundamental Rights, a writ Court may take into account delay and laches on the part of the petitioner in approaching the Court.	None
And if there is gross or unexplained delay, the Court may refuse to grant relief in favour of such petitioner.	None
It is not necessary for us to refer to several decisions on this point wherein a similar view has been taken by this Court.	None
Suffice it to say that in Express Publications v. Union of India, (2004) 11 SCC 526 , this Court referring to Tilokchand Motichand, Rabindranath Bose and Ramchandra Deodhar v. State of Maharashtra, (1974) 1 SCC 317 , explained the principle thus No hard and fast principle can be laid down that under no circumstances delay would be a relevant consideration in judging constitutional validity of a provision.	None
It has to be remembered that the constitutional remedy under Article 32 is discretionary.	None
In one case, this Court may decline discretionary relief if person aggrieved has slept over for long number of years.	None
In another case, depending upon the nature of violation, court may ignore delay and pronounce upon the invalidity of a provision.	None
It will depend from case to case.	None
(emphasis supplied) Prima facie, we are satisfied that the learned single Judge should not have entertained a writ petition in 1999 and in directing the Company to release balance quantity of 1008 MTs of coal to the writ petitioner.	Reasoning
But as observed earlier, the order was passed in view of the statement of learned counsel appearing for the Company that the Court could pass usual order and accordingly the order was passed.	Reasoning
It was also stated by the writ petitioner in the counteraffidavit that similar orders were passed in several matters.	Reasoning
It would, therefore, be appropriate if we extend the benefit to the writ petitioner of the order passed by the learned single Judge to the extent of balance quantity of 1008 MTs of coal, which was based on the statement by the counsel for the Company.22.	Reasoning
In our view, however, the learned counsel for the appellantCompany is right that after the writ petition was disposed of on September 6, 1999	Reasoning
wherein balance quantity of 1008 MTs of coal was directed to be allotted to the writ petitioner, the learned single Judge was not justified in passing an order on September 13, 1999 on mentioning of the matter without there being any application for modification clarification of the order dated September 6, 1999.	Reasoning
On September 13, 1999, the following order was passed by the learned single Judge Mr. D.P. Majumdar, Adv.	None
Mentions and submits.	None
Mr. A.K. Mitra, Adv. Appears and submits.	None
The Court The last but third paragraph of the order dated 6.9.99 is corrected in the manner as followsThe respondents are directed to allot balance quantity of 6800 M.T. of Steam Coke, GradeD quality of Coal to the petitioner in terms of the release order dated 25.5.1989 from Nayandanga Colliery, Mugma Area in terms of Annexure C.The supply is to be effected within a period of eight weeks from the date of communication of this order.	None
This order is incorporating into the earlier order dated 6.9.99.All parties are to act on a signed copy of the minutes of this order.	None
We are also of the view that in the light of the above order, the Division Bench ought to have interfered with the direction of the learned single Judge in the order dated September 13, 1999 and intraCourt appeal ought to have been allowed.	None
When the intraCourt appeal was dismissed, the appellant approached this Court by filing Special Leave Petition.	Reasoning
It was dismissed as withdrawn as the Company wanted to move the Division Bench in Review Petition.	Reasoning
To us, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Division Bench ought to have considered the aforesaid aspect and passed an appropriate order in accordance with law.25.	Reasoning
From the totality of circumstances, we are of the considered view that the respondentwrit petitioner was entitled to the price (consideration) for the land sold by him by registered sale deed to the Company which has already been paid to him.	Reasoning
He was also entitled to 1008 MTs of coal which was given to him as per the Policy.	Reasoning
He was further entitled to 1008 MTs which has been ordered to be given to him towards balance quantity on the basis of statement made by the Counsel for the Company and in terms of usual order dated September 6, 1999 passed by the learned single Judge.	Reasoning
We are, however, convinced that the learned single Judge was not justified in granting prayer on mentioning the matter on September 13, 1999 without any application for modification of earlier order and direction to the Company to allot to the writ petitioner balance quantity of 6800 MTs of steak coal GradeD quality.	Reasoning
To that extent, therefore, the appeal filed by the Company deserves to be allowed.26.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal is partly allowed and the writ petitioner is held entitled to 1008 MTs as initially awarded to him as also 1008 MTs of coal towards balance quantity as per the order dated September 6, 1999.	Decision
The writ petitioner will not be entitled to anything more.	Decision
If the said quantity of coal has already been allotted, the Company has discharged its liability and nothing more is required to be done.	Decision
But if it has not released the said quantity, the writ petitioner would be entitled to coal to the above extent.	Decision
On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, there will be no order as to costs.	Decision
