 K. Agrawal, J. Civil Appeal Nos. 69496950 OF 2004 Leave granted.	None
These appeals have been filed against the impugned judgment and order dated 29.01.2003 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in R.A.No.1561 (Bom)/1982 and R.A.No.5161/B/80 whereby the Division Bench of the High Court while giving answers to the Reference Applications filed by the Respondent as well as the Revenue, confirmed certain findings passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (in short the Tribunal) dated 16.08.1982 in favour of the Respondent.	Issue
Along with this, there are certain other connected appeals also.	Issue
Since the question of law is same in all these appeals, all the appeals would stand disposed off with this common judgment.	None
Brief facts For the proper appreciation of the issue in the case at hand, we deem it apposite to mention the gist of the facts.	Facts
The appellant herein is the Department of Income Tax (for brevity the Revenue), on the other hand, respondent herein is Mahindra Mahindra Ltd. (for brevity the Respondent)  a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
The Respondent, way back, decided to expand its jeep product line by including FC150 and FC170 models.	Facts
For this purpose, on 18.06.1964, it entered into an agreement with Kaiser Jeep Corporation (for short the KJC) based in America wherein KJC agreed to sell the dies, welding equipments and die models to the assessee.	Facts
The final price of the tooling and other equipments was agreed at 6,50,000/including cost, insurance and freight (CIF).	Facts
Meanwhile, the Respondent took all the requisite approvals from the concerned Government Departments.	Facts
The said toolings and other equipments were supplied by the Kaiser Jeep Corporation through its subsidiary Kaiser Jeep International Corporation (KJIC).	Facts
However, for the procurement of the said toolings and other equipments, the KJC agreed to provide loan to the Respondent at the rate of 6 interest repayable after 10 years in installments.	Facts
For this purpose, the Respondent addressed a letter dated 07.06.1965 to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for the approval of the said loan agreement.	Facts
The RBI and the concerned Ministry approved the said loan agreement.	Facts
Later on, it was informed to the Respondent that the American Motor Corporation (AMC) had taken over the KJC and also agreed to waive the principal amount of loan advanced by the KJC to the Respondent and to cancel the promissory notes as and when they got matured.	Facts
The same was communicated to the Respondent vide letter dated 17.02.1976.	Facts
On 30.06.1976 the Respondent filed its return and shown Rs.	Facts
57,74,064/ as cessation of its liability towards the American Motor Corporation.	Facts
After perusal of the return, the Income Tax Officer (ITO) concluded that with the waiver of the loan amount, the credit represented income and not a liability.	Facts
Accordingly, the ITO, vide order dated 03.09.1979, held that the sum of Rs 57,74,064/ was taxable under Section 28 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for brevity the IT Act).	Facts
Being dissatisfied, the Respondent preferred an appeal before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) being No. CIT(A)	Facts
V CCIV IT/261/7980.	Facts
After perusal of the matter, learned CIT (Appeals), vide order dated 23.03.1981, dismissed the appeal and upheld the order of the ITO with certain modifications.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the Respondent as well as the Revenue preferred appeals being Nos. 2007 (Bomb.) of 1981 and 2132 of 1981 respectively before the Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal, vide order dated 16.08.1982, set aside the order passed by learned CIT (Appeals) and decided the case in favour of the Respondent.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the Revenue filed a Reference before the High Court at Bombay.	Facts
In that Reference, three applications were filed, one by the assessee and rest two by the Revenue.	Facts
Vide impugned common judgment and order dated 29.01.2003, the High Court confirmed certain findings of the Tribunal in favour of the Respondent.	Facts
Hence, these instant appeals have been filed by the Revenue.	Facts
Heard learned senior counsel for parties and perused the factual matrix of the case.	None
Point(s) for consideration The short point for consideration before this Court is whether in the present facts and circumstances of the case the sum of Rs.	Issue
57,74,064/ due by the Respondent to Kaiser Jeep Corporation which later on waived off by the lender constitute taxable income of the Respondent or not?	Issue
Rival contentions At the onset, learned senior counsel for the Revenue submitted that the Respondent had received the amount of Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
57,47,064/ from the American Motor Corporation as loan waiver, which it had initially borrowed from the Kaiser Jeep Corporation as loan in order to enable it to purchase dies, tools etc. for manufacture of jeeps.	Arguments of Petitioner
The waiver of loan was done by the American Motor Corporation, who took over the Kaiser Jeep Corporation, as a measure of compensation for certain losses including goodwill, the benefit of association, and also for sudden change to the American Motor Corporation as a share holder which was credited by the Respondent to its account but was claimed as exemption from taxation being capital receipt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before concluding, it was contended that since an amount is waived off, for which the Respondent is claiming exemption, it actually amounts to income at the hands of the Respondent in the sense that an amount which ought to be paid by it is now not required to be paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a result, the case of the Revenue falls within the ambit of Section 28(iv) and, alternatively within Section 41 of the IT Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the decision of the High Court is liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
Conversely, learned senior counsel for the Respondent submitted that the Kaiser Jeep International Corporation (KJIC) supplied the toolings and the loan was given by the Kaiser Jeep Corporation (KJC), hence, these transactions were independent transactions.	Arguments of Respondent
The only relationship, which survived after the supply of toolings, was that of a lender and borrower.	Arguments of Respondent
The purchase of toolings was not a transaction for the purchase of goods on credit in the ordinary course of business nor could it be equated to unpaid purchase consideration to be liquidated over a period of time.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it was also submitted that it is very clear that the amount of 650,000 provided by KJC was in fact a loan on which interest was being paid regularly from time to time.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also pointed out that in the books of account of the Respondent, this loan has been shown in the Balance Sheet under the heading Loansunsecured.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, it is submitted that the said sum could not be brought to tax as it represents the waiver of a loan liability which was on the capital amount and is not in the nature of income.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, the High Court rightly upheld the order of the Tribunal and, hence, these appeals deserve to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Discussion The term loan generally refers to borrowing something, especially a sum of cash that is to be paid back along with the interest decided mutually by the parties.	Reasoning
In other terms, the debtor is under a liability to pay back the principal amount along with the agreed rate of interest within a stipulated time.	Reasoning
It is a wellsettled principle that creditor or his successor may exercise their Right of Waiver unilaterally to absolve the debtor from his liability to repay.	Reasoning
After such exercise, the debtor is deemed to be absolved from the liability of repayment of loan subject to the conditions of waiver.	Reasoning
The waiver may be a partly waiver i.e., waiver of part of the principal or interest repayable, or a complete waiver of both the loan as well as interest amounts.	Reasoning
Hence, waiver of loan by the creditor results in the debtor having extra cash in his hand.	Reasoning
It is receipt in the hands of the debtor assessee.	Reasoning
The short but cogent issue in the instant case arises whether waiver of loan by the creditor is taxable as a perquisite under Section 28 (iv) of the IT Act or taxable as a remission of liability under Section 41 (1) of the IT Act.	None
The first issue is the applicability of Section 28 (iv) of the IT Act in the present case.	Issue
Before moving further, we deem it apposite to reproduce the relevant provision herein below Profits and gains of business or profession.	None
The following income shall be chargeable to incometax under the head Profits and gains of business profession, x x x the value of any benefit or perquisite, whether convertible into money or not, arising from business or the exercise of a profession x	None
x x On a plain reading of Section 28 (iv) of the IT Act, prima facie, it appears that for the applicability of the said provision, the income which can be taxed shall arise from the business or profession.	Reasoning
Also, in order to invoke the provision of Section 28 (iv) of the IT Act, the benefit which is received has to be in some other form rather than in the shape of money.	Reasoning
In the present case, it is a matter of record that the amount of Rs.	Reasoning
57,74,064/ is having received as cash receipt due to the waiver of loan.	Reasoning
Therefore, the very first condition of Section 28 (iv) of the IT Act which says any benefit or perquisite arising from the business shall be in the form of benefit or perquisite other than in the shape of money, is not satisfied in the present case.	Reasoning
Hence, in our view, in no circumstances, it can be said that the amount of Rs 57,74,064/ can be taxed under the provisions of Section 28 (iv) of the IT Act.	Reasoning
Another important issue which arises is the applicability of the Section 41 (1) of the IT Act.	Issue
The said provision is reproduced as under Profits chargeable to tax.	None
(1) Where an allowance or deduction has been made in the assessment for any year in respect of loss, expenditure or trading liability incurred by the assessee (hereinafter referred to as the firstmentioned person) and subsequently during any previous year, a. the firstmentioned person has obtained, whether in cash or in any other manner whatsoever, any amount in respect of such loss or expenditure or some benefit in respect of such trading liability by way of remission or cessation thereof, the amount obtained by such person or the value of benefit accruing to him shall be deemed to be profits and gains of business or profession and accordingly chargeable to incometax as the income of that previous year, whether the business or profession in respect of which the allowance or deduction has been made is in existence in that year or not or x x x On a perusal of the said provision, it is evident that it is a sine qua non that there should be an allowance or deduction claimed by the assessee in any assessment for any year in respect of loss, expenditure or trading liability incurred by the assessee.	None
Then, subsequently, during any previous year, if the creditor remits or waives any such liability, then the assessee is liable to pay tax under Section 41 of the IT Act.	Reasoning
The objective behind this Section is simple.	Reasoning
It is made to ensure that the assessee does not get away with a double benefit once by way of deduction and another by not being taxed on the benefit received by him in the later year with reference to deduction allowed earlier in case of remission of such liability.	Reasoning
It is undisputed fact that the Respondent had been paying interest at 6 per annum to the KJC as per the contract but the assessee never claimed deduction for payment of interest under Section 36 (1) (iii) of the IT Act.	Reasoning
In the case at hand, learned CIT (A) relied upon Section 41 (1) of the IT Act and held that the Respondent had received amortization benefit.	Reasoning
Amortization is an accounting term that refers to the process of allocating the cost of an asset over a period of time, hence, it is nothing else than depreciation.	Reasoning
Depreciation is a reduction in the value of an asset over time, in particular, to wear and tear.	Reasoning
Therefore, the deduction claimed by the Respondent in previous assessment years was due to the deprecation of the machine and not on the interest paid by it.	Reasoning
Moreover, the purchase effected from the Kaiser Jeep Corporation is in respect of plant, machinery and tooling equipments which are capital assets of the Respondent.	Reasoning
It is important to note that the said purchase amount had not been debited to the trading account or to the profit or loss account in any of the assessment years.	Reasoning
Here, we deem it proper to mention that there is difference between trading liability and other liability.	Reasoning
Section 41 (1) of the IT Act particularly deals with the remission of trading liability.	Reasoning
Whereas in the instant case, waiver of loan amounts to cessation of liability other than trading liability.	Reasoning
Hence, we find no force in the argument of the Revenue that the case of the Respondent would fall under Section 41 (1) of the IT Act.	Reasoning
To sum up, we are not inclined to interfere with the judgment and order passed by the High court in view of the following reasons Section 28(iv) of the IT Act does not apply on the present case since the receipts of Rs 57,74,064/ are in the nature of cash or money.	None
Section 41(1) of the IT Act does not apply since waiver of loan does not amount to cessation of trading liability.	Reasoning
It is a matter of record that the Respondent has not claimed any deduction under Section 36 (1) (iii) of the IT Act qua the payment of interest in any previous year.	Reasoning
In view of above discussion, we are of the considered view that these appeals are devoid of merits and deserve to be dismissed.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
All the other connected appeals are disposed off accordingly, leaving parties to bear their own cost.	None
