 Subhash Reddy, J. Leave granted.	None
This criminal appeal is filed by the appellant in Criminal Appeal No.798 of 2013 filed before the High court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur, aggrieved by the judgment dated 25.06.2013.	Issue
By the aforesaid judgment, while dismissing the appeal preferred by the appellant herein convicted for the offence under Sections 302, 363, 366 and 376(2)(i) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the High Court answered the reference in affirmative by confirming the death sentence awarded to the appellant.	Issue
Necessary facts, in brief, giving rise to this appeal are that the deceased, a minor girl aged about 8 years, had gone to attend the Mela along with her younger brother namely Chhunu (PW4) on 03.02.2013.	Facts
It is the case of the prosecution that the appellant who is aged about 50 years then, took away the deceased from the Mela and committed rape and murdered her.	Facts
Narendra (PW2) informed the police stating that his daughter, who had gone to attend the Mela, has not returned home.	Facts
Upon such complaint, case was registered and investigation commenced.	Facts
In the course of investigation one Amit Mourya (PW1) informed the Investigating Officer that when he was coming to his shop from residence, he saw a dog running away with a leg of a child in its mouth and on being chased, the dog dropped the leg and ran away.	Facts
Further, it was the case of the prosecution that in the process of investigation, Investigating Officer found a headless body of the deceased in the bushes near the Dushera Maidan, Bhopal.	Facts
It is alleged that the left leg of the deceased was found at a distance of 100 ft. and both legs were fractured.	Facts
Further, it is noticed that there were severe injuries on the private parts of the deceased inflicted by the appellant due to which the intestine had come out.	Facts
During the process of investigation the statement of the appellant was recorded under Ex.P8 and the blood stained cloths and articles he used for the offence were recovered from his house.	Facts
After completing the investigation, the appellant was chargesheeted for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376(2)(i) and 302 of the IPC and Sections 5 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.	Facts
The trial court, after appreciation of the evidence on record, which is mainly circumstantial, came to the conclusion that the appellant has committed rape on the minor girl and murdered her and further, by recording a finding that the crime committed by the appellant is heinous and barbaric, falls within the category of rarest of rare cases, imposed the death sentence.	Facts
The appellant is also convicted and sentenced for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376(2)(i) of the IPC.	Facts
In view of the award of death sentence, the trial court has made a reference to the High Court for confirmation, as contemplated under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC).	Facts
Questioning the conviction recorded and sentence imposed, the accused has filed appeal in Criminal Appeal No.798 of 2013 and the High Court has disposed of, by common judgment, Criminal Reference No.05/2013 and Criminal Appeal No.798/2013.	Facts
The High Court, by judgment dated 25.06.2013, while dismissing the appeal of the appellant, has affirmed the reference confirming the death sentence awarded to the appellant.	Facts
We have heard learned senior counsel for the appellant, Sri Sanjay R. Hegde and also learned counsel appearing for the State Ms. Swarupama Chaturvedi.	None
In this appeal, it is contended by learned counsel for the appellant that though there is no acceptable and convincing evidence to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, the appellant is convicted by the trial court based on the circumstantial evidence which is not enough to record guilt of the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that from the evidence on record, the prosecution has also failed to prove concept of last seen.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the trial court as well as High Court has committed error in imposing the death sentence upon the appellant without examining mitigating circumstances.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the sentence imposed is illegal and contrary to the legislative mandate under Sections 235(2) and 354(3) of the Cr.PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that without examining relevant considerations of legislative policy discernible from Sections 354(3) and 235(2) of the Cr.PC, only by recording a finding that the incident is barbaric, the trial court and the appellate court have recorded that the case of the prosecution falls under rarest of rare cases and imposed death sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that all the mitigating circumstances which exist were to be considered.	Arguments of Petitioner
The penalty of death imposed is required to be modified.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
To support his contention, learned counsel has referred to certain cases decided by this Court in identical circumstances.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is specifically submitted that relevant aspects, like, the socioeconomic background of the appellant, lack of criminal antecedents, possiblity of reform, are not considered.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also brought to the notice of this Court that the local Bar Association, Bhopal had refused to represent the appellant, as such, the appellant was not represented by counsel before the trial court until the date of the framing of the charge.	Arguments of Petitioner
On request made by the appellant on the day of framing of charge, for grant of legal aid, trial court has requested one Mr. Katyayni to appear and the same day charges were framed and the trial was proceeded with.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel appearing for the State has submitted that though the appellant was convicted based on circumstantial evidence, but the evidence adduced is sufficient and consistent.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that PW4 had identified the accused as the person with whom the deceased was last seen and PW4 also identified the accused in the Test Identification Parade.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, PW7 has categorically stated in his deposition that he saw the accused in the company of minor girl wearing yellow frock at 9 p.m. on 03.02.2013.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the said oral evidence if considered with reference to report of the forensic expert and medical evidence on record, there is absolutely no infirmity in the findings recorded by the trial court convicting the appellant for offences charged.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated, having regard to the nature of the crime, that it is heinous and barbaric, it falls within the category of rarest of rare cases.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that having regard to reasons recorded by the trial court, as confirmed by the High Court, there are no grounds to interfere with the conviction recorded and sentence imposed on the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, we have perused the judgment of the trial court and High Court and other material placed on record.	None
So far as the conviction is concerned, we are satisfied with the findings recorded by the trial court which are based on the appreciation of oral and documentary evidence on record.	Reasoning
Though the case totally rests on circumstantial evidence, it is to be noticed that PW4 is the brother of the deceased who has accompanied the deceased to Mela on the fateful day, i.e., on 03.02.2013.	None
He has identified the accused in the Test Identification Parade and further he has categorically stated that the appellant took away the deceased from the Mela.	None
Further, PW1 Amit Mourya, has deposed that when he was coming from his shop to the residence, he saw a dog running away with a leg of a child in its mouth and on being chased it dropped the leg.	Facts
Further investigation revealed detection of headless body of the deceased in the bushes.	None
Further, PW7 Abid Qureshi, has also stated that he had seen the appellant on 03.02.2013 at 900 p.m. with a girl wearing yellow frock.	None
By applying the last seen theory to the facts of the case and further considering the forensic and medical evidence on record, trial court has rightly recorded guilt of the accused for the offences alleged.	Reasoning
Even the High Court, referring to the relevant evidence on record, has rightly confirmed the conviction of the appellant for the charges levelled against him.	Reasoning
12.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this appeal, learned counsel for appellant focussed on death penality imposed and submitted that the relevant aspects are not considered before recording a finding that the case falls in the category of rarest of rare cases, so as to impose the death penalty.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the specific case of the appellant that several relevant aspects which are required to be considered before recording a finding of rarest of rare cases have escaped the attention by the trial court as well as by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is specifically argued that special reasons, as required under Section 354(3) of the Cr.PC are not recorded reasons recorded to impose death sentence, cannot be construed as special reasons within the meaning of Section 354(3) of the Cr.PC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that for the persons convicted of murder, life imprisonment is a rule and death sentence is an exception, as observed by a Constitution Bench of this Court in case of Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 and further, it is submitted, that contrary to the ratio laid down in the aforesaid judgment, the focus was on the crime alone though it is the duty of the courts to pay heed to the circumstances of the crime as well as the criminal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the mitigating circumstances which existed and are to be given liberal and expansive interpretation, are omitted from the consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the sentence of death is to be imposed only in cases when the option of life imprisonment is unquestionably foreclosed.	Arguments of Petitioner
A useful reference can be made to the judgment in this regard in the case of Swamy Shradhananda(2) v. State of Karnataka (2008) 13 SCC 767 .	Reasoning
In the aforesaid judgment, while confirming the conviction for offence under Section 302 of IPC, this Court, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and considering the evidence on record, has substituted the death sentence by imposing imprisonment for life with a specific direction that he shall not be released from the prison till the rest of his life.	Reasoning
In para 92, this Court has observed as under The matter may be looked at from a slightly different angle.	None
The issue of sentencing has two aspects.	None
A sentence may be excessive and unduly harsh or it may be highly disproportionately inadequate.	None
When an appellant comes to this Court carrying a death sentence awarded by the trial court and confirmed by the High Court, this Court may find, as in the present appeal, that the case just falls short of the rarest of the rare category and may feel somewhat reluctant in endorsing the death sentence.	None
But at the same time, having regard to the nature of the crime, the Court may strongly feel that a sentence of life imprisonment subject to remission normally works out to a term of 14 years would be grossly disproportionate and inadequate.	None
What then should the Court do?	None
If the Courts option is limited only to two punishments, one a sentence of imprisonment, for all intents and purposes, of not more than 14 years and the other death, the Court may feel tempted and find itself nudged into endorsing the death penalty.	None
Such a course would indeed be disastrous.	None
A far more just, reasonable and proper course would be to expand the options and to take over what, as a matter of fact, lawfully belongs to the Court i.e. the vast hiatus between 14 years imprisonment and death.	None
It needs to be emphasised that the Court would take recourse to the expanded option primarily because in the facts of the case, the sentence of 14 years imprisonment would amount to no punishment at all.	None
In the case of Neel Kumar v. State of Haryana (2012) 5 SCC 766 which is a case of rape and murder of a minor, while confirming the conviction, this Court, on the facts and circumstances of the case and having regard to the evidence on record, has modified the death sentence with award of life imprisonment and directed that the accused must serve a minimum of 30 years of jail without remission.	None
Paragraphs 37, 38 and 39 of the said judgment read as under A threeJudge Bench of this Court in Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka (2008) 13 SCC 767 , considering the facts of the case, set aside the sentence of death penalty and awarded the life imprisonment but further explained that in order to serve the ends of justice, the appellant therein would not be released from prison till the end of his life.	None
Similarly, in Ramraj v. State of Chhattisgarh (2010) 1 SCC 573 , this Court while setting aside the death sentence made a direction that the appellant therein would serve minimum period of 20 years including remissions earned and would not be released on completion of 14 years imprisonment.	None
Thus, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we set aside the death sentence and award life imprisonment.	None
The appellant must serve a minimum of 30 years in jail without remissions, before consideration of his case for premature release.	None
In the case of Selvam v. State (2014) 12 SCC 274 which is a case involving murder and rape of a child aged about 9 years, without interferring with the finding of conviction, this Court, in the facts and circumstances of the case and considering the evidence on record, imposed a sentence of 30 years in jail without remission.	None
In the case of Tattu Lodhi v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2016) 9 SCC 675 in a case involving kidnapping of minor girl aged about 7 years and attempt to rape and murder, in the facts of the case and the evidence on record, death sentence was modified to imprisonment for life with a direction not to release the accused from prison till he completes actual period of 25 years of imprisonment.	None
Further, in the case of Raj Kumar v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2014) 5 SCC 353 in similar circumstances, this Court has modified death sentence and awarded life imprisonment and directed the appellant therein to serve a minimum of 35 years in jail without remission.	None
Further, in the case of Anil v. State of Maharashtra (2014) 4 SCC 69 where in a case involving murder of a 10 year old boy who was subjected to carnal intercourse, this Court has held as under The legislative policy is discernible from Section 235(2) read with Section 354(3) CrPC, that when culpability assumes the proportions of depravity, the Court has to give special reasons within the meaning of Section 354(3) for imposition of death sentence.	None
A legislative policy is that when special reasons do exist, as in the instant case, the Court has to discharge its constitutional obligations and honour the legislative policy by awarding appropriate sentence, that is, the will of the people.	None
We are of the view that incarceration for a further period of thirty years, without remission, in addition to the sentence already undergone, will be an adequate punishment in the facts and circumstances of the case, rather than death sentence.	None
Ordered accordingly.	None
The learned counsel appearing for the State has placed reliance on the judgment of this Court in the case Mukesh Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. State (NCT of Delhi) Ors.	None
(2017) 6 SCC 1 known as Nirbhaya case in support of her case and submitted that applying the ratio laid down in the aforesaid judgment, the case falls in the rarest of rare cases attracting death penalty.	Arguments of Respondent
With reference to above said arguments of learned counsel for the State, it is to be noticed that the case of Mukesh (supra) is distinguishable on the facts from the case on hand.	Reasoning
It is to be noticed that Mukesh (supra) is a case of gangrape and murder of the victim and an attempt to murder of the male victim.	Reasoning
It was the specific case of the prosecution that the crimes were carried out pursuant to a conspiracy and the accused were convicted under Section 120B of the IPC apart from other offences.	Reasoning
Further, as a fact, it was found in the aforesaid case that the accusedMukesh had been involved in other criminal activity on the same night.	Reasoning
Further, it is also to be noticed that in the aforesaid case, there was a dying declaration, eye witness to the incident etc.	Reasoning
So far as the present case is concerned, it solely rests on circumstantial evidence.	Reasoning
It is the specific case of the appellant that he was denied the proper legal assistance in the matter and he is a manhole worker.	Reasoning
The appellant was aged about 50 years.	Reasoning
Further, in this case there is no finding recorded by the courts below to the effect that there is no possibility of reformation of the appellant.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the reasons assigned by the trial court as confirmed by the High Court, do not constitute special reasons within the meaning of Section 354(3) of the Cr.PC to impose death penalty on the accused.	Reasoning
Taking into account the evidence on record and the totality of the circumstances of the case, and by applying the test on the touchstone of case law discussed above, we are of the view that the case on hand will not fall within the rarest of rare cases.	Decision
In that view of the matter, we are of the view that the death sentence imposed by the trial court, as confirmed by the High Court, requires modification.	Decision
Accordingly, this appeal is allowed in part while confirming the conviction, recorded by the trial court, as confirmed by the appellate court, we modify the sentence to that of life imprisonment with actual period of 25 years, without any benefit of remission.	Decision
It is further made clear that sentences imposed for all offences shall run concurrently.	Decision
