 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated 16.08.2005 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh at Shimla, whereby and whereunder the writ petition filed by Respondent Nos. 1 to 5 herein, praying, inter alia, That the respondents may be directed to accord necessary planning permission to the petitioners for construction of hotel pursuant to Annexures PA, PB, PC PG in a time bound scheduleii) That the impugned Annexures PD, PE, PF PH, dated 24.3.1998, 1.9.1999, 6.6.2000 8.2.2002 respectively may be quashed and set aside was allowed.3.	Facts
The State of Himachal Pradesh enacted The Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning Act, 1977 (for short, the 1977 Act) to make provisions for planning and development as well as use of land to make better provision for the preparation of development plans and sectoral plans with a view to ensuring that town planning schemes are made in a proper manner and their execution is made effective to constitute the Town and Country Development Authority for proper implementation of town and country development plan, to provide for the development and administration of special areas through the Special Area Development Authority to make provisions for the compulsory acquisition of land required for the purpose of the development plans and for purposes connected with the matter aforesaid.4.	Facts
Development has been defined in Section 2(g) of the 1977 Act to mean development with its grammatical variations means the carrying out of a building, engineering, mining or other operations in, on, over or under land, or the making of any material change in any building or land, or in the use of either, and includes subdivision of any land Planning area has been defined in Section 2(o) of the 1977 Act to mean planning area means any area declared to be planning area under this Act Section 3 of the 1977 Act provides for appointment of a Director or other officers for the purpose of carrying out the functions under the provisions of the said Act.	Facts
Section 10 of the said Act provides for restriction on use of land or development thereof, subsection (3) whereof reads as under If any work is carried out in contravention of the provisions of this section, the Municipal Corporation or Municipal Committee within its such local area, and the Collector in area outside such local areas may cause such work to be removed or demolished at the cost of the defaulter, which shall be recovered from him in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.	Facts
Section 14 of the 1977 Act provides for preparation of development plans by the Director.	Facts
Section 17 provides for interim development plans, pursuant to or in furtherance whereof the interim development for the planning area has been made to which reference shall be made at an appropriate place.7.	Facts
In terms of the said provisions, an interim development plan is to be made after consultation with the local authority concerned.	Facts
Subsection (5) of Section 17 mandates the State Government to publish the interim development plan in the official gazette.8.	Facts
Chapter VI of the 1977 Act provides for control of development and use of land.	Facts
Section 25 thereof reads as under The overall control of development and the use of land in the planning area shall, as from the date of publication in the official Gazette of a notification by the State Government, vest in the Director.	Facts
Section 30 of the 1977 Act provides for an application for permission for development by a person other than Union Government, State Government, a local authority or a special authority constituted thereunder.	Facts
An application therefore is required to be filed in the office of the Director.	Facts
Section 31 provides for the mode and manner in which such application shall be governed, inter alia, stating If the Director does not communicate his decision whether to grant or refuse permission to the applicant within two months from the date of receipt of his application, such permission shall be deemed to have been granted to the applicant on the date immediately following the date of expiry of two months.	Facts
Chapter IX provides for control.	Facts
Section 76 of the 1977 Act provides for a nonobstante clause in terms whereof the Government is empowered to review plans etc.	Facts
for ensuring conformity, in the following terms Notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment for the time being in force, the State Government may, with a view to ascertaining that no repugnancy exists or arises with the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder, review the town improvement schemes, building plans or any permission for construction sanctioned or given by any authority under development plans, sanctioned under any enactment for the time being in force and may revoke, vary, or modify any scheme, plan, permission or sanction in conformity with the provisions of this Act Provided that no order under this section shall be made without giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the persons affected thereby.	Facts
The said Act, thus, provides for an overall policy to be taken by the authority as well the State Government.12.	Facts
The State of Himachal Pradesh also enacted the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (for short, the 1994 Act).	Facts
A municipal corporation constituted under the said provisions is a local authority within the meaning of the provisions of the 1977 Act.13. Section 243 of the 1994 Act provides that every person who intends to erect a building shall apply for sanction by giving notice in writing of his intention to the Commissioner in such form and containing such information as may be prescribed by the byelaws made in that behalf.	Facts
Despite the fact that the 1977 Act provides for filing of an application for a development plan, when an interim development plan has been made, the 1994 Act also provides for sanction of a building plan, if a person intends to execute any of the works specified under Section 244 of the 1994 Act.	Facts
The said provision lays down that every person who intends to execute any of the works specified therein shall apply for sanction by giving notice in writing of his intention to the Commissioner in such form and containing such information as may be prescribed by the byelaws made in that behalf.	Facts
Section 245 of the 1994 Act provides for issuance of a notice wherein the purpose for which it was intended to use the building is required to be specified in the following terms 245.(1)	Facts
A person giving the notice required by section 243 shall specify the purpose for which it is intended to use the building to which such notice relates and a person giving the notice required by section 244 shall specify whether the purpose for which the building is being used is proposed or likely to be changed by the execution of the proposed work.(2)	Facts
No notice shall be valid until the information required under subsection (1) and any further information and plans which may be required by byelaws made in this behalf have been furnished to the satisfaction of the Commissioner along with the notice.	Facts
Section 246 which provides for the power of the Commissioner to grant or refuse to grant such sanction, which is relevant for our purpose, reads as under 246(1).	None
The Commissioner shall sanction the erection of a building or the execution of a work unless such building or work would contravene any of the provisions of subsection (2) of this section or the provisions of section 250.(2)	Facts
The grounds on which the sanction of a building or work may be refused shall be the following, namely (a) that the building or work, or the use of the site for the building or work or any of the particulars comprised in the site plan, ground plan, elevation, section or specification would contravene the provisions of any byelaw made in this behalf or of any other law or rule, byelaw or order made under such other law(b) that notice for sanction does not contain the particulars or is not prepared in the manner required under the byelaws made thereunder has or have not been duly furnished(c) that any information or documents required by the Commissioner under this Act or any byelaws made thereunder has or have not been duly furnished(d) that in cases falling under section 222 lay out plans have not been sanctioned in accordance with section 223(e) that the building or work would be an encroachment on Government land or land vested in the Corporation(f) that the site of the building or work does not abut on a street or projected street and that there is no access to such building or work from any such street by a passage or pathway appertaining to such site(g) that the building or work would be in contravention of any scheme sanctioned under section 260 and(h) that a building for habitation, does not provide for a flush or a water seal latrine.(3)	Facts
The Commissioner shall communicate the sanction to the person who has given the notice and where he refuses sanction on any of the grounds specified in subsection (2) of this section or under section 250 he shall record a brief statement of his reasons for such refusal and communicate the refusal alongwith the reasons therefore to the person who has given the notice.(4)	Facts
The sanction or refusal as aforesaid shall be communicated in such manner as may be specified in the byelaws made in this behalf.	Facts
Section 247 of the 1994 Act provides for a deeming provision in the following terms 247.(1) Where within a period of sixty days after the receipt of any notice under section 243 or section 244 or of the further information, if any, required under section 245 the Commissioner does not refuse to sanction the building or work or upon refusal does not communicate the refusal to the person who has given the notice, the Commissioner shall be deemed to have accorded sanction to the building or work and person by whom the notice has been given shall be free to commence and proceed with the building or work in accordance with his intention as expressed in the notice and the documents and plans accompanying the same Provided that if it appears to the Commissioner that the site of the proposed building or work is likely to be affected by any scheme of acquisition of land for any public purpose or by any proposed regular line of a public street or extension, improvement, widening or alteration of any street, the Commissioner may withheld sanction of the building or work for such period not exceeding sixty days as he deems fit and the period of sixty says shall be deemed to commence from the date of the expiry of the period for which the sanction has been withheld.(2) Where a building or work is sanctioned or deemed to have been sanctioned by the Commissioner under subsection (1), the person who has given the notice shall be bound to erect the building or execute the work in accordance with such sanction but not so as to contravene any of the provisions of this Act or any other law or of any byelaw made thereunder.(3) If the person or any one lawfully claiming under him does not commence the erection of the building or the execution of the work within one year of the date on which the building or work is sanctioned or is deemed to have been sanctioned, he shall have to give notice under section 244, or, as the case, may be, under section 243 for fresh sanction of the building or the work and the provisions of this section shall apply in relation to such notice as they apply in relation to the original notice.(4) Before commencing the erection of a building or execution of a work within the period specified in subsection (3), the person concerned shall give notice to the Commissioner of the proposed date of the commencement of the erection of the building or the execution of the work.	Facts
Provided that if the commencement does not take place within seven days of the date so notified, the notice shall be deemed not to have been given and a fresh notice shall be necessary in this behalf.(5) Where the building plan is sanctioned or deemed to have been sanctioned, the person, at whose instance building operations are to be carried on, shall, after the excavation of the foundation and before starting construction thereon, intimate the Corporation about the excavation of the foundation.(6)	Facts
For the purpose of ascertaining, whether the strata of the land, over which a building is to be erected is geologically fit, and the building operation thereon can be carried out in accordance with the sanctioned plan, the Corporation may, within seven days from the intimation under subsection (5), cause inspection of excavated foundation to be made by such persons as it may direct, and in such manner as may be prescribed Provided that the person at whose instance the building operations are carried out shall be associated in the inspection.(7)	Facts
The persons making the inspection under subsection (6), may communicate to the person, from whom intimation under subsection (5) has been received, its views in regard to the result of such inspection and may after ascertaining the opinion of the said person, recommend to that person the action to be taken as a result of such inspection and also report to the Commissioner the action, if any, which is proposed to be taken for the purposes of implementation of any such recommendation.(8) On the receipt of the report under subsection (7), the Corporation may, within seven days from the date of intimation under subsection (5), give such direction to the person concerned, as it may deem fit.	Facts
We may, however, notice that a similar Act which was then prevailing, namely, Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1979 was repealed.17.	Facts
Respondent No.1 to 5 herein (hereinafter referred to as the respondents) intended to construct a hotel on the Mall Road in the town of Shimla.	Facts
They filed an application for grant of planning permission to the Town and Country Planning Department on 27.06.1994.	Facts
Such permission was approved by the Government of Himachal Pradesh by an order dated 16.01.1998.18.	Facts
The Executive Engineer of Respondent No.6 herein granted permission under subsection (1) of Section 31 of the 1977 Act subject inter alia, to the condition that building permission should be obtained from the local authority concerned before commencement of the development.19.	Facts
An application for sanction of the building plan in terms of the provisions of the 1994 Act and building byelaws framed thereunder was submitted by Respondent No.1 on 07.07.1999.	Facts
The Municipal Corporation, however, returned the said plans asking for certain clarifications.	Facts
Such clarifications evidently had been asked for by the appellant herein in terms of Section 246 of the 1994 Act.20.	Facts
Respondents resubmitted the plans upon purported compliance of the objections raised in the said letter dated 01.09.1999 only on 10.04.2000.	Facts
However, immediately thereafter a purported temporary freeze on construction activities in some areas appertaining to Shimla Planning Area was issued by the Government of Himachal Pradesh, stating I am directed to say that it has been decided by the Government that all development activities in banned area of Shimla planning area are to be temporarily frozen till the finalization of new guidelines to be framed by the government for these area.	Facts
In view of the above decision of the government on planning permission cases are to be approved or sent to this department till further orders.	Facts
Respondents were informed thereabout by the appellant in terms of its letter dated 06.06.2000, stating Application for construction of house submitted on 10.4.2000 by you.	Facts
On receipt of report from various departments, the case has been considered in which proposed hotel on Khasra Nos. 315, 316, 317, 318, 321, 322, 320, 310, 311, 313, 312, 319 at Talpat Cottage, Shimla Sanction has been asked for.	Facts
Hence the map with the following observations has not been considered for sanction 1.	Facts
Pucca burjirs have not been fixed at site.2.	Facts
The proposal shown with the cutting of earth more than 3.00 M in both the blocks cannot be allowed as per M.C. byelaws.3.	Facts
The proposal for machine room structure is not as per M.C. byelaw.4.	Facts
Report from ME has not been received.5.	Facts
Ground floor plan for upper Block should be shown separately with the boundary lines.6.	Facts
The proposal falls in banned area.	Facts
As per the notification received from Govt.	Facts
of H.P.	Facts
vide their letter No. PBW (BR)(B) 24(1)911 dated 17.4.2000, the development activities in banned area of Shimla planning area have been temporarily frozen.	Facts
As such the proposal cannot be considered at this stage.	Facts
Hence the plan is rejected and returned herewith.	Facts
However, a question arose as to whether the temporary freeze of development activities in the banned area of Shimla planning area was to apply in relation to the cases where the building plans had already been approved by the Government before the said date, wherefor permission had been issued to the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, in the following terms The temporary ban on development activities in the Shimla Planning Area was imposed by the Government on dated 17.04.2000.	Facts
The building plans approved by the Government before this date need not be detained.	Facts
Therefore, the building plan cases already cleared by the Government Cabinet may be processed further in accordance with the Rules and Regulations.	Facts
Before, however, the Corporation could consider the Respondents application for grant of sanction of the said development plan in terms of the 1994 Act and or building byelaws framed thereunder, a notification was issued by the State of Himachal Pradesh purported to be in terms of subsections (4) and 5 of Section 17 of the 1977 Act, making further amendments in the interim development plans which was published in the gazette on 31.03.1979 and is to the following effect All Private as well as Government construction are totally banned within the core area of Shimla Planning Area.	Facts
Only construction on old lines shall be permitted in this area with the prior approval of the State Government.	Facts
The core area shall comprise of the following Central Shimla bounded by the circular road starting from Victory Tunnel and ending at Victory Tunnel via Chotta Shimla Sanjauli and the area bounded by Mall Road starting from Railway Board Building to Ambedkar Chowk, covering Museum Hill by a road starting from Ambedkar Chowk on the north side, joining the chowk of the Indian Institute of Advance Studies and following the road joining Summer Hill post office and via upper road to Boileauganj Chowk and then joining the cart Road, along Cart Road to Victory Tunnel.(b)	Facts
No development, unless specifically permitted by the State Government shall take place in the restricted area which shall comprise of the following Yet again a notification was issued by the State of Himachal Pradesh on or about 22.08.2000 whereby and whereunder, for the existing Regulation 10.4.2(x)(a), the following was substituted 10.4.2 (x)(a), CORE AREA (i) New construction in core area shall be allowed in respect of residential buildings upto maximum two storeys and ancillary used thereto with the prior permission of the State Government.	Facts
Provided that in case of reconstruction of old structured or building shall be permitted by the State Government subject to the condition that the plinth area and number of storeys on old lines shall remain the same as were existing earlier.	Facts
Regulation 10.7 provided for a Heritage Zone, relevant clauses whereof read as under 10.7 HERITAZE ZONE (A)	Facts
No development for reconstruction unless specifically recommended by the Heritage Advisory Committee and permitted by the State Government shall take place in the Heritage Zone, which shall be comprised of the following areas, namely (i) Viceregal lodge complex Complete(ii) One building depth on either side of the road surrounding Viceregal lodge complex(iii)	Facts
One building depth on either side of the Mall road starting from the gate of Indian Institute of Advance Studies upto Chhota Shimla Chowk via State Bank of India, Scandal Point, Shimla Club and Oak Over.	Facts
In view of the aforementioned amendments in the regulation declaring core area and heritage zone within which only the respondents had filed their application for grant of sanction of the building plans, no order could be passed by the appellant.27.	Facts
In view of the aforementioned notification, the application for sanction of the building plans was ultimately rejected by the Corporation.28.	Facts
In the aforementioned premise Respondents filed a writ petition before the High Court of Himachal Pradesh at Shimla, praying for the reliefs which have been noticed hereinbefore.	Facts
By reason of the impugned judgment, a Division Bench of the said Court held that the purported declaration in relation to the core area and heritage zone would not apply in the case of the writpetitioners in view of the fact that the building plan submitted by them before the Director in terms of the provisions of the 1977 Act had already been allowed, and, thus, the same had conferred a vested right in them.	Facts
It was hence directed The respondent No. 3 shall process the resubmitted building plans furnished by the petitioners uninfluenced by the notification of the Government dated 22.8.2002.	Facts
Annexure R1/A	Facts
and on the basis of the building byelaws as were prevalent at that time, i.e. on 17.4.2000 and shall pass the order within four weeks from today.(b)	Facts
Needless to say, if any deficiency is found in the resubmitted plans, on the basis of the byelaws prevalent on 17.4.2000, the petitioner shall remove such deficiency within a week of being pointed out by the Municipal Corporation and the Commissioner in turn shall pass his orders within two weeks thereafter.(c)	Facts
In case the respondent No. 3 does not comply with the aforesaid directions within the time frame noticed above, the petitioners shall be at liberty to carry out the construction as per their resubmitted plans on 4.12.2000 in accordance with the byelaws as in force on 17.4.2000 after giving intimation to the Commissioner, Municipal Corporationrespondent No. 3 Appellant is, thus, before us challenging the aforesaid judgment.	Facts
Mr. Anil Nag, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, submitted that having regard to the aforementioned notifications dated 11.08.2000 and 22.08.2000, the impugned judgment could not have been passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. A.K. Ganguli, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, raised the following contentions i)	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to the purport and object of the 1977 Act, once a building plan is sanctioned in terms thereof, the Municipal Corporation is required to only supervise the construction thereof in exercise of its functions under the 1994 Act.ii) Being a local authority, a building plan by the State sanctioned in terms of the 1977 Act would be binding on the appellant and, thus, the same could not have rejected the functions of the appellants confined only to oversee construction of the buildingiii)	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the clarificatory circular issued by the State of Himachal Pradesh on 25.07.2000, the building plan submitted by the respondents having already been approved, the Municipal Corporation was bound to act thereupon irrespective of the effect of notification dated 10.04.2000.iv)	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, as the application for building plans was submitted on 07.07.1999, in terms of the provisions contained in Section 247 of the 1994 Act, having regard to the fact that the said application had neither been rejected nor accepted within a period of sixty days therefrom, the sanction of the plan would be deemed to have been granted.v)	Arguments of Respondent
In any view of the matter as during pendency of the writ petition, the Municipal Corporation granted sanction in favour of other applicants who were similarly situated, there is absolutely no reason as to why the respondents should have been discriminated against.vi) Appellant being a local authority was bound to act fairly, which would mean that they should have exercised their jurisdiction within a reasonable time and having not done so, it does not now lie in their mouth to rely upon the subsequent notifications issued by the State under Section 17 of the 1977 Act.vii)	Arguments of Respondent
Unnecessary delay was caused by the appellantCorporation in dealing with the respondents application for grant of sanction for the building plans.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence the original sanctioned plan was only valid for a period of three years, the same should be held to have been extended.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the 1977 Act and the 1994 Act operate in different fields and they are complementary and supplementary to each other.	None
The provisions of both the Acts can be worked out.	None
There is no conflict between the two Acts.	None
The 1977 Act deals with laying down the broad policy.	None
It provides for preparation of development plans including the internal development plans.	None
Indisputably, such development plans when made would be binding upon the local authority.	None
It may, however, be not correct to contend that despite the fact that the operation of the Acts cover two different fields, namely, the 1977 Act deals with laying down the overall policy matter and the 1994 Act deals with the grant of building plans in terms of the provisions thereof by the Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation only because sanction for development in the Mall area of the town of Shimla was granted by the State in terms of the 1977 Act, the same would mean that the same was binding upon the Municipal Corporation or that the provisions of the 1994 Act or the building byelaws were not required to be complied with at all.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore that even in the order of sanction passed in favour of the respondents by the State, a condition was imposed that before undertaking the development activities by way of erection of the building, the respondents would take the requisite sanction from the Municipal Corporation.	None
Even if such a condition had not been imposed, the provisions of the Municipal Corporation Act, as noticed hereinbefore, would operate.	None
Section 243 of the 1994 Act clearly mandates that erection of a building must precede grant of express sanction of a building plan.	None
How and in what manner the same is required to be dealt with is provided in Sections 244 and 245 of the 1994 Act.	None
Clause (a) of subsection (2) of Section 246 in no uncertain terms restrict the power of the AppellantCorporation to grant sanction for erection, inter alia, for development of an area by way of erection of a building or otherwise, not only if the same is not in conformity with the building byelaws, but also if it contravenes any other law or rules operating in the field.	None
The 1977 Act is one of such Act.	None
As noticed hereinbefore, the provisions thereof are binding upon the local authority.	None
Once the provisions thereof are held to be binding, the law made by the State by way of subordinate legislation in the form of the regulations and or notifications issued under subsections (4) and (5) of Section 17 of the 1977 Act would also be binding.	None
Indisputably, the Municipal Corporation would not have any authority to grant any sanction in violation thereof.	None
Section 247 no doubt provides for a legal fiction specifying a period of sixty days, within which the application for grant of sanction of a building plan should be granted, but the said period evidently has been considered to be providing for a reasonable period during which such application should be disposed of.	None
However, only because the period of sixty days has elapsed from the date of filing of application, the same by itself would not attract the legal fiction contained in Section 247 of the 1994 Act.	None
When such an application is attended to and the defects in the said building plans are pointed out, there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that the applicant must satisfactorily answer the queries and or remedy the defects in the building plans pointed out by the competent authority.	None
The building plans for which sanction was prayed for by the respondents, as noticed hereinbefore, had been attended to.	None
The purported defects were removed, as noticed hereinbefore only on 10.04.2000.	None
Even according to the appellantCorporation all the defects were not removed which had been pointed out by the appellantCorporation in terms of its letter dated 06.06.2000.	None
In any event, as noticed hereinbefore, the State of Himachal Pradesh imposed a temporary freeze on the development activities in the Mall area by an order dated 17.04.2000.	None
The said order was also binding upon the appellantCorporation and no permission could have been granted in favour of the respondents in violation thereof.	None
It is true, as has been contended by Mr. Ganguli, that the said purported temporary freeze on the construction activities imposed in terms of the notification dated 17.04.2000 came to be clarified by the State on or about 25.07.2000.	None
But by reason thereof, the State could not have directed the Municipal Corporation to grant sanction, as a statutory authority must be permitted to perform its statutory functions in respect whereof even any higher authority cannot issue any direction.	None
See Commissioner of Police, Bombay v. Gordhandas Bhanji AIR 1952 SC 16 and Mohinder Singh Gill and Another v. The Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi and Others  AIR 1978 SC 851 and R.S. Garg v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others (2006) 6 SCC 430 .	None
In any event, as in the meanwhile, the period for which the building plan was sanctioned by the State had expired, the question as to whether in the aforementioned fact situation obtaining, the respondents acquired any vested right despite the amendments in the regulation by defining core area and providing for the heritage zone is the issue, in our opinion, is misconceived.	None
It is now wellsettled that where a statute provides for a right, but enforcement thereof is in several stages, unless and until the conditions precedent laid down therein are satisfied, no right can be said to have been vested in the person concerned.	None
The law operating in this behalf, in our opinion is no longer res integra.	None
In Director of Public Works v. Ho Po Sang 1961 AC 901 (1961) 2 All ER 721, the Privy Council considered the said question having regard to the repealing provisions of the Landlord and Tenant Ordinance, 1947 as amended on 941957.	None
It was held that having regard to the repeal of Sections 3A to 3E, when applications remained pending, no accrued or vested right was derived.	None
It was observed therein In summary, the application of the second appellant for a rebuilding certificate conferred no right on him which was preserved after the repeal of Sections 3A to 3E, but merely conferred hope or expectation that the GovernorinCouncil would exercise his executive or ministerial discretion in his favour and the first appellant would thereafter issue a certificate.	None
Similarly, the issue by the first appellant of notice of intention to grant a rebuilding certificate conferred no right on the second appellant which was preserved after the repeal, but merely instituted a procedure whereby the matter could be referred to the GovernorinCouncil.	None
The repeal disentitled the first appellant from thereafter issuing any rebuilding certificate where the matter had been referred by petition to the GovernorinCouncil but had not been determined by the Governor.	None
See also Lakshmi Amma v. Devassy 1970 KLT 204	None
The question again came up for consideration in Howrah Municipal Corpn.	None
and Others v. Ganges Rope Co. Ltd. and Others (2004) 1 SCC 663 , wherein this Court categorically held The context in which the respondent Company claims a vested right for sanction and which has been accepted by the Division Bench of the High Court, is not a right in relation to ownership or possession of any property for which the expression vest is generally used.	None
What we can understand from the claim of a vested right set up by the respondent Company is that on the basis of the Building Rules, as applicable to their case on the date of making an application for sanction and the fixed period allotted by the Court for its consideration, it had a legitimate or settled expectation to obtain the sanction.	None
In our considered opinion, such settled expectation, if any, did not create any vested right to obtain sanction.	None
True it is, that the respondent Company which can have no control over the manner of processing of application for sanction by the Corporation cannot be blamed for delay but during pendency of its application for sanction, if the State Government, in exercise of its rulemaking power, amended the Building Rules and imposed restrictions on the heights of buildings on G.T. Road and other wards, such settled expectation has been rendered impossible of fulfilment due to change in law.	None
The claim based on the alleged vested right or settled expectation cannot be set up against statutory provisions which were brought into force by the State Government by amending the Building Rules and not by the Corporation against whom such vested right or settled expectation is being sought to be enforced.	None
The vested right or settled expectation has been nullified not only by the Corporation but also by the State by amending the Building Rules.	None
Besides this, such a settled expectation or the socalled vested right cannot be countenanced against public interest and convenience which are sought to be served by amendment of the Building Rules and the resolution of the Corporation issued thereupon.	None
In Union of India and Others v. Indian Charge Chrome and Another (1999) 7 SCC 314 , yet again this Court emphasized The application has to be decided in accordance with the law applicable on the date on which the authority granting the registration is called upon to apply its mind to the prayer for registration In S.B. International Ltd. v. Asstt.	None
Director General of Foreign Trade (1996) 2 SCC 439 , this Court repelled a contention that the authorities cannot take advantage of their own wrong viz.	None
delay in issuing the advance licence, stating We have mentioned hereinbefore that issuance of these licences is not a formality nor a mere ministerial function but that it requires due verification and formation of satisfaction as to compliance with all the relevant provisions.	None
See also Kuldeep Singh v. Govt.	None
of NCT of Delhi (2006) 5 SCC 702 Mr. Ganguli, however, submitted that whereas in the case of State of West Bengal etc. v. Terra Firma Investment Trading Pvt. Ltd. etc., (1995) 1 SCC 125 , the amended statute itself provided for rejection of all pending applications, no such provision has been laid down in the notification and, thus, the said decision is distinguishable.	None
Ganges Rope Co. Ltd. (supra) was also sought to be distinguished by Mr. Ganguli, submitting (i) in the Howrah Municipal Corporation Act, 1980 there was no deeming provision (ii) the said law had been amended and (iii) therein the statute used the word ordinarily.	None
It is difficult to agree with the aforementioned contention of the learned Senior Counsel.	None
There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that an owner of a property is entitled to enjoy his property and all the rights pertaining thereto.	None
The provisions contained in a statute like the 1994 Act and the building byelaws framed thereunder, however, provide for regulation in relation to the exercise and use of such right of an owner of a property.	None
Such a regulatory statute must be held to be reasonable as the same is enacted in public interest.	None
Although a deeming provision has been provided in subsection (1) of Section 247 of the 1994 Act, the same will have restricted operation.	None
In terms of the said provision, the period of sixty days cannot be counted from the date of the original application, when the building plans had been returned to the applicant necessary clarification and or compliance of the objections raised therein.	None
If no sanction can be granted, when the building plan is not in conformity with the building byelaws or has been made in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the laws, in our opinion, the restriction would not apply despite the deeming provision.	None
A legal fiction, as is wellknown, must be construed having regard to the purport and object of the Act for which the same was enacted.	None
See IshikawajmaHarima Heavy Industries Ltd. v. Director of Income Tax, Mumbai 2007 (1) SCALE 140	None
Para 36.	None
It is in the light of the aforementioned principle that the question as to whether the respondents had acquired any vested right or not must be considered.	None
Strong reliance, in this behalf, has been placed by Mr. Ganguli on a decision of the Division Bench of this Court in Live Oak Resort (P) Ltd. and Another v. Panchgani Hill Station Municipal Council and Another (2001) 8 SCC 329 .	None
The said decision was rendered on its own facts.	None
In that case a building plan had been granted construction had been started in terms of the building plan as also the rules which were applicable at the relevant point of time.	None
The question which arose for consideration therein was as to whether a subsequent amendment to the rules, in respect of additional FSI shall have any effect on the sanctioned building plan, it was contended that keeping in view the environmental question, the same will have not.	None
The said decision having been rendered in the fact situation obtaining therein, which has no similarity to the facts of the present case, which in our opinion, cannot be said to have any application whatsoever.	None
The submission of Mr. Ganguli that despite expiry of the period of sanction of the development plan by the State under the 1977 Act, the same should be held to be extended, in our opinion, cannot be accepted.	None
Reliance has been placed by Mr. Ganguli on M.C. Mehta (Badkhal and Suraj Kund Lakes Matter) v. Union of India and Others (1997) 3 SCC 715 .	None
Therein, it was held No construction of any type shall be permitted, now onwards, in the areas outside the green belt (as shown in Ex.	None
A and Ex. B) up to one km radius of the Badhkal lake and Surajkund (one km to be measured from the respective lakes).	None
This direction shall, however, not apply to the plots already sold allotted prior to 1051996 in the developed areas.	None
If any unallotted plots in the said areas are still available, those may be sold with the prior approval of the Authority.	None
Any person owning land in the area may construct a residential house for his personal use and benefit.	None
The construction of the said plots, however, can only be permitted up to two and a half storeys (ground, first floor and second half floor) subject to the Building Byelaws Rules operating in the area.	None
The residents of the villages, if any, within this area may extend reconstruct their houses for personal use but the said construction shall not be permitted beyond two and a half storeys subject to Building Byelaws Rules.	None
Any building house commercial premises already under construction on the basis of the sanctioned plan, prior to 1051996 shall not be affected by this direction The restriction therein was imposed by the court, which was a judgemade law and not a statute law.	None
Relaxation, therefore, was granted keeping in view the rights of the parties in terms of the order passed by the court.	None
However, in this case, we are bound by the provisions contained in a statute.	None
In T. Vijayalakshmi and Others v. Town Planning Member and Another (2006) 8 SCC 502 , although exercise of jurisdiction by a statutory authority within a reasonable time has been emphasized, but there again the applicability of existing law has been emphasized referring to Ganges Rope Co. Ltd. (supra) and Ho Po Sang (supra).	None
The said decision was rendered having regard to the fact that only a proposal of amendment was made, and no amendment as such had come into effect.	None
A right of a citizen under a statute, therefore, could not have been taken away only because a proposal was in the offing.	None
In that case, the State had not given its final approval having regard to the development of the plan.	None
The said decision, therefore, cannot be said to have any application in the instant case.	None
Furthermore, since special regulations have been framed in the town of Shimla, the core area as provided for in the regulation is required to be protected.	None
The area in question has been declared to be a heritage zone, and hence no permission to raise any construction can be issued, which would violate the ecology.	Reasoning
Such regulations have been framed in public interest.	Reasoning
Public interest, as is wellknown, must override the private interest.	Reasoning
See Friends Colony Development Committee v. State of Orissa and Others AIR 2005 SC 1 para 22.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained, which is set aside accordingly.	Decision
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
