 	None
S. Singhvi, J. This appeal is directed against the judgment of the Division Bench of Calcutta High Court whereby it declined to entertain the appeal filed by the appellant under Section 11(1)(f) of the West Bengal Premises Requisition and Control Act, 1947 (for short, the Act) against award dated 1.1.2003 passed by the Arbitrator under Section 11(1)(e).	Facts
The premises belonging to respondent No. 1 (covered area measuring 11,900 sq. feet and open space measuring 10,620 sq. feet) situated at N.S.C. Bose Road, Tollygunge, Calcutta was requisitioned by the State Government under Section 3 of the Act.	None
After taking possession of the requisitioned premises, the State Government transferred the same to the appellant.	None
Since the amount of compensation payable to respondent No. 1 in lieu of the requisition of its property could not be fixed by agreement, the State Government appointed an Arbitrator under Section 11(1)(b) of the Act.	Facts
Though, the appellant had no role to play in the matter of determination of compensation payable to respondent No. 1, on being asked by 1st Land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta, the appellant got itself impleaded as party in the arbitration proceedings.	None
By an award dated 1.1.2003, the Arbitrator held that the State Government is liable to pay as compensation Rs. 1,60,21,126/ for the covered area and Rs.	None
54,82,076/ for the open space with interest at the rate of 18 per annum.	None
During the pendency of the arbitration proceedings, the appellant represented to the State Government for appointment of a new Arbitrator by asserting that a retired judicial officer cannot be appointed to act as an Arbitrator.	Facts
Thereupon, Assistant Secretary, Land and Land Reforms Department, who might not have been aware of the factum of passing of award by the Arbitrator on 1.1.2003, sent letter dated 10.1.2003 to the Managing Director of the appellant that the judicial department of the Government had already been approached for appointment of a new Arbitrator.	Facts
However, no further action appears to have been taken by the State Government for appointment of new Arbitrator.	None
After obtaining a copy of the award, the appellant filed an appeal under Section 11(1)(f), which was dismissed by the Division Bench of the High Court by observing that the appellant cannot be treated as a person interested in the compensation payable on account of requisition of the premises.	Facts
The Division Bench referred to Section 6 of the Act and held that a person acquiring interest in the property does not have the right to participate in the arbitration proceedings or file an appeal against the award.	Facts
Mr. S.B. Upadhyay, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant argued that the Division Bench of the High Court committed serious error by refusing to entertain the appeal ignoring that the appellant falls within the definition of the expression person interested contained in Section 2(d) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior Counsel submitted that any person who is or is likely to be adversely affected by the award of the Arbitrator would fall within the ambit of that expression and such person is entitled to challenge the award of the Arbitrator by filing an appeal under Section 11(1)(f).	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior Counsel further submitted that the appellant cannot be denied the right to challenge the award because it may have to reimburse the amount payable to respondent No. 1 in terms of the award.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his arguments, the learned Senior Counsel relied upon the judgment of this Court in U.P. Awas	Arguments of Petitioner
Evam Vikas Parishad v. Gyan Devi, (1995) 2 SCC 326.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. A.K. Ganguli, learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondent No. 1 argued that the High Court did not commit any error by non suiting the appellant because it is not covered by the definition of the expression person interested.	None
Learned Senior Counsel submitted that transfer of possession of the requisitioned premises to the appellant does not make the appellant a person interested in the amount of compensation payable to respondent No. 1 and it has no right to challenge the award of the Arbitrator.	None
Mr. Ganguli distinguished the judgment of this Court in U.P. Awas	Arguments of Respondent
Evam Vikas Parishad v. Gyan Devi (supra) by pointing out that definition of the expression person interested contained in Section 3(b) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (for short, the 1894 Act) is inclusive whereas the definition of the said expression contained in Section 2(d) of the Act is exhaustive.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the respective submissions.	None
Sections 2(d), 3(1), 6, 11, 12 and 13 of the Act and Rules 7, 8, 9, 10, 13 and 15 of the Rules, which have bearing on the decision of this appeal read as under The W.B. Premises Requisition and Control Act, 1947 DefinitionsIn this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context(d) persons interested means any person claiming an interest in compensation payable on account of requisition of any premises under this Act3.	None
Power to requisition(1)	None
Whenever it appears to the State Government that any premises in any locality are needed or are likely to be needed for any public purpose, it may, by order in writing, requisition such premises either with or without any or all of the furniture, if any, in such premisesProvided that no premises exclusively used for the purpose of religious worship shall be requisitioned under this section.6.	None
Disposal of premises after requisition When any premises have been requisitioned under Subsection (1) of Section 3, the State Government may use or deal with them, for such public purpose and in such manner as may appear to it to be expedient.11.	None
Procedure for fixing compensation(1) Where any premises are requisitioned under this Act, there shall be paid to all persons interested compensation the amount of which shall be determined in the manner, and in accordance with the principles hereinafter set out, namely(a) where the amount of compensation can be fixed by agreement, it shall be paid in accordance with such agreement(b) where no such agreement can be reached, the State Government shall appoint a District Judge or an Additional District Judge as Arbitrator(c) the State Government may, in any particular case, nominate a person having expert knowledge as to the nature of the premises requisitioned, to assist the Arbitrator, and where such nomination is made, the person to be compensated may also nominate an assessor for the said purpose(d) at the commencement of the proceedings before the Arbitrator, the State Government and the person to be compensated shall state what in their respective opinions is a fair amount of compensation(e) the Arbitrator shall, in determining the amount of compensation to be awarded to the landlord, have regard to the matters referred to in Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 12(f) an appeal shall lie to the High Court against an award of an Arbitrator.12.	None
Matters to be considered in fixing compensation by agreement In determining the amount of compensation which may be fixed by agreement under Clause (a) of Subsection (1) of Section 11, the Collector shall take into consideration(a) the rent payable in respect of the premises including where the premises are requisitioned with any furniture therein, the charges for the use of such furniture(b) if, in consequence of the requisition of the premises, the person interested is compelled to change his residence or place of business or to remove his furniture or other articles to any other place, the reasonable expenses (if any) incidental to such change or removal, and(c) the damage or loss of income (if any) sustained by the person interested between the date of service of the order under Subsection (1) or under Clause (b) of Subsection (3) of Section 3, as the case may be, on such person and the date when the Collector takes possession of the premises.13.	None
Persons with whom agreement is to be entered into The Collector shall enquire into the respective rights of all persons interested in the premises and shall decide whether the compensation shall be paid to any such person periodically or in lump.	None
The compensation is to be paid periodically the Collector shall, having regard to the terms and conditions under which the premises may have been let out to a tenant, also decide whether the agreement for payment of compensation referred to in Section 11 shall be entered into with such tenant or with the immediate landlord of such tenant.	Reasoning
RulesR. 7.	None
The appointment of an Arbitrator under Clause (b) of Subsection (1) of Section 11 shall be made by the State Government by a notification in the Calcutta Gazette to exercise jurisdiction over any specified area or in respect of any specified case or cases.	None
R. 8.	None
Where the amount of compensation payable under Section 11 cannot be fixed by agreement any person interested may make an application to the Collector for referring the case to arbitration with the necessary written statement of his claim.	Reasoning
The Collector shall on receipt of such application refer the case with all relevant papers to the Arbitrator and give an intimation of such reference having been made to the person or persons interested and the State Government.	Reasoning
Where no such application is made by any person interested within a reasonable time, the Collector himself shall refer the case to the Arbitrator and give an intimation of such reference having been made to the person or persons interested and to the State Government.	None
R. 9.	None
Where the State Government nominates a person having expert knowledge as to the nature of the requisitioned premises to assist the Arbitrator the State Government shall inform the Arbitrator of such nomination.	Reasoning
On receipt of the intimation, the Arbitrator shall inform the person or persons interested about the nomination with a view to enabling such person or persons to nominate an Assessor under Clause (c) of Subsection (1) of Section 11.	None
The nomination of an Assessor shall be made within fifteen days of receipt of the information.	None
R. 10.	None
The person to be nominated under Clause 1(c) of Subsection (1) of Section 11 by the State Government and the Assessor to be nominated under the said clause by the person or persons interested such assistance may be given such fees as may be fixed by the State Government in each case.	None
R. 13.	None
When the Arbitrator has made his award, he shall sign it and shall give notice in writing of the making and signing thereof to the parties to the reference.	None
He shall also send to the Collector as well as to the person or persons interested a copy of the award with a note appended thereto setting forth the grounds on which the award is based and shall also forward to the Collector the awards in original with the records of the proceedings.	None
R. 15.	None
Any appeal against an award of the Arbitrator shall be preferred within six weeks from the date of receipt by the Collector or by the party by whom the appeal is preferred of the copy of the award sent under Rule 13Provided that any such appeal may be admitted even if preferred after the said period of six weeks when the appellant satisfies the High Court that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the said period.	None
An analysis of the above reproduced provisions shows that in terms of Section 3, the State Government can requisition any premises needed or likely to be needed for any public purpose.	Reasoning
Section 6 provides for disposal of premises after the same are requisitioned under Section 3(1).	Reasoning
Under that section, the State Government has been bestowed with the power to use or deal with the requisitioned premises for the specified public purpose.	Reasoning
Section 11(1) postulates payment of compensation for the requisitioned premises.	Reasoning
The amount of compensation is required to be determined by either of the two modes prescribed therein.	Reasoning
If the parties voluntarily enter into an agreement on the quantum of compensation, the amount is to be paid in accordance with such agreement.	Reasoning
If there is a tenant in the requisitioned premises then in terms of Section 13 the Collector is required to decide whether the agreement for payment of compensation shall be entered into with the tenant or with the immediate landlord of such tenant.	Reasoning
In case the parties cannot agree on the quantum of compensation, the State Government is required to appoint a District Judge or an Additional District Judge as an Arbitrator and notify the same in the Official Gazette Section 11(1)(b) and Rule 7.	Reasoning
Rule 8 provides that where the amount of compensation payable under Section 11 cannot be fixed by agreement, any person interested can make an application to the Collector for referring the case to arbitration.	Reasoning
Thereupon, the Collector is obliged to refer the case to the Arbitrator and give an intimation to the person or persons interested and the State Government.	Reasoning
Where no such application is made within a reasonable time, the Collector can suo motu refer the case to the Arbitrator and give the required intimation.	Reasoning
In terms of Clause (c) of Section 11(1), the State Government is empowered to nominate a person having expert knowledge about the nature of the premises requisitioned to assist the Arbitrator.	Reasoning
In that event, a corresponding right is available to the person to be compensated to nominate an assessor.	Reasoning
At the commencement of the proceedings before the Arbitrator, the State Government and the person entitled to receive compensation are required to state their respective opinions as to the fair amount of compensation Section 11(1)(d).	Reasoning
Thereafter, the Arbitrator has to determine the amount of compensation keeping in view the matters enumerated in Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 12.	Reasoning
Once the award is made and signed, the Arbitrator has to inform the parties to the reference by sending a notice in writing and also send copies of the award to the Collector and the person or persons interested (Rule 13).11.	Reasoning
What is most significant to note is that neither at the stage of fixing the amount of compensation by agreement nor at the time of appointment of Arbitrator, the State Government is required to consult any person including beneficiary of the requisition.	Reasoning
The only person with whom the State Government is required to negotiate the amount of compensation is the one whose premises are requisitioned.	Reasoning
An application for reference of the case to the Arbitrator can be made only by a person who was a party to the unsuccessful exercise undertaken for fixing the amount of compensation by agreement.	Reasoning
If the State Government nominates a person having expert knowledge as to the nature of the requisitioned premises to assist the Arbitrator, a corresponding right is available to the person whose premises are requisitioned to nominate an assessor.	Reasoning
In terms of Section 11(1)(d), only the State Government and the person to be compensated have the right to state their respective opinions as to the fair amount of compensation.	Reasoning
The person to whom the requisitioned premises are transferred has no role in any one of these matters.	Reasoning
The use of expression the person to be compensated in Clauses (c) and (d) of Section 11(1) clinches the issue.	None
A person like the appellant certainly does not fall in the category of the person to be compensated.12.	Reasoning
As a sequel to the above, it must be held that a person for whose benefit the premises are requisitioned or to whom the requisitioned premises are transferred does not have any locus to participate in the process of determination of compensation by agreement, or in the matter of appointment of an Arbitrator or reference of case to the Arbitrator or nomination of an Assessor.	Reasoning
A person like the appellant can neither submit opinion under Section 11(1)(d) as to the fair amount of compensation nor the Arbitrator is obliged to give notice and opportunity of hearing to such person under Section 11(1)(e) read with Section 12(a), (b) or (c).	Reasoning
Therefore, such person is neither entitled to copy of the award as of right nor he can challenge the award by filing an appeal under Section 11(1)(f) and the High Court did not commit any error by declaring that the appeal filed by the appellant was not maintainable.	Reasoning
Section 3(b) of the 1894 Act, which also contains definition of the expression person interested and which was interpreted by the Constitution Bench in U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad v. Gyan Devi (supra), reads as under 3(b).	None
the expression person interested includes all persons claiming an interest in compensation to be made on account of the acquisition of land under this Act and a person shall be deemed to be interested in land if he is interested in an easement affecting the land.	None
A comparative study of the two definitions of expression person interested, one contained in Section 3(b) of the 1894 Act and the other contained in Section 2(d) of the Act shows that while the first definition is inclusive, the second definition is exhaustive.	None
The difference between exhaustive and inclusive definitions has been explained in P. Kasilingam v. P.S.G. College of Technology, (1995) 2 SCC (Suppl.)	None
348 in the following words A particular expression is often defined by the Legislature by using the word means or the word includes.	None
Sometimes the words means and includes are used.	None
The use of the word means indicates that definition is a hard and fast definition, and no other meaning can be assigned to the expression than is put down in definition see Gough v. Gough Punjab Land Development and Reclamation Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Presiding Officer, Labour Court.	None
The word includes when used, enlarges the meaning of the expression defined so as to comprehend not only such things as they signify according to their natural import but also those things which the clause declares that they shall include.	None
The words means and includes, on the other hand, indicate an exhaustive explanation of the meaning which, for the purposes of the Act, must invariably be attached to these words or expressions (see	None
Dilworth v. Commissioner of Stamps (Lord Watson)	None
Mahalakshmi Oil Mills v. State of A.P The use of the words means and includes in Rule 2(b) would, therefore, suggest that the definition of college is intended to be exhaustive and not extensive and would cover only the educational institutions falling in the categories specified in Rule 2(b) and other educational institutions are not comprehended.	None
Insofar as engineering colleges are concerned, their exclusion may be for the reason that the opening and running of the private engineering colleges are controlled through the Board of Technical Education and Training and the Director of Technical Education in accordance with the directions issued by the AICTE from time to time.	None
In Bharat Cooperative Bank (Mumbai) Ltd.v.	None
Employees Union, IX (2007)	None
SLT 765(2007) 4 SCC 685 , this Court again considered the difference between the inclusive and exhaustive definitions and observed When in the definition clause given in any statute the word means is used, what follows is intended to speak exhaustively.	None
When the word means is used in the definition it is a hardandfast definition and no meaning other than that which is put in the definition can be assigned to the same.	None
On the other hand, when the word includes is used in the definition, the Legislature does not intend to restrict the definition it makes the definition enumerative but not exhaustive.	None
That is to say, the term defined will retain its ordinary meaning but its scope would be extended to bring within it matters, which in its ordinary meaning may or may not comprise.	None
Therefore, the use of the word means followed by the word includes in the definition of banking company in Section 2(bb) of the ID Act is clearly indicative of the legislative intent to make the definition exhaustive and would cover only those banking companies which fall within the purview of the definition and no other.	None
In N.D.P. Namboodripadv.	None
Union of India, V (2007)	None
SLT 111(2007) 4 SCC 502 , the Court observed The word includes has different meanings in different contexts.	None
Standard dictionaries assign more than one meaning to the word include.	None
Websters Dictionary defines the word include as synonymous with comprise or contain.	None
Illustrated Oxford Dictionary defines the word include as (i) comprise or reckon in as a part of a whole (ii) treat or regard as so included.	None
Collins Dictionary of English Language defines the word includes as (i) to have as contents or part of the contents be made up of or contain (ii) to add as part of something else put in as part of a set, group or a category (iii) to contain as a secondary or minor ingredient or element.	None
It is no doubt true that generally when the word include is used in a definition clause, it is used as a word of enlargement, that is to make the definition extensive and not restrictive.	None
But the word includes is also used to connote a specific meaning, that is, as means and includes or comprises or consists of.	None
In Hamdard (Wakf) Laboratories v. Dy.	None
Labour Commissioner, IX (2007)	None
SLT 156(2007) 5 SCC 281 , it was held as under When an interpretation clause uses the word includes, it is prima facie extensive.	None
When it uses the word means and includes, it will afford an exhaustive explanation to the meaning which for the purposes of the Act must invariably be attached to the word or expression.	None
The judgment in U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad v.Gyan Devi (supra) is clearly distinguishable.	Reasoning
The question which fell for consideration of the Constitution Bench was whether the appellant was entitled to participate in the proceedings of the Tribunal constituted under Section 64 of the Uttar Pradesh Awas and Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965 and lead evidence on the issue of payment of compensation to the land owners.	Reasoning
After adverting to the definition of person interested contained in Section 3(b), Sections 11, 17, 18 and 50 of the 1894 Act, as amended in 1984, and making a reference to an earlier judgment in Himalayan Tiles and Marble (P) Ltd. v. Francis Victor Coutinho, (1980) 3 SCC 223 , this Court held that local authority is entitled to be impleaded as a party in the proceedings before the Reference Court and in case the amount of compensation is enhanced by the Court, the local authority can file an appeal with the leave of the Court subject to the condition that no appeal is filed by the Government.	Reasoning
The ratio of this decision cannot be invoked for declaring that the appellant falls within the definition of the expression person interested within the meaning of Section 2(d) of the Act and is entitled to challenge the award of the Arbitrator because the definition which was interpreted by the Constitution Bench was inclusive and not exhaustive.	Reasoning
The other judgments in which Section 3(b) of the 1894 Act is interpreted are likewise not relevant for deciding the issue raised in this case.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is dismissed.	Decision
The parties are left to bear their own costs.	Decision
