 B. Sinha, J. The claimant is in appeal before us being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment and award dated 10th April, 1996 passed by the High Court of Gauhati in M.A. (F) No. 208 of 1994 modifying an award passed by the motor Accidents Claims Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal), Shillong in M.A.C. Case No. 20 of 1991.2.	Issue
The basic fact of the matter is not in dispute.	None
The husband of the appellant herein late (Dr.) Ramani Kanta Bezbaruah met with a fatal accident on 13th November, 1990 while he was proceeding on a scooter whence a jeep bearing registration	Facts
No. MLK5548 dashed against it.	Facts
The claimant claimed compensation for a sum of Rs.	Facts
27,46,000/ before the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal, however, having regard to the deceaseds salary which at the relevant point of time was Rs. 3500/ per month, calculated the monthly dependency at Rs. 1700/.	Facts
The Tribunal calculated the life expectancy of the deceased to be 65 years, and the age of the deceased at the time of accident being 40 years, applied 15 as multiplier.	Facts
However, from the said amount, 20 was directed to be deducted towards uncertainty of life as well as 10 for getting the lump sum amount and thus on that basis of the amount of compensation which would have otherwise come to Rs. 3,06,000/ was reduced to Rs. 2,14,200/.	Facts
A sum of Rs. 3,000/ was, however, awarded as expenses incurred by the family for the treatment of the deceased, and travelling expenses etc.	Facts
A further sum of Rs. 3,000/ was awarded by way of loss of consortium, Rs. 6000/ towards the expenses of cremation, Rs. 3,000/ for loss of love and affection.	Facts
On the said basis a total compensation of Rs. 2,50,200/ was awarded.	Facts
It was further directed that the awarded amount be paid to the claimants with interest at the rate of 6 per annum.	Facts
The High Court in appeal, however, held that having regard to the income of the deceased, which was Rs. 3500/ per month, the loss of dependency should be enhanced to the tune of Rs. 2,000/ per month.	Facts
So far as rate of interest is concerned, the same was also directed to be enhanced to 8 per annum from the date of filing of the claim till the date of the receipt of the awarded amount.3.	Facts
Mr. A.P. Mohanty, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant raised two contentions in support of this appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would firstly submit that the rate of interest prevailing at the relevant time being 10, the High Court erred in granting interest at the rate of 8 per annum.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel in support of the said contentions relied upon R.L. Gupta and others vs. Jupitor General Insurance Company and others (1990) 1 SCC 356 ), Kaushnuma Begum (Smt.) and others vs. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. and others (2001) 2 SCC 9 ) and United India Insurance Co. Ltd. and others vs. Patricia Jean Mahajan and others (2002) 6 SCC 281 ).4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would next contend as the appellant was earning about Rs. 3500/ per month, i.e. Rs. 42,000/ per year, upon deducting one third thereof from the said amount, a sum of Rs. 28,000/ per annum should have been held to the loss of dependency and in that view of the matter the amount of compensation should have been calculated by applying multiplier of 16 as the age of the deceased at the time of the accident was 40 years.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ashok Bhan, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, would submit that in a case of this nature awarding of interest at the rate of 9 would be fair having regard to the decision of this Court in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel, would further draw our attention to the fact that multiplier of 10 was applied in that case.6.	Arguments of Respondent
The question as to what should be rate of interest, in the opinion of this Court, would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
Award of interest would normally depend upon the bank rate prevailing at the relevant time.	None
In R.L. Gupta (supra), interest at the rate of 12 was awarded.	None
However, no reason has been assigned in support thereof.	None
In Kaushnuma Begum (supra) the amount of compensation was directed to be paid with interest at the rate of 9 per cent annum from the date of claim.	None
The same rate of interest was awarded, as noticed hereinafter, in the case of United India Insurance Co. Ltd. (supra).	None
We are of the opinion that the amount of interest should, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, be paid at the rate of 9 per annum.10.	Reasoning
The structured formula base has been set out in the Second Schedule to the Motor Vehicles Act.	Reasoning
It is now a well settled principle of law that the payment of compensation on the basis of structured formula as provided for under the Second Schedule should not ordinarily be deviated from.	None
Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act lays down the guidelines for determination of the amount of compensation in terms of Section 166 thereof.	None
Deviation of the structured formula, however, as has been held by this Court, may be resorted to in exceptional cases.	None
Furthermore, the amount of compensation should be just and fair in the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
The victim at the relevant time was 40 years of age.	Reasoning
The Tribunal and the High Court, therefore, cannot be said to have committed an error in applying the multiplier of 15.	Reasoning
The only question which is required to be considered now is as to how the multiplicand should be arrived at.13.	Reasoning
The deceased at the time of accident was a young man.	Reasoning
He had a stable job.	Reasoning
A reasonably liberal view of his future prospects should have, therefore, been taken into consideration by the High Court as well as by the Tribunal.14.	Reasoning
Having regard to the prospects and advancement of the future career, a higher estimate of the yearly income at Rs. 45,000/ would not be out of place.	Reasoning
From the said amount, onethird of the gross income towards personal living expenses should be deducted.	Reasoning
The amount of Rs. 30,000/ should, thus be determined as the loss of dependency.	Reasoning
The said sum should be capitalized by applying the multiplier of 15, which comes to Rs. 4,50,000/.	Reasoning
This appeal is allowed in part to the extent mentioned hereinbefore.16.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
JUDGMENT R. Lakshmanan, J. While concurring with the conclusion arrived at by my esteemed Brother, I would like to add the following few lines.	None
Three decisions were cited before us by Mr. A.P. Mohanty, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, in support of his contentions.	None
No ratio has been laid down in any of the decisions in regard to the rate of interest and the rate of interest was awarded on the amount of compensation as a matter of judicial discretion.	None
The rate of interest must be just and reasonable depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case and taking all relevant factors including inflation, change of economy, policy being adopted by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time, how long the case is pending, permanent injuries suffered by the victim, enormity of suffering, loss of future income, loss of enjoyment of life, etc., into consideration.	None
No rate of interest is fixed under Section 171 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.	None
Varying rates of interest are being awarded by Tribunals, High Courts and the Supreme Court.	None
Interest can be granted even if claimant does not specifically plead for the same as it is consequential in the eye of law.	None
Interest is compensation for forbearance or detention of money and that interest being awarded to a party only for being kept him out of the money which ought to have been paid to him.	None
No principle could be deduced nor any rate of interest can be fixed to have a general application in motor accident claim cases having regard to nature of provision under Section 171 giving discretion to Tribunal in such matter.	None
In other matters, awarding of interest depends upon the statutory provisions, mercantile usage and doctrine of equity.	None
Neither Section 34 CPC nor Section 4A(3) of the Workmens Compensation Act are applicable in the matter of fixing rate of interest in a claim under the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
The courts have awarded the interest at different rates depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
Therefore, in my opinion, there cannot be any hard and fast rule in awarding interest and the award of interest is solely on the discretion of the Tribunal or the High Court as indicated above.	None
