 KRISHNA IYER, J.1.	None
The diehard taxfee dilemma survives, as these appeals, by special leave, attest, long after this Court has dispelled the fiscallegal confusion on the point in a series of rulings.	None
The cases before us were provoked by a sudden escalation of licence fee imposed on all homelier by the common appellant, the Maduari Municipal Council (now it is a Corporation, but that makes no difference) (Council, for short).	Facts
The scale of fees which, perhaps, merely defrayed the cost of issuing the licence, was moderate to begin with and paid periodically by the respondents who run hotels within the municipal limits but their present grievance is that the resolution of December 28, 1965, whereby a sharp spurt in the rates of fee was Cr brought about, has been tainted with unconstitutionality.2.	Facts
The authority, to justify the levy qua fee, must render some special services to the category from whom the amount is exacted and the total sum so collected must have a reasonable correlation to the cost of such services.	None
Where these dual basic features are absent, you cannot legally claim from the licensee under the label fee.3.	None
This Court has, as late as the Salvation Army Case (1975 1. S. C. C. 509.) set out the tests beyond doubt.	None
When the respondents (writ petitioners) challenged the fee raise, the plea in defence first was that the impost was a fee strictly so called, that it was requited by adequate benefits and that the larger layout on the inspecting staff and allied items, both necessitated and validated the new increase.	None
However, on later and better reflection, may be, the inspirational source for which was stated to be this Courts pronouncement in the Liberty Cinema Case(1965 2 S. C. R. 477.), the Council rightly abandoned the feecumquid pro quo formula and anchored itself on the right to exact the higher rate as a tax on land and building under Entry 49 of List II, in the Seventh Schedule, read with s. 321(2) of the Madras District Municipalities Act, 1920 (for short, the Act).	None
This volte face as it were, was not objected to by the opposite party and the writ petitions and writ appeals were disposed of on that footing.	None
The learned Single Judge upheld the levy but the appellate Bench upset it.	None
The appellant Council has journeyed to this Court to repair the blow on its revenue since there are 1, 200 and odd hotelkeepers similarly situated in the Madurai Municipal limits, although only four have figured as respondents here.	None
The financial dimension of the decision is, indeed, considerable.	None
Shri Chellaswamy, counsel for the Council, has been refreshingly fair in his submissions and consistently with the case urged in the High Court to support the levy, has grounded his defence of the feehike on the taxing power of the municipal body under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The core of the matter, therefore, is whether the context and text of the statute and other surrounding circumstances warrant the validation of the levy as a tax in essence, be its name what it may.4.	None
Let us formulate the problems for facility of logical handling.	None
Agreed, as both parties now are, that this licence fee stands or falls as a tax, the principal question is whether the fee provided for in s. 321(2) of the Act, under which it is collected, is a tax at all, having regard to the anatomy of the Act.	None
If it can be so regarded, t he next point is whether Entry 49 of List II can bring within its constitutional compass the licence fee for running a hotel trade.	None
Thirdly, if that is permissible, are there other incurable infirmities ?	None
These apart, some matters of subsidiary moment do arise and may be considered in the appropriate sequence.5.	None
The initial terminological hurdle in the way of the appellant is that s. 321(2) of the Act authorizes the collection of a licence fee in contradistinction to property tax in s. 78 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
(cf.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ajoy Kumar v. Local Board(1965 3 S.C.R. 47.).	None
Naturally, Shri A. K. Sen, counsel for the con testants, insisted that the Act had made a deliberate dichotomy between the two types of levy, placed them subjectwise in different parts of the statute and meaningfully referred to them as tax and fee in ss. 78 and 321(2), respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel for the appellant, relying on certain passages in Liberty Cinema, (supra) desired us to slur over the verbal error.	None
True, mere nomenclature cannot, without more, lead to rejection of the plea of tax, though it is a relevant factor, since, to some extent, Liberty Cinema (supra) has whittled down the efficacy of this circumstance.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court there observed, at p. 483Now, on the first question, that is, whether the levy is in return for services, it is said that it is so because s. 548 (of Calcutta Municipal Act 33 of 1951) uses the word fee.	None
But, surely, nothing t urns on the words used.	None
The word fee cannot be said to have acquired a rigid technical meaning in the English language indicating only a levy in return for services.	None
No authority for such a meaning of the word was cited.	None
However that may be, it is conceded by the respondent that the Act uses the word fee indiscriminately.	None
It is admitted that some of the levies authorised are taxes though called fees.	None
Thus, for example, as Mitter J (in the High Court, Division Bench) pointed out, the levies authorised by ss. 218, 222 and 229 are really taxes though called fees, for no services are required to be rendered in respect of them.	None
The Act, therefore, did not intend to use the word fee as referring only to a levy in return for services.	None
(emphasis, ours)6.	None
We have therefore to have a view of the concerned parts of the Act with a comparative eye on the Calcutta Municipal Act which fell for decision in Liberty Cinema (supra).	None
Every local authority, under the relevant statute, has the power to tax, so as to finance the various welfare activities it is expected to fulfill.	None
Similarly such local bodies also exercise the police powers of the State to the extent they are vested in them by the State law for the purpose of controlling, regulating and proscribing operations of individuals which may need to be conditioned by licences and permissions or prohibited in public interest because they are noxious or dangerous.	None
Towards these ends, licences and fees for services, if any, rendered may be prescribed.	None
The Madras Act, like other similar statutes, embraces both type s of activities in a systematized way.	None
Thus Taxation and Finance are covered by Part 1 III while Public HealthSafety and Convenience, comes under Part IV, Procedure and Miscellaneous, which include general provisions regarding licences and permissions, are clubbed together in Part VI.	None
Section 78, empowering property tax levy, falls in Part III (Taxation and Finance), while s. 321, relating to licence fees, is located in Part VI.	None
The scheme thus separates issue of licences and levy of licence fees from taxes on property and other items.	None
Prima facie, in the absence of other compelling factors, to lug in a taxing provision into Part VI may, therefore, lead to obscurity and confusion.	None
The Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951, also has some scheme of sorts and deals with Finance in Part III, Taxation in Part IV and Public Health, Safety and Convenience in Part V.	None
In the same Part, Chapter XXVI deals with a miscellany of matters like Inspection and Regulation of Premises, and of Factories, Trades and Places of Public Resort.	None
Section 443 deals with licensing and control of theatres, circuses and places of public amusement.	None
Strangely enough, s. 548(1) which relates to licence and written permission also empowers in addition to any other matter required to be specified under any other Section of this Act(a)	None
(b) (c) (d) (e) the tax or fee, if any, paid for the licence or written permission.	None
There is thus in s. 548 an extra power specifically conferred to levy tax or fee, which is significantly absent in the Madras Act (We are aware there is some obscurity here because cinema licensing is provided for earlier in s. 443).7.	None
It is this provision of the Calcutta Act (s. 548) which fell for construction before this Court in Liberty Cinema (supra).	Reasoning
While one may discern a broad scheme in that Act, there is some wobbling in the sense that a power to tax is oddly placed in a Chapter primarily concerned with licences and permissions.	Reasoning
The Madras Act, on the other hand, speaks with more precision and relegates licences and licence fees to a Part different from Taxation and Finance.	Reasoning
The procedure for each is also delineated separately.	Reasoning
For these reasons we refuse to aceede to the contention that fee in s. 321 (2) is a tax.8.	None
Shri A. K. Sen has cited a catena of Madras cases, spread over several decades, where, under this very Act, fee has been interpreted as fee with a tag of special services in lieu of such payment.	Arguments of Respondent
He has further pressed the drafting indifference while using the words fee and tax in s.548 of the Calcutta Act to repel the application of the observations in Liberty Cinema (earlier quoted) to the provisions of the Madras Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In the latter, the contrast is boldly projected not only in the phraseology but in the chapterwise dealing with the two topics.	Arguments of Respondent
We feel the force of this submission.	None
Shri Chellaswamy sought to counter the contention based on the location of s.321 in a Part which has nothing to do with taxation.	None
In Liberty Cinema (supra) this Court had occasion to warn against reaching any conclusion, when there is a taxfee conflict based on the collocation of subjects in a statute or the placement of a provision under a certain rubric as clinching.	Arguments of Petitioner
What is telling is the totality, not some isolated indicium.	Arguments of Petitioner
A shortcut is often a wrongcut and a fuller study of the statute to be construed cannot be avoided.	None
Sarkar, J. (as he then was), in Liberty cinema (supra), observed at p. 488It was also contended that the levy under s.548 (of the Calcutta Municipal Act) must be a fee and not a tax, for all provisions as to taxation are contained in Part IV of the Act, while this section occurred in Chapter XXXVI headed Procedure in Part VIII which was without a heading.	None
It was pointed out that Part V dealt with Public Health Safety and Convenience an d s. 443 which was included in Chapter XXVI contained in this Part was headed Inspection and Regulation of Premises, and of Factories, Trades and Places of Public Resort.	None
A cinema house, it is not disputed, is included in the words Places of public resort.	None
It was, therefore, contended that a levy outside Part IV could not be a tax and hence must be a fee for services.	None
This contention was sought to be sup ported by the argument that s.443 occurred in a Part concerning Public Health, Safety and Convenience and therefore the intention was that the levy authorised by the section would be in return for work done for securing public health, safety and Convenience and w as hence a fee.	None
We are wholly unable to accept this contention.	None
Whether a particular levy is a fee or tax has to be decided only by reference to the terms of the section as we have earlier stated.	None
Its position in the Act cannot determine its nature an imposition which is by its terms a tax and not a fee, which in our opinion the present imposition is, cannot become a fee by reason of its having been placed in a certain part of the statute.	None
The reference to the heading of Part V can at most indicate that the provisions in it were for conferring benefit on the public at large.	None
The cinema house owners paying the levy would not as such owners be getting that benefit.	None
We are not concerned with the benefit, if any, received by them as members of the public for that is not special benefit meant for them.	None
We are clear in our mind that if looking at the terms of the provision authorising the levy, it appears that it is not for special services rendered to the person on whom the levy is imposed, it cannot be a fee wherever it may be placed in the statute.	None
A consideration of where ss.443 and 548 are placed in the Act is irrelevant for determining whether the levy imposed by them is a fee or a tax.	None
So we do not rest our conclusion solely on the location of s. 321 in a different Part from Taxation, while we recognise it as an indicator, among a variety of considerations of course, when drafting precision is absent, judicial caution has to be alerted.9.	None
To recapitulate, in the Madras Act, Chapter VI of Part III is devoted to Taxation and Finance.	None
Section 78(1)(a) authorizes levy of property tax.	None
The section sets out the other taxes a Municipal Council may levy Section 78(3) together with a proviso, contains the procedural prescriptions for imposing taxes.	None
Admittedly, there has been no compliance with this procedure and, if such conformance is mandatory, as it is, the case of tax set up by the appellant collapses (Vide Atlas Cycle Industries v. Haryana (1972 1 S. C. R. 127.	None
(2)Quoted in Liberty cinema P. 484.).	None
Whether some minor defect or deficiency will de feat the validity of the tax is moot	None
but since here there is a total failure to adhere or advert to the procedure in s.78, we need not consider hypothetical shortfalls and their impacts.10.	None
Counsel for the appellant resourcefully urged that when two constructions are possible, we should opt in favour of validity since law leans towards life and must sustain, not stifle it.	None
The statute, other things being equal, must be interpreted us res magis valeat gaum pareat() see Brooms Legal Maxims ( 10 ed. )	None
p. 361, Craies on Statutes (6th ed.)	Arguments of Petitioner
p. 95	Arguments of Petitioner
and Maxwell on Statutes (11th ed.)	Arguments of Petitioner
p 221	Arguments of Petitioner
In his submission it is possible to uphold the levy, miscalled fee, on the basis that it is a tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is that ignoring the placement of s. 321 (2) in Part VI and blurring the precision of the word fee used, we can still look at the pith and substance of the matter and regard it as a tax on land and buildings provided for in Entry 49, List II of the Seventh Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relied on Ajoy Kumar (supra) where also a landholder who was holding a market on his land was directed to take out a licence and pay Rs. 600/ per year as licence fee, challenged the validity of the claim on the score that the State had no power to tax markets.	Arguments of Petitioner
Repelling this contention, this Court held that the use to which the land was put furnished sufficient nexus for the Legislature to impose a tax on land.	None
In that connection, the following observations lay down the guidelinesIt is wellsettled that the entries in the three legislative lists have to be interpreted in their widest amplitude and there fore if a tax can reasonably be held to be a tax on land it will come within entry 49.	Reasoning
Further it is equally wellsettled that tax on land may be based on the annual value of the land and would still be a tax on land and would not be beyond the com petence of the State legislature on the ground that it is a tax on income (See Ralla Ram v. The province of East Punjab (1948 FCR 207).	Reasoning
It follows therefore that the use to which the land is put can be taken into account in imposing a tax on it within the meaning of entry 49 of List II, for the annual value of land which can certainly be taken into account in imposing a tax for the purpose of this entry would necessarily depend upon the use to which the land is put.	Reasoning
(p. 49).x x	None
x x x xIt will be seen from the provisions of these three subsections (subss.	None
(1) to (3) of s. 62 of the Assam Local self Government Act l953Act 25 of l953) that power of the board to impose the tax arises on its passing a resolution that no land within its jurisdiction shall be used as a market.	None
Such resolution clearly affects land within the jurisdiction of the board and on the passing of such a resolution the board gets the further power to issue licences for holding of markets on lands within its jurisdiction by a resolution and also the power to impose an annual tax thereon.	None
(p.49) x	None
x .x x	None
x x xs.	None
62(2) which used the words impose an annual tax thereon, clearly shows that the word thereon refers to any land for which a licence is issued for used as a market and not to the word market.	None
Thus the tax in the present case being on land would clearly be within the competence of the state legislature.	None
(p.5l)Generously following the line of thinking presented by Shri Chellaswamy, based on Ajoy Kumar (supra) we find difficulty in applying its ratio to s. 321 (2).	None
There the tax was on land and the expression thereon underscores this idea.	Reasoning
Once the tax is on land, the link between the tax and the landuser like running a market or hotel based on the let ting value is good, but in the p resent case there is nothing to indicate that it is a tax at all.	Reasoning
Secondly, the phraseology does not suggest that it is a tax on the land or the building., on the other hand.	Reasoning
it is on the licencefee for plying a particular trade.	None
It is not possible to blink at this vital distinction between Ajoy Kumar (supra) and the present case.	Reasoning
Maybe that the Madurai Municipality is perfectly within its competence in imposing a property tax at any particular rate it chooses.	Reasoning
The user of the land or building as a restaurant or hotel being the link as explained above, the fact that there is a tax on all property within the municipality does not mean that this local body cannot levy an additional tax or surcharge on the land or building if put to a particular specialist use.	Reasoning
We see no impediment in the municipal authority taxing hotels at a certain rate exercising its power to impose property tax provided there are no other legal impediements in the way.	Reasoning
We are not pursuing the existence or otherwise of other impediments because that does not fall for our consideration in this case.11.	Reasoning
Shri A K. Sen is right is his submission that unlike in the Assam Act considered in Ajoy Kumar (supra) in the present case we do not even find the expression tax used.12.	Reasoning
The Municipal resolution might have been saved had we been able to spell out a taxing power on property from s.321 (2) of the Act.	Reasoning
For, there is no gainsaying the states right to tax land and buildings an d	Reasoning
the nexus between the tax and the power may be land use.	Reasoning
Since A running a restaurant or cinema house is clearly a use of building, a tax thereon, based on such user, is constitutionally impeccable.	Reasoning
Such is not the case here.	Reasoning
Thus the plea that s. 321 (2) lends itself to being regarded as a tax, indifferently described as fee, breaks down for two reasons.	Reasoning
When the Legislature has carefully provided in s.78 (3) for previous invitation and consideration of objections to enhancement of tax levies, resort to the device of tax disguised as fee, under s.321 (2), may not require any such procedural fairness and discipline and thus will frustrate the processual protection written into the law in regard to fiscal measures.	Reasoning
Secondly, Schedule V, with which s.321 is directly linked, sets out a host of petty and lucrative ventures all of which, theoretically, cannot be carried on except on land or buildings.	Reasoning
Can it be that some flimsy or casual connection with terra firma will furnish the legal nexus between the tax imposed and the land on which the work is done ?	Reasoning
For example, washing soiled clothes is an item in Schedule V.	Reasoning
It is straining judicial credulity to snapping point to say that such trivial user justifies a tax on the land when washing is done.	Reasoning
Running a hotel or market or permanent circus or theatre may stand on a different footing.	Reasoning
The commonsense of the common man is the best legal consultant in many cases and eschewal of hypertechnical and oversophisticated legal niceties helps the vision.	Reasoning
We cannot list out what, in law, will serve as a nexus between land and tax thereon but, in a given case like in a hotel business, landuse may easily be discerned.	Reasoning
The snag is that in the present appeals the levy is not on land but on the licence for business and bearing in mind the identity of the legal concept, we reject the contention that the impugned resolution was an innocent tax on proper ty.	Reasoning
The case falls between two stools.	Reasoning
It is not a fee ex concessionis it is not a tax ex facie.	Reasoning
We further repel the request to read licencefee in s. 321 (2) as land tax into every item of activity set out in Schedule V, from washing soiled clothes on a broad stone to using a central place as a posh restaurant.	Reasoning
The cumulative result of the multiple submissions we have been addressed is that the impugned resolution is invalid.	Reasoning
We do not bar the door for the Municipality or the State to pursue other ways to tax hotelkeepers, acting according to law and under the power to tax in Entry 49, List II, of the Seventh Schedule, while dismissing the Appeals13.	Reasoning
The legal controversy in this case is stricken with more than marginal obscurity and indeed, has exercised our minds on the diverse aspects of law considerably.	Reasoning
Moreover, the battle is between a local authority which is in need of financial resources to fulfill its functions and a host of hoteliers who flourish in private business.	Reasoning
Bearing in mind the conspectus of circumstances, we regard this case as one where the proper order will be that parties do bear their own costs throughout.14.	None
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
