 Sikri, J. 1.	None
This appeal by certificate granted by the High Court of Kerala is directed against its judgment and decree reversing the judgment and decree of the Trial Court and dismissing the suit of the original plaintiff, appellant before us.	Facts
The relevant facts for determining the points raised before us by Mr. Chagla, learned counsel for the appellant, are as follows.	Facts
2.	None
On December 5, 1931, the plaintiff executed a hypothecation bond in favour of the Travancore Government in respect of a loan of Rs. 6, 000/. On December 12, 1931, another bond was executed in respect of a further loan of Rs. 4, 400/. On May 28, 1938, the plaintiff executed another hypothecation bond in favour of the father of Neelakanta Iyer Subramonia Iyer, respondent before us.	Facts
In the Government Gazettes, dated February 21, 1939, and April 25, 1939, under Paragraph 6 reference is made to the arrears of Rs. 4, 193 chs.	Facts
19 cs. 9 plus interest under the special loan to be paid by Luka Mathai of Pallithanathu, Kottayam Taluk, and the sale of 97 acres of nilam comprised in survey No. 545/3211/1 and 14 cents of puravidam comprised in survey No. 532/3.	Facts
3.	None
A notice was issued to the plaintiff in March or April, 1939 (2781114 M.E.) that as he had to repay Rs. 4, 193 chs. 10 ca. 9 under the special loan plus the execution costs and the interest therein it is hereby made known that 107 acres 84 cents of properties belonging to your and comprised in survey Nos. 545/3211/1, 481/3, 481/44, 481/40 etc., of Pulinkunnu Pakuthy and which were attached will be sold in auction on 27th Madam, 114.	Facts
On May 10, 1939, the revenue auction took place and the respondent purchased the properties in dispute for Rs. 4, 510/.	Facts
The plaintiff presented a petition (Ext. M) to the Division Peshkar against the revenue sale.	Facts
In this petition it was stated as follows I received notice stating that the sum will be realised by auctioning the properties comprised in Survey Nos. 545/3211/1, 481/5, 481/4A, 481/4C of Pulinkunnu Pakuthy.	Facts
Knowing that the aforesaid property in Survey No. 545/32 A1, which belongs to me and which, I had given as security to Government was going to be sold in auction on 27th Medam last, many persons had come forward to bid the same in auction.	Facts
But the properties that were sold in auction are the properties comprised in Survey Nos. 545/3211/2, 481/5, 481/4A and 481/4C. He further stated that since the auction was conducted in this manner the properties worth about Rs. 30, 000/ were sold in this auction for a paltry sum of Rs. 4, 500/ odd.	Facts
4.	None
The sale was, however, confirmed by the Division Peshkar.	Facts
The sale certificate (sanad) was issued to the respondent on November 13, 1929.	Facts
The sale certificate was executed and issued under Section 34 of Regulation 1 of 1068, in respect of the properties including the properties in dispute, namely, 97 acres of nilam comprised in Survey No. 545/32A/1 and 14 cents of Puravidam comprised in Survey No.	Facts
537/3.	None
5.	None
On August 5, 1941, partition suit (O.S. No. 102 of 1116) was instituted and judgment was delivered by the Trial Court in this suit on September 29, 1952.	Facts
Reference is made to this judgment because basing itself on this judgment the plea of res judicata was raised by the defendant in the High Court.	Facts
6.	None
The suit out of which the present appeal arises, namely, original Suit No. 492 of 1953, was filed for setting aside the sale and redemption of the mortgage.	Facts
The Trial Court partly decreed the suit holding that the sale was a nullity.	Facts
The High Court, as stated earlier, has reversed this judgment and dismissed the suit.	Facts
7.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant raised the following points before us (1) that the revenue sale was a nullity because in effect and substance no proclamation of sale was issued inasmuch as instead of mentioning the proper revenue numbers of the land, namely, Survey No. 545/32A1,	Arguments of Petitioner
Survey No. 545/32II I was mentioned and in place of mentioning survey No.	Arguments of Petitioner
527/3, survey No. 532/3 was mentioned (2) that the property valued at Rs. 1, 00, 000/ had been sold for a meagre sum of Rs. 4, 510/ (3) that under the Travancore Revenue Recovery Regulation this property could not be brought to sale and (4) that the Government had no authority to attach and sell plaint A schedule, Items 2 to 5 and B schedule Items 1 and 3 to 8 and C schedule items, which were not given as security under the bonds and if the Government had no authority then the sale of all the properties is void.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Coming to the first point, there is no doubt that wrong revenue numbers were mentioned in the notice, dated May 5, 1939.	Reasoning
In the proclamation issued under Section 32 of Regulation 1 of 1068 after mentioning the amount of Rs. 4, 193 ch. 19 c. 9 which was due the properties were described in the schedule to the proclamation (Ext. AB).	None
In Column 1 under the heading (name in which the assignment is made Thandapper and number) is mentioned 1861 Luka Mathai, Pallithanathu Kainedi Kuri, Neelamperur.	None
Survey No. 545/32 is described as Nilam and tenure as Pandaravaka Pattom.	None
The area is 97 acres and taxes are also mentioned.	None
There is a dispute whether against the survey No. 548/32 the latter A/1, existed or 11/1 as in the original proclamation, but there cannot be any dispute that otherwise the description of the property of 97 acres is correct and complete.	None
Regarding survey No.	None
537/3 again the tenure is described as Pandara Pattom, area 14 cents and the local taxes are also given.	None
In his evidence the plaintiff stated I was aware that the property mortgaged by me was the property comprised in Survey No. 545/32/AI.	None
It is being called as 97 acres.	None
That which was mortgaged was also 97 acres.	None
In addition to AI, I have no other properties in Survey No. 545/32.	None
He was asked Does any person other than you have nilam which is 97 acres in extent ?	None
He answered No.	None
There are no other persons having 97 acres of nilam in the other numbers also.	None
9.	None
The High Court referred to some earlier proceedings for recovery of the defaulted amounts, due to the Government, which took place in 1110 M.E. and 1112 M.E. and found that in those cases the correct survey numbers had been given.	None
But as far as the proclamation in question relevant to the present sale are concerned, the High Court found But the proclamations which have been produced as Exts.	None
AB, AD and AE all show some correction by overwriting on the character A in Survey No. 545/32/A/1 and the figure 7 in Survey No.	None
537/3.	None
The proclamation that was published in the Gazette on 1891114 gives the survey numbers distinctly as 545/32/11/1 and 532/3.	None
Likewise in the sale notice Ext. J. in the copy that is served on the plaintiff the survey number is shown as 545/32/11/1, while in the original it is 545/32/A/1, but one cannot be sure whether A has been corrected or not.	None
The High Court however came to the conclusion that the description of the property in the relevant records was sufficient to identify the property correctly and to give the requisite information to the intending buyers.	None
The High Court held that Ext. M, the relevant portion of which we have extracted above, shows that the plaintiff had categorically stated that many persons know for certain that Survey No. 545/32/A/1, which had been hypothecated to Government was coming up for auction sale on May 10, 1939, and that the mistakes in the survey subdivision numbers even if they existed at the material time had no misled anybody and everybody concerned know that the property proceeded against was really Survey No. 545/32/A/1 and 537/3.	None
The High Court further observed that it had not been shown in the case that the misdescription of survey numbers has caused any real prejudice to the plaintiff in the revenue sale concerned.	None
The High Court observed There is no case that in the piece of land bearing Survey No. 545/32, the plaintiff had any other plot then that bearing the subdivision No. A/1 or that there is a piece of land bearing the subdivision II1 therein.	None
The High court finally concluded An error in the survey number of the property involved in a proclamation of sale cannot be held to be such a vital defect as to compel us to hold the sale to be one without a proclamation at all and to declare the sale void on that score, especially in view of the fact that, even according to the plaintiff, nobody was misled by that error.	None
10.	None
We agree with this finding of the High Court.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that on the material placed before us no other finding could be arrived at.	None
11.	None
The learned counsel referred to us a number of cases to show that if there is no publication of proclamation then that would vitiate the sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondent referred us to the decision of this Court in Sheodhyan Singh v. Musamat Kuar ((1962) 2	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 753.) .	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on this case the learned counsel says that it was a case of misdescription and not a case of mistaken identity.	None
He further says that the valuation suggested by the learned counsel is highly exaggerated because in his plaint even the plaintiff had only said that the value was Rs. 30, 000/.	None
In that case the final decree for sale in a mortgage suit and in the certificate for sale the number of the property in dispute was give as No. 160 instead of No. 1060, which was the real number but the property was otherwise fully described so that its identity could be clearly established.	None
This Court held that as the khata number, the area and the boundaries given in the final decree and in the sale certificate tally with No. 1060, the identity is clearly established and there has only been a misdescription of the plot in the final decree as well as in the sale certificate by the omission of one zero from the plot number.	None
In another passage, referring to the decision of the Privy Council in Thakur Barmha v. Jihan Ram Marwari ((1913)	None
LR 41 IA 38.), Wanchoo, J., observed that the effect of this decision is that where there is no doubt as to the identity and there is only misdescription that could be treated as a mere irregularity.	None
12.	None
It seems to us that it is clear from the details mentioned in the proclamation, which we have mentioned above, that the bidder, the owner and the auctioneer had no doubt about the identity of the property which was being sold.	None
This was not a case of nonpublication of the proclamation and, therefore, the rulings relied on by the learned counsel for the appellant have no application.	None
13.	None
Under Section 32(2) of the Travancore Revenue Regulation (Regulation 1) of 1068 what is required is that previous to the sale, the Tehsildar shall issue a notice specifying the name of the defaulter, the position, tenure and extent of land and the buildings therein the amount of revenue assessed on the land of upon its different sections the proportions of the Public Revenue due during the remainder of the current Malabar year, and the time, place and conditions of the sale.	None
In our opinion, the proclamation satisfies the requirements of Section 32(2).	None
14.	None
In view of the above conclusion it is not necessary to rely on the point of res judicata made by the High Court.	Reasoning
15.	None
Regarding the second point, there is no material to show that the value of the property was anywhere more than Rs. 30, 000/.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that the property had been mortgaged to Government and to private parties, we are not satisfied that the property was sold at a low price.	Reasoning
The Trial Court has found that no fraud has been proved.	Reasoning
16.	None
The third and fourth points arise our of the crossobjections filed by the plaintiffappellant before us.	Reasoning
The High Court disposed of the crossobjections in the following words The plaintiff has preferred a crossobjection pleading that the revenue sale ought to have been declared void with regard to the other items of properties included in the plaint schedule also.	None
Admittedly they were the subjectmatter of the attachment and proclamation which culminated in the revenue sale.	None
No defect in the proceedings except the error in the survey numbers discussed above, to affect the validity of the revenue sale has been brought to our notice.	None
The crossobjection has no merits and has only to be dismissed.	None
17.	None
It is not quite clear whether the third ground was specifically taken in the crossobjections though ground No. 5 may perhaps cover it.	None
Be that as it may, as the questions of jurisdiction and law are involved we have to deal with the point.	None
Section 59 of the Travancore Revenue Recovery Regulation (Regulation No. 1 of 1068) reads thus 59.	None
All arrears of public revenue due to Government other than land revenue.  	None
All moneys due from any person to Government which under a written agreement executed by such person are recoverable as arrears of public or land revenue, and all specific pecuniary penalties to which such person renders himself liable under such agreement, and also all sums declared by any other regulation for the time being in force to be recoverable as arrears of public or land revenue, may be recovered under the provisions of this regulation.	None
18.	None
The learned counsel for the plaintiff contends that there is no written agreement which says that the moneys due under the bond can be recovered as arrears of public or land revenue.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondent has not been able to point out any such agreement and the only point he urges is that this point was new and should not be allowed to be taken.	None
No other regulation has been brought to our notice which makes dues under this bond to be recoverable as arrears of public or land revenue.	Reasoning
But we are unable to set aside the sale on this ground because if the point had been taken at an early stage the Government may well have replied on the power of sale given under the bond.	Reasoning
The fact that the sale took place under the machinery provided by the Revenue Recovery Regulation and not under any ad boe machinery set up by the Government would not vitiate the sale.	Reasoning
19.	None
But the fourth point raised by the learned counsel for the plaintiff is fatal for the respondent.	Reasoning
The bonds do not give power to the Government to sell the properties other than mentioned in the bond.	Reasoning
The properties mentioned in plaint A schedule Items 2 to 5, B Schedule Items 1 and 3 to 8 and C schedule items were not given as security under the bond and the Government had no authority to sell them.	Reasoning
It is conceded on behalf of the respondent that all the properties were sold in one lot.	Reasoning
This, in our opinion, vitiates the whole sale and we have no option but to declare that the sale of all the properties was void.	Reasoning
20.	None
In the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment of the High Court set aside and the decree passed by the Trial Court modified as follows For the reasons stated in this judgment it is hereby declared that the proceedings such as revenue sale, etc., in respect of all the properties mentioned in the plaint schedules A, B and C are void and are accordingly set aside, that the plaintiff has the right to get a release of the properties under the mortgage deed, dated 15th Edavam, 1107 including the said properties that the plaintiff do recover the said properties from out of the possession of the defendants and that the plaintiff do realise from the defendants mesne profits as determined by the Trial Court.	Decision
21.	None
The parties will bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
