Markandey Katju, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal has been filed against the impugned judgment and order dated 26.5.2005 of the Punjab Haryana High Court in Execution Petition No. 1L of 1999 by which the execution proceeding was transferred to the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh (hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal), for being disposed of in accordance with law.	Issue
Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
The facts of the case are that on a Company Petition No. 57 of 1983  M s. S.P. Nagrath Co. vs. M s. Bareja Knipping Fasteners Ltd., the High Court vide order dated 23.10.1983 ordered winding up of the Company and an Official Liquidator was appointed who took over possession of the properties of the Company.5.	Facts
The respondentBank filed a Suit (Company Petition No. 46 of 1984) for recovery of Rs.	Facts
14,53,577/ with pendente lite and future interest.6.	Facts
A preliminary decree for recovery of Rs.	Facts
19,07,800/ with future interest 12 per annum was passed by the High Court in favour of the decreeholder Bank, the respondent herein, on 2.12.1985 in Company Petition No. 46 of 1984.7.	Facts
Ultimately, a decree was passed in favour of the Bank on 15.1.1987 in Company Application No. 115 of 1986.	Facts
The aforesaid final decree dated 15.1.1987 stated as under It is hereby ordered and decreed that the mortgaged pledged hypothecated properties in the aforesaid preliminary decree mentioned or sufficient part thereof be sold, and that for the purpose of such sale the plaintiff petitioner shall produce before the Court or such officer as appointed, all documents in his possession or power relating to the mortgage properties.	Facts
And it is hereby ordered and decreed that the money realized by such sale shall be paid in the Court and shall be duly applied (after deduction there from of expenses of the sale) in the payment of the amount payable to the plaintiff petitioner under aforesaid preliminary decree and under any further orders that may have been passed in this petition and in payment of any amount which the Court may have adjudged due to the plaintiff petitioner for such costs of the petition including costs of this application and such costs, charges and expenses as may be payable under Rule 10 together with such subsequent interest as may be payable under Rule 11 of Order XXXIV of the first Schedule to Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and that the balance, if any, shall be paid to the defendants respondents or other persons entitled to receive the same.	Facts
Under Article 136 to the Schedule of the Limitation Act, 1963 the period for applying for execution of any decree is 12 years from the date when the decree becomes enforceable.	Facts
Since in the present case the final decree was passed and became enforceable on 15.1.1987, the period of limitation for filing an execution application expired on 15.1.1999.9.	Facts
In the present case, the Bank filed three Execution Petitions.	Facts
The first one, being Execution Petition No. 14L of 1987, was dismissed on 8.11.1990 by the following order No list of the property sought to be attached has been filed.	Facts
This application is dismissed.	Facts
The petitioner may, however, file a fresh execution application in accordance with law.	Facts
It appears that a second Execution Petition thereafter was filed in 1994 being Execution Petition No. 3L of 1994 by which the decree holder bank sought attachment and sale of properties which did not belong to the judgment debtors.	Facts
After contest by the objectors, this second Execution Petition was dismissed by a Learned Single Judge of the High Court on 18.8.1994 holding that the decree passed against the Company cannot be satisfied by attachment and sale of properties belonging to other Companies, as these other Companies are different and distinct juristic personalities with different set of shareholders.11.	Facts
Thereafter on 4.9.1998, the respondentbank filed another Company Petition No. 236 of 1998 under Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956 read with Rule 117 of the Companies (Court) Rules, 1959 seeking leave of the Company Court to commence the Execution proceedings before the Tribunal which had come into existence in 1993 under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as RDB Act).	Facts
That petition was allowed by the Company Court vide order dated 18.12.1998 stating Learned counsel for the parties are agreed that petitioner be granted leave to file execution petition in this Court.12.	Facts
The decreeholder Bank (respondent in this appeal), then filed a third Execution Petition No. 1 of 1999 dated 11.01.1999 against M s. Bareja Knipping Fasteners Limited through the Official Liquidator, without impleading the appellants and Shri K.M.Bareja as parties to the Execution Petition.	Facts
On this third Execution Petition, the High Court on 1.4.1999 passed the following order Nobody is present on behalf of the petitioner.	None
Counsel for the Official Liquidator submits that the decree has already been executed against the assets and properties of the Company.	Facts
He further submits that no assets of the Company, moveable or immoveable, are available with the Official Liquidator.	Facts
As such, there can be hardly any execution against the Company.	Facts
Petition stands disposed of.	Facts
Liberty to file proper petition against the other judgment debtors in accordance with law is granted as they have not been impleaded as parties in the Memo of Parties either of the execution petition of that of the application.	Facts
Thereafter, on 7.4.1999, the Bank instead of filing a petition as directed by the High Court, filed Company Application No. 173 of 1999 for restoration of the Execution Petition No. 1 of 1999 along with a fresh Memo of Parties before the High Court.	Facts
The High Court issued notice on this Application and then on 22.7.1999 recalled the order dated 1.4.1999.14.	Facts
On 3.1.2005, the decreeholder Bank filed Company Application No. 55 of 2005 under Rule 9 of the Company (Court) Rules, 1959 read with Sections 17 and 18 of RDB Act for transfer of the Execution Petition to the Tribunal.	Facts
The appellant filed a reply stating that the High Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this Application.	Facts
However by the impugned order dated 26.5.2005 the High Court transferred the Execution Petition pending before it to the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh.15.	Facts
In the aforesaid order dated 26.5.2005, the High Court observed No doubt, procedure for transfer of execution proceedings as mentioned in the RDB Act is applicable only with regard to proceedings pending on the relevant dated i.e. 24.6.1993 and there is no provision for transfer of application filed after the said date.	Facts
There is, however, order dated 18.12.1998 on record whereby the parties consented that the petitioner may be allowed to file execution petition in this Court.	Facts
In view of judgment of the Apex Court in Allahabad Bank (supra), this Court has no jurisdiction to deal with the application for execution.	Facts
The question is whether in exercise of inherent jurisdiction of this Court, execution petition could be transferred to the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh, as prayed for by the decreeholder.	Facts
Inherent powers of the Court are in addition to the powers specifically conferred.	Facts
The same can be exercised for advancing ends of justice, subject to the condition that exercise of such powers is not in conflict with express provisions of the statute.	Facts
Learned counsel for the judgmentdebtor is unable to show any decision or principle as to why inherent power cannot be invoked in the present case, to achieve the ends of justice.	Facts
There is no express or implied provision against exercise of such a power, in a situation which has arisen in the present case.	Facts
Accordingly, C.A. No. 55 of 2005 is allowed and execution proceedings are transferred to the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh for being disposed of in accordance with law.	Facts
Learned counsel for the decreeholder has made a statement that he wishes to proceed against the guarantors in execution proceedings.	Facts
C.A. No. 415 of 1999 seeking dismissal of execution application, is accordingly, dismissed.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the aforesaid order was wholly without jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the appellant has invited our attention to Sections 17, 18, 24 and 31of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
These provisions are as follows Jurisdiction, powers and authority of Tribunals.  	None
(1) A Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain and decide applications from the banks and financial institutions for recovery of debts due to such banks and financial institutions.(2) An Appellate Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain appeals against any order made, or deemed to have been made, by a Tribunal under this Act.18.	None
Bar of jurisdiction.  	None
On and from the appointed day, no Court or other authority shall have, or be entitled to exercise, any jurisdiction, powers or authority (except the Supreme Court, and a High Court exercising jurisdiction under Arts.	None
226 and 227 of the Constitution) in relation to the matters specified in Section 17.24.	None
Limitation.  	None
The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963, shall, as far as may be, apply to an application made to a Tribunal.31.	None
Transfer of pending cases.  	None
(1) Every suit or other proceeding pending before any court immediately before the date of establishment of a Tribunal under this Act, being a suit or proceeding the cause of action whereon it is based is such that it would have been, if it had arisen after such establishment, within the jurisdiction of such Tribunal, shall stand transferred on that date to such Tribunal.	None
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall apply to any appeal pending as aforesaid before any Court.(2) Where any suit or other proceeding stands transferred from any court to a Tribunal under subsection (1), (a) the court shall, as soon as may be after such transfer, forward the records of such suit or other proceeding to the Tribunal and(b) the Tribunal may, on receipt of such records, proceed to deal with such suit or other proceeding, so far as may be, in the same manner as in the case of an application made under section 19 from the stage which was reached before such transfer or from any earlier stage or de novo as the Tribunal may deem fit.	None
Admittedly, the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh was established in 1993 and hence after 1993 the exclusive jurisdiction regarding recovery of debts pertaining to which the RDB Act applies is with the Tribunal.18.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the impugned order of the High Court dated 26.5.2005, transferring the Execution Petition pending before it to the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh was clearly beyond the scope of Section 31 of the RDB Act because Section 31 states that only suits or other proceeding pending before the Court immediately before the establishment of the Tribunal under the Act, stand transferred to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Since, admittedly the Tribunal in the present case, had been established in 1993, and no proceeding was pending before it on the date when it was established, no transfer could take place under Section 31 of the RDB Act.	Reasoning
At any event, the third Execution Petition which was transferred by the impugned order was filed by the respondentBank on 11.1.1999, i.e. much after the Tribunal had been established.	Reasoning
Hence obviously there could be no such transfer to the Tribunal under Section 31 of the RDB Act.	Reasoning
Apart from Section 31, there is no other provision for transferring a suit or other proceeding pending before any Court to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Hence, the impugned order dated 26.5.2005 was clearly illegal and without jurisdiction.19.	Reasoning
In this connection learned counsel for the appellant has relied on the decision of this Court in Allahabad Bank vs. Canara Bank Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
2000(4) SCC 406.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the aforesaid decision this Court observed that the word proceedings in Section 31 of the RDB Act includes execution proceedings pending before a civil court before the commencement of the Act.	None
In para 50 of the aforesaid decision this Court observed that the RDB Act, 1993 confers exclusive jurisdiction on the Debt Recovery Tribunal both at the stage of adjudication of the claim under Section 17 of the Act as well as execution of the claim.	None
The Court observed that the provisions of the RDB Act, 1993 are to an extent inconsistent with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, and the latter Act has to yield to the provisions of the former.	None
This position holds good during the pendency of the windingup petition against the debtor company and also after a windingup order is passed.	None
The Court further held that no leave of the Company Court is necessary under Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956 for initiating or continuing the proceedings under the RDB Act, 1993.	None
In the aforesaid decision this Court also upheld the view of some of the High Courts that the Company Act is a general statute, and hence the RDB Act which is a special Act, overrides the general statute.	None
At any event, in view of Section 34 of the RDB Act, the said Act will prevail to the extent of inconsistency over the Companies Act.	None
Since in the aforesaid decision this Court has held that even with regard to execution the jurisdiction under the RDB Act is exclusive, we cannot agree with the view taken by the High Court merely because the appellant had given his consent to the transfer of the Execution Petition to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
It is well settled in law that consent cannot confer jurisdiction.	Reasoning
In Allahabad Bank vs. Canara Bank Anr.(supra) (vide para 23) this Court observed In our opinion, the prescription of an exclusive Tribunal both for adjudication and execution is a procedure clearly inconsistent with realization of these debts in any other manner.	None
Since Section 24 of the RDB Act applies the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963, to applications filed before the Tribunal, and since Article 136 of the Limitation Act provides a period of limitation of 12 years for filing an Execution Petition, hence now no such application can be filed since that period of 12 years expired on 15.1.1999.	Reasoning
Hence, in our opinion the debt became time barred after 15.1.1999.	None
Learned counsel for the respondentBank relied on Section 446(1) of the Companies Act which states that when a windingup order is passed or the official liquidator is appointed as a provisional liquidator, no suit or other legal proceeding shall be commenced, or if pending at the date of the windingup order, shall be proceeded with against the company, except by leave of the court and subject to such terms as the court may impose.25.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for respondentBank relied on Subsection (3) of Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956, which states Any suit or proceeding by or against the company which is pending in any Court other than that in which the winding up of the company is proceeding may, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, be transferred to and disposed of by that Court.	None
In this connection, it may be mentioned that Section 446(3) of the Companies Act was omitted by Companies (Second Amendment) Act, 2002 and evidently the High Court has overlooked this Amendment.	None
As a result in our opinion the High Court has no power to transfer the Execution Petition to the Debts Recovery Tribunal.	Reasoning
At any event as held in Allahabad Bank vs. Canara Bank Anr.(supra), Section 446 has no application once the RDB Act applies because Section 34 expressly gives overriding effect to the provisions of the RDB Act.	Reasoning
Also, the RDB Act is a special law and hence will prevail over the general law in the Companies Act as held in Allahabad Bank vs. Canara Bank Anr.(supra).27.	Reasoning
In this connection, we may mention that in the impugned order dated 26.5.2005 the High Court has, while admitting that in view of the decision of this Court in Allahabad Bank vs. Canara Bank Anr.(supra), it had no jurisdiction to deal with the execution application, it has, however, in the same order relied on the so called inherent powers of the Court.	Reasoning
In our opinion there are no such inherent powers of the Court of transferring the Execution Proceedings to the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh.	Reasoning
Whatever powers there are of transfer of proceedings to the Tribunal are contained in Section 31 of the RDB Act, and no transfer is permissible de hors Section 31.	Reasoning
Hence, we respectfully disagree with the High Court that it has inherent powers apart from Section 31 for transferring the Execution Petition to the Debt Recovery Tribunal.28.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondentBank submitted that it will be very unfair if the appellant who is a guarantor of the loan, and director of the Company which took the loan, avoids paying the debt.	Arguments of Respondent
While we fully agree with the learned counsel that equity is wholly in favour of the respondentBank, since obviously a Bank should be allowed to recover its debts, we must, however, state that it is well settled that when there is a conflict between law and equity, it is the law which has to prevail, in accordance with the Latin maxim dura lex sed lex, which means the law is hard, but it is the law.	Arguments of Respondent
Equity can only supplement the law, but it cannot supplant or override it.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, in Madamanchi Ramappa Anr.	None
vs. Muthaluru Bojjappa AIR 1963 SC 1633 (vide para 12) this Court observed what is administered in Courts is justice according to law, and considerations of fair play and equity however important they may be, must yield to clear and express provisions of the law.	None
In Council for Indian School Certificate Examination vs. Isha Mittal Anr.	None
2000(7)	None
SCC 521 (vide para 4) this Court observed Considerations of equity cannot prevail and do not permit a High Court to pass an order contrary to the law.	None
Similarly in P.M. Latha Anr.	None
vs. State of Kerala Ors.	None
2003(3) SCC 541 (vide para 13) this Court observed Equity and law are twin brothers and law should be applied and interpreted equitably, but equity cannot override written or settled law.	None
In Laxminarayan R. Bhattad Ors.	None
vs. State of Maharashtra Anr.	None
2003(5)	None
SCC 413 (vide para 73) this Court observed It is now well settled that when there is a conflict between law and equity the former shall prevail.	None
Similarly in Nasiruddin Ors.	None
vs. Sita Ram Agarwal 2003(2)	None
SCC 577 (vide para 35) this Court observed In a case where the statutory provision is plain and unambiguous, the court shall not interpret the same in a different manner, only because of harsh consequences arising therefrom.	None
Similarly in E. Palanisamy vs. Palanisamy (Dead) by Lrs. Ors. 2003(1)	None
SCC 123 (vide para 5) this Court observed Equitable considerations have no place where the statute contained express provisions.	None
In India House vs. Kishan N. Lalwani 2003(9) SCC 393 (vide para 7) this Court held that The period of limitation statutorily prescribed has to be strictly adhered to and cannot be relaxed or departed from by equitable considerations.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In the present case, while equity is in favour of the respondentBank, the law is in favour of the appellant, since we are of the opinion that the impugned order of the High Court is clearly in violation of Section 31 of the RDB Act, and moreover the claim is timebarred in view of Article 136 of the Limitation Act read with Section 24 of the RDB Act.	Reasoning
We cannot but comment that it is the Bank itself which is to blame because after its first Execution Petition was dismissed on 23.8.1990 it should have immediately thereafter filed a second Execution Petition, but instead it filed the second Execution Petition only in 1994 which was dismissed on 18.8.1994.	Reasoning
Thereafter, again, the Bank waited for 5 years and it was only on 1.4.1999 that it filed its third Execution Petition.	Reasoning
We fail to understand why the Bank waited from 1990 to 1994 and again from 1994 to 1999 in filing its Execution Petitions.	Reasoning
Hence, it is the Bank which is responsible for not getting the decree executed well in time.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondentBank then submitted that a purposive interpretation should be put on Section 31 of the RDB Act so that the bank can recover its dues.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied on the decisions of this Court in Hindustan Lever Ltd. vs. Ashok Vishnu Kate and others 1995 (6) SCC 326 (vide para 41 42), Administrator, Municipal Corporation, Bilaspur vs. Dattatraya Dahankar and another 1992 (1) SCC 361 (vide para 4), Directorate of Enforcement vs. Deepak Mahajan and another 1994 (3) SCC 440 (vide para 31), etc.	Arguments of Respondent
We are afraid we cannot accept this contention.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, in Allahabad Bank vs. Canara Bank (supra), the argument that a purposive interpretation should be put on the provisions of the RDB Act has been specifically rejected (vide para 34).	Arguments of Respondent
In M s. Hiralal Ratanlal vs. STO, AIR 1973 SC 1034 , this Court observed In construing a statutory provision the first and foremost rule of construction is the literary construction.	None
All that the Court has to see at the very outset is what does the provision say.	None
If the provision is unambiguous and if from the provision the legislative intent is clear, the Court need not call into aid the other rules of construction of statutes.	None
The other rules of construction are called into aid only when the legislative intent is not clear.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It may be mentioned in this connection that the first and foremost principle of interpretation of a statute in every system of interpretation is the literal rule of interpretation.	None
The other rules of interpretation e.g. the mischief rule, purposive interpretation etc. can only be resorted to when the plain words of a statute are ambiguous or lead to no intelligible results or if read literally would nullify the very object of the statute.	None
Where the words of a statute are absolutely clear and unambiguous, recourse cannot be had to the principles of interpretation other than the literal rule, vide Swedish Match AB vs. Securities and Exchange Board, India, AIR 2004 SC 4219 .	None
As held in Prakash Nath Khanna vs. C.I.T. 2004 (9) SCC 686 , the language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of the legislative intent.	None
The legislature is presumed to have made no mistake.	None
The presumption is that it intended to say what it has said.	None
Assuming there is a defect or an omission in the words used by the legislature, the Court cannot correct or make up the deficiency, especially when a literal reading thereof produces an intelligible result, vide Delhi Financial Corporation vs. Rajiv Anand 2004 (11) SCC 625.	None
Where the legislative intent is clear from the language, the Court should give effect to it, vide Government of Andhra Pradesh vs. Road Rollers Owners Welfare Association 2004(6) SCC 210, and the Court should not seek to amend the law in the grab of interpretation.	None
As stated by Justice Frankfurter of the U.S. Supreme Court (see Of Law Men Papers and Addresses of Felix Frankfurter)	None
Even within their area of choice the courts are not at large.	None
They are confined by the nature and scope of the judicial function in its particular exercise in the field of interpretation.	None
They are under the constraints imposed by the judicial function in our democratic society.	None
As a matter of verbal recognition certainly, no one will gainsay that the function in construing a stature is to ascertain the meaning of words used by the legislature.	None
To go beyond it is to usurp a power which our democracy has lodged in its elected legislature.	None
The great judges have constantly admonished their brethren of the need for discipline in observing the limitations.	None
A judge must not rewrite a statute, neither to enlarge nor to contract it.	None
Whatever temptations the statesmanship of policymaking might wisely suggest, construction must eschew interpolation and evisceration.	None
He must not read in by way of creation.	None
He must not read out except to avoid patent nonsense or internal contradiction.	None
As observed by Lord Granworth in Grundy v. Pinniger, (1852) 1 LJ Ch 405 To adhere as closely as possible to the literal meaning of the words used, is a cardinal rule from which if we depart we launch into a sea of difficulties which it is not easy to fathom.	None
In other words, once we depart from the literal rule, then any number of interpretations can be put to a statutory provision, each Judge having a free play to put his own interpretation as he likes.	None
This would be destructive of judicial discipline, and also the basic principle in a democracy that it is not for the Judge to legislate as that is the task of the elected representatives of the people.	None
Even if the literal interpretation results in hardship or inconvenience, it has to be followed (see G.P. Singhs Principles of Statutory Interpretations, 9th Edn.	None
pp 4549).	None
Hence departure from the literal rule should only be done in very rare cases, and ordinarily there should be judicial restraint in this connection.	None
As the Privy Council observed (per Viscount Simonds, L.C.)	None
Again and again, this Board has insisted that in construing enacted words we are not concerned with the policy involved or with the results, injurious or otherwise, which may follow from giving effect to the language used.(see Emperor v. Benoarilal Sarma, AIR 1945 PC 48 , pg. 53).	None
As observed by this Court in CIT vs. Keshab Chandra Mandal, AIR 1950 SC 265 Hardship or inconvenience cannot alter the meaning of the language employed by the Legislature if such meaning is clear on the face of the statute.	None
The rules of interpretation other than the literal rule would come into play only if there is any doubt with regard to the express language used or if the plain meaning would lead to an absurdity.	None
Where the words are unequivocal, there is no scope for importing any rule of interpretation vide Pandian Chemicals Ltd. vs. C.I.T. 2003(5)	None
SCC 590.	None
It is only where the provisions of a statute are ambiguous that the Court can depart from a literal or strict construction vide Narsiruddin vs. Sita Ram Agarwal AIR 2003 SC 1543 .	None
Where the words of a statute are plain and unambiguous effect must be given to them vide Bhaiji vs. SubDivisional Officer, Thandla 2003(1) SCC 692.	None
No doubt in some exceptional cases departure can be made from the literal rule of the interpretation, e.g. by adopting a purposive construction, Heydons mischief rule, etc.	None
but that should only be done in very exceptional cases.	None
Ordinarily it is not proper for the Court to depart from the literal rule as that would really be amending the law in the garb of interpretation, which is not permissible vide J.P. Bansal vs. State of Rajasthan Anr.	None
AIR 2003 SC 1405 , State of Jharkhand Anr.	None
vs. Govind Singh JT 2004(10)	None
SC 349 etc It is for the legislature to amend the law and not the Court vide State of Jharkhand Anr.	None
vs. Govind Singh JT 2004(10) SC 349 .	None
In Jinia Keotin vs. K.S. Manjhi, 2003 (1) SCC 730 , this Court observed The Court cannot legislate under the grab of interpretation.	None
Hence there should be judicial restraint in this connection, and the temptation to do judicial legislation should be eschewed by the Courts.	None
In fact, judicial legislation is an oxymoron.	None
In Shiv Shakti Cooperative Housing Society vs. Swaraj Developers AIR 2003 SC 2434 , this Court observed It is a well settled principle in law that the Court cannot read anything into a statutory provision which is plain and unambiguous.	None
A statute is an edict of the legislature.	None
The language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of legislative intent.	None
In our opinion, Section 31 is plain and unambiguous and it clearly says that only those suits or proceedings pending before a Court shall stand transferred to the Tribunal which were pending on the date when the Tribunal was established.50.	None
The learned counsel for the respondent submitted that we have to see the legislative intent when we interpret Section 31.	None
In our opinion, resort can be had to the legislative intent for the purpose of interpreting a provision of law when the language employed by the legislature is doubtful or ambiguous or leads to some absurdity.	None
However, when the language is plain and explicit and does not admit of any doubt, the Court cannot by reference to an assumed legislative intent expand or alter the plain meaning of an expression employed by the legislature vide Ombalika Das vs. Hulisa Shaw, 2002 (4) SCC 539.	None
Where the language is clear, the intention of the legislature has to be gathered from the language used vide Grasim Industries Limited vs. Collector of Customs 2002 (4) SCC 297 and Union of India vs. Hamsoli Devi 2002 (7) SCC 273.	None
In Union of India and another vs. Hansoli Devi and others 2002(7) SCC (vide para 9), this Court observed It is a cardinal principle of construction of a statute that when the language of the statute is plain and unambiguous, then the court must give effect to the words used in the statute and it would not be open to the courts to adopt a hypothetical construction on the grounds that such construction is more consistent with the alleged object and policy of the Act.	None
The function of the Court is only to expound the law and not to legislate vide District Mining Officer vs. Tata Iron and Steel Company 2002 (7) SCC 358.	None
If we accept the interpretation canvassed by the learned counsel for the respondent we will really be legislating because in the guise of interpretation we will be really amending Section 31.	Reasoning
In Gurudevdatta VKSSS Maryadit vs. State of Maharashtra AIR 2001 SC 1980 , this Court observed It is a cardinal principle of interpretation of statute that the words of a statute must be understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense and construed according to their grammatical meaning, unless such construction leads to some absurdity or unless there is something in the context or in the object of the statute to suggest to the contrary.	None
The golden rule is that the words of a statute must prima facie be given their ordinary meaning.	None
It is yet another rule of construction that when the words of the statute are clear, plain and unambiguous, then the Courts are bound to give effect to that meaning, irrespective of the consequences.	None
It is said that the words themselves best declare the intention of the lawgiver.	None
The Courts are adhered to the principle that efforts should be made to give meaning to each and every word used by the legislature and it is not a sound principle of construction to brush aside words in a statute as being inapposite surpluses, if they can have a proper application in circumstances conceivable within the contemplation of the statute.	None
The same view has been taken by this Court in S. Mehta vs. State of Maharashtra 2001 (8) SCC 257 (vide para 34) and Patangrao Kaddam vs. Prithviraj Sajirao Yadav Deshmugh AIR 2001 SC 1121 .54.	None
The literal rule of interpretation really means that there should be no interpretation.	Reasoning
In other words, we should read the statute as it is, without distorting or twisting its language.55.	Reasoning
We may mention here that the literal rule of interpretation is not only followed by Judges and lawyers, but it is also followed by the lay man in his ordinary life.	Reasoning
To give an illustration, if a person says this is a pencil, then he means that it is a pencil and it is not that when he says that the object is a pencil, he means that it is a horse, donkey or an elephant.	Reasoning
In other words, the literal rule of interpretation simply means that we mean what we say and we say what we mean.	Reasoning
If we do not follow the literal rule of interpretation, social life will become impossible, and we will not understand each other.	Reasoning
If we say that a certain object is a book, then we mean it is a book.	Reasoning
If we say it is a book, but we mean it is a horse, table or an elephant, then we will not be able to communicate with each other.	Reasoning
Life will become impossible.	Reasoning
Hence, the meaning of the literal rule of interpretation is simply that we mean what we say and we say what we mean.56.	Reasoning
In the present case, we are clearly of the opinion that the literal rule applies, and the other rules have no application to interpreting Section 31, since the language of Section 31 is plain and clear, and cannot be said to be ambiguous or resulting in some absurdity.57.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we are clearly of the opinion that the recovery in question is timebarred and it is hereby quashed.	Decision
The impugned order of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The appeals are accordingly allowed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
