 M. JOSEPH, J. The appeal is directed against the Order of the High Court setting aside the Order passed by the Magistrate allowing the application filed by the appellant to discharge him.	Issue
The chargesheet came to be filed on the basis of a FIR dated 01.10.2011.	Facts
The appellant was Director of Mines and Geology in the State of Karnataka at the relevant time.	Facts
There was a partnership firm by the name M s Associated Mineral Company (AMC, for short).	Facts
The offences are alleged to revolve around the affairs of the said firm.	Facts
First accused is the husband of the second accused.	Facts
They became partners of the firm (AMC) in 2009.	Facts
Appellant was arrayed as the third accused.	Facts
There was reference in the chargesheet to a conspiracy between the first accused and the second accused.	Facts
It is alleged, inter alia, that they obtained an undated letter from one Shri K.M. Vishwanath, the ExPartner, which is after his retirement with effect from 01.08.2009 from the firm, which was addressed to the appellant, seeking directions to the Deputy Director of Mines and Geology, Hospet in Karnataka to issue the Mineral Dispatch Permit (MDP for short) to the new partners, viz., the first accused and the second accused.	Facts
It is further averred that the investigation revealed that the appellant marked the said letter to the Case Worker who put up the note seeking orders for referring the matter for legal opinion which was also approved and recommended by the Additional Director and put up to the appellant for orders.	Facts
Appellant is alleged to have acted in pursuance to the criminal conspiracy and abused his official position with a dishonest and fraudulent intention to cheat the Government of Karnataka and knowingly made a false note in the file that he had discussed this matter with the Deputy Director (Legal) and directed Deputy Director, Mines and Geology, Hospet for issue of MDPs to the new partners, viz., the first accused and the second accused by violating Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the Act, for short) and Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules, for short).	Facts
There are various allegations regarding other accused.	Facts
As far as appellant is concerned, it is alleged further in the chargesheet that the acts of the accused, seven in number, including the third accused (appellant), constitutes criminal offences punishable under Sections 120B, 420, 379, 409, 447, 468, 471, 477A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as the IPC, for short) and Sections 13(2) and 13(1)(c) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.	Facts
No doubt, the origin of this investigation is to be traced to an Order passed by this Court dated 29.03.2011 in Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No. 73667367 of 2010 and connected matters ordering investigation into the illegalities into the matter of Mining Lease No. 2434 of AMC.	Facts
The allegations include the allegation that the accused conspired to commit theft of Government property, i.e., mineral ore.	Facts
They allegedly trespassed into the forest area and other areas of Bellary District carried out illegal mining and transported it.	Facts
Though, second accused (A2) to seventh accused(A7) filed applications under Section 227 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as Cr.PC, for short) seeking discharge, by Order dated 08.10.2015, the Trial Court discharged the second accused and the appellant.	Facts
It is this Order which has been set aside by the High Court by the impugned Order.	Facts
APPLICATION	None
BY THE APPELLANT SEEKING DISCHARGE	None
It is, inter alia, stated as follows Appellant is known for his honesty and dignity as a public servant.	Facts
He earned his name as an excellent and honest Officer in all the places where he was posted.	Facts
He was not issued a single article of charges while discharging his duties.	Facts
Though, he started as a Member of the Karnataka State Civil Service, he was promoted to the Cadre of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) as he had an impeccable service record.	Facts
He was posted as Director of Mines in Geology, having regard to his service record.	Facts
By virtue of the delegation under Section 26(2) of the Act, the execution of the lease deed lies with the Director of Mines and Geology.	Facts
AMC was granted the Mining Lease by the State way back in 1966.	Facts
The firm was reconstituted several times by inducting new partners and retiring old partners.	Facts
As and when there is the reconstitution of the firm, the firm intimated to the Department of Geology of the reconstitution and conducted the mining operation in the name of AMC by the newly inducted partners.	Facts
Though, several reconstitutions have taken place, no application has been filed under Rule 37 of the Rules for transfer of the lease on the ground that the assets, viz., the Mining Lease belongs to the firm and not to any individual partners.	Facts
Therefore, there was no requirement of making an application under Rule 37 of the Rules seeking transfer of the Mining Lease.	Facts
Records produced by the official before the Court reveal that the Department has understood that reconstitution did not amount to transfer as the partnership is the owner of the asset, viz., the Mining Lease.	Facts
On inducting first and second accused, the reconstituted firm made application to Deputy Director seeking MDP by intimating that two new partners were inducted.	Facts
The application was sent to the Director for issuance of MDP.	Facts
In addition to the application filed to the Deputy Director seeking MDPs, Shri K.M. Vishwanath, ExPartner, representing the firm, made application to the Director, placing on record that firm had been reconstituted by inducting the first and the second accused and, accordingly, intimated under Rule 62 of the Rules.	Facts
It is stated further that after receiving the application by the Department, the file will have to be processed in the Mining Lease Section.	Facts
There is an elaborate procedure followed while considering applications in Department of Mines and Geology.	Facts
The Section Officer initially examines the file.	Facts
A detailed note on the application is prepared.	Facts
The file, along with note sheet, is sent to the Superintendent of the Mining Leases Section who is a senior Officer who examines the note sheet and puts up the same before the Additional Director.	Facts
The Additional Director, who is the seniormost departmental Officer in the Department, examines the entire file and puts up the file before the Director.	Facts
He passes an order considering the law applicable.	Facts
If it is within the jurisdiction, he disposes the application.	Facts
If an order from the State Government is required, it is so referred with comments.	Facts
The Director signs the lease deed by virtue of delegation under Section 26(2) of the Act.	Facts
Appellant found that the firm was constituted by Shri Jali Mahadevappa an Shri Jali Mallikarjun in the year 1966 and the lease was obtained in the name of AMC as a firm registered under the Partnership Act.	Facts
The lease, as per the records, is the asset of the firm.	Facts
The firm, viz., AMC, was reconstituted on 30.06.1983 by inducting Shri L. Lingaraju as one of the partners on account of retirement of Shri J. Mallikarjun.	Facts
On 13.02.1984, the firm was reconstituted again wherein Shri B. Ananda joined as a partner and Shri J. Lingaraju retired.	Facts
On 13.02.1982, Smt.	Facts
B. Vasanthi joined in place of Shri J. Vamadevappa who retired from the firm.	Facts
On 13.06.1986, Shri B. Vasudev entered the firm as a partner and Smt.	Facts
B. Vasanthi retired from the firm.	Facts
By Deed of Partnership dated 10.06.1990, Shri Mohammed Kasim joined the firm and	Facts
Shri B. Ananda retired from the firm.	Facts
Again, Smt.	Facts
Asha Mohammad Haroon joined as partner in place of Shri B. Vasudev who retired.	Facts
Again, AMC was reconstituted by inducting Shri K.M. Prabhu and Smt.	Facts
Parvathamma.	Facts
There was further reconstitution by inducting Smt.	Facts
Sujata Prabhu and Shri K.M. Sujan, as partners.	Facts
Lastly, on 01.09.2009, the first accused and the second accused were inducted as partners.	Facts
From 1981, on several occasions, the firm was, thus, reconstituted and the application under Rule 37 of the Rules was not filed before the State Government.	Facts
Partners filed Form V before the Registrar of Firms intimating reconstitution.	Facts
Never was an application made under Rule 37 as and when reconstitution was done on the ground that the firm was the owner of the mining lease.	Facts
Only intimation under Rule 62 of the Rules was given.	Facts
The Case WorkerCW24 has suggested to take legal opinion which was put up along with the note sheet.	Facts
There was no note put up suggesting the applicability of Rule 37 of the Rules.	Facts
If there was a suggestion about the applicability of such Rule, the appellant would have taken appropriate decision.	Facts
The precedent available also was relied upon.	Facts
The decision taken was a bonafide decision.	Facts
The suggestion to take legal opinion was endorsed by the Additional Director which is produced before the Court as Exhibit D765, the note sheet.	Facts
During the course of the examination of the file, it was brought to the notice of the appellant that Rule 37 was not applicable.	Facts
A communication was sent to the Deputy Director, Hospet that the permits will have to be issued to the AMC but not in the names of the partners.	Facts
The appellant further submitted that after receipt of the file, he contacted the Deputy Director (Legal) telephonically who informed that the reconstitution of the firm had taken place by inducting new partners and permits may be issued in the name of the Company and not in the name of the partners which was denied by the said Deputy Director (Legal) at a later stage.	Facts
He sought support of Section 27 of the Act which protected acts done in good faith under the Act.	Facts
He pointed out that during the investigation, he gave details of various firms who have leases with the Government which have not obtained permission under Rule 37.	Facts
The procedure which was consistently followed for obtaining MDPs by intimating reconstitution under Rule 62 was brought to the notice.	Facts
It was contended that taking a bonafide administrative decision on the understanding of Rule 37 and based on previous precedents, should not be considered as cheating.	Facts
Reading of the chargesheet and allegations, according to the appellant, basically surrounded around Section 420 of the IPC.	Facts
The statements of CW7, CW21, CW24, CW26, CW202 and CW109 were enlisted by the prosecution in support of the charge.	Facts
The appellant pointed out the statements of the witnesses and the documents produced clearly reveal there is no material much less prima facie material to frame the charges.	Facts
ORDER PASSED BY THE MAGISTRATE The Court noted the submission of the appellant that AMC had been reconstituted on a number of occasions.	Facts
No fault was found in accepting reconstitution.	Facts
Only when the first and second accused became partners in the year 2009, the appellant was faulted.	Facts
Reliance is seen placed on the judgment of the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court in Sree Ramakrishna Mining Company v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, Mysore 1966 SCC Online Kar 73 ILR 1966 Mys. 1945 .	Facts
Thereafter, reliance is placed on decisions which were rendered under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 for the proposition that an instrument evidencing the distribution of assets of a firm, on dissolution or retirement of a partner, would not amount to a conveyance.	Facts
The principles relating to discharge under Sections 227 and 228 were discussed, and finally, it was held as follows In view of the above said citations, it is evident that act of A3 in directing his subordinates to issue MOP to M s. Associated Mining Company belonging to accused Nos.1 and 2 does not amount to fastening criminal liability of him.	None
In the statement of CWs 7,21,24,26,109 and 202, absolutely there is no material to show that A3 has committed criminal conspiracy to help accused Nos.1 and 2 in directing his officials to issue Mineral Dispatch Permit and as such there is considerable force in the argument of learned Counsel for accused No.3 and I am unable to accept the argument addressed by learned Special Public Prosecutor.	None
Hence, I answer IA.	None
No.30 deserves to be allowed.	None
I answer.	None
FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT After noting the rival contentions, the court notes that for punishing under Section 120B of the IPC, the prosecution is required to prove the conspiracy.	None
The agreement, which is illegal, can be proved by necessary implication.	None
It is to be largely proved from the inference of the illegal acts or omissions by the conspirators.	None
The incriminating evidence collected by the prosecution, it is noted, is that the appellant recommended issuance of MDPs in gross violation of the Act despite the office noting to the effect that the matter required legal opinion.	None
The stand of the appellant that he had discussed the matter with the Legal Department is seen negatived by CW21.	None
As to his contention that many a time AMC was reconstituted and he had really discussed the matter with CW21 before directing the issue of MDPs, was found to be a matter of defence which could not be pressed at the threshold.	None
We notice the following findings Applying the formulae of (some mere suspicion grave suspicion as enunciated in Dilawar Balu Kuranes case (supra) and Union of India vs Prafulla Kumar Samai and another reported in AIR 1979 SC 366 , to the evidentiary material placed before the court against respondent, then also the needle tilts more towards grove suspicion.	None
The subject matter involved in this case is the natural resource of the country and the alleged offence is said to have caused loss to the State exchequer substantially.	None
The respondent is a responsible officer of the State.	None
Consciously he passed the order in violation of the statutory provisions.	None
The learned Trial Judge in the order impugned has made an omnibus observation that his action does not fasten criminal liability on him and the statement of the witnesses does not show that he committed criminal conspiracy.	None
Though there was no direct evidence, the learned Trial Judge has lost sight of incriminating material appearing in the circumstantial evidence placed by the prosecution.	None
Limited power vested with the Trial Court to sift and weigh the evidence is transgressed by the learned Trial Judge in the impugned order, hence requires intervention in this revision jurisdiction.	None
Accordingly, the petition was allowed setting aside the order of the Sessions Judge discharging the appellant.	None
We heard Shri Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant.	None
We also heard learned Counsel appearing for the respondent.	None
11.	None
Shri Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant, submits as follows The lease was originally in favour of AMC in the year 1966.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, the firm was reconstituted on a large number of occasions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The procedure followed was intimation being given to the Department under Rule 62 of the Rules about the reconstitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 37 of the Rules was not invoked.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is a case where the action of the appellant was bonafide.	Arguments of Petitioner
Proceeding on the basis that Rule 37 applies, he further submits, this is not a case where the appellant could be prosecuted for the criminal offences.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant acted on the basis of the practice.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contacted the Deputy Director (Legal).	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is also case of the appellant that he had directed MDP to be issued in the name of the firm.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had also made it clear that permit be also not issued to the partners.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no other material produced on record by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is not a case where there is material to establish any criminal conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, the learned Counsel for the respondentCentral Bureau of Investigation, Bengaluru, supported the order.	Arguments of Respondent
In particular, reliance is placed on the specific stand of the Charge WitnessCW21 to the effect that the appellant had not sought his legal opinion contrary to the stand of the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
LEGAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE IN REGARD TO AN APPLICATION SEEKING DISCHARGE	None
This is an area covered by a large body of case law.	Reasoning
We refer to a recent judgment which has referred to the earlier decisions, viz., P. Vijayan v. State of Kerala and another (2010) 2 SCC 398 and discern the following principles If two views are possible and one of them gives rise to suspicion only as distinguished from grave suspicion, the Trial Judge would be empowered to discharge the accused.	None
ii.	None
The Trial Judge is not a mere Post Office to frame the charge at the instance of the prosecution.	Reasoning
iii.	None
The Judge has merely to sift the evidence in order to find out whether or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding.	Reasoning
Evidence would consist of the statements recorded by the Police or the documents produced before the Court.	Reasoning
iv.	None
If the evidence, which the Prosecutor proposes to adduce to prove the guilt of the accused, even if fully accepted before it is challenged in crossexamination or rebutted by the defence evidence, if any, cannot show that the accused committed offence, then, there will be no sufficient ground for proceeding with the trial .	Reasoning
It is open to the accused to explain away the materials giving rise to the grave suspicion.	Reasoning
vi.	None
The court has to consider the broad probabilities, the total effect of the evidence and the documents produced before the court, any basic infirmities appearing in the case and so on.	Reasoning
This, however, would not entitle the court to make a roving inquiry into the pros and cons.	Reasoning
vii.	None
At the time of framing of the charges, the probative value of the material on record cannot be gone into, and the material brought on record by the prosecution, has to be accepted as true.	Reasoning
viii.	None
There must exist some materials for entertaining the strong suspicion which can form the basis for drawing up a charge and refusing to discharge the accused.	None
The defence of the accused is not to be looked into at the stage when the accused seeks to be discharged under Section 227 of the Cr.PC (See State of J K v. Sudershan Chakkar and another AIR 1995 SC 1954 ).	None
The expression, the record of the case, used in Section 227 of the Cr.PC, is to be understood as the documents and the articles, if any, produced by the prosecution.	Reasoning
The Code does not give any right to the accused to produce any document at the stage of framing of the charge.	Reasoning
At the stage of framing of the charge, the submission of the accused is to be confined to the material produced by the Police (See State of Orissa v. Debendra Nath Padhi AIR 2005 SC 359 ).	Reasoning
ANALYSIS OF THE CASE Having set out the legal principles, as aforesaid, let us consider the facts Undoubtedly, the appellant came to be appointed as the Director of Mines and Geology of the State of Karnataka by virtue of Notification dated 09.06.2008.	None
He continued in the said post till 25.10.2010.	None
Mining Lease No.625 was executed on 02.03.1966 between the Governor and AMC, a registered firm.	None
The Managing Partner was one Shri Jali Mahadevappa.	None
The partners of the AMC, viz.,	None
Shri K.M. Parvatamma and Shri K.M. Vishwanath sent a letter dated 26.12.2009.	None
It reads as follows To The Director Mines Geology Mineral Khanija Bhavan Race Course Road Bangalore.	None
Sub Change in Constitution of Associated Mining Company ML No.2434 Reg.	None
Sir, We undersigned are lease owner of Associated Mining Company of Guru Iron Ore Mines at Venkatagiri Village, Sandur Taluk, Bellary Dist, bearing ML No.2434 (Old 625).	None
For better management we admitted as Partners Mr. G. Janardhan Reddy and Mrs. G. Lakshmi Aruna of 123/350 Veerabagouda Colony, Opp Kumaraswamy Temple Club Road, Bellary on 31 st July, 2009.	None
Subsequently on 1 st August, 2009 Smt.	None
K.M. Parvatamma and Mr. K.M. Vishwanath retired.	None
Mr. G. Janardhana Reddy and Mrs. G. Lakshmi Aruna are sole Partners of the Mine.	None
The admission and Retirement deed are enclosed herewith for your perusal.	None
This is for your kind information.	None
Kindly issue permission to transport the ore from Mines to various destinations.	None
Thanking you, Yours sincerely, sd  Smt.	None
K. Parvatamma sd  Mr.K.M. Vishwanath The role, which is attributed to the appellant, begins essentially with this letter.	None
It is the case of the prosecution that having regard to Rule 37 of the Rules, it was incumbent upon the appellant, before acting upon the reconstitution of the firm, to obtain the previous sanction of the State Government.	None
The Charge WitnesseCW24 D. Hanumantha, undoubtedly, has given statement indicating that the letter aforesaid was marked to him to process the same.	None
He further stated that he proposed that legal opinion may be obtained.	None
Finally, it was submitted to the Additional Director.	None
The Additional Director also recommended the need to obtain legal opinion.	None
The matter came up before the appellant on 04.01.2010.	None
On 04.01.2010, it appears that appellant has ordered spoken to Dy.	None
Director (Legal)	None
, the company remains the same, whereas the partners might have been included or removed, and this they are supposed to approach the law board.	None
In the present case, the partners are not asking for MDP (Mineral Dispatch Permits) in their names, but in the name of the company.	None
Permits may be issued only in the name of the company viz., AMC where lease is also sanctioned to the same company only.	None
The partners are changed, but you are not going to issue MDPs to the partners.	None
Hence inform DD Hospet that MDPs may be issued only in the name of the Company.	None
The Additional Director has also spoken on similar lines.	None
The case of the prosecution, which has appealed to the High Court, is essentially based on the fact that on the one hand, the appellant in his Order dated 04.01.2010 (Draft) which was finalised on 05.01.2010, spoke about having obtained legal opinion by speaking to Deputy Director (Legal), the Deputy Director (Legal) has taken the stand that he has not given any such opinion.	None
The statement of the Deputy Director (Legal) has been produced by the appellant along with Criminal Miscellaneous Petition No. 122009 of 2009.	None
He has stated, inter alia, as follows However, no opinion was sought from me in this regard .	None
He has further stated that since the contents of the letter dated 26.12.2009 disclosed that the entire lease holding rights were transferred in favour of the first and second accused, it is contrary to Rule 37 of the Rules.	None
However, ignoring the provisions of Rule 37, the direction was issued to Deputy Director to issue the MDPs in the name of the Company.	None
However, he further states that AMC is a firm not a company.	None
He further stated that if there is no change in the rights of the lessee, then, someone else gets rights over the leasehold rights.	None
The said act will attract provisions of Rule 37 of the Rules.	None
He has also stated that though an application was filed on 29.07.1994 in view of the fact that the Mining Lease was due to expire on 01.03.1996, the lease is renewed from the year 2000 to 2010 by the Minister since the Forest Department gave permission.	None
He goes on to state that the lease ought to have been renewed with effect from 02.03.1996 for a period of ten years.	None
It is necessary to notice Rule 37 of the Rules which were made in 1960.	None
Rule 37 reads as follows, inter alia Transfer of lease  	None
The lessee shall not, without the previous consent in writing of the State Government and in the case of mining lease in respect of any mineral specified in Part A and Part B of the First Schedule to the Act, without the previous approval of the Central Government  (a) assign, sublet, mortgage, or in any other manner, transfer the mining lease, or any right, title or interest therein, or (b) enter into or make any bonafide arrangement, contract, or understanding whereby the lessee will or may be directly or indirectly financed to a substantial extent by, or under which the lessees operations or undertakings will or may be substantially controlled by, any person or body of persons other than the lessee (Emphasis supplied)	None
The Trial Court has placed reliance on judgment of the Division Bench of the Mysore High Court in Sree Ramakrishna Mining Company (supra).	None
In fact, the Court in the said case, considered Rule 37 of the Mineral Concession Rules of 1949, which read as follows Transfer of lease The lessee may with the previous sanction of the State Government and subject to conditions specified in the first proviso to rule 35 and in rule 38, transfer his lease or any right, title, or interest therein, to a person holding a certificate of approval on payment of a fee of Rs.100 to the State Government.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
It is clear that the provision, as obtained prior to 1960, when the Rules were made, was different.	None
In the aforesaid case, the question came to be decided in a Reference under Section 66 of the Income Tax Act, 1922.	None
One of the questions which fell for decision was the effect of there being no previous sanction of the Government under Rule 37 for the transfer of lease.	None
We may notice that the Court in Sree Ramakrishna Mining Company (supra), inter alia, held as follows The 37th Rule, as can be seen from its language does not concern itself with the formation of a partnership such as the one before us, and, its principal purpose is to provide for the transfer of a lease granted under the provisions of the Rules.	None
It is in the nature of an enabling provision which authorises a transfer by the lessee to a person who has a certificate of approval, and, directs that such transfer could be made with the previous sanction of the Government subject to the other conditions with which we are not concerned.	None
There is a distinction between a statutory provision which contains an express prohibition against the performance of a certain act and one which enables its performance subject to prescribed conditions.	None
While in the former case, there will be no difficulty in coming to the conclusion if nothing else could be said about it that the absolute prohibition against the performance of the act is what is forbidden by law, the same could not be said if the matter falls within the second category.	None
Now the 37th rule does not, in express terms, forbid a transfer but authorises a transfer with the previous sanction of the Government and subject to other conditions.	None
The provisions of Rule 37, which would control destiny of this case, is, as it was obtained in the year 2009.	Reasoning
Also could it not be contended that decisions rendered under the Stamp Act may not be relevant to understood the scope of Rule (37) of the Rules.	Reasoning
No doubt, there is a case for the appellant that on a number of reconstitutions took place in regard to the firmAMC, and on no occasion, was an issue relating to infraction of Rule 37, raised.	Reasoning
All that the appellant did was, he acted in accordance with the practice obtaining in the Department.	Reasoning
There is the case for the appellant that in this regard, Rule 37, as such, was not pointedly invoked by either the Additional Director or the SDA.	Reasoning
It is here that again it becomes necessary that we remind ourselves of the contours of the jurisdiction under Section 227 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
The principle established is to take the materials produced by the prosecution, both in the form of oral statements and also documentary material, and act upon it without it been subjected to questioning through crossexamination and everything assumed in favour of the prosecution, if a scenario emerges where no offence, as alleged, is made out against the accused, it, undoubtedly, would enure to the benefit of the accused warranting the Trial Court to discharge the accused.	Reasoning
It is not open to the accused to rely on material by way of defence and persuade the court to discharge him.	None
However, what is the meaning of the expression materials on the basis of which grave suspicion is aroused in the mind of the courts , which is not explained away?	None
Can the accused explain away the material only with reference to the materials produced by the prosecution?	Issue
Can the accused rely upon material which he chooses to produce at the stage?	Issue
In view of the decisions of this Court that the accused can only rely on the materials which are produced by the prosecution, it must be understood that the grave suspicion, if it is established on the materials, should be explained away only in terms of the materials made available by the prosecution.	Reasoning
No doubt, the accused may appeal to the broad probabilities to the case to persuade the court to discharge him.	Reasoning
In this case, as already noticed, going by the statements made by the subordinates working in the Office of the appellant, on receipt of the letter from the erstwhile partners of AMC dated 26.12.2009, two of his subordinates, including the Additional Director, did recommend that the matter requires a legal opinion.	Reasoning
The noting, which is undisputed in this case, made by the appellant, would appear to suggest that he had spoken to the Deputy Director (Legal).	Reasoning
The prosecution case largely depends upon the statement of the Deputy Director (Legal) who takes a definite stand that no opinion was sought from him.	Reasoning
A matter, under Rule 37 of the Rules, therefore, according to the prosecution case, which ought to have gone to the State Government for prior sanction, came to be dealt with by the appellant as Director of Mines.	Reasoning
This led to the issue of MDPs.	Reasoning
It is, no doubt, true that there may not be any other material to link the appellant with various other acts and omissions which have been alleged against the first accused in particular along with the fifth accused and other accused.	Reasoning
However, the fact remains, if the defence of the appellant is not to be looked into, which included the practice obtaining in the past whenever the firm was reconstituted, and also the version of the appellant that he did in fact speak with the Deputy Director (Legal) and acted on his advice and further that this fact would be established if the Deputy Director (Legal) was questioned in his presence, they would appear to be matter which may not be available to the appellant to press before the court considering the application under Section 227 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
This being the outcome of our discussion, the inevitable consequence is that we are not persuaded to hold that the High Court was in error in the view it has taken.	Reasoning
Consequently, the appeal fails and it stands dismissed.	Decision
We, however, make it clear that the observations made by us are for the purpose of deciding the application under Section 227 of the Cr.PC.	Decision
and they are not to trammel the Court.	Decision
