 Hegde, J.1.	None
These are appeals by special leave.	None
They raise a common question of law viz.	None
, whether on the facts and in the circumstances of these cases the amounts claimed by the appellants (assessees) as their losses in transactions in gunny bags which were concluded by the transfer or delivery of pucca delivery orders were speculative losses under Explanation 2 to the proviso to Section 24 (1) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922 (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act).2.	Issue
For deciding the question of law formulated above, it will be sufficient if we set out the facts in Civil Appeal No. 1037 of 1970.	Facts
At the hearing we were referred to the facts of that case only.3.	Facts
The assessee in Civil Appeal No. 1937 of 1970 is a company dealing inter alia, in jute and jute goods.	Facts
In the assessment years 195758, 195859 and 196061 (corresponding accounting periods being calendar years 1956, 1957 and 1959), the assessee claimed Rs. 35,578/, Rs. 20,665/ and Rupees 3849/ respectively as losses in its business in the sale and purchase of gunny bags.	Facts
The Incometax Officer treated those losses as speculative losses.	Facts
He held that the contracts in respect of the gunny bags said to have been sold were settled only by delivery of Pucca Delivery orders (in short P. W. Os.)	Facts
and not by actual delivery of the goods covered by those documents.	Facts
He accordingly refused to set off those losses towards the profits made by the assessee in its nonspeculative business.	Facts
The assessee appealed against these assessment orders.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner found that the assessee had purchased the P. D. Os.	Facts
from various parties after paying the full price of the goods mentioned therein and transferred those P. D. Os.	Facts
to his buyers after receiving the price fixed for the sale of those goods.	Facts
The A. A C opined that the transactions in question represented purchases and sales of jute goods.	Facts
The A. A. C. consequently held that the losses claimed by the assessee were losses from the ready business in jute goods.	Facts
In pursuance of those findings he directed the Incometax Officer to allow the losses claimed as business loss.	Facts
The Department appealed against the order of the A. A. C. to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal following the decision of the Calcutta High Court in D. N. Wadhawana v. Commr. of Incometax, West Bengal, (1966) 61 ITR 154 (Cal) allowed the appeals filed by the Department.	Facts
It held that the sales in question were speculative as contemplated by Section 24 of the Act.	Facts
Consequently the losses in question cannot be set off towards the profits made in the assessees nonspeculative business.	Facts
Similar orders were made by the Tribunal in the case of other assessees.	Facts
At the instance of the various assessees, questions similar to the question formulated above were submitted to the High Court to ascertain its opinion.	Facts
The High Court following its decision in Incometax Reference No. 88 of 1967 (Nanalal M. Varma and Co. (P) Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, West Bengal II, (1969)	Facts
73 ITR 713 ) answered those questions in favour of the Department.	Facts
We have now to see whether the Calcutta High Courts decision in Nanalal Varmas case (supra) and the other decisions relied on in that case lay down the law correctly.	None
If those cases were corrective decided, the appeals before us must fail.	None
On behalf of the appellants, it was contended that Nanalal Varmas case and the decisions relied on therein were not correctly decided.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the reasons to be stated hereinafter we agree with that contention of the assessee.4.	None
Section 24 of the Act deals with set off of losses in computing the aggregate income of an assessee.	None
Subsection (1) of S. 24 readsWhere any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 6, he shall be entitled to have the amount of the loss set off against his income, profits or gains under any other head in that yearProvided that in computing the profits and gains chargeable under the head.	None
Profit, and agains of business, profession or vocation, any loss sustained in speculative transactions which are in the nature of a business shall not be taken into account except to the extent of the amount of profits and gains, if any, in any other business consisting of speculative transactions.(The second proviso is not relevant for our present purpose).Explanation 1 to that section says.	None
Where the speculative transactions carried on are of such a nature as to constitute a business, the business shall be deemed to be distinct and separate from any other business.	None
Explanation 2 is important for our present purpose.	None
It saysA speculative transaction means a transaction in which a contract for purchase and sale of any commodity including stocks and shares is periodically or ultimately settled otherwise than by the actual delivery or transfer of the commodity or scrips.5.	None
The remaining part of that section is not relevant for our present purpose.6.	None
We have now to see whether on the facts found by the Tribunal, it can be said that the transactions with which we are concerned can be said to have been periodically or ultimately settled otherwise than by the actual delivery or transfer of the commodity.7.	None
The Tribunal has found that, when the assessees transferred the P. D. Os.	Reasoning
to their buyers they had not actually delivered to the buyers the goods covered by the P. D. Os.	Reasoning
That conclusion was not challenged.	Reasoning
But it was urged on behalf of the assessees that the Tribunals finding by itself is not conclusive.	Reasoning
They complain that the Tribunal has not gone into the question whether the last transferees of the P. D. Os. had taken actual delivery or not of the goods covered by the P. D. Os.	Reasoning
It cannot be disputed that if any of the transactions were settled by actual delivery of the goods sold or transfer of that commodity, those transactions do not come within the scope of Explanation 2 to the proviso to Section 24 (1).In our judgment to effect a valid transfer of any commodity, it is not necessary that the transfer in question should be followed up by actual delivery of the goods to the transferee.	Reasoning
Even if the goods are delivered to the transferees transferee, the first transfer also will be a valid transfer.	Reasoning
Therefore, we have to see whether in the cases before us, the ultimate purchaser of the P. D. Os. has taken actual delivery of the goods sold.	Reasoning
The Tribunal as well as the High Court were of opinion that if any transfer of the P. D. Os. is not followed up by actual delivery of the goods to the transferee, that transaction has to be considered as speculative.	Reasoning
This is an erroneous conclusion.8.	None
According to the appellants, the transactions in jute or in jute gunny bags are usually conducted in Calcutta in the following mannerJute Mills sell in present or in future jute goods to buyers and issue P. D. Os.	Arguments of Petitioner
in their favour.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the sales are in present, the buyers if they so choose can take immediate delivery of the goods sold.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the delivery of the goods sold is to be given on a future date, the buyers can take delivery of those goods on the date specified.	Arguments of Petitioner
But usually, the buyers of jute goods in Calcutta transfer the P. D. Os.	Arguments of Petitioner
from one buyer to another and ultimately P. D. Os.	Arguments of Petitioner
in the generality of cases, are purchased by the Shippers who take actual delivery of the goods sold.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellants every transfer of a P. D. O. results in a sale though at the time the intermediate sales take place, the title to goods sold is defective for want of delivery of the goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
That title gets perfected as soon as the goods sold are actually delivered.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the trade practice pleaded, Mr. Ashok Sen, learned Counsel for the appellants relied on the decision of this Court in Dani Chand Rataria v. Bhuwalka Brothers Ltd., (1955)	Arguments of Petitioner
I SCR 1071 (AIR 1955 SC 182 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
Therein Bhagwati, J. speaking for the Court quoted with approval (at p. 1078)	Arguments of Petitioner
the findings of the trial Court as to the manner in which the goods in that case were transferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned trial judge observedNow visualize the long chain of contracts in which the defendants contract is one of the connecting links.	None
The defendant buys from its immediate seller and sells to its immediate buyer.	None
As seller it is liable to give and as buyer it is entitled to take delivery.	None
As seller it receives and as buyer it gives shipping instructions.	None
Similar shipping instruction is given by each link until it reaches the mills.	None
The mills deliver the goods alongside the steamer.	None
Such delivery is in implement of the contract between the mills and their immediate buyer.	None
But eo instanti it is also in implement of each of the chain contracts including the contract between the defendant and its immediate buyer and the contract between the defendant and its immediate seller.	None
Not only does the mill give and its immediate buyer take actual delivery but eo instanti each middleman gives and takes actual delivery.	None
Simultaneously the defendant takes actual delivery of possession of the jute goods from its immediate seller and gives actual delivery of possession of jute goods to its immediate buyer.	None
Prima facie at the moment of the delivery alongside the steamer there is appropriation and the passing of the property in the goods and the giving and taking of actual delivery of possession thereof all along the chain at the same moment.10.	None
On the basis of that finding, this Court held in that caseThe mates receipts or the delivery orders as the case may be, represented the goods.	None
The sellers handed over these documents to the buyers against cash payment, and the buyers obtained these documents in token of delivery of possession of the goods.	None
They in turn passed these documents from hand to hand until they rested with the ultimate buyer who took physical or manual delivery of possession of those goods.	None
The constructive delivery of possession which was obtained by the intermediate parties was thus translated into a physical or manual delivery of possession in the ultimate analysis eliminating the unnecessary process of each of the intermediate parties taking and in his turn giving actual delivery of possession of the goods in the narrow sense of physical or manual delivery thereof.11.	None
A similar view was expressed by this Court in Bayyanna Bhimayya v. Govt.	None
of Andhra Pradesh, (1961)	None
3 SCR 267 (AIR 1961 SC 1065 ).	None
Therein Hidayatullah, J. (as he then was) speaking for the Court observed (at p. 270)A delivery order is a document of title to goods (vide Section 2 (4) of the Sale of Goods Act), and the possessor of such a document has the right not only to receive the goods but also to transfer it to another by endorsement or delivery.	None
At the moment of delivery by the Mills to the third parties, there were, in effect, two deliveries, one by the Mills to the Appellants, represented, in so far as the Mills were concerned, by the appellants agents, the third parties, and the other, by the appellants to the third parties, as buyers from the appellants.	None
These two deliveries might synchronise in point of time, but were separate in point of fact and in the eye of law.12.	None
Mr. Sharma, learned Counsel for the Department contended that the property in goods represented by a P. D. O. cannot be said to pass until the actual delivery takes place, in view of Section 18 of the Sale of Goods Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence according to him, when the assessee sold the P. D. Os.	Arguments of Respondent
to their buyers, the property in goods did not pass.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of that contention, he relied on the decision of this Court in Jute and Gunny Brokers Ltd. v. Union of India, (1961) 3	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 820 (AIR 1961 SC 1214 ).	Arguments of Respondent
That was a case of acquisition of property under Rule 75A read with Rule 119 of the Defence of India Rules, 1939.	Arguments of Respondent
Therein the Government served an order of requisition on the mill which was in possession of the goods sought to be acquired.	Arguments of Respondent
The validity of that order was challenged by the purchaser of the goods through a P. D. O.	Arguments of Respondent
He claimed that he was the owner of those goods and as no notice of acquisition had been served on him, the order acquiring the property was invalid.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court upheld the validity of the order of acquisition.	Arguments of Respondent
It held that as the goods were in the possession of the mills at the time the acquisition order was served, the title in those goods had not passed to the holder of the P. D. O.	Arguments of Respondent
The rule laid down in that decision has no relevance for deciding the question of law that arises for decision in these cases.	Arguments of Respondent
Herein we are concerned with the question whether the assessees have transferred the commodity, covered by the P. D. Os.	None
to their buyers.	None
For answering that question, we have to see whether the goods purported to have been sold under the P. D. Os.	None
were actually delivered to the last buyer of those P. D. Os.	None
This position in law is made clear by the decision of this Court in State of Andhra Pradesh v. Kolla Sreerama Murthy, (1963) 1	None
SCR 184 (AIR 1962 SC 1585 ).	Arguments of Respondent
It was a case arising under the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939.	None
Therein the respondent was a dealer in gunny bags.	None
He purchased gunnies from the mills on terms of a written contract which was on a printed form.	None
The mills after receiving the part of the purchase price issued delivery orders directing the delivery of the goods as per the contract.	None
Instead of taking delivery himself, the respondent endorsed the delivery orders to another person for consideration and those delivery orders passed through several hands before the ultimate holder of the delivery orders presented them to the mills and obtained delivery of the gunnies from the mills.	None
At the date of the contract for purchase, the goods which were the subjectmatter of the purchase were not appropriated to the contract so that there was no completed sale since no property in the goods sold passed.	None
There was only an agreement of sale.	None
The Salestax Officer assessed the respondent and collected sales tax on the said transactions.	None
The question was whether the transactions were or were not sales of goods within S. 3 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939, so as to enable the turnover represented by those sales to be brought to tax under the Act, or were mere sales or transfers of delivery orders and further what was the effect of the property in the goods passing to the ultimate endorsee of the delivery orders.	None
The Court held that the principle laid down in Butterworth v. Kingway Motors Ltd., (1954)	None
2 All ER 694 which was the basis of the decision of this Court in Bayyanna Bhimayyas case, (1961)	None
3	None
SCR 267 (AIR 1961 SC 1065 ) (supra) would equally apply to the facts of that case.	None
This Court upheld the levy of sales tax on the ground that though the title to the goods sold did not pass when the delivery order passed from one intermediate dealer to another intermediate dealer but yet those transactions became sales of goods as soon as the goods were actually delivered to the last buyer of the delivery order on the principle of feeding back the title.	None
The Court held that the title acquired by the last purchaser went to feed the previous defective titles obtained by the previous buyers.	None
Consequently every transfer of the delivery orders became a sale within the meaning of Section 3 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939.13.	None
Neither the I. T. O. nor the A. A. C. and nor even the Tribunal has gone into the questions firstly as to what was trade practice at the relevant time and whether the last buyers of the P. D. Os. have taken actual delivery of the goods covered by those P. D. Os.	Reasoning
They concentrated their attention solely on the question whether the assessees had given delivery of the goods covered by the P. D. Os.	Reasoning
to their transferees.	Reasoning
That was not the relevant issue.	Reasoning
The crucial question of fact to be decided was whether the last buyers of the P. D. Os. had taken actual delivery of the goods covered by the P. D. Os.	Reasoning
Mr. Sen relying on the decision of this Court in Duni Chand Ratarias case, (1955) 1 SCR 1071 (AIR 1955 SC 182 ) (supra) urged thatwe should accept the trade practice pleaded by him and straightway allow the appeals.	Reasoning
But no such trade practice appears to have been put forward before the authorities under the Act.	Reasoning
That apart, the transactions effected by the assessees cannot be considered as a valid transfer of the commodity within the meaning of Explanation 2 to the proviso to Section 24 (l) of the Act until the actual delivery of the commodity in question takes place.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances, it is not possible to answer the questions referred to the High Court.	Reasoning
All that we can do is either to call for a supplementary Statement from the Tribunal or to remand these cases to the Tribunal for a fresh hearing.	Reasoning
As seen earlier, the authorities under the Act have completely misdirected themselves as to the questions of fact to be decided.	Reasoning
Hence there is need for a fresh enquiry.	Reasoning
Therefore it will be in the interest of the parties to remand the cases to the Tribunal for a fresh enquiry on the lines suggested earlier.	Reasoning
We order accordingly.	Reasoning
The Tribunal may take additional evidence on the questions mentioned earlier.	Reasoning
The parties may be given reasonable opportunity to adduce additional evidence both documentary as well as oral.	Reasoning
The Tribunal may also take into consideration the byelaws of the East India Jute and Hessian Exchange Ltd., Calcutta which bye laws, we were told, were in force during the calendar year 1959.	Reasoning
We are sure the Tribunal will deal with these cases expeditiously as they are very old cases.14.	Reasoning
In the result we allow these appeals, vacate the answers given by the High Court and remand the cases to the Tribunal for disposal according to law.	Decision
The costs in this Court as well as in the High Court will be costs in the cause.15.	Decision
Appeals allowed and cases remanded.	None
