 Shelat, J. 1.	None
This appeal by certificate from the High Court at Allahabad involves the question as to the valuation of a piece of land belonging to the appellant situate outside the town Nehtaur, in District Bijnor, U. P.	Issue
The land admeasures 6 pucca bighas and is grove land having in all 123 trees of which a number are mango and naspati trees.	Issue
2.	None
The notification under S. 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1 of 1894 was issued On December 22, 1945 in which it was stated that the land was being acquired for a public purpose, viz., the construction of a hostel, etc., of S. N. S. M. High School at Nehtaur.	Facts
Possession of the land was taken from the appellant on July 4, 1947.	Facts
The Collector of Bijnor made his award under S. 11 of the Act fixing Rs 1,16740 as compensation for the trees, Rs. 1,050120 as compensation for the land and adding 15 per cent solatium awarded the total sum of Rs. 2,218.	Facts
A reference was thereafter made under S. 18 at the instance of the appellant to the District Judge, Bijnor.	Facts
Both the appellant and the Government led oral evidence and also adduced evidence of certain specimen of exemplar sales.	Facts
Besides the oral evidence the appellant relied on two saledeeds, one, dated March 20, 1926 and another, dated January 5, 1934.	Facts
He also led the evidence of one Syed Nisar Haidar Zaidi, a Deputy Collector who had just retired and who prior to his retirement had written two letters to the appellant, dated October 14, 1945 and November 20, 1945 expressing his desire to purchase the land in question with a view to build a residential house for himself so that he could live therein, after his retirement.	Facts
In these letters he had offered Rs. 18,000 but that offer was not accepted by the appellant as he wanted Rs. 24,000 as the price of the land.	Facts
On behalf of the Government also reliance was placed on three specimen sales being Exhibits A1, A2and A3.	Facts
The evidence disclosed that the land acquired was distance of about 2 furlongs from the town Nehtaur which at that time had a population of about 18,000 souls.	Facts
The land abuts on the main road from Moradabad to Bijnor and is next to the said school.	Facts
Nearby is a fairly large size pond.	Facts
The evidence of Murari Singh one of the witnesses examined by the Government, was that besides the appellants grove there were some other groves nearby on the other side of the road, that the town was a growing town in the sense that electricity was available, there was a branch of the Bharat Bank and there were 5 or 6 mills and a crusher working in the town since the last few years.	Facts
The mills referred to by the witness obviously must be some small scale industries.	Facts
The witness, however, stated that only 2 or 4 new houses had been constructed in the town during, the last about 10 years though one more school had been opened in the town about 3 years ago.	Facts
As against his evidence there was some evidence that some houses were constructed in the grove lands nearby.	Facts
But there was no evidence to show that there was any building activity nearby of any substantial nature or that there was any definite trend of development in the direction of the acquired land.	Facts
As regards the income from the land there was the evidence of Pusshkar nath that the fruit trees grown in the land yielded approximately an annual income of Rs. 500, about 49 mango and naspati trees being fruit bearing at that time.	Facts
It appears that the grove had been laid only about two or three years ago.	Facts
But the evidence of the Village Patwari clearly disclosed that the grove would yield about Rs. 1,000 a year when all the trees started bearing fruits.	Facts
Besides the income from the trees the land also yielded an income of about Rs. 200 a year by way of sale of Bind pullas.	Facts
3.	None
The District Judge discarded the evidence of specimen sales produced by both the sides as being of no assistance for the reasons stated by him.	Facts
It is not necessary to examine those reasons as there is no dispute that he was right in rejecting them and the High Court also agreed with him that that evidence was of no help in arriving at the correct valuation.	Facts
The District Judge, however, was impressed with the evidence of witness Zaidi and accepting the offer conveyed by him as genuine and bona fide held on the basis of that offer that the value of the land could be safely assessed at Rs. 18,000 and adding to that figure the solatium at 15 per cent, he awarded Rupees 20,700 as compensation.	Facts
He also held that the appellant was entitled to interest under S.28 but allowed interest at 3 per cent per annum observing that since the acquisition was for an educational institution, interest at that rate was proper.	Facts
4.	None
Against the said judgment and order the Government filed an appeal before the High Court at Allahabad and the appellant also filed his crossobjections.	Facts
As already stated the High Court agreed with the District Judge that the evidence of specimen sales was of no assistance.	Facts
But regarding the evidence of witness Zaidi it commented as followsIt is not possible for us to say as to whether the approach made by Syed Nisar Haidar Zaidi was a genuine one or not but even if we take it to have been a genuine approach there can be no doubt that the price that he was going to offer was a price which he fixed because of the peculiar circumstances in which he was placed, the circumstances having been that he was, upon retirement, desirous of going back to his native place and to take up residence there and to build a house outside the populated area.	Facts
The price which such an exceptional purchaser is going to offer will not afford a true test about the value of the property.	None
Having thus rejected the evidence of the specimen sales and also the offer evidence of witness Zaidi the High Court fell back on the net annual income from the land which it estimated at Rs. 650 and multiplying it by 20 fixed the value of land at Rs. l.3,000.	Facts
Adding to that figure the solatium at 15 per cent, the High Court awarded in all Rs. 15,000.	Facts
As regards interest the High Court rejected the appellants contention that he was entitled to interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum on two grounds (1) that the question as to the rate of interest was not specifically raised in his crossobjections, and (2) that S. 28 was discretionary and, therefore, the District Judge could fix the rate of interest upto 6 per cent per annum and that it was not incumbent upon the Court to award interest at 6 per cent per annum as contended by the appellant.	Facts
The appellant has challenged in this appeal the correctness of the judgment and the order of the High Court both on the question of valuation and the rate of interest.	Facts
5. The first contention raised on behalf of the appellant is that the High Courts judgment suffered from an infirmity in that it failed to take into account the potential value of the land as a building site in view of the evidence as to the towns recent development.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention, in our view, has no substance.	None
Market value on the basis of which compensation is payable under S. 23 of the Act means the price that a willing purchaser would pay to a willing seller for a property having due regard to its existing condition, with all its existing advantages, and its potential possibilities when laid out in its most advantageous manner, excluding any advantage due to the carrying out of the scheme for the purposes for which the property is compulsorily acquired.	Reasoning
As observed in South Eastern Rail Co. v. London County Council, (19l5) 2 Ch 252.The value to be ascertained is the price to be paid for the land with all its potentialities, and with all the use made of it by the vendor.	None
Dealing with the doctrine of potential value this Court in N. B. Jeejabhoy v. District Collector, Thana, Civil Appeals Nos. 313 to 315 of 1963, D  3081965 (SC) observed as followsA vendor willing to sell his land at the market value will take into consideration a particular potentiality or special adaptability of the land in fixing the price.	None
It is not the fancy or the obsession of the vendor that enters the market value but the objective factor, namely, whether the said potentiality can be turned to account within a reasonably near futureThe question there fore turns upon the facts of each case.	None
In the context of building potentiality many questions will have to be asked and answered, whether there is pressure on the land for building activity, whether the acquired land is suitable for building purposes, whether the extension of the said activity is towards the land acquired, what is the pace of the progress and how far the said activity has extended and within what time, whether buildings have been put up on lands purchased for building purposes, what is the distance between the builtinland and the land acquired and similar other questions will have to be answered.	None
It is the overall picture drawn on the said relevant circumstances that affords the solution It is clear that there is no evidence on record of any building activity of a substantial nature being carried on in the neighbourhood of the acquired land at about the time when the notification was issued in 1945.	None
There is equally no evidence of any trend of development of the town in the direction of the acquired land.	Reasoning
The only evidence was as to the existence of the school near by, of the land abutting on the road and of some houses having been built on the opposite side of the road in some of the grove lands.	Reasoning
Such evidence however would not constitute all ascertainable trend of development of the town in the direction of the acquired land or of any active building activity nearby.	Reasoning
Clearly, therefore, no question of the valuation having to be made on the basis of the potentiality of the land as building site can possibly arise.	None
The contention of Mr. Misra in this regard therefore must be rejected.	None
6.	None
But the next contention urged by him is a substantial one and requires consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that the High Court fell into error in rejecting the evidence of witness Zaidi accepted as reliable by the District Judge and in substituting that finding by its own estimate of the annual income derived from the land.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence of witness Zaidi being the evidence of an offer made by him cannot of course be equated in importance with the evidence of proper specimen sales of properties in the neighbourhood.	None
Obviously an offer does not come within the category of sales and purchases but nonetheless if a person who had made an offer himself gives evidence such evidence is relevant in that it is evidence that in his opinion that land was of a certain value.	Reasoning
But the evidence that the owner refused an offer so made amounts to this only that in his opinion his land was worth more than the figure of value named or that the offer was for some other reason such that he was not willing to accept.	Reasoning
(cf.	None
Govt. of Bombay v. Merwanji Muncherji, (1908) 10 Bonn LR 907).	None
It has also been held that an agreement to sell is a relevant matter and can be used in relation to fixing the value of the acquired land.	None
(cf.	None
GovernorGeneral in Council v. Ghiasuddin, (1929) 30 Pun LR 212).	None
There can however be no doubt that apart from Zaidis offer being relevant it was not an offer similar to an offer made by an irresponsible broker as commented in (1908) 10	None
Bom LR 907 (Supra).	None
There is nothing also to show that he or the appellant knew that a notification for acquisition was about to be issued or that he colluded with the appellant to fabricatee evidence of an offer to enable the appellant to get better compensation.	None
There is not even a faint suggestion in the crossexamination on behalf of the Government that his offer was not genuine or that it was irresponsible.	Reasoning
What is more significant is that no suggestion was made in his crossexamination that the offer was excessive or that it was not bona fide or that he had made it witilout properly considering it or without regard to the situation and the suitability of the land.	Reasoning
There was therefore no justification in the remark made by the High Court that it could not be said whether his offer was genuine or not.	Reasoning
The District Judge accepted it as genuine and if the High Court did not agree with his assessment of his evidence it ought to have given reasons for such disiagreement.	Reasoning
It is impossible thus to treat the evidence of Zaidi either as uacceptable or irrelevant.	Reasoning
The second criticism by the High Court of Zaidis evidence that his offer was made in exceptional circumstances and therefore cannot be regarded as one of a willing prospective purchaser is also not correct.	Reasoning
At the time when Zaidi made his offer he was about to retire.	Reasoning
He wanted to retire in his native place and desired to have a house which would be situate outside the town.	Reasoning
His offer was for a groveland with plenty of trees some of which wore already bearing fruits and the rest were likely to yield fruit in the near future.	Reasoning
The land abutted on the road, was next to the school and some houses had already been built on the other side of the road.	Reasoning
In these circumstances it is difficult to apprerciate why the High Court thought that the offer was not of a willing prospective buyer.	Reasoning
There were other groves nearby and Zaidi had therefore an opportunity to select, if he wanted to, there being nothing to show that the owners of the other such land were not willing to sell.	Reasoning
Probably he selected this land because it was situated next to the school and abutted on the road.	Reasoning
In view of these facts it is difficult to see how the High Court came to, the conclusion that he made the said offer in special circumstances, agreeing to purchase the land under compulsion or stress of circumstances.	Reasoning
Since his evidence was not challenged either on the ground that his offer was not bona fide or that he offered to buy under compulsion or under any special circumstances there was no valid reason why the High Court should have refused to accept the appreciation of his evidence by the District Judge and resort to a method of valuation not always adequate, viz., the annual crop value.	Reasoning
Such a method of valuation is not adequate at least for two reasons (1) that the owner may not have so far put his property to its best use or in the most lucrative manner and (2) in a case like the present the grove had not yet started giving the maximum yield.	Reasoning
Such a method of valuation by ascertaining the annual value of the produce can and should be resorted to only when no other alternative method is available.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the District Judge was right in accepting the evidence of Zaidi and in treating his offer as one of a willing prospective purchaser.	Reasoning
The valuation made by the District Judge on that evidence rested on a better footing in the circumstances of the case and ought to have been accepted by the High Court.	None
7.	None
On the question of interest, Mr. Misra contended that under Section 28 neither the District Judge nor the High Court had any discretion in allowing interest at a rate less than 6 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that this question being purely one of construction and not depending on any finding of fact even though the question was not specifically raised in the appellants crossobjections before the High Court the High Court ought to have allowed interest at 6 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Karkhanis, on the other hand, argued that what Section 28 does is to provide for a ceiling of the rate of interest.	Arguments of Respondent
And even if that is not so, since the Section confers discretion on the court to grant or not to grant interest that discretion impliedly means that even where the court grants interest it can do so at any rate upto 6 per cent.	Arguments of Respondent
The contention so put forward resolves itself into two questions (1) whether in the absence of a specific objection as to interest in the appellants crossobjections the High Court ought to have gone into that question and (2) whether on a proper interpretations of Section 28 the Court has a discretion to grant interest at a rate less than 6 per cent.	Facts
The first point would not create any difficulty in the way of the appellant because the High Court did in fact go into the question of interest even though it was not specifically taken in the crossobjections and decided the question on interpretation of Section 28.	None
Besides, the question is purely one of law and as Lord Watson said in Connecticut Fire Insurance Co. v. Kavanagh, (1892)	None
AC 473.When a question of law is raised for the first time in a court of last resort upon the construction of a document or upon facts either admitted or proved beyond controversy, it is not only competent but expedient in the interests of justice to entertain the plea.	None
Section 28 reads as follows If the sum which, in the opinion of the Court, the Collector ought to have awarded as compensation, is in excess of the sum which the Collector did award as compensation the award of the Court may direct that the Collector shall pay interest on such excess at the rate of six per centum per annum etc., In its plain language the discretion that is conferred on the Court is whether in the given circumstances of a particular case the court should award interest or not.	None
The words may direct mean that it is discretionary on the part of the court to grant or refuse to grant interest.	Reasoning
But the words following those words, viz., the Collector shall pay interest on such excess at the rate of six per centum per annum would mean that once the discretion to grant interest is exercised there is no further discretion and the interest if awarded has to be at the rate of six percentum per annum.	Reasoning
This also appears to be the construction of S. 28 so far understood.	Reasoning
It is because the Section leaves no discretion as regards the rate of interest that the Central Provinces Act XVII of 1939 by S. 2 provides that the rate of interest shall be at a rate which shall be not less than 3 per cent per annum and not more than 6 per cent per annum in place of the words at the rate of six per centum per annum in Section 28.	Reasoning
Some of the other State legislatures such as Madras, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Punjab have instead of using the abovementioned phraseology substituted 6 per cent in S. 28 by 4 per cent per annum.	Reasoning
The result of these amendments is that whereas in the case of the Central Provinces (now Madhya Pradesh) the Court has a discretion to grant interest at anything between three to six percent, in the case of the other States the court has to award interest at the rate of 4 per cent.	Reasoning
We are told that no such amendment has been carried out in	Reasoning
U. P.	Reasoning
The consequence is that Section 28 as it stands must apply and therefore where the court exercises its discretion and grants interest the interest has to be at the rate of 6 per cent.	Reasoning
The construction which we are inclined to place on Section 28 is to a certain extent supported by the same expression used in Section 34 which also deals with interest and which provides that when the amount of compensation is neither paid nor deposited before taking possession of the acquired land the Collector shall pay the amount awarded with interest thereon at the rate of six per centum per annum etc.	Reasoning
It is a well settled rule of construction that where the legislature uses the same expression in the same statute at two places or more than the same interpretation should be given to that expression unless the context requires otherwise.	Reasoning
That being so, there is nothing wrong in permitting the appellant to raise the point as to the rate of interest as that question depends only upon the construction of Section 28.	Reasoning
In the view that we have taken as to the interpretation of Section 28 Mr. Mishra must also succeed on this question.	Reasoning
8.	None
In the result, the appeal must be allowed and the judgment and order passed by the High Court set aside.	Decision
The judgment and order of the District Judge by which he fixed the compensation at Rs. 20,700/ including solatium at the rate of 15 per cent is restored.	Decision
But we direct that the interest on the excess amount of Rs. 18,482/ should be paid to the appellant at the rate of six per cent per annum from July 4, 1947 up to the time of payment.	Decision
The respondent will pay to the appellant his costs throughout.	Decision
9.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
