 CHINNAPPA REDDY, J. 1.	None
The respondentlandlord sought eviction of the appellanttenant from the suit premises an two grounds (i) failure to pay arrears of rent of Rs. 158.25 despite service of notice of demand and (ii) bonafide requirement of premises for landlords personal occupation.	Facts
The second ground was rejected by all the sub ordinate courts and we are no longer concerned with that ground.	Issue
In regard to the first ground, the trial Court found that the tenant was in arrears of payment of rent but that the tenant was entitled to the Protection of s. 12(3) of the Madhya Pradesh Accommodation Control Act, 1961, as the tenant had deposited the arrears of rent within the time allowed by the Court on his application.	Facts
When the appeal preferred by the landlord was pending before the Additional District Judge, Satna, the tenant filed an application for condonation o f delay R in depositing the rent, month by month, which had become payable after the filing of the suit, as stipulated by s. 13(1) of the Act.	Facts
It appears that, on several occasions, when the suit and the appeal were pending before the trial court and the appellate court respectively, the tenant had deposited the monthly rent a day or two or three, beyond the prescribed date.	Facts
The amount had been received by the court and drawn out by the landlord, apparently without any protest.	Facts
Ta king advantage of the filing of the tenants application for condonation of delay, the landlord contended that the court had no power to extend the time for deposit of the monthly rent and that he was entitled to a decree for eviction consequent on the noncompliance with the provisions of s. 13 ( 1 ) of the Madhya Pradesh Accommodation Control Act.	Facts
The appellate court negatived the landlords contention and dismissed the appeal.	Facts
The landlord preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The High Court, holding that the court had no power to extend time, decreed the suit for eviction.	Facts
The tenant, having obtained special leave, has appealed to this Court.	Facts
Shri Khanduja, learned counsel for the appellant, raised two contentions before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first contention was that the High Court was wrong in holding that the Court had no power to condone the delay in depositing the monthly rent falling due after the filing of the suit for eviction.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second contention was that, in the circumstances of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
the respondent must be considered to have waived or abandoned the right to insist on disentitling the tenant of the protection to which he was otherwise entitled.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Naik, learned counsel for the respondent, contended to the contrary on both the questions.	Arguments of Respondent
2.	None
The Madhya Pradesh Accommodation Control Act, 1961, was enacted, as recited in the statement of objects and reasons, for the purpose of controlling, letting of and rents of residential and nonresidential accommodation and giving adequate protection to tenants of such accommodation in areas where there is dearth of accommodation.	None
Section 12(1) of the Act provides that no suit shall befiled ill any civil court against a tenant for his eviction from any accommodation except on one or more of the grounds specified therein.	None
Several grounds are specified, such as, failure to pay the arrears of rent after the service of notice of demand, unlawful subletting of the whole or part of the accommodation, creation of a nuisance, bonafide requirement of the accommodation by the landlord for his own occupation, causing of substantial damage to the accommodation etc. etc.	None
The ground with which we are concerned is that mentioned in s. 12(1) (a) andit isthat the tenant has neither paid nor tendered the whole of the arrears of rent legally recoverable from him within two months of the date on which a notice of demand for the arrears of rent has been served on him by the landlord in the prescribed manner.	None
3.	None
Thus, where a tenant is in arrears of rent, a landlord is obliged, before instituting a suit for eviction on that ground, to serve a notice of demand cal ling upon the tenant to pay or tender the whole of the arrears of rent within two months of the date of service of the notice.	None
S. 12(3) provides that an order for the eviction of a tenant shall not be made on the ground specified in s. 12(1) (a), if the tenant makes payment or deposit as required by s. 13.	None
S. 13, subss.	None
(1), (5) and (6) which are relevant for the present purpose are as follows13.	None
(1) on a suit or proceeding being instituted by the landlord on any of the grounds referred to in s. 12, the tenant shall, within one month of the service of the writ of summons on him or within such further time as the Court may, on an application made to it, allow in this behalf, deposit in the Court or pay to the landlord an amount calculated at the rate of rent at which it was paid, for the period for which the tenant may have made default including the period subsequent thereto up to the end of the month previous to that in which the deposit or payment is made and shall thereafter continue to deposit or pay, month by month, by the 15th of each succeeding month a sum equivalent to the rent at that rate.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
(5) If a tenant makes deposit or payment as required by subsection (1) or subsection (2), no decree or order shall be made by the Court for the recovery of possession of the accommodation on t he ground of default in the payment of rent by the tenant, but the Court may allow such cost as it may deem fit to the landlord.	None
(6) If a tenant fails to deposit or pay any amount as required by this section, the Court may order the defence against eviction to be struck out and shall proceed with the hearing of the suit.	None
4.	None
It is true that in order to entitle a tenant to claim the protection of s. 12(3), the tenant has to make a payment or deposit as required by s. 13, that is to say, the arrears of rent should be paid or deposited within one month of the service of the writ of summons on the tenant or within such further time as may be allowed by the court, and should further deposit or pay e very month by the 15th, a sum equivalent to the rent.	Reasoning
It does not, however, follow that failure to pay or deposit a sum equivalent to the rent by the 15th of every month, subsequent to the filing of the suit for eviction, will entitle the landlord, straight away, to a decree for eviction.	Reasoning
The consequences of the deposit or payment and nonpayment or nondeposit are prescribed by subss.	None
(5) and (6) of s. 13.	Reasoning
Since there is a statutory provision expressly prescribing the consequence of non deposit or nonpayment of the rent, we must look to and be guided by that provision only to deter mine what shall follow.	Reasoning
S. 13 (6) does not clothe the landlord with an automatic right to a decree for eviction nor does it visit t he tenant with the penalty of a decree for eviction being straightaway passed against him.	Reasoning
S. 13(6) vests, in the court, the discretion to order the striking out of the defence against eviction.	Reasoning
In other words, the Court, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, may or may not strike out the defence.	None
If s. 13 were to be construed as mandatory and not as vesting a discretion in the Court, it might result in the situation that a tenant who has deposited the arrears of rent within the time stipulated by s. 13(1) but who fails to deposit thereafter the monthly rent on a single occasion for a cause beyond his control may have his defence struck out and be liable to summary eviction.	Reasoning
We think that s. 13 quite clearly confers a discretion, on the court, to strike out or not to strike out the defence, if default is made in deposit or payment of rent as required by s. 13(1).	Reasoning
If the court has the discretion not to strike out the defence of a tenant committing default in payment or deposit as required by s. 13(1), the court surely has the further discretion to condone the default and extend the time for payment or deposit.	Reasoning
Such a discretion is a necessary implication of the discretion not to strike out the defence.	Reasoning
Another construction may lead, in some cases, to a perversion of the object of the Act namely, the adequate protection of the tenant.	Reasoning
S. 12(3) entitles a tenant to claim protection against evic tion on the ground specified in s. 12(1) (a) if the tenant makes payment or deposit as required by s. 13.	Reasoning
On our construction of s. 13 that the Court has the power to extend the time for payment or deposit, it must follow that payment or deposit within the extended time will entitle the tenant to claim the protection.	Reasoning
of s. 12(3).	Reasoning
One of the arguments advanced before us was that there was no express provision for extension of time for deposit or payment.	None
of monthly rent subsequent to the filing of the suit whereas there was such express provision for payment or deposit of arrears of rent that had accrued before the filing of the suit.	Reasoning
Obviously, express provision for extension of time for deposit or payment of rent falling due after the filing of the suit was not made in s. 13(1) as the consequence of nonpayment was proposed to be dealt with by a separate subsection.	None
namely s. 13(6).	Reasoning
Express provision had to be made for extension of time for deposit or payment of rent that had accrued prior to the filing of the suit, since that would ordinarily be at a very early stage of the suit when a written statement might not be filed and there would.	None
therefore, be no question of striking out the defence and, so, there would be no question of s. 13(6) covering the situation.	None
In Jagdish Kapoor v. New Education Society, a full bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court held that s. 13((6) of the Madhya Pradesh Accommodation Control Act did not make it obligatory for the court to strike out the defence but vested in the court a discretion to strike out or not to strike out the defence.	Reasoning
Having so held, the full bench stopped short of giving full effect to their conclusion by holding D. that the Court could condone the default and refuse to strike out the defence but it could not give the benefit of s. 12(3) or 13(5) to the tenant.	Reasoning
We do not see any justification for adopting this narrow construction of ss. 12 and 13.	Reasoning
In our view the discretion given to the court under s. 13(6) must be held to imply a discretion to condone the delay and extend the time in making deposit or payment under s. 13(1).	Reasoning
In B. C. Kame v. Nem Chand Jain, a tenant had committed default both in payment of arrears as well as in payment of the monthly rent which became payable after the filing of the suit.	Reasoning
This Court took the view that on an application made by the tenant time for deposit or payment could be extended.	None
Though the observations made by the Court read as if they were made with reference to the default in payment.	None
Of arrears, a reference to the facts of the case as set out in the very judgment shows that there was default both in payment of the arrears of rent that had accrued before the filing of the suit and in payment of the monthly rent that fall due after the filing of the suit.	None
5.	None
We are accordingly of the opinion that the Court has the jurisdiction to extend time for deposit or payment of monthly rent falling due after the filing of the suit.	Decision
In that view it is not necessary to express our opinion on the question of waiver or abandonment.	Decision
The appeal is allowed with costs and the suit for eviction is dismissed.	None
6.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
