 Jagannadhadas, J.1.	None
These are two appeals by special leave against two orders of the Election Tribunal, Vindhya Pradesh at Rewa, dated 2641954 and 3151954, which arise out of the election to the House of People (Lok Sabha) from ShahdolSidhi constituency of Vindhya Pradesh.	Issue
It is a double member constituency, one being a general seat and other being a reserved seat for a member of the scheduled tribes of Vindhya Pradesh.	Facts
Twelve nominations were filed for the general seat and three for the reserved seat.	Facts
The Returning Officer, after scrutiny, held only five out of the twelve nominations to the general seat to be valid and rejected the rest.	Facts
Out of the three for the reserved seat, he declared only one, namely, that of one Randaman Singh, to be valid and rejected the rest.	Facts
As a result thereof the said Randaman Singh was declared elected without contest to the reserved seat.	Facts
Out of the five candidates whose nominations for the general seat were held valid, two subsequently withdrew in time.	Facts
Accordingly the polling was held for the remaining three candidates in the various polling stations of the constituency on dates between the 11th and 19th January, 1952.	Facts
These three candidates obtained votes as follows Bhagwan Datt Sastri  71,589Ram Ratan Gupta  56,585Puranmal  34,990Consequently Bhagwan Datt Shastri (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) was declared elected, and the same was published in the Gazette dated the 14th February, 1952.	Facts
Thereupon two election petitions were filed, both on the 24th April, 1952, contesting the validity of the election.	Facts
The first (Election Petition No. 185 of 1952) was filed by four voters of the constituency.	Facts
The relief asked for was the setting aside of the election of the appellant on various grounds set out therein and the declaration of Ram Ratan Gupta as the validly elected candidate.	Facts
The second petition (Election Petition No. 187 of 1952) was filed by three other voters of the same constituency and also prayed that the election of the appellant should be set aside.	Facts
It asked also for a further relief, viz., that the election of Randaman Singh the candidate returned unopposed for the reserved seat should also be set aside.	Facts
In this petition the grounds alleged against the appellants election were partly the same as those which were set out in the earlier petition.	Facts
But there was added another substantial ground.	Facts
This was that out of the nominations for the general seat which were rejected as being invalid on scrutiny by the Returning Officer, the rejections of the nominations of three candidates, viz., Baboo Lal Udaniya, Deep Narain and Rajkishore Shukla, were erroneous in fact and in law and that as a result thereof the election  it was alleged  was materially affected.	Facts
It was on the basis of this allegation that the relief asked for in this petition was not merely to set aside the election of the appellant but also for the setting aside of the entire election which would result in the unseating even of the reservedseat candidate who was declared elected unopposed.2.	Facts
Common evidence was taken by consent of parties in both these petitions.	Facts
Quite a large number of issues were raised in each of the petitions, some of which were common.	Facts
A good many out of those issues were found in favour of the appellant.	Facts
But only three of the issues in the first petition relating, respectively, to (1) undue influence, (2) use of vehicles for carrying voters to the polling station, and (3) appeal to voters on grounds of caste, race, community or religion, were found against the appellant.	Facts
In the other petition, in addition to the findings against the appellant in respect of issues corresponding to these three, a further issue relating to the wrongful rejection of nomination papers and the election being materially affected thereby, was found against the appellant.	Facts
As a result of all these findings, the election of the appellant was set aside.	Facts
The additional relief asked for in the first petition, viz., that Ram Ratan Gupta be declared elected was rejected as also the additional relief asked for in the second petition, viz., that Randaman Singh was to be unseated.	Facts
As a result, the Election Tribunal maintained the election of the reserved seat candidate but ordered a fresh election in the constituency for the general seat.3.	Facts
There is no question raised before us as to the correctness of the order of the Election Tribunal in so far as it upheld the election of the reserved seat candidate and rejected the relief asked for that Ram Ratan Gupta be declared elected.	Facts
The only common question therefore now raised in both the appeals is as to the correctness of the Tribunals order in each of the election petitions setting aside the appellants election.	Facts
Since at this stage there is only one common question arising in both the appeals it is convenient to treat both the appeals together by a common judgment.	Facts
This judgment accordingly disposes of both the appeals.4.	Facts
The findings of the Election Tribunal which resulted in the election of the appellant being set aside are the following.1.	Facts
Leaflets like Ex.	Facts
P3 were circulated in numerous villages of Shahdol district to the effect that every member belonging to the Gond community who would not vote for the appellant would be excommunicated.	Facts
Such distribution was by various redcapped workers who were members of the Socialist Party.	Facts
The appellant having stood as a candidate on the ticket of the Socialist Party, they were virtually agents of the appellant.	Facts
Thus the appellant was guilty of the major corrupt practice of undue influence under proviso (a)(i) and (ii) of S. 123(2) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act XLIII of 1951) (hereinafter referred to as the Act).2.	Facts
Leaflets like Ex.	Facts
P6, the later portion of which contained a clear and systematic appeal to the voters to vote (or refrain from voting) on grounds of caste, race, community or religion and contained a threat of injury, were widely distributed in the entire district of Sidhi and Tahasil of Mauganj in Rewa district by workers of the Socialist Party, who were virtually in the position of agents of the appellant.	Facts
This constituted both a major corrupt practice under proviso (a)(i) and (ii) to S. 123(2) and a minor corrupt practice under S. 124(5) of the Act.3.	Facts
On 1111952 (one of the polling dates) quite a number of voters from two villages in the constituency were brought to one of the polling stations by the use of one motor truck which belonged to Achutanand, a Socialist Party candidate for the same constituency of the State Legislative Assembly, polling for which also was going on simultaneously at the various polling stations.	Facts
The voters were brought by Achutanand himself as well as by other Socialist Party workers.	Facts
This was with the knowledge and connivance of the appellant and constituted a major corrupt practice, within the meaning of S. 123(6) of the Act.4.	Facts
The nominations of the three persons above mentioned, viz., (1) Baboo Lal Udaniya, (2) Deep Narain, and (3) Rajkishore Shukla, were wrongly rejected and the rejection materially affected the result of the election.5.	Facts
The correctness of all these findings was vigorously canvassed before us both on the evidence and on the law relating thereto.	Facts
It may be mentioned that each one of these, if held proved, was by itself enough to invalidate the election of the appellant.	Facts
The first three of the above findings which fall under S. 123 of the Act and are major corrupt practices would, if accepted, bring about the setting aside of the election by the Tribunal under S. 100(2)(b) of the Act.	Facts
The finding in respect of the fourth, if upheld, would bring about the voidness of the election under S. 100(1)(a) of the Act.6.	Facts
So far as findings 1, 2 and 3 above are concerned, the questions involved are substantially questions of fact.	Facts
But they have been argued before us with some insistence on the ground that they were mixed up with questions of law.	Facts
The main questions of law that were said to arise with reference to these three findings are1.	Facts
As regards the alleged major corrupt practice based on Ex.	Facts
P3, the election petitions did not furnish the necessary particulars and therefore the enquiry and finding relating thereto was without jurisdiction.2.	Facts
As regards the corrupt practices based on Exs. P3 and P6, the main evidence is that of P. W. 73, and the appellant was not afforded a fair opportunity to rebut his evidence.3.	Facts
As regards all the three findings 1, 2 and 3, set out above, no direct connection of the appellant is shown and the findings of the Tribunal are based on a special theory as to agency in election matters which is erroneous in fact and in law.7.	Facts
In order to appreciate the objections raised before us as regards the correctness of finding No. 4 above enumerated, it is necessary to set out the grounds on which, the respective nominations were rejected by the Returning Officer.	Facts
They were as follows(a) Baboo Lal Udaniya was lawyer for the State Railway under the terms of a standard agreement (marked before the Tribunal as Ex. XA2).	Facts
His employment constituted an office of profit under the State and he was accordingly disqualified under Art. 58(2) of the Constitution.(b) The nomination paper of Deep Narain contained the following defect.	Facts
The name of the constituency was shown as ShahdolSidhi Mauganj Constituency instead of as ShahdolSidhi Districts and Mauganj Tahsil of Rewa District as specified in the Delimitation Order.(c)	Facts
The nomination of Rajkishore Shukla was defective as follows(i) The nomination paper was incomplete when the candidate signed it, the proposer and seconder having signed it later.	Facts
(It may be mentioned that the nomination paper when presented to the Returning Officer admittedly contained all the three signatures).(ii) The security deposit under S. 34 of the Act was made by one Ram Gopal Varma and the receipt therefore filed with the nomination paper did not mention that the deposit was made on behalf of the candidate, Rajkishore Shukla.8.	Facts
The Tribunal held that the rejection of the nominations on the above grounds was erroneous.	Facts
It also held, following certain previous decisions of various Election Tribunals, that in such a situation there is a presumption that the result of the election is materially affected.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant strongly contested the conclusions of the Tribunal in this behalf.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as the grounds for rejection of the nominations of Deep Narain and Rajkishore Shukla are concerned, we are satisfied that the rejection by the Returning Officer was erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
Indeed we did not gather that learned counsel for the appellant seriously contested the Tribunals view in this behalf.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main emphasis of the learned counsel on this part of the case was that the view taken by the Tribunal was erroneous in law in so far as it held (1) that Baboo Lal Udania held an office of profit and (2) that in cases where the nomination of a candidate has been wrongfully rejected there is no presumption that the result of the election is materially affected.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, out of the four findings of the Tribunal against the appellant above set out, three relate to alleged corrupt practices and the fourth relates to the alleged wrongful rejection of nominations.	Reasoning
It will be convenient to take up first, those relating to the alleged corrupt practices.9.	None
I. Major corrupt practice relating to the wide distribution of pamphlets like Ex.	Issue
P3 A number of objections have been taken to the finding in this behalf.	None
It is first contended that the allegation made in the election petition was extremely vague and that no particulars were furnished and that accordingly the Tribunal erred in allowing this allegation to be enquired into.	Arguments of Petitioner
The allegation in this behalf is contained in paragraph 12(g) of the Election Petition No. 185 of 1952 before the Election Tribunal which is as followsThe respondent No. 1 himself and through his agents, canvassers, workers and supporters committed the corrupt practice of undue influence in the form of (g) having circulated leaflets in numerous villages of Shahdol district that every elector belonging to the Gond community who would not vote for respondent No. 1, would be excommunicated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The particulars are detailed in list B annexed hereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
(Copy of leaflet annexed hereto).It is pointed out that the particulars in list B relate only to subparagraphs (a) to (f) of paragraph 12 and that there were no particulars at all furnished as regards this particular allegation contained in subparagraph (g).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also pointed out that objection was specifically taken in paragraph 4 of the written statement of the appellant which is as followsNo particulars have been given for the allegation contained in paragraph 12 (g) hence it should be struck off.	Arguments of Petitioner
In spite thereof, the matter was kept in suspense until the concluding stage as appears from the following passage in the judgment of the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly in para 12(g) it was simply alleged that leaflets were circulated in numerous villages of Shahdol district to the effect that every member belonging to the Gond community who would not vote for respondent No. 1 would be excommunicated.	Arguments of Petitioner
No particulars whatsoever about these leaflets, their signatories, or the villages where and the dates on which this form of undue influence was alleged to have been exercised have been given in any para of list B in spite of being so pointed out at the earliest stage by the respondent No. 1 in para 4 of his written statement wherein he pleaded for this allegation to be struck off on this score.	Arguments of Petitioner
At first, we were indeed inclined to strike off this para for want of necessary particulars and to shut out all evidence and arguments adduced thereon.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of this Court in Bhikaji Keshao Joshi v. Brijlal Nandlal Biyani, 19552 SCR 428 (S) AIR 1955 SC 610 ) and in particular the following passage at p. 441 (of SCR) (at p. 616 of AIR) is brought to our notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
There can be no reasonable doubt that the requirement of full particulars is one that has got to be complied with, with sufficient fullness and clarification so as to enable the oppositeparty fairly to meet them and that they must be such as not to turn the enquiry before the Tribunal into a rambling and roving inquisition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on the above, learned counsel for the appellant urged that in the absence of adequate particulars as in this case, the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to admit evidence in this behalf or to give a finding thereupon.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now there can be no doubt that the requirement of full particulars is of paramount importance, in cases of this kind as in cases of the ordinary courts based on allegations of fraud or undue influence.	None
But unlike the one in the above decision of this Court relied upon, in which the question that arose was as to the validity of an order dismissing the entire election petition on the preliminary ground of absence of particulars, the question in this case is different.	Reasoning
This is a case where notwithstanding the absence of particulars, the evidence was allowed to be given and taken.	Reasoning
The question in such a case would not be one of absence of jurisdiction but as to whether there has been any material prejudice occasioned by the absence of particulars.	Reasoning
It is in that light that the validity of the objection raised by the appellant in this behalf before us has to be judged.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, necessary to scrutinise the nature of the evidence on which this finding had been arrived at and to see whether the appellant had a fair opportunity of meeting it.	Reasoning
The finding is based upon the printed pamphlet, Ex. P3, and on the evidence of P. Ws. 10, 11, 12 and 73.	Reasoning
Ex.	Reasoning
P3 is a pamphlet which, as the election petition shows, was an enclosure to that petition itself, when filed before the Election Commission.	Reasoning
The pamphlet itself purports to have been signed by three individuals, Sukh Sen Raj Gond, Thakur Din Raj Gond, Bharosa Raj Gond, and shows on the face of it Kumar Printing Works, Daraganj, Prayag, as the printers.	Reasoning
P. W. 73 is the Proprietor of Kumar Printing Works.	Reasoning
It appears also from the record that on 511953, a number of interrogatories were served on the appellant on behalf of the election petitioners out of which the following may be noticed.24.	Reasoning
(a) Is it not a fact Sukhsen, Thakurdin and Bharosa Rajgonds were your workers and canvassers in the district of Shahdol?(b)	Facts
Was not Sukhsen a candidate for the Vindhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly from Pushaprajgarh and Kotma constituencies, officially set up by the Socialist Party, whose nominations were rejected?(c) Was not Thakurdin a candidate officially set up by the Socialist Party from Beohari constituency for the Vindhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly?(d)	Facts
Was not Bharosa Raj Gond of village Asari, district Shahdol a member of the Socialist Party and your worker in that area?25.	Facts
(a) Was not a leaflet entitled Submission to the Rajgonds issued by Sukhsen, Thakurdin and Bharosa above said freely circulated amongst Gond tribe in Shahdol district?26.	Facts
(a) Were not Dhanukram and Devdutta Ram of Dhureta and Sanwalia Ram of Sheorajpur Tehsil Mauganj members of the Socialist Party and your workers in that Tehsil?(b)	Facts
Did they not issue the pamphlet printed by Kumar Printing Works, Allahabad, and filed with the petition and circulated the same amongst electors.	Facts
To these questions the following answers were given on the 13th January, 1953.24.	Facts
(a) No.(b)	Facts
No knowledge.(c)	Facts
No personal knowledge.(d) No.25.	Facts
(a) No.26.	Facts
(a) No.(b)	Facts
No.	None
The actual recording of evidence commenced on the 13th April, 1953, subsequent to the exchange of these interrogatories and their answers.	None
Since the finding with reference to this allegation is based, as above stated, on the pamphlet which is attached to the petition and on the evidence of witnesses whose names were specifically mentioned in the interrogatories, it is fairly clear that no prejudice would have been caused to the appellant by the nonfurnishing of particulars in the very election petition itself.	Reasoning
This objection, therefore, has no substance.10.	Reasoning
That Ex.	Reasoning
P3 contains matter of the kind which would come within the scope of S. 123(2) of the Act has not been disputed.	Reasoning
But it is urged that the evidence of the four witnesses relied upon is open to serious objections.	Reasoning
This evidence is to the following effect.(1)	Reasoning
The pamphlet Ex.	Reasoning
P3 was printed in the press of P. W. 73 with reference to a manuscript given to him by the appellant, Bhagwan Datt Shastri and another person, Joshi, both of whom placed the order with him for printing the pamphlets and that the original typed matter given to him contained the signature of the appellant and that the counterfoil No.	Reasoning
178A of his billbook related to the bill relating to this job work in his press.(2) Pamphlets of which Ex.	Reasoning
P3 was a specimen were distributed by redcapped Socialist Party workers in some villages of the constituency.	Reasoning
The correctness of these findings has been seriously challenged.	Reasoning
It was strenuously urged that the appellant was not given adequate opportunity to meet and rebut additional evidence taken from P. W. 73 at a later date with reference to an alleged mistake in his previous evidence as regards the date of the counterfoil above mentioned.	Reasoning
We have been taken through the evidence relating to this alleged corrupt practice.	Reasoning
It is enough to say that we are satisfied that there is no room for the grievance that adequate opportunity for rebutting the further evidence of P. W. 73 was not given.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that no sufficient reason is available for not accepting the conclusions of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The said conclusions are (1) that the pamphlet, Ex. P3 was distributed within the constituency by some persons, (2) that this pamphlet was got printed by the appellant himself, inasmuch as it was he that placed the order along with another person, Joshi, with the Proprietor of the printing press, P. W. 73, and (3) that the original of the pamphlet bore the appellants signature when given to him for appellants signature when given to him for printing.	Reasoning
On the facts so found, the Tribunal was justified in coming to the conclusion they did that the appellant must be taken to have been directly responsible for the distribution of these pamphlets and therefore for the commission of this item of corrupt practice.	Reasoning
The further conclusion relating to this item that the distribution of pamphlet, Ex. P3, was by Socialist Party Workers, who on the evidence in the case were in the position of agents for the appellant has been also seriously challenged both as a fact and in law.	Reasoning
On the facts above found, this was not essential so far as this item is concerned and will be noticed with reference to the third item, since the conclusion in this behalf is based on evidence which is virtually common to all the three items.11.	Reasoning
II.	Issue
Major and minor corrupt practices relating to the distribution of pamphlets like Ex.	Issue
P6 This is supported by the evidence of a large number of witnesses, viz., P. Ws. 28, 47, 48, 50, 51, 64, 66, 67, 73 and 75.	None
P. W. 73 who has spoken to Ex.	Reasoning
P3 above noticed, has given exactly the same evidence as regards Ex.	Reasoning
P6 and that evidence has been accepted in toto by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The evidence of the other witnesses above mentioned which has been accepted by the Tribunal makes out distribution of this pamphlet within the constituency by the workers of the Socialist Party.	Reasoning
The attack on this finding arrived at by the Tribunal is virtually the same as that which related to the evidence connected with the printing and distribution of Ex. P3.	Reasoning
That the last portion of Ex.	Reasoning
P6 falls within the prohibited category has not been disputed.	Reasoning
As regards this item, there is no scope for the complaint that full particulars have not been furnished since the necessary particulars have all been set out in list D mentioned with reference to paragraph 13 of the petition.	Reasoning
There is, therefore no room for any further challenge in regard to this item.	Reasoning
In passing it may be noticed, that in so far as this is a minor corrupt practice, it does not depend upon any question of the act complained of being done by the candidate directly or by his agent or with their connivance.	Reasoning
But it has been held by the Tribunal  and not challenged before us  that the matter in this pamphlet is also such as to fall within proviso (a)(i) and (ii) to S. 123(2) of the Act constituting a major corrupt practice.12.	Reasoning
III.	Issue
The major corrupt practice relating to conveyance of voters in motor vehicles to a polling station This has been seriously challenged before us.	Issue
It falls within the scope of S. 123(6) of the Act, viz., the hiring or procuring of any vehicle for the conveyance of electors to or from any polling station.	Reasoning
This item formed the subject of issue No. 6 before the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The allegations are contained in paragraph 14 of the petition and the particulars were furnished in list E annexed thereto.	Reasoning
The main item of allegation relating to this matter is that, in paragraph 2 of the list, viz., on the 11th January, 1952 (one of the polling dates) a motor truck belonging to Achutanand brought electors from the villages of Amalak and Jurmaniya to Alhua polling station (and that the electors were so brought) by Achutanand of village Dhera (and his coworkers).	Reasoning
Evidence was given on behalf of the petitioners in the election petition that the voters were being carried from some of the villages in the constituency to the polling station in motor trucks and that those trucks were of Achutanand who stood as a candidate for the Socialist Party for the local Assembly seat of the same constituency, for which the poll took place simultaneously in the same polling stations.	Reasoning
Evidence was also given that these trucks belong to the said candidate Achutanand himself.	None
P. W. 68 stated as follows I saw voters being carried from my tola neighbouring to Jurmaneya to the polling station Alhua in motor trucks.	Facts
Those trucks were of Shri Achutanand a candidate of Socialist Party who stood for Assembly seats.	Facts
Bhagwan Datt Shastri was a candidate for Parliamentary seat I saw Shri Achutanand and his workers sitting in that truck.	Facts
I have seen Achutanand and his workers wearing red caps going in that truck.	Facts
P. W. 79 said as followsI saw Shri Achutanand carrying voters to that station in motor truck.	Facts
He did so 3 or 4 times.	Facts
There were about 25 to 30 men of public carried in each trip including Shri Achutanand.	Facts
The men carried in the truck were of villages Jurmaniya, Salwa and Amullakpur.	Facts
These villages were within a mile from Alhoua.	Facts
The motor truck used to stop near the polling booth in the school every time.	Facts
P. W. 75 said I canvassed for Shri Achutanand who was Socialist candidate for Assembly and for Sri Bhagwan Dutt Shastri who was Socialist candidate for House of People.	None
Shri Achutanand had got two motor trucks.	Facts
Achutanand himself has been examined as R. W. 21.	Facts
While he denied carrying or conveying voters in a motor truck to the polling station on the date of the poll, he admitted that his brother Anjani Kumar and another Bhayya who lived in his village had trucks which were in use during the election and attempted to explain that those trucks were possibly hired by the Government to carry ballot boxes.	Facts
The Tribunal took all this evidence into consideration and came to a definite finding that motor trucks belonging to Achutanand were used on the polling date for the conveyance of electors to the polling booth.	Facts
On the evidence, this finding cannot be seriously challenged.	Facts
But what is strongly urged is that the connection of the use of those trucks with the prospects of the candidature of the appellant is not established and that, at any rate, the link of agency between the appellant and Achutanand along with his workers, who according to the evidence were responsible for the carrying of the voters to the polling booths has not at all been established.	Facts
It is said that some theory of agency has been assumed on an erroneous view as to what constitutes agency for election purposes and it is urged that the assumption is erroneous in law.	Facts
It is true that Election Courts have generally accepted a somewhat different standard of proof as regards the question of agency in election matters.	Facts
It is to be noticed that in the Act the word agent has been defined in S. 79(a) as follows agent includes an election agent, a polling agent and a counting agent and any person who, on the trial of an election petition or of an offence with respect to any election, is held to have acted as an agent in connection with the election with the knowledge or consent of the candidate.	Facts
The questions as to the limits of the doctrine of agency in election matters and the exact scope and effect of the statutory definition of agent may require to be carefully considered by this Court when they become necessary in a proper case.	None
These are important questions bearing on the whole structure of elections run on party lines and have not been adequately dealt with in this case.	Reasoning
In the present case the finding arrived at by the Tribunal against the appellant in this behalf is based on clear evidence, which may properly form the basis of a positive finding of agency.	Reasoning
It is necessary for this purpose to understand the system of the present elections of which evidence has been given by a number of witnesses.	None
R. W. 14 gives evidence as followsI have been a member of the Socialist Party since 1949.	Facts
During the election I was General Secretary of the Mauganj Tehsil Socialist Party.	Facts
At the time of elections I knew that Bhagwan Dutt Shastri was standing as Socialist candidate.	Facts
Achutanand was one of the three candidates of the Socialist Party for the Assembly.	Facts
I was one of those who were in charge of supervision of election campaign on behalf of the Socialist Party.	Facts
Workers did not canvass for any candidate by name but they canvassed for the party candidates generally.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 had no worker of his own in his individual capacity Ordinarily all expenses in connection with the election of party candidates were incurred out of the party fund.	Facts
Another witness on behalf of the appellant, R. W. 18, said as followsI am acquainted with the workers of the Socialist Party in my constituency.	Facts
They were working for the party candidate as such and not for any one individually.	Facts
Shastriji was a candidate for the Socialist Party.	Facts
Achutanand himself as R. W. 21 stated as followsIn my constituency canvassing and propaganda used to be carried on party lines and not for any individual candidates.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 had no worker or canvasser in my constituency.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 got majority of votes because of the extensive propaganda carried on for the Socialist Party and its symbol banyan tree.13.On this evidence it cannot be said that the Election Tribunal was not justified in holding that the carrying of the voters to the polling station in the trucks of Achutanand was with the connivance of the appellant who was a party candidate.	Reasoning
That by itself would be enough to bring his case within S. 126(6) of the Act.	Reasoning
It is not unreasonable to impute to the candidate the knowledge of the work done by his party in this area and to impute the consequent connivance on his part.	Reasoning
This appears from the fact that the return of the election expenses of the appellant at page 78 of the printed record, shows the payment of some amount by the appellant to the Socialist Party for expenses and from the fact that the appellant on the very evidence of his own witnesses had no other independent workers of his own in this area.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, satisfied that the finding of the Election Tribunal in this behalf is also wellgrounded.14.	Reasoning
It follows that in our opinion there is no reason for interfering with the findings of the Election Tribunal relating to the three alleged corrupt practices set out above.	Reasoning
On these findings the result arrived at by the Tribunal that the election of the appellant should be set aside by virtue of S. 100 (2)(b) of the Act must be sustained.15.	Reasoning
In this view it is unnecessary to deal with the findings of the Tribunal relating to the rejection of the nominations of Baboo Lal Udani, Deep Narain and Rajkishore Shukla and to consider the two important questions of law raised therein.16.	Reasoning
In the result the appeals are dismissed with costs.	Decision
There will be only one set of costs for both the appeals.17.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
