 Ramaswami, J.1.	None
This appeal is brought, by certificate, from the judgment of the Mysore High Court dated July 29, 1960 in R. A. (B) 71 of 1956, whereby the High Court allowed the appeal of the respondents and dismissed the suit of the appellant.2.	Issue
In the suit which is the subjectmatter of this appeal the appellant asked for a decree for possession of the properties mentioned in the schedule to the plaint on the ground that she was the owner of the properties in spite of the gift deed, Ex. 45 executed by her on January 16. 1938.	Facts
According to the case of the appellant, plots Nos. 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village were inherited by her from her father and plots	Facts
Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 of Tadavalga village were originally the properties of her husband Shiddappa.	Facts
These plots had been usufructually mortgaged but they were redeemed from the funds supplied by the appellant and a reconveyance of the two plots was taken in the name of the appellant.	Facts
At about the time Ex. 45 was executed it is alleged by the appellant that her husband Shiddappa was dominating her will and persuaded her to execute the gift deed in respect of plots 407/1 and 409/1 of Tadavalga village.	Facts
The appellant was taken to Bijapur by her husband on January 16, 1938 and there Ex. 45 was written and she was made to sign it.	Facts
The document was registered on January 18, 1938 at Indi.	Facts
The appellant believed that the document, Ex. 45 related to only plots Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 of Tadavalga village.	Facts
She was never told by her husband that the document related either to plot No. 91 or plot No. 92 of Lingadahalli village.	Facts
Shiddappa died in about the end of December, 1949 and till then she was amicably living with him and consequently she had no occasion to know about the true character of Ex. 45 or about its contents.	Facts
Shiddappa had taken a second wife in the year 1941 and after the death of Shiddappa in 1949 the relations of the second wife, respondent No. 4 began to assert their rights in respect of the properties of the appellant.	Facts
Growing suspicious of the conduct of the respondents, the appellant made enquiries from the Karnam of the village and found that in Ex. 45 she was purported to have made a gift of properties included in plots 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village to her husband Shiddappa.	Facts
Consequently the appellant brought the present suit for possession of properties.	Facts
Respondent No. 4 is the second wife of Shidddappa and respondents 1 to 3 are the children of Shiddappa through respondent No. 4.	Facts
They resisted the appellants suit and contended that the gift deed in favour of Shiddappa, Ex. 45 was valid and that the same was executed voluntarily by the appellant and consequently it was not liable to be set aside.	Facts
The trial court came to the conclusion that Shiddappa obtained Ex. 45 by the exercise of undue influence over the appellant, that he had represented to her that it related only to plots Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 of Tadavalga village and he had fraudulently included in the document plots Nos. 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village.	Facts
The trial court, however, dismissed the appellants suit in respect of plots Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 on the ground that the suit was barred under Article 91 of the Limitation Act.	Facts
With regard to plots 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village the trial court gave a decree in favour of the appellant.	Facts
The respondents took the matter in appeal to the Mysore High Court.	Facts
The appellant filed crossobjections against the decree of the trial court.	Facts
By its judgment dated July 29, 1960, the High Court allowed the appeal and dismissed the crossobjections thereby dismissing the suit of the appellant in its entirety.	Facts
The High Court confirmed the finding of the trial court so far as plots Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 of Tadavalga village were concerned and held that the suit was barred by limitation as it was not filed within three years of the execution of the deed.	Facts
As regards plots Nos. 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village the High Court held that the alleged fraud had not been established by the appellant.3.	Facts
On behalf of the appellant learned Counsel contended, in the first place, that the High Court was not justified in interfering with the finding of the trial court that plots Nos. 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village were included in the gift deed by the fraud of the husband without knowledge of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that the finding of the High Court is vitiated because it has not taken into account certain important circumstances upon which the trial court relied for reaching its finding.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, the argument put forward on behalf of the appellant is well founded and must be accepted as correct.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the time of the gift deed, the appellant was a young woman of about 24 years of age.	Arguments of Petitioner
She was illiterate and ignorant and all her affairs were being managed by her husband who stood in a position of active confidence towards her.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial court found that the appellants husband was in a position to dominate her will.	Arguments of Petitioner
The document of gift also appears to be grossly undervalued at Rs. 1,500 while actually the value of the property was about Rs. 40,000 at the relevant date.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial court has found that plots Nos. 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village were the most valuable and fertile lands owned by the appellant before the execution of the gift deed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the admitted position that not only the appellant and her husband but her husbands two brothers and their families lived on the income of the two plots.	Arguments of Petitioner
There appears to be no reason whatever for the appellant to agree to transfer the valuable lands of plots Nos. 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village inherited by her from her father to her husband.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was suggested on behalf of the respondents that it was the desire of the appellant that her husband should marry a second wife and he could not find a bride to marry unless he possessed sufficient properties and therefore the appellant executed the gift deed in favour of her husband with a view to enable him to find a bride.	Arguments of Petitioner
But it is an undisputed fact that the appellants husband married the 4th respondent about three years after the execution of the gift deed and it is not possible to accept the case of the respondents that there was any connection between the gift deed and the second marriage of Shiddappa.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has referred to the evidence of the attesting witness, Bhimarao who said that the document was read over to the appellant before she put her thumb impression thereon.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the basis of this evidence the High Court came to the conclusion that the plea of fraud could not be accepted as Shiddappa would not have allowed the document to be read over to the appellant if he intended to perpetrate a fraud on her.	Arguments of Petitioner
But Bhimarao was not a disinterested witness because it is admitted that he had been approached by the respondents before they filed the written statement in the suit.	Arguments of Petitioner
For this reason the trial court disbelieved the evidence of Bhimarao and no reason has been given by the High Court for taking a different view of the evidence of this witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
The other attesting witness, Venkappa does not say that the gift deed was read over to the appellant before her thumb impression was taken on it or that she knew of its contents.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion the Civil Judge was right in taking the view that the appellant never agreed to convey the lands in plots Nos. 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village and that they were included in the gift deed by the fraud of Shiddappa without the knowledge of the appellant.4.	Reasoning
On behalf of the respondents Mr. Naunit Lal, however, stressed the argument that the trial court was wrong in holding that the gift deed was void on account of the perpetration of fraud.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that it was only a voidable transaction and the suit for setting aside the gift deed would be governed by Article 95 of the Indian Limitation Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the proposition contended for by Mr. Naunit Lal must be accepted as correct.	Arguments of Respondent
It is well established that a contract or other transaction induced or tainted by fraud is not void, but only voidable at the option of the party defrauded.	None
Until it is avoided the transaction is valid, so that third parties without notice of the fraud may in the meantime acquire rights and interests in the matter which they may enforce against the party defraudedThe fact that the contract has been induced by fraud does not make the contract void or prevent the property from passing, but merely gives the party defrauded a right on discovering the fraud to elect whether he shall continue to treat the contract as binding or disaffirm the contract and resume the property.	None
If it can be shown that the party defrauded has at any time after knowledge of the fraud either by express words or by unequivocal acts affirmed the contract, his election is determined for ever.	None
The party defrauded may keep the question open so long as he does nothing to affirm the contract.	None
Clough v. L and N. W. Ry., (1871)	None
LR 7 Ex 26 at p. 34.5.	None
The legal position will be different if there is a fraudulent misrepresentation not merely as to the contents of the document but as to its character.	None
The authorities make a clear distinction between fraudulent is representation as to the character of the document and fraudulent misrepresentation as to the contents thereof.	None
With reference to the former, it has been held that the transaction is void, while in the case of the latter, it is merely voidable.	None
In Foster v. Mackinon, (1869) 4 C. P. 704 the action was by the endorsee of a bill of exchange.	None
The defendant pleaded that he endorsed the bill on a fraudulent representation by the acceptor that he was signing a guarantee.	None
In holding that such a plea was admissible, the Court observedIt (signature) is invalid not merely on the ground of fraud, where fraud exists, but on the ground that the mind of the signer did not accompany the signature in other words, that he never intended to sign, and therefore in contemplation of law never did sign, the contract to which his name is appended The defendant never intended to sign that contract or any such contract.	None
He never intended to put his name to any instrument that then was or thereafter might become negotiable.	None
He was deceived, not merely as to the legal effect, but as to the actual contents of the instrument.	None
This decision has been followed by the Indian courts Sanni Bibi v. Siddik Hossain, AIR 1919	None
Cal 728 and Brindaban v. Dhurba Charan, AIR 1929 Cal 606.	None
It is not the contention of the appellant in the present case that there was any fraudulent misrepresentation as to the character of the gift deed but Shiddappa fraudulently included in the gift deed plots 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village without her knowledge.	None
We are accordingly of the opinion that the transaction of gift was voidable and not void and the suit must be brought within the time prescribed under Article 95 of the Limitation Act.6.	None
It was contended on behalf of the respondents that the terminus a quo for the limitation was the date of the execution of the gift deed and the claim of the appellant was therefore barred as the suit was filed more than three years after that date.	None
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	Reasoning
Article 95 prescribes a period of limitation of three years from the time when the fraud becomes known to the party wronged.	Reasoning
In the present case, the appellant stated that she did not come to know of the fraud committed by her husband in respect of plots 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village till his death.	Reasoning
The trial court has discussed the evidence on this point and reached the conclusion that the case of the appellant is true.	Reasoning
The appellant lived with her husband on affectionate terms till the time of his death.	Reasoning
Till then she had no reason to suspect that any fraud had been committed on her in respect of the two plots in Lingadahalli village.	Reasoning
It is only after his death when his brothers and respondent No.	Reasoning
4s brothers removed grain from the house against her wishes that the appellant came to know that the lands at Lingadahalli village were included in the gift deed by fraud.	Reasoning
The suit was instituted by the appellant within a few days after she came to know of the fraud.	Reasoning
We are therefore of the opinion that the suit was brought within time prescribed under Art.	Reasoning
95 of the Indian Limitation Act so far as plots 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village are concerned.7.	None
As regards plots Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 of Tadavalga village the trial court has found that the husband of the appellant was in a position of active confidence towards her at the time of the gift deed and that he was in a position to dominate her will and the transaction of gift was on the face of it unconscionable.	Reasoning
Section 16 (3) of the Indian Contract Act says that where a person who is in a position to dominate the will of another enters into a transaction with him which appears, on the face of it, or on the evidence adduced, to be unconscionable, the burden of proving that such transaction was not induced by undue influence, shall lie upon the person in a position to dominate the will of another.	None
Section 111 of the Indian Evidence Act also statesWhere there is a question as to the good faith of a transaction between parties, one of whom stands to the other in a position of active confidence, the burden of proving the good faith of the transaction is on the party who is in a position of active confidence.	None
The trial court found that the respondents had not adduced sufficient evidence to rebut the presumption under these statutory provisions and reached the finding that the gift deed was obtained by the appellants husband by undue influence as alleged by her.	None
The finding of the trial court has been affirmed by the High Court.	Reasoning
But both the trial court and the High Court refused to grant relief to the appellant on the ground that the suit was barred under Art.	Reasoning
91 of the Limitation Act so far as plots	Reasoning
Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 were concerned.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellant it was contended that the lower courts were wrong in taking this view.	Reasoning
We are, however, unable to accept this argument as correct.	Reasoning
Article 91 of the Indian Limitation Act provides that a suit to set aside an instrument not otherwise provided for (and no other provision of the Act applies to the circumstances of the case) shall be subject to a three years limitation which begins to run when the facts entitling the plaintiff to have the instrument cancelled or set aside are known to him.	Reasoning
In the present case, the trial court has found) upon examination of the evidence, that at the very time of the execution of the gift deed, Ex. 45 the appellant knew that her husband prevailed upon her to convey survey plots Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 of Tadavalga village to him by undue influence.	Reasoning
The finding of the trial court is based upon the admission of the appellant herself in the course of her evidence.	Reasoning
In view of this finding of the trial court it is manifest that the suit of the appellant is barred under Art 91 of the Limitation Act so far as plots Nos. 407/1 and 409/1 of Tadavalga village are concerned.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellant Mr. K. R. Chaudhuri presented the argument that the appellant continued to be under the undue influence of her husband till the date of his death and the three years period under Art.	None
91 should therefore be taken to run not when the appellant had knowledge of the true nature of the gift deed but from the date when she escaped the influence of her husband by whose will she was dominated.	None
It is not possible to accept this argument in view of the express language of Art.	None
91 of the Limitation Act which provides that the three years period runs from the date when the plaintiff came to know the facts entitling her to have the instrument cancelled or set aside.	None
This view is borne out by the decision of the Judicial Committee in Someshwar Dutt v. Tribhawan Dutt, 61 Ind App 224 (AIR 1934 PC 130 ) in which it was held that the limitation of a suit to set aside a deed of gift on the ground that it was obtained by undue influence was governed by Art.	None
91 of the Indian Limitation Act, and the three years period runs from the date when the plaintiff discovered the true nature of the deed, and not from the date when he escaped from the influence by which he alleged that he was dominated.8.	None
For the reasons expressed we hold that this appeal must be allowed and the appellant must be granted a decree that the gift deed, Ex. 45 is not binding on her so far as plots 91 and 92 of Lingadahalli village are concerned and she is further entitled to recover possession of the said two plots from the defendantrespondents with mesne profits.	Decision
We accordingly set aside the decree of the High Court, restore the decree of the Civil Judge, Senior Division, Bijapur dated January 29, 1953 and allow this appeal with costs.9.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
