 SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J. This appeal by special leave is against he judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court of Rajasthan dated February 23, 1988.	None
The appellant is the tenant in the suit premises.	Facts
The premises in question is a shop situated outside Delhi Gate, Udaipur, in the State of Rajasthan.	Facts
In the said shop the appellant carried on the business of opticals.	Facts
This fact is undisputed.	Facts
He asserted that he was also running the business of advertisement by way of display of various advertisements (hoardings) boards at various places in the city of Udaipur.	Facts
The case of the appellant was that though the appellant had taken the premises on rent on the basis of oral tenancy on August 1, 1971, the rent note in fact was executed on May 30, 1972.	Facts
The respondent had filed the suit for eviction of the tenant appellant on three grounds, namely, (i) that the tenantappellant had parted with possession of the roof of the said shoproom by putting up an advertisement board (ii) by putting up such advertisement board, fixing the same on the roof of the said shoproom with iron angels, the appellant had caused material alteration to the premises and (iii) the appellant had defaulted in payment of rent.	Facts
On or about April 20, 1979, the trial court decreed the suit on the ground of default in payment of rent, material alteration and subletting.	Facts
The appellant preferred an appeal before the learned District Judge, Udaipur, who remanded the case back to the trial on all the three issues, on the ground that the appellant had not been allowed to crossexamine the respondent or to adduce evidence in defence.	Facts
On remand, the trial court held that the appellant had caused material alteration by fixing the board on the roof had parted with possession of the roof by such fixing of the board and had committed default in payment of rent.	Facts
Accordingly, a decree was passed against the appellant for causing material alteration and for parting with the possession of the roof but no decree was passed by the trial court on ground of default because the said default was held by the learned trial Judge to be the first default.	Facts
The appellant thereafter filed first appeal against the said judgment and decree passed by the trial court on November 9, 1984.	Facts
By the judgment and decree dated March 20, 1987 the learned District Judge allowed the said appeal holding, inter alia, that by displaying the advertisement board the appellant had not caused any material alteration of the premises and display of such advertisements hoardings did not amount to parting with possession of the roof of the premises.	Facts
In respect of default, on an analysis of the dates of payment it was held that there was no default in payment of rent for six months.	Facts
The learned trial Judge had held that the default was the first default, therefore, there could be no decree for eviction on this ground.	Facts
So even if the learned District Judge would have affirmed the findings of the trial court on the issue of default, there could not have been a decree in the said suit on the ground of default.	Facts
The plaintiffrespondent preferred an appeal before the High Court.	Facts
The said appeal was allowed only on the issue of parting with possession holding that the display of the board amounted to parting with possession of the premises.	Facts
Accordingly, the decree for eviction under Section 13(1)(e) of the Rajasthan Premises (Control of Rent and Eviction) Act, 1950, hereinafter mentioned as the Act, was passed.	Facts
Section 13 of the said Act deals with the grounds for eviction of tenants.	Facts
By clause (a), subsection (1) of the said section provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any law or contract, no court shall pass any decree, or make any order, in favour of a landlord, evicting the tenant so long as he is ready and willing to pay rent thereof to the full extent allowable under the said Act unless it is satisfied, inter alia, that the tenant had neither paid nor tendered the amount of rent due from him for six months.	Facts
Subclause (b) of subsection (1) of the said section makes the tenant liable to eviction if he has wilfully caused or permitted to be caused substantial damage to the premises.	Facts
Clause (e) of section (1) of Section 13 under which the decree in question, in the instant case, was passed provides as follows(e) that the tenant has assigned sublet or otherwise parted with the possession of, the whole or any part of the premises without the permission of the landlord orAs mentioned hereinbefore, the decree in this case was passed by the High Court under Section 13(1)(e) of the Act on the ground that the appellant had parted with possession.	Facts
The High Court in the judgment under appeal has noted that the plaintiffappellant had not disputed that the advertisement board was installed in the roof of the shop.	Facts
The High Court noted that the appellant has also disputed that he was getting the rent for this board and the document which was tendered, viz., Ex. 6 showed that the Paramount Services had written a letter to the landlordrespondent Gulam Abbas herein and the same had been accepted by the appellant.	Facts
The said Ex. 6 read as follows Shri Gulam Abbas Bhalam WalaUdaipurDear SirWe wish to write that we have been taken the site for putting up commercial board on the terrace of the shop of Saran Optician, Udaipur.	Facts
This site is with us for the last half yearYours faithfullyParamount ServicesSd PartnerThe High Court was of the view, that perusal of the document indicated that Paramount Services had installed that board on the terrace of the shop and the site was with them for the last six months.	Facts
The High Court further held that it transpired that the terrace of that shop had been away to the Paramount Services for installing the advertisement board.	Facts
The High Court proceeded on the basis that Ex. 6, mentioned hereinbefore, showed that the site was with the Paramount Services and it has been admitted by the tenantappellant that he had charged the money for leasing out this site to the Paramount Services.	Facts
According to the High Court two factors were relevant in this case (1) whether the site was the Paramount Services for the last six months and (2) that the defendant had admitted that he had received the rent for this.	Facts
The High Court referred to the deposition of DW 1 Gopal Saran which was as followsUSS BOARD PAR PRACHAR KE TEEN SAAL KE PANDRAH SAU RUPAYE MAIN LETA THA JISMEN PAINTING AUR BOARD AUR LIKHAVAT KA KHARCH MERA THA.	Facts
According to the High Court, these two factors establish that the defendant had parted with part of the terrace to Paramount Services.	Facts
This according to the High Court, was wrong as it had been clearly prohibited in the lease deed Ex. 1.	Facts
Clause 3 reads as under DUKAN KO LIPA POTA SAPPH ACHHI HALAT MEN RAKHUNGA AUR BAGAIR LIKHIT IJAZAT AAPKE KOI MAJID TAMIR NA KARUNGA AUR NA DUSRE	Facts
KISSI AUR KO MUNTKIL KAR SAKUNGA.	Facts
MAIN KHUD DUKAN PAR BAITHUNGA.	None
The High Court found that the tenantappellant had mentioned that they would not part with the possession, notwithstanding that the tenantappellant had parted with the possession which was apparent, according to the High Court, from Ex. 6 and the statement of DW 1 what he had charged rent for installing this board.	Facts
These two factors went to show, according to the High Court, that the defendant had parted with the possession of the part of the terrace so as to enable the Paramount Services to install the board in the premises.	Facts
The court accepted the submission on behalf of the respondentlandlord that there was parting with possession and the landlord was entitled to a decree for eviction under Section 13(1)(e) of the Act.	Facts
It maybe mentioned that two other submissions were urged before the High Court on behalf of the landlordrespondent, namely, that the rent was tendered and that when it was refused by the landlord, the tenant had deposited the rent in the court under Section 19A of the Act not been established.	Facts
There was also the finding on the issue of material and that was also not established by the respondentlandlord.	Facts
But the High Court, in view of this finding under Section 13(1)(e) of the Act, as set out hereinbefore, found it unnecessary to go into those reasons and passed a decree for eviction.	Facts
Aggrieved thereby, as mentioned hereinbefore, the tenant has come up in a appeal to this Court.	None
We find a certain amount of confusion as to what was the actual state of affairs.	Reasoning
The pleadings of the plaintiffrespondent, the landlord in connection with the allegations of parting with possession are set out in paragraphs 5, 6 and 8 of the plaint and these have been answered by the appellant in paragraphs 5, 6, 8 and 9 of the written statement.	Facts
It may be appropriate at this stage to set out the same both in Hindi as well as in English.	Facts
Paragraph 5 is as followsHindi Original5.	Facts
YEH KI PRATIVADI NE BINA VADI KO POOCHHE EVAM VADI KI ANUMATI PRAPAT KIYE BINA VIVADGRAST DUKAN KE UPAR CHHAT PAR ZITER TRAKTAR KA BOARD LAGA DIYA HAI JO CHHAT PAR LOHE KE ANGLE MAIN FIX KIYA HUVA HAI.In English5.	Facts
Without permission and consent of the plaintiff the defendant has put up the board of Jitter Tractors on the roof of the disputed shop in question which is fixed on iron angles on the roofParagraph 6 reads as underIn English6.	Facts
The defendant has, without the permission and consent of the plaintiff given to the advertising agency the Board which has been displayed on the roof of the disputed shop taken by the defendant from the plaintiff on rent, in respect of which the defendant had not right.	Facts
Hindi Original6.	Facts
YEH KI BOARD JO VIVADGRAST DUKAN JO KI PRATIVADI KE PASS VADI KI AUR SE KIRAYA PAR HAI, KI CHHAT PAR LAG RAHA HAI VAH VIGYAPAN (ADVERTISEMENT) KA BOARD HAI JISKO PRATIVADI NE VADI KI ANUMATI PRAPAT KIYE BINA ADVERTISING AGENCY KO LAGANE DE DIYA HAI JISKA KI PRATIVADI KO SWATEY KOYEE ADHIKAR NAHIN HAIParagraph 8 reads as underIn English8.	Facts
The defendant has no right to place the board of the Advertising Agency on the roof of the shop without permission of the plaintiffHindi Original8.	Facts
YEH KI PRATIVADI KE KO BINA VADI SE POOCHHE DUKAN KI CHHAT PAR ADVERTISING AGENCY KO BOARD LANGANE DENE KA KOYEE ADHIKAR NAHIN HAIParagraph 5 of the written statement reads as followsIn English5.	Facts
With regard to paragraph 5 of the plaint the defendant states that the defendant had displayed a sign board on the roof of the disputed shop but it is false to state that any angle has been fixed or embedded on the wall of the shop or of the roof or on the floor of the roof.	Facts
The sign board has been placed without damaging the walls or the floor of the roof in any manner whatsoever.	Facts
The angles have not been embedded.	Facts
In putting up this sign board, there was necessity of obtaining written permission of the plaintiff.	Facts
It was within the full knowledge of the plaintiff and the plaintiff never objected to the same, which means the plaintiff had consented to the same.	Facts
Hindi Original5.	Facts
VAD PATRA KE PAIRA 5 KE LIYE NIVEDAN HAI KE PRATIVADI NE EK SIGN BOARD VADGRAST DUKAN KI CHHAT PAR LAGAYA HAI PAR YEH MITHYA HAI KI	Facts
DUKAN KI ATHVA CHHAT KI DIWAR ATHVA FARSH MAIN ANGLE LAGAYE HO VAH SIGN BOARD DUKAN	Facts
KI DIWARON ATHVA CHHAT KE FARSH KO KISI BHANTI HANI PAHUCHE HUVE LAGAYA GAYA HAI.	Facts
GADA NAHIN GAYA HAI.	Facts
IS SIGN BOARD LAGANE MAIN VADI KO LIKHIT ANUMATI LENA AVASHAK NAHIN THA, VIASE VADI KE PURAN GYAN MAIN YEH BOARD LAGAYA THA TATHA AISA KARNE MAIN VADI NE KABHI APATTI NAHIN UTHAYEE,	Facts
ARTHAT VADI KI AWAKRITI NAHI HAIParagraph 6 of the written statement reads as followsIn EnglishThe allegations in paragraph 6 of the plaint that the Board belonged to any other advertising agency is false.	Facts
The defendant himself has place the said board in the normal course of his carrying on the business.	Facts
The defendant is using the said disputed shop on his own right for the purposes of carrying on his normal businessHindi Original6.	Facts
VAD PATRA KA PAIRA 6 MAIN MITHYA HAI KE BOARD KISI ADVERTISING AGENCY KA LAGA HUVA HAI.	Facts
PRATIVADI SWAM NE VAH BOARD LAGAYA HAI TATHA APNA SADHARAN VAVASAYE KARTE HUVE LADAYA HAI.	Facts
TATHA VADGRAST DUKAN KA PANE SADHARAN VAVSAYE MAIN HI UPYOG KAR RAHA HAI AVAM SADHIKAR KAR RAHA HAIParagraph 8 of the written statement is as followsIn EnglishThe contents of para 8 of the plaint are not admitted.	Facts
The defendant has not allowed anybody to put up the Board, but he has himself put up the sameHindi Original8.	Facts
VAD PATRA KA PAIRA 8 SAVIKAR NAHIN HAI.	Facts
PRATIVADI NE BOARD KISI KO LANGANE NAHIN DIYA APITU SWAM LAGAYA HAIParagraph 9 of the written statement is as followsIn English9.	Facts
The defendant denies all the allegations in paragraph 9 of the plaint.	Facts
In particular the defendant states that the plaintiff has no right to bring the present suit of eviction which has been filed on false grounds.	Facts
The defendant has neither committed default in payment of rent nor he has allowed anybody to put up board on the shop, nor he has parted with possession of the leasehold property or any part thereof to anybody.	Facts
The defendant is in full control and possession (of the disputed shop).	Facts
It may be mentioned that in the plaint the plaintiff has not alleged any act of subletting by the defendantHindi Original9.	Facts
VAD PATRA KA PAIRA 9 SARVATHA ASWIKAR HAI.	Facts
VADI KO KOYEE SWATAV NAHIN HAI KI VAH MITHYA ADHARO PAR DUKAN KHALI KARVAYE NA TO PRATIVADI NE KOYEE CHOOK KI HAI, KIRAYA DENE MAIN AUR NA HI	Facts
USNE DUKAN PAR KISI KO BOARD LAGANE DIYA HAI AUR NA HI KOYEE MUKTI BHOG KIRAYE LI HUEE SAMPATI KA PRATIVADI KE KISI BHI BHAG KA KISI KO BHI HYA HAI.	Facts
VAH PRATIVADI KE POORAN BHUGTI BHOG	Facts
MAIN HAI4.	None
At the initial hearing before the trial court, namely, before the remand the plaintiff got himself examined as witness and the evidence of plaintiff in examinationinchief was recorded on April 6, 1979.	Facts
After recording the said evidence, the trial court recorded that the counsel for the defendant was absent and thereupon closed the case, without, however, entering into the question as to why the endorsement was made.	Facts
Against the decree of the trial court, the first appeal was filed before the learned District Judge and as state hereinbefore, at the final hearing of the appeal, the first appellate court held that the defendant was not given adequate opportunity to either crossexamine the plaintiff or to adduce his evidence and on that ground the order of remand was made.	Facts
The plaintifflandlord, however, did not say in examinationinchief that the Board was fixed by anyone else than the defendant or the there was parting with possession of the roof of the shop room or any part thereof or by pitting the said angles in the wall, which was again not admitted as correct by the appellant, any material alteration was made.	Facts
However, a photograph of the Board was produced by the plaintiff and the same was marked as Ex. 2.	Facts
After the case was remanded, the trial court directed the plaintiff to appear before the court and to subject himself to crossexamination by the defendant and also to produced his evidence, if any.	Facts
In spite of several opportunities the plaintiff did not appear before the court and submit himself to crossexamination.	Facts
As the plaintiff neither submitted himself for further crossexamination nor produced any other evidence or witness in support of the plaint the defendant led defence evidence and got himself examined.	Facts
The English translation of the said evidence of the defendantappellant was filed on behalf of the appellant at the hearing of this appeal.	Facts
From the said evidence it would appear, he had stated, inter alia, as follows I have affixed the Board on this shop for advertisement.	Facts
The said Board is affixed in cement pillars (should be post) and for affixing the said boards neither the roof not the walls of the shop were dug(b)	Facts
The Board is affixed permanently and I advertise the business of parties and get its payment.	Facts
I have not parted with possession of any portion of the roof of the shop to anyone.	Reasoning
In 1974, I advertised for Bhatia at the Board in which I have written that I have Zeator I have strength, a picture tractor was also made there I used to take Rs. 1500 for 3 years for advertisement out of which painting of Board, writing expenditure was mineCross Examination	None
It is wrong to say that the Board is fixed on the roof of the shop.	None
I do not do business of tractor, but I deal in advertising business.	Facts
Besides this I maintain 14 other boards in the city.	Facts
The above board is 10 ft.	Facts
x 4 ft.	Facts
At present Hanuman Vanaspati is advertised through the Board which was for the last 2 months prior to this board was affixed.	Facts
(b) 14 Boards of Paramount Services are fixed prior to the year 1988 which are being maintained by me.	None
Ex. 6 is the letter of the said service.	Facts
I charge M s Paramount Services Rs. 500 per year.	Facts
On the basis of the aforesaid, it was contended that it was the definite case of the defendant in examinationinchief, that the Board belonged to him and that the defendant was carrying on his own business and that there was no dispute as to the same by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned that the plaintiff had not subjected himself to crossexamination in spite of the order of the court after the remand, therefore, it would not be safe to rely on the examinationinchief recorded which was not subjected to crossexamination before the remand was made.	Reasoning
It that is so, it will appear that there is no evidence of the plaintiff in respect of allegations in the plaint.	Reasoning
This position appears established from the facts on record.	Reasoning
When the plaintiff appeared for evidence in rebuttal he could have been crossexamined on these points.	Reasoning
It was submitted that in rebuttal the plaintiff had stated only with regard to the default in payment of rent but the plaintiff had not chosen to support his plaint case, before the defendant went to the witness box.	Reasoning
There was no question of crossexamining the plaintiff travelling beyond the evidence of the plaintiff given in examinationinchief and thereby given an opportunity to make out a case in crossexamination.	Reasoning
It, therefore, appears from the pleadings and the evidence that the respondent did not make out any case of the appellant parting with possession by putting up the hoarding.	Reasoning
In examinationinchief also he did not make out such a case and on the contrary his case was that it was the defendantappellant who had put up the hoarding.	Reasoning
The plaintiff did not allege that the defendantappellant was not carrying on also advertising business.	Reasoning
It was submitted on behalf of the appellant that having refused to submit to crossexamination the plaintiff has made the evidence in examinationinchief non est.	Reasoning
It was the case of the defendant that he was carrying on the business of advertisement by putting up the hoardings of different parties.	Reasoning
The Board was made by him, paintings and writings were also done by him and for putting the hoarding the charged from his customers.	Reasoning
Therefore, it appears to us that there are no clear findings that anybody was given lease or anybody was given the right to put up the hoarding and there was parting of possession in favour of anyone else.	Reasoning
It was, however, argued that even if the appellant had put the advertisement board hoarding he was earning a huge amount by the same and this was a factor which would indicate that there was parting of possession by him.	Reasoning
It was, however, submitted on behalf of the appellant that when the shop had been let out to the defendantappellant for carrying on business it was the right of the defendantappellant to carry on the business.	Reasoning
It was legally permissible to use the said shop room and also use the roof thereof and earn as much as could be done and as such it is not parting with possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the premises, it appears to us that for the purpose disposal of this appeal it is necessary to consider (i) whether the appellant was carrying on his own advertisement business ?	Issue
(ii) Even if so, whether such an act can be termed as parting with possession of the roof or any part thereof by the appellant in favour of the advertiser because by putting up such hoarding he is getting a return otherwise ?	Issue
(iii)	Issue
The next question that arises is that if it is found that it was not a business of the appellant to carry on the advertising but the appellant had allowed an advertising agency to put up its advertising hoarding, then would such an act amount to parting with possession of the roof or any part thereof by the appellant ?	Issue
(iv) In any event, can any case or cause of action for she filed in 1974 on the basis of Ex. 6, namely, the letter dated January 20, 1977 of M s Paramount Services be maintained ?	None
On behalf of appellant it was contended by Shri Tapash Ray, counsel for the appellant, that he judgment and order of the High Court could not be sustained and in the facts and circumstances of the case, there could not be any eviction order passed against the appellant by virtue of Section 13(1)(e) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Undisputedly the appellant was a tenant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, in terms of Section 13(1) of the Act, notwithstanding anything contained in any law, no decree for eviction can be passed except on the grounds mentioned in the said section.	Arguments of Petitioner
To sustain any order of eviction, it must be founded only on one of the grounds mentioned in the said section.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it has to be found out whether the respondent had been able to make out any of the grounds mentioned in Section 13 of the Act.	None
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that the advertisement board had been put up the appellant as part of his business and he had charged certain expenses in respect of the same and that, it was urged, was the finding of the courts below and the High Court was in error in holding that there was any parting with the possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that simply the display of advertisement board on the disputed premises did not amount to parting with possession of the premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court was wrong, it was urged, in accepting the plea of the respondent of parting with possession only on the basis of the letter dated January 20, 1977 (Ex. 6).	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned District Judge in the first appeal had accepted that there was no parting of possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court, on the other hand, in the judgment in appeal relying on Ex. 6 came to the conclusion that the appellant was getting rent for this board and the appellant had accepted document Ex. 6 which Paramount Services had written to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court was wrong, it was submitted on behalf of the appellant, that Ex. 6 clearly showed that Paramount Services had installed this Board on the terrace of the shop and the shop was with them for six months.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned District Judge on an analysis of the evidence come to the conclusion that there was no parting with possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court on an analysis of the same evidence came to be the conclusion that there was, It is, therefore, necessary as the learned District Judge did, to consider what was the evidence before the trial court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plaintiff had given a statement before the trail court that a board of Paramount Advertising Agency was fixed over the disputed shop which was installed without asking him and that was of the size of 10 x 8.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the time of filing the suit there was board of Zitter and now it is of Maharaj Vanaspati.	Arguments of Petitioner
After making holes in the wall, it has been been fixed with cement with the held of iron angles.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the defendant, Gopal Saran, had fixed the board of advertisement over the disputed shop which was fixed with cement by boring holes.	Arguments of Petitioner
For fixing the board the walls had not been dug.	Arguments of Petitioner
The board had been fixed in a temporary place on which he used to make advertisement of the business of the parties on payment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was definite case in defence of the tenant that roof of the disputed shop has not been given to anyone.	Arguments of Petitioner
In crossexamination, he admitted that in 1974 advertising of Shri Bhatia was done on the board and for the advertisement he took Rs. 1500 for three years.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expenses towards the painting and fixing the board and writing were met by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The board of his shop was fixed below the front of his shop in the name of Sharan Optician, the photo of which is Ex. 2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The tenant had given the receipt of Rs. 1500 to Bhatia.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the definite case of the tenant that he dealt with the business of advertisement and there were 14 more boards in the city run by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was stated that he took Rs. 500 per cent for 15 boards from Paramount Services.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the photograph, Ex. 2, one board of the defendant was fixed in the name of Sharan Optician on the disputed shop and above it there was advertisement board which was of a tractor and fixed in front of the roof.	Arguments of Petitioner
The tenant had clearly stated that while fixing the board he did not bore the roof and the same had been fixed with the help of cement.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was stated by the landlord that it was fixed in the wall with the help of angles but this fact has not been supported by any other evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned District came to the conclusion that the board was fixed to the front of the side of the roof of the disputed shop.	Arguments of Respondent
The roof of the disputed shop had not been bored nor any holes and been made in the wall.	Arguments of Respondent
In these circumstances, the learned District Judge came to the conclusion that there was no alteration of the premises damage.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned District Judge considered the question and the arguments that the defendantappellant was not doing the work of advertisement and he had the business of spectacles and he had let out the space on rent for fixing the board on the roof and that he had got a board fixed there from which it was clear that he had parted with the possession of the space on the roof and he had further given it on rent.	Arguments of Respondent
Emphasis was laid on behalf of the respondentlandlord on Ex. 6.	Arguments of Respondent
Ex. 6, it may be mentioned, is subsequent to the accrual to the cause of action.	Arguments of Respondent
The suit was filed in 1974.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ex. 6 is dated January 20, 1977.	Arguments of Petitioner
Considering the aforesaid contentions and the position in law, the learned District Judge came to the conclusion that by Ex. 6 no portion of the disputed shop was given to the exclusive possession of the advertising agency or the defendant had not divests itself of any part of the roof.	Reasoning
Simply by displaying the advertisement board on any portion of the roof, it could not be said that the possession had been delivered to the company to which the board belonged, according to the learned District Judge, He further held that the tenant continued to be in possession thereof.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, it cannot be proved on the basis of the record, the learned District Judge came to the conclusion, that the tenant had parted with the possession.	None
In this connection, it may be appropriate to refer to the deposition of Gopal Saran, the defendantappellant before the trial court.	Reasoning
He had stated that he had put up his board on the shop for advertisement purpose.	Reasoning
The board had been put in cement pillars and by putting up the said board neither the roof nor the wall had been dug.	Reasoning
The board it was stated was permanently fixed and the tenant asserted that I advertise the business the business of the parties from time to time on payment.	Reasoning
I have not parted with the possession of the shop or of the roof or any part thereof.	Reasoning
The tenant further stated that in 1974 I advertised for Bhatia on this board in which I had written that I have Zeator I have strength, a picture tractor was also made there.	Reasoning
I used to take Rs. 1500 for three years for advertisement out of which painting of board, writing expenditure was mine.	Reasoning
The board of my shop as Sharan Opticals is fixed on the front of the shop.	Reasoning
It appears on an analysis of the evidence that the correct position in law, as established before the learned District Judge, was that the tenant used to carry on apart from opticals business, the business of advertising and for that he used to charge in the manner indicated therein.	Reasoning
He used to charge certain amount of money.	Reasoning
The question is whether by so doing, the tenantappellant has assigned, sublet or otherwise parted with the possession of the whole or any part of the premises without the permission of the landlord.	Reasoning
It is undisputed that whatever has happened has happened without the permission of the landlord.	None
On the facts found, it cannot be said or even argued that there was any assignment by the tenant.	None
Assignment, it has been stated in Blacks Law Dictionary, Fifth edn., p. 109, is a transfer or making over to another of the whole of any property, real or personal, in possession or in action, or of any estate or right therein.	Reasoning
It has further been stated as The transfer by a party of all its rights to some kind of property, usually intangible property such as rights in a lease, mortgage, agreement of sale or partnership.	Reasoning
It has to be examined whether there was subletting or otherwise parting with possession in terms of Section 13(1)(e) of the Act.	None
In this connection, it may be appropriate to refer to the deposition of the tenant, wherein he had stated USS BOARD PAR PRACHAR KE TEEN SALL KE PANDRAH SAU RUPAYE MAIN LETA THA JISMEN PAINTING AUR BOARD AUR LIKHAVAT KA KHARCH MERE THA.	None
The above, in our opinion, indicates that the board was used for publicity and paintings and other expenses were of the tenant.	None
Therefore, it was tenant who was carrying on the business.	Reasoning
The learned trial Judge had noted the evidence on this.	Reasoning
The learned trail Judge in his judgment at page 96 of the paper book had observed that the defendant in his written statement had admitted about the fixation of sign board on the shop.	Reasoning
But the board had been displayed by not fixing anything on the wall or any angles on the roof.	Reasoning
The plaintifflandlord had not submitted any evidence but the defendanttenant in his evidence had admitted that he had fixed the board in the walls of the cement which was fixed permanently, and he fixed the board time to time during the course of his business of advertisement.	Reasoning
The defendant further admitted that in 1947, he had advertised the board of Bhatia in which he had written that he had a tractor and the picture of tractor was made on the board.	Reasoning
These in the learned trial Judges judgment as well all the deposition of the tenantappellant, in our opinion, conclusively establish that it was the tenant who was carrying on the business of advertisement by advertising the advertisements of different traders.	Reasoning
If that is the position, then in this situation, can it be said that there was either any assignment, subletting or otherwise parting with possession.13.	None
Shri Tapash Ray, counsel for the appellant submitted that there was not.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Rajinder Sachar, on behalf of the landlord submitted that there was.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed by Shri Tapash Ray on the observations of Farwell, J. of England in Stening v. Abrahams (LR (1931) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
Ch 470).	Arguments of Petitioner
There the Chancery Division of the High Court of England was concerned in that case whereby the lessees covenant was not to part with the possession of the demised premises or any part thereof	Arguments of Petitioner
and it was held that it was held that it was broken only if the lessee entirely excluded himself from the legal possession of the part of the premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the facts of that case a seven years exclusive licence to erect an advertisement board against the front wall of the lessees house followed by its erection was held not to be a breach of the above covenant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Farwell, J. in his judgment at page 473 of the report considered the question as to whether the defendants had broken the covenant against parting with possession of any apart of the premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plaintiffs therein had stated that by giving the A. A. Company the right to use the front of the wall for an advertisement hoarding, the defendants had parted with the possession of that front and 3inch stratum of air outside it.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Judge noted that it was difficult to define the meaning of parting with possession generally.	Arguments of Petitioner
It must always be a question of fact and the construction of the particular agreement in each case and it cannot be determined by looking at the document alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Judge after disclaiming any attempt to define the meaning of parting with possession generally and reiterating that it must always be a question of fact and construction of the particular argument in each case observed in an instructive passage at pages 47374 of the report as followsBut in my view a lessee cannot be said to part with the possession of any part of the premises unless his agreement with his licensee wholly ousts him from the legal possession of that part.	Arguments of Petitioner
If there is anything in the nature of right to concurrent user there is no parting with possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
Retention of a key may be negative indicium, and the authorities on the whole show that nothing short of a complete exclusion of the grantor or licensor from the legal possession for all purposes amounts to a parting with possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fact that agreement is in form a licence is immaterial, as a licence any give the licensee so exclusive a right to the legal possession as to amount to a parting with possession.	None
Now does the present licence exclude the defendants from any part of the premises ?	None
It no doubt gives the licensees the exclusive right to use the wall for an advertisement hoarding.	Reasoning
No one, including the defendants, can use the wall for that purpose.	Reasoning
On the other hand the defendants remain to a large extent in possession of the wall.	None
It was contended in that case that the front of the wall was wholly in the control of the licensees.	None
That is not wholly the true view, Justice Farwell observed.	Reasoning
The right of the licensees to put up their advertisement hoarding did not prevent the defendants from using the wall so long as they did not interfere with their licensees.	Reasoning
Merely giving the licensees a right to use the wall for a particular was not parting with possession within the covenant, in that case it was held.	Reasoning
On the other hand, on behalf of the landlord Shri Rajinder Sachar, referred to the decision of the Kings Bench Division of the High Court of England in Gee v. Hazleton ((1932) 1 KB 179).	Arguments of Respondent
There a statutory tenant of a dwelling house and land granted a licence for seven years at annual rent to a billposting company to erect advertisement hoarding of the land.	Arguments of Respondent
The company was granted free and uninterrupted access to the advertising position for billposting, etc., purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held in appeal from the Country Court decision that although the document did not constitute the grant of a sublease, but only of a licence, the said part of the tenants premises had ceased to be within the protection of the Rent Restriction Act because it was used for the business purposes by the other statutory tenant of the whole and the landlord was entitled to possession of that part.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be stated that the principle of the aforesaid decision of Gee v. Hazleton ((1932) 1KB 179) is not quite relevant for the present purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, the subject matter was a dwelling house with huge land around it let out for residential purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
There the tenant had let out a part of the land to an advertising agency for carrying on commercial activities and the tenant was charging amount which was by far more than the total amount which she was paying as rent for the entire premises to the landlord.	Arguments of Respondent
This factor was taken with the main factor that the portion of the land given to the advertising agency in that case was a grant of licence by the tenant in favour of the advertising agency giving the advertising agency exclusive possession in that land to the exclusion of the tenant.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, in that case, the court held that there was parting with legal possession in favour of the advertising agency not because of realisation of amount by the tenant more than the rent paid by her but really because on the fact it was found that exclusive possession was given to the said advertising agency of a portion of the residential unit use for commercial activity.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, possession given to agency and also the right to exclude others including the tenant herself.	Arguments of Respondent
The proposition of law lad down in Stening v. Abrahams (LR (1931) 1 Ch D 470) was approved in Gee v. Hazleton ((1932) 1 KB 179).	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, a reference may be made to the observations of Lord Justice Scrutton at page 185 of the report, where the learned Lord Justice had observed as followsI can conceive in some advertising cases, cases of advertising boards, that different views may be taken when the advertising station consists of a board put on a dwelling house.	Arguments of Respondent
There the paramount use of the wall is as the wall of the dwelling house and there is also a difficulty in defining what one gets possession of when the possession granted is that of an advertising station attached to a wall.	Arguments of Respondent
Here there is no difficulty of that sort.	None
Lord Justice Slesser at page 192 of the report referring to the Stening v. Abrahams (LR (1931) 1	None
Ch D 470) noted the view that the exclusive right to legal possession could amount to parting of possession.	None
It is interesting to note in the case before the court Mr. A. T. Denning, as Lord Denning then was, had appeared for the landlord and had contended that if the defendant had herself used this portion of the premises for bill posting she would have been within the protection of the Rent Restriction Acts but the defendant had let it for business purposes to someone else and as such she would not be protected as to that portion.	Arguments of Respondent
That is not the position here.	Arguments of Respondent
Furthermore, under the Rajasthan Act, such kind of user does not take away tenants rights.	Arguments of Respondent
Under the said Act, the tenant must be guilty either of an assignment or subletting or otherwise parting with possession either of the whole or any part of the business without the permission of the landlord.	Arguments of Respondent
In this, there was no assignment.	None
Subletting means transfer of an exclusive right to enjoy the property in favour of the third party.	Reasoning
In this connection, reference may be made to the decision of this Court in Shalimar Tar Products Ltd. v. H. C. Sharma ((1988) 1 SCC 70 ) where it was held that to constitute a subletting, there must be a parting to legal possession, i.e., possession with the right to included and also right to exclude others and whether in a particular case there was subletting was substantially a question of fact.	Reasoning
In that case, a reference was made at page 77 of the report to the Treatise of Goa on Landlord and Tenant, 6th edn., at page 323, for the proposition that the mere act of letting other persons into possession by the tenant, and permitting them a use the premises for their own purposes, is not, so long as he retains the legal possession himself, a breach of covenant.	Reasoning
In paragraph 17 of the report, it was observed that parting of the legal possession means possession with the right to include and also right to exclude others.	Reasoning
In the last mentioned case, the observations of the Madras High Court in Gundalapalli Rangamannar Chetty v. Desu Rangiah (AIR 1954 Mad 182 (1952) 1 MLJ 652 ) were approved by this Court in which the legal position in Jackson v. Simons ((1923) 1 Ch 373 128 LT 572 39 TLR 147) were relied upon.	Reasoning
The Madras High Court had also relied on a judgment of Scrutton L. J. in Chaplin v. Smith ((1926) 1 KB 198 95 LJ KB 449 134 LT 393) at page 211 of the report where it was saidHe did not assign, nor did he underlet.	Reasoning
He was constantly on the premises himself and kept the key of them.	Reasoning
He did business of his own as well as business of the company.	Reasoning
In my view he allowed the company to use the premises while he himself remained in possession of them.	None
This position was also accepted in Vishwa Nath v. Chaman Lal (AIR 1975 Del 117 1975 Ren CJ 514) wherein it was observed that parting with possession is understood as parting with legal possession by one in favour of the other by giving him an exclusive possession to the ouster of the grantor.	None
If the grantor had retained legal possession with him it was not a case of parting with possession.	Reasoning
In this connection, reference may be made to the observations of this Court in Madras Bangalore Transport Co .(West)	Reasoning
v. India Singh ((1986) 3 SCC 62 )	Reasoning
wherein the observations of the Delhi High Court had been approved.	Reasoning
The concept of parting with possession private contracts between the landlord and the tenant was also known in India and it means parting with legal possession to the exclusion of the grantor himself.	Reasoning
In this connection, the observations of this Court in Dr. Vijay Kumar v. Raghbir Singh Anokh Singh ((1973) 2 SCC 597 ) may be referred to.	Reasoning
There the Rend Controller had found that the appellants had partitioned the shop in question in two portions.	Reasoning
The two portions were demarcated by a wooden partition wall.	Reasoning
In one portion there was the clinic of the first appellant and in the other portion, the other appellant was carrying on the business of sale and purchase of motor cars.	Reasoning
The wooden partition wall had divided the single shop into two parts so that there were now two doors, one in the portion in the occupation of the first appellant, and the other portion in occupation of the other appellant.	Reasoning
One could not go directly from one portion to the other on account of the wooden partition wall.	Reasoning
The first appellant locked his portion.	Reasoning
On these findings, the Rent Controller had held that the second and third appellants were in exclusive possession of their portions.	Reasoning
Hence he came to the conclusion that the firsts appellant had parted with the possession of his portion to them.	Reasoning
The Rent Controller did not accept the plea of the appellants that the business which was being carried on in their portion was the joint business of the appellants.	Reasoning
The first appellant was assessed to income tax.	Reasoning
He had never shown the income from the motor business in his incometax returns.	Reasoning
The appellants did not produce the account books.	Reasoning
The Rent Controller accordingly held that the plea of joint business had not been established.	Reasoning
It was argued before this Court that the first appellant being the father of the other two appellants established them in business and permitted them to occupy a half portion of the shop for that purpose.	Reasoning
As a father, it was submitted, it was natural for him to establish his sons in life.	Reasoning
In short, the argument was that the second and third appellants were occupying the half portion with his permission.	Reasoning
This Court held that that was a plausible argument but they were unable to entertain this at a letter stage in the Supreme Court and further held that the new plea was not a pleading of law but was a plea in fact.	Reasoning
In B. M. Lall v. Dunlop Rubber Co. Ltd. ((1968) 1	None
SCR 23 AIR 1968 SC 175 ) a distinction between the lease and licence was emphasised.	Reasoning
See the observations at page 27 of the report.	Reasoning
There was in the facts and circumstances of the case no grant of interest in land in favour of the advertiser In Rajbir Kaur v. S. Chekesiri and Co. ((1989) 1 SCC 19 AIR 1988 SC 1845 )	Reasoning
it was emphasised that it was the operative intention which is important.	None
In Dipak Banerjee v. Smt.	None
Lilabati Chakraborty ((1987) 4 SCC 161 ) it was reiterated that in order to prove tenancy or subtenancy two ingredients had to be established, firstly, the tenant must have exclusive right of possession or interest in the premises or part of the premises in question and secondly, the right must be in lieu of payment of some compensation or rent.	Reasoning
In this case, the tenant or the subtenant did not have any exclusive possession or interest in the building or in any part of the building nor was that right in lieu of any payment or any compensation, on the basis of the facts as indicated hereinafter.	Reasoning
From the aforesaid, it appears to us that the question whether there is a tenancy or licence or parting with possession in a particular case must depend upon the quality of occupation given to the licensee or the transferee.	None
Mere occupation is not sufficient, in our opinion, to infer either subtenancy or parting with possession.	Reasoning
In Associated Hotel of India Ltd.	Reasoning
Delhi v. S. B. Sardar Ranjit Singh ((1968) 2	Reasoning
SCR 548 AIR 1968 SC 933 ) it was held on the question whether the occupier of a separate apartment in a premises is a licensee or a tenant, the test is whether the landlord retained control over the apartment.	Reasoning
Similarly, it was held by this Court in Krishnawati v. Hans Raj ((1974) 1 SCC 289 (1974) 2	Reasoning
SCR 524 ) that subletting like letting, is a particular type of demise of immovable property and is distinct from permissive user like that of a licensee.	Reasoning
If two persons live together in a house as husband and wife and one of them who owns the house allows the other to carry on business in a part of it, will be in the absence of any other evidence, a rash inference to draw that the owners has let out that part of the premises.	Reasoning
Shri Sachar sought to argue that in considering the question of eviction it has to be borne in mind that the purpose of the Rent Restriction Act is to protect dwelling house and not to protect a person who is not the resident of dwelling house but is making money by subletting it.	Reasoning
In our opinion, however, having regard took the quality, nature and degree of the occupation of the transferee and the facts found, it cannot be said that either there was any assignment or subletting or parting with possession to such a degree by permitting the hoarding that the tenant had long interest.	None
He was using this premises for his benefit.	Reasoning
Unless the tenant has infracted the prohibition of the Act, he is not liable to be evicted.	Reasoning
The case rests on the express provision of the Act and there is no scope to explore the latent purpose of the Act.	None
In the premises, the High Courts order of eviction cannot be upheld.	None
As no question of nonpayment has been found by the trial court and the learned District Judge and there is no finding of any material alteration, in our opinion, the order for eviction cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
The appeal, therefore, must be allowed.23.	None
The appeal is allowed and the order for eviction is set aside.	Decision
In the facts and the circumstances of the case, however, the parties will pay and bear their own costs.	Decision
