 Hemant Gupta, J. This order shall dispose of Civil Appeals filed under Section 23 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1985 preferred by both the parties against an order passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission against its order dated 01.08.2014 wherein, a sum of Rs.	Issue
54,93,865/ has been awarded as compensation for loss suffered on account of damage by fire to the Complainant, subject to the condition that the said amount will be paid within 45 days by the Insurance Company otherwise it will carry interest at the rate of 10 per annum till its realisation.	Issue
For the facility of reference, the respondent in Civil Appeal No. 9668 of 2014 will be called hereinafter as the Complainant, whereas the Appellant New India Assurance Co. Ltd. will be called as Insurance Company.	Facts
Civil Appeal Nos. 437172 of 2015 are filed by the Complainant.3.	Facts
The Complainant is an Industrial Unit engaged in manufacture of garments.	Facts
The Complainant obtained a policy of insurance for the risk of fire for the period 27.3.2000 to 26.3.2001 with the assured sum of Rs. 85,00,000/. It was on 12.07.2000 at about 3.45 AM, the factory of the Complainant was engulfed in fire.	Facts
It is thereafter, the Complainant lodged a claim for loss due to fire incident in its factory.4.	Facts
M s R.N. Sharma Co., was appointed as an investigator to conduct a preliminary investigation by the Insurance Company.	Facts
The preliminary investigation report was submitted on 20.07.2000.	Facts
It is thereafter, M s Sunil J. Vora Associates was appointed as the Surveyor by the Head Office of the Insurance Company on July 28, 2000.	Facts
The said Surveyor submitted detailed report and accepted the claim of the Complainant for Rs. 54,93,865/. Out of the said amount, Rs. 1,65,430.53 was the claim on account of damage to building Rs. 3,93,779.78 was the claim towards the damage to the machinery and Rs. 49,44,657.67 was the claim towards the damage to the stocks.	Facts
The amount was rounded off to Rs. 54,93,865/.5.	Facts
The Insurance Company issued a communication dated 09.04.2001 to the Complainant asking for certain information after the said report was submitted to the Insurance Company on 12.02.2001.	Facts
The information sought is as under ?1.	None
List of Machineries (copy of assets register)2.	Facts
Loss and profit accounts3.	Facts
Purchase details of raw materials4.	Facts
Verified copy of Balance Sheet for last 2 years.5.	Facts
Original copy of LC LC with extended date of expiry6.	Facts
Details of Financial arrangements for increasing the turn over.7.	Facts
Clarify the status of insurable interest on building.?	Facts
The Surveyor in his report has given loss to the machinery giving details of the machinery damaged in fire and the amount admissible in respect of its loss.	Facts
The Insurance Company also communicated a letter to its Senior Branch Manager on 26.09.2001 that the letter of credit dated 11.05.2000 of Singapore Branch of Bank of India was established for Gurcharan Singh Co. Pvt. Ltd., but the said letter of credit expired without receipt of any document.	Facts
It was also mentioned that the Complainant is neither a beneficiary nor a notified party of said letter of credit.7.	Facts
Subsequently, M s ABM Engineers Consultants was appointed as the second Surveyor by the Insurance Company.	Facts
The said Surveyor accepted the loss of Rs.	Facts
24,76,585/ in its report dated 28.02.2002.	Facts
The second surveyor has taken into consideration stocks statement submitted by the Complainant to Canara Bank on 30.4.2000, 31.05.2000 and 01.07.2000 respectively.	Facts
Though, the Manager of Canara Bank is said to have pointed out that these statements are like statutory requirements but the surveyor brushed them aside for the reason that these documents cannot be treated as documents for finalising the stock value.	Facts
It was further observed that if the stocks statement is to be referred to, there is no reason as to why letter of credit could not be materialized.	Facts
The relevant extracts from the report of the second surveyor are as under ?	None
(i) Stock statement as on 1.7.2000, 31.5.2000, 30.4.2000 submitted by insured to bank.	None
These statements are just like statutory requirement (Refer opinion of Canara Bank Manager, 13B, Investigation verification).	Facts
These documents cannot be treated as document for finalizing stock value.	Facts
If we refer to the quantity in these stock statements then there was no reason why LC could not materialize.	Facts
Further these documents contradict with purchase invoices of items purchased by	Facts
Luxara Enterprises Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
From their vendors.?	Facts
The Insurance Company was still not satisfied by the report and thereafter appointed Mr. R.G.Verma, a Chartered Accountant as its third surveyor.	Facts
The said surveyor recommended total repudiation of claim in its report on 28.05.2002 under Clause 8 of the Insurance Policy on the ground that there were enough valid circumstantial reasons on the part of the Insured to manipulate the fire.	Facts
It is after the said report furnished on 28.06.2002, the claim was repudiated by the Insurance Company on the same day i.e. 28.6.2002, interalia, on the ground that the Complainant had no export order and the letter of credit does not show the name and address of the buyer.	Facts
It is mentioned therein that as per stocks statement furnished to Canara Bank on 05.07.2000, 34,800 shirts were ready as on 01.07.2000 and that the letter of credit was expiring on 09.07.2000.	Facts
Therefore, the Complainant did not explain as to why the said consignment was not shipped on or before 01.07.2000.	Facts
Another reason given was that the letter of credit was alleged to have been extended up to 08.08.2000 in favour of somebody else.	Facts
Therefore, there was no reason for extension of letter of credit when the goods were allegedly ready on 01.07.2000 and that the garment could not be exported without endorsement of invoice by Apparel Export Promotion Council but no such endorsement was obtained by the Complainant.	Facts
The Surveyor further gave another reason, that 104203 meters of fabric was purchased from M s S.V. Traders but the address given on the invoice and the challans was not of fabric shop but that of a photocopy shop.	Facts
Still further, another reason communicated was that the letter of credit was opened by M s Sirdanwal Overseas of Ajay Verma who is facing a criminal case under Sections 420, 406, 120(B) of IPC in FIR No. 98 dated 06.04.2002.9.	Facts
The Complainant in his complaint filed on 16.5.2002, has interalia averred that he has taken a credit facility from Canara Bank to the tune of Rs.	Facts
50,00,000/ and that the loan amount was disbursed in the months of March and May, 2000.	Facts
Such advance was secured by primary security of stocks and goods lying in the factory of the Complainant apart from the personal guarantee of the Directors of the Complainant and equitable mortgage residential house of one of the Directors and plant machinery installed at the above said factory as collateral security.	Facts
The Bank also got insured the factory building as well as the stocks from the Insurance Company for which premium was paid by debiting the account of Complainant by the Bank.10.	Facts
The grievance of the Complainant is that the Insurance Company has appointed one surveyor after another.	Facts
The first surveyor M s Sunil J. Vora Associates has accepted the damage preferred by the Complainant to the extent of Rs.	Facts
54,93,865/ whereas, the second surveyor M s ABM Engineers Consultants reduced the amount to Rs.	Facts
24,76,585/ and the third surveyorR.G. Verma repudiated the total claim.11.	Facts
In respect of second survey report, it is pointed out that Shri B. S. Aggarwal of the surveyor M s ABM Engineers Consultants attended the meeting in the office of the Complainant which was attended by the Officers of the Insurance Company.	Facts
The Complainant submitted a letter to the Regional Manager of the Insurance Company as well as to the Branch Office at Delhi apart from the Grievance Cell, Mumbai on 15.01.2002.	Facts
Shri B.S. Aggarwal communicated a letter dated 30.01.2002 pointing out that the letter dated 15.01.2002 submitted by the Complainant was misleading as the Complainant could not make available accounting records to the Surveyor.12.	Facts
The Complainant again submitted a letter dated 18.3.2002 aggrieved against the actions of the surveyor to the various officers of the Insurance Company.	Facts
The Complainant also pointed out that the Insurance Company could not appoint one surveyor after another.	Facts
It was open to the Insurance Company to apply to the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority to appoint an independent Surveyor under Section 64 UM (3) of the Insurance Act, 1938 but the Insurance Company could not appoint one surveyor after another till such time, it is successful in getting a report of total repudiation of the claim of the Complainant.	Facts
The relevant provisions of the 1938 Act read as under ?	None
(2) No claim in respect of a loss which has occurred in India and requiring to be paid or settled in India equal to or exceeding twenty thousand rupees in value on any policy of insurance, arising or intimated to an insurer at any time after the expiry of a period of one year from the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1968, shall, unless otherwise directed by the Authority, be admitted for payment or settled by the insurer unless he has obtained a report, on the loss that has occurred, from a person who holds a licence issued under this section to act as a surveyor or loss assessor (hereafter referred to as approved surveyor or loss assessors)	Facts
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to take away or abridge the right of the insurer to pay or settle any claim at any amount different from the amount assessed by the approved surveyor or loss assessor.(3)	Facts
The Authority may, at any time, in respect of any claim of the nature referred to in subsection (2), call for an independent report from any other approved surveyor or loss assessor specified by him and such surveyor or loss assessor shall furnish such report to the Authority within such time as may be specified by the Authority or if no time limit has been specified by him within reasonable time and the cost of, or incidental to, such report shall be borne by the insurer.(4)	Facts
The Authority may, on receipt of a report referred to in subsection (3), issue such directions as he may consider necessary with regard to the settlement of the claim including any direction to settle a claim at a figure less than, or more than, that at which it is proposed to settle it or it was settled and the insurer shall be bound to comply with such directionsProvided that where the Authority issues a direction for settling a claim at a figure lower than that at which it has already been settled, the insurer shall be deemed to comply with such direction if he satisfies the Authority that all reasonable steps with due regard to the question whether the expenditure involved is not disproportionate to the amount required to be recovered, have been taken with due dispatch by himProvided further that no direction for the payment of a lesser sum shall be made where the amount of the claim has already been paid and the Authority is of opinion that the recovery of the amount paid in excess would cause undue hardship to the insuredProvided also that nothing in this section shall relieve the insurer from any liability, civil or criminal, to which he would have been subject but for the provisions of this subsection.?	Facts
In the written statement filed before the Commissioner, the Insurance Company explained the reason for appointing another Surveyor after the report of Surveyor M s Sunil J. Vora Associates was submitted on 01.02.2001.	Facts
It was, interalia, asserted that quantum of loss has been assessed without verifying and providing any documents and that the clarification sought from the Surveyor has not led to any response.	Facts
The Insurance Company concluded the reasons for appointing another Surveyor in para 3.9 of its reply which reads as under ?	Facts
Respondent No.1 sought clarification from the Surveyors as well as the insured on certain points but neither the Surveyors nor the insured submitted the clarification or the desired documents.	None
In the absence of the said clarification documents, Respondent No. 1 was not able to ascertain the cost of the shirts.	Facts
The Surveyors had taken the value of the shirts at Rs. 235/	Facts
but it was not clear from where he had taken the said value.	Facts
On the other hand, the Complainant had taken the order 5.9 US i.e. Rs. 271/ and adding overhead expenses the cost comes Rs. 295/ per shirt.	Facts
The Preliminary Surveyor in his report dated 20 th July, 2000, also did not give the basis of the estimate of loss at Rs. 75,00,000/.	Facts
The letters dated 11 th May, 2001 was written to the Preliminary Surveyor asking about the basis of the figure of Rs.	Facts
75,00,000/ which was not responded.	Facts
This was followed by reminder dated 28 th June, 2001 which was also not responded.	Facts
The letters dated 11 th May, 2001 and 28 th June, 2001 is Annexure R14 and R15 hereto?	None
Such are the only reasons available in the written statement as to why another Surveyor was appointed.	None
No other record has been furnished for appointment of M s ABM Engineers Consultants, second surveyor on 22.08.2001.	Facts
The Commission in its order held as under ?22.	None
There is no evidence on record that the appointment of Surveyor Nos. 2, 3 4 was with the consent of the Head Quarters.	None
After the second Surveyor, there is no reasoning given as to why third and fourth Surveyors were appointed.	Facts
This is an admitted fact that the fire broke out in the premises of the complainant.	Facts
All the first three Surveyors spoke about this fact in one voice.	Facts
Even the Investigator Fourth Surveyor, did not deny the happening of incident and admitted in no uncertain terms that shirts worth rupees few lakhs must have been burnt.	Facts
There can be no conflictions on the point that some loss was occurred to the complainant.	Facts
Whether the Order or LCs were fake or manipulated or the Order for import of shirts could not be proved or Mr. Ajay Verma was involved in a criminal case has got no bearing on this case.	Facts
There is no inkling on evidence of record that Mr. Ajay Verma was involved in this particular case.23.	Facts
It cannot be laid down as a rule of thumb that the Surveyor cannot ask for other documents after he has informed the complainant that the documents are complete.	Facts
There lies no rub.24.	Facts
Under these circumstances, we have no hesitation to accept the second Surveyor, M s Sunil J. Vohra?s report.	Facts
The same is partly accepted and we allow the complaint and direct the Insurance Company, OP1, to pay a sum of Rs.	Facts
54,93,865/ to the complainant, within 45 days from the receipt of this order, otherwise, it will carry interest 10 p.a., till its realization.	Facts
In view of peculiar facts of this case, there is no order as to costs or pendente lite interest.?	Facts
The learned counsel for the AppellantInsurance Company argued that the Commission has gravely erred in law in not examining the question whether letter of credit was fake or manipulated or that the order of import of shirts could not be proved or Mr. Ajay Verma was involved in a criminal case as it was held that such facts have no bearing on this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the AppellantInsurance Company relies upon an order passed by this Court as reported in Sri Venkateswara Syndicate vs. Oriental Insurance Company Limited (2009) 8 SCC 507 which case has examined Section 64 UM of the 1938 Act to hold that there is no prohibition in the Act for appointment of another Surveyor M s ABM Engineers Consultants by the Insurance Company except that the Insurance Company has to record reasons for not accepting the report of the Surveyor M s Sunil J. Vora Associates.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the Insurance Company has rightly appointed another Surveyor.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Insurance Company relied upon newspaper report dated 09.05.2002 published in Punjab Kesari that the Delhi Police has arrested three persons on the basis of forged documents duping exporters.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the said newspaper report which was made basis of appointing yet another Surveyor.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevant extract from the written statement reads as under 3.12 On 9 th May, 2002, it was reported in the ?Punjab Kesari? newspaper that Delhi Police has arrested a gang of three persons who had duped the exporters of crores of rupees on the basis of forged documents.	Arguments of Petitioner
It also came to the notice of Respondent No. 1 that Mr. Ajay Verma of M s. Sirdanwal Overseas from whom, the Complainant is alleged to have dealings for LC and procurement of the export order had been arrested in a cheating case in FIR No. 98 dated 6 th April, 2002, P .S.	Arguments of Petitioner
Chitranjan Park, under Sections 420/406/12B of the Indian Penal Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
The newspaper report dated 9 th May, 2002 is Annexure R25 hereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
Respondent No. 1 appointed Shri R.G. Verma, Chartered Accountant to conduct an investigation of the claim.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri R.G. Verma conducted the detailed investigation and submitted his report dated 28 th May, 2002 in which he observed that the claim was fraudulent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The report of Shri R.G. Verma is Annexure R26 hereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
The following documents were collected by the investigator i. List of bail applications dated 24 th May, 2002.ii.	Arguments of Petitioner
FIR NO. 98 dated 6 th April, 2002.iii.	Arguments of Petitioner
Application for request for judicial custody by the Accused.iv.	Arguments of Petitioner
Respondent No. 1 took the photographs of the office of S.V. Traders which are Annexure R27 hereto?.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for the Complainant rebutted the arguments raised and referred to communication dated 07.12.2001 addressed by the Head Office of the Insurance Company to its Delhi Regional Office, interalia, to the facts that Head Office has appointed M s Sunil J. Vohra Associates as the final Surveyor and that the Head Office is unable to understand as to why and who has appointed M s ABM Engineers Consultants as Surveyor.	Arguments of Respondent
The extracts from the said letter read as under  ?07.12.2001	None
DELHI RO II Kind Attn.	None
MR.	None
S. MAMMAN, ASSTT.	Arguments of Respondent
GEN.	None
MANAGER, Re Fire Claim under Policy No. 11/310830/99/9010	None
A c M s. Luxra Enterprises Pvt.	None
Ltd.	None
Date of Loss 11/12.7.2000We note from our record that based on your request vide letter dt.	None
24.7.2000, HO had appointed Sunil J. Vora Associates as the Final Surveyor and we have communicated the decision to you vide our letter	Arguments of Respondent
dt. 27.7.2000.	Arguments of Respondent
we understand that surveyor had already submitted their report also.	Arguments of Respondent
We have received a bunch of papers dt.	Arguments of Respondent
20.11.01 from M s ABM Engineers and Consultants pertaining to this claim.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to understand what for they are appointed and who has appointed them.	Arguments of Respondent
Please note that once HO has appointed a surveyor, you cannot appoint surveyor or investigator without consulting HO.	Arguments of Respondent
Please let us have your explanation to enable us to apprise Management.	Arguments of Respondent
We note that correspondence by M s. ABM Engineers and Consultants are directly addressed to the Senior Branch Manager only and copies are seen forwarded to various higher offices.	Arguments of Respondent
Kindly inform us the current status of this claim also for our records.?	Arguments of Respondent
Before considering the respective contentions of the parties, the judgment in Sri Venkateswara (supra) is required to be examined.	None
In the said judgment, this Court has upheld the right of the Insurance Company to appoint Surveyor but such right can be exercised for valid reasons or if the report is found to be arbitrary and that Insurance Company must give cogent reasons without which it is not free to appoint the second Surveyor.	None
The relevant extracts of the judgment read as under  ?33.	None
Scheme of Section 64UM, particularly of sub sections (2), (3) and (4) would show that the insurer cannot appoint a second surveyor just as a matter of course.	None
If for any valid reason the report of the surveyor is not acceptable to the insurer may be for the reason if there are inherent defects, if it is found to be arbitrary, excessive, exaggerated, etc., it must specify cogent reasons, without which it is not free to appoint the second surveyor or surveyors till it gets a report which would satisfy its interest.	None
Alternatively, it can be stated that there must be sufficient ground to disagree with the findings of surveyor surveyors.	None
There is no prohibition in the Insurance Act for appointment of second surveyor by the insurance company, but while doing so, the insurance company has to give satisfactory reasons for not accepting the report of the first surveyor and the need to appoint second surveyor.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
In our considered view, the Insurance Act only mandates that while settling a claim, assistance of a surveyor should be taken but it does not go further and say that the insurer would be bound by whatever the surveyor has assessed or quantified if for any reason, the insurer is of the view that certain material facts ought to have been taken into consideration while framing a report by the surveyor and if it is not done, it can certainly depute another surveyor for the purpose of conducting a fresh survey to estimate the loss suffered by the insured.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The option to accept or not to accept the report is with the insurer.	None
However, if the rejection of the report is arbitrary and based on no acceptable reasons, the courts or other forums can definitely step in and correct the error committed by the insurer while repudiating the claim of the insured.	None
We hasten to add, if the reports are prepared in good faith, with due application of mind and in the absence of any error or ill motive, the insurance company is not expected to reject the report of the surveyors?	None
In view of above, the question to be examined is whether the Insurance Company has reasons or there were inherent defects in the survey report of Surveyor M s Sunil J. Vora Associates or that such report is arbitrary, excessive and exaggerated, before another Surveyor could be appointed.	Issue
The Surveyor M s Sunil J. Vora Associates was appointed by Head Office of the Insurance Company.	Reasoning
The Head Office of the Insurance Company has communicated to the Regional Branch Office as to why another Surveyor has been appointed.	Reasoning
In view of said fact, the appointment of another surveyor could not be justified when a conscious decision has been communicated by the Head Office of not approving the appointment of second surveyor.21.	Reasoning
Still further, the reasoning given by the local office is that the Surveyor M s Sunil J. Vora Associates has not clarified certain points when clarification was sought for.	Reasoning
The said reason stands answered even in the report of Surveyor M s ABM Engineers Consultants.	Reasoning
Such surveyor has considered the report of the Canara Bank in respect of stocks statement.	Reasoning
Such stocks statement was brushed aside for the reason that if said stocks statement was correct then as to why letter of credit could not be materialised.	Reasoning
The Complainant has explained that it was on 15.06.2000, it has been communicated to the consignee to have inspection of the stocks before exporting the consignment.	Reasoning
The consignee has not inspected the stocks which led to the extension of letter of credit up to 08.08.2000.	Reasoning
It was argued that letter of credit is to facilitate receipt of money from the exporter and once the stock of the Complainant has been verified by the Canara Bank, which had the first charge over the property, therefore, such verification of stock could not be doubted by the Insurance Company only for the reason that letter of credit could not be materialised.	Reasoning
The verification of the stocks by the Canara Bank which had primary charge on the stocks could not be doubted in the manner, the surveyor M s ABM Engineers Consultants has reported.22.	Reasoning
Still further, it is explained in the affidavit that the letter of credit was by M s Sirdanwal Overseas which was endorsed to Gurcharan Singh Company Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. PTE Singapore.	Reasoning
Therefore, the letter of credit was a valid document which could not be said not to be genuine only on the basis of reason that such letter of credit was not in favour of the Complainant when the order was placed on the Complainant by the above said Singapore based firm.23.	Reasoning
Mr. Ajay Verma is an accused in FIR in which there is no allegation in respect of export by the Complainant.	Reasoning
The allegation against Ajay Verma is of duping the exporters whereas, there is no such or similar allegation against the Complainant.	Reasoning
The Complainant has also averred that there was endorsement by the Apparel Export Promotion Council, therefore factually such assertion of the Insurance Company is incorrect.24.	Reasoning
Thus, we find that there was no valid reason for the Insurance Company not to accept the report of the surveyor M s Sunil J. Vora Associates nor there is any proof that such report is arbitrary excessive.	Reasoning
There are no cogent reasons to appoint Surveyors time and again till such time one Surveyor gives a report which could satisfy the interest of the Insurance Company.25.	Reasoning
In fact, in the present case it is evident that the claim of Rs.	Reasoning
54,93,865/ was accepted by the surveyor M s Sunil J. Vora Associates.	Reasoning
The second surveyor M s ABM Engineers Consultants accepted the claim in the sum of Rs. 24,76,585/. The third surveyor  R.G. Verma recommended total repudiation of claim.	Reasoning
It is the third Surveyor?s report which subserved the interest of the Insurance Company which was made basis of repudiation of the claim of the Complainant on the same day, when the report was furnished.	Reasoning
We find that in view of the judgment in Sri Venkateswara (supra), it is not open to appoint another Surveyor till such time, it gets a report in its favour.	Reasoning
In fact, the appointment of the Surveyors was to repudiate the claim of the Complainant on one pretext or the other.	Reasoning
Thus, we do not find any illegality in the order passed by the Commission.	Decision
Consequently, Civil Appeal No. 9668 of 2014 is dismissed.	None
However, we find that the Commission has not granted interest on the amount found due and payable to the Complainant.	Reasoning
Therefore, Civil Appeal Nos.437172 0f 2015 preferred by the Complainant are allowed.	Decision
The Complainant shall be entitled to the interest on the amount of Rs.	Decision
54,93,865/ at the rate of 6 per annum from the date of filing of petition till the payment of the amount.	Decision
