 K. Thakker, J. Leave granted.	None
The present appeal is filed by the appellant against an order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Punjab Haryana on October 15, 2007 in Company Appeal No.10 of 2006.	Issue
By the said order, the Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellantherein and confirmed the order passed by the Company Judge on February 16, 2006 in Company Application No. 178 of 2005 in Company Petition No. 42 of 1999.3.	Issue
Few facts of the case are that La Medical Devices Ltd.respondent NO. 1 went into liquidation.	Facts
Official Liquidator was appointed by the Court who is joined as Respondent No. 1 in the present proceedings.	Facts
In view of the liquidation of the Company and dues to be paid by it, proceedings were initiated for sale of property of the Company.	Facts
Sale notice was issued by the Company Court on October 19, 2004 which was published in various newspapers inviting sealed tenders for the sale of property of the Company situated at NOIDA (U.P.).	Facts
Twelve bids were received which were opened on November 16, 2004.	Facts
The bid of the appellant for Rs.1.47 crores for immovable as well as movable property was the highest.	Facts
One of the creditors, namely, Pradeshiya Industrial and Investment Corporation of U.P. Ltd. (PICUP) granted no objection to the saleprice.	Facts
Since the appellant was the highest bidder, it wrote a letter to the Official Liquidator on December 19, 2004 followed by a reminder dated January 20, 2005 requesting him to expedite the process and issue letter of acceptance of the offer of the appellant so that possession of the Unit can be given to the appellant and the property could be made ready for commencement of production.	Facts
It is the case of the appellant that there was no reply by the Official Liquidator to the appellant.	Facts
The appellant, therefore, wrote a letter to the Company Judge on January 27, 2005, complaining that though it was the duty of the Official Liquidator to accept the highest offer submitted by the appellant, no action had been taken by the Official Liquidator and there was delay in the process of finalization of acceptance of bid.	Facts
The appellant also complained about the threat administered by the Official Liquidator.	Facts
According to the appellant, thereafter on February 15, 2005, the Official Liquidator accepted the bid of the appellant for Rs. 1.47 crores for immovable property.	Facts
The appellant on its own had forgone its claim of leased machinery.	Facts
The Official Liquidator also instructed the appellant to deposit 25 of the bid amount for immovable property within fifteen days.	Facts
The appellant, however, deposited the said amount on the same day, i.e. February 15, 2005.	Facts
According to the appellant, the Company Judge having found the auction in accordance with law and for adequate price and there being no other objection, confirmed the auction sale in favour of the appellantCompany on March 24, 2005.	Facts
The Company Judge also directed the Official Liquidator to hand over possession of the Unit by executing sale deed in favour of the appellant after receiving full and final payment within one month.	Facts
The Official Liquidator conveyed the appellant vide his letter dated April 4, 2005 that an order was passed by the Company Judge in favour of the appellant.	Facts
The appellant was also asked to deposit the rest of the amount immediately.	Facts
On receiving the letter dated April 4, 2005 from the Official Liquidator, the appellant deposited the remaining amount on April 12, 2005.	Facts
The appellant thereby became entitled to receive possession and execution of sale deed in respect of immovable property of the Company.	Facts
By a communication dated April 21, 2005, the Official Liquidator informed the appellant that possession of the property would be handed over to the appellant on May 6, 2005 at 11.30 a.m.4.	Facts
According to the appellant, thereafter the Official Liquidator did not act legally and in accordance with law.	Facts
On May 6, 2005, though the officers of the appellant waited at the site for getting possession of the property, neither the Official Liquidator nor his representative turned up to hand over possession of the property to the appellant.	Facts
The appellantCompany, hence, sent a telegraphic notice to the Official Liquidator and requested him to immediately comply with the order of the Company Judge confirming sale and handing over possession to the appellant.	Facts
Instead of complying with the order of the Court and handing over possession of the property, the Official Liquidator sent a letter purported to have been written on May 5, 2005, stating therein that possession would not be given to the appellant on May 06, 2005 as higher bid of Rs.1.55 crores had been received and order for handing over possession to the appellant had been stayed by the Honble Court.	Facts
The appellant made enquiries and it was found that it was at the instance of the Official Liquidator himself that Company Application No. 178 of 2005 before the Company Judge was moved and he created obstruction in delivery of possession of property to the appellant on the alleged ground that he had received higher offer.	Facts
The appellant stated that other two persons also offered more amount.	Facts
The appellant, in the circumstances, filed Company Application No.407 of 2005 under Rule 9 of the Company Court Rules, 1959 read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 stating therein that it had paid full amount, sale was confirmed and in spite of the order by the Company Judge, possession had not been handed over to the appellant.	Facts
A prayer was made to direct Official Liquidator to hand over possession of property to the appellant.	Facts
Meanwhile other offers were also received by Official Liquidator.	Facts
One Satish Choudhary offered an amount of Rs.2.10 crores.	Facts
Keeping in view all the facts, the learned Company Judge, vide his order dated February 16, 2006 directed resale of property by issuing fresh advertisement in the newspapers mentioned in the order.	Facts
It was also observed that the reserve price would be fixed at Rs.2.10 crores.	Facts
Tenders should reach in the office of Official Liquidator latest on March 22, 2006, and would be opened in Court at 1.45 p.m. on March 23, 2006 and interse bidding would be permitted at that time.5.	Facts
In pursuance of the above direction, advertisement was issued.	Facts
Official Liquidator received offers.	Facts
The highest offer was by Nice Societyrespondent No.3 herein for Rs.3.5 crores and in the circumstances, bid of respondent No. 3 was accepted.	Facts
The appellant in the meanwhile challenged the order of the Company Judge and, as observed earlier, the appeal was dismissed by the Division Bench.	Facts
It is this order which is challenged in the present appeal.6.	Facts
Notice was issued by this Court on February 23, 2007.	None
Affidavits and further affidavits were filed thereafter.	None
Considering the nature of litigation, the Office was directed to place the matter for final hearing on a nonmiscellaneous day and that is how the matter has been placed before us.	None
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the Company Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court were wholly wrong in setting aside the auction sale in favour of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that pursuant to sale notice, tenders were invited, twelve persons offered their bids.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bid of the appellant was highest.	Arguments of Petitioner
In consonance with law, therefore, the said bid was accepted and the appellant deposited amount of 25 as required by law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It also paid the remaining amount of 75.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sale was confirmed in favour of the appellant and direction was issued by the Company Judge to the Official Liquidator to hand over possession of the property to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Official Liquidator, however, with mala fide intention and oblique motive, refused to do so.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the counsel, once the bid was accepted and sale was confirmed, it could not be set aside except on the grounds of fraud, material irregularity, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not even the case of the Official Liquidator, submitted the counsel, that there was fraud or material irregularity in sale and hence, sale could not have been set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the only ground put forward by the Official Liquidator was that he had received a higher offer of Rs.1.55 crores from another person.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said offer was received after about seven months.	Arguments of Petitioner
The difference in price was 5.44.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the counsel, judicial notice can be taken that price of real estate increases day by day and increase of 5 after seven months could not justify the Court in setting aside auction sale which was conducted in consonance with law.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that ground alone, therefore, both the orders are liable to be set aside by ordering handing over possession of property to the appellant.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that mala fide action on the part of the Official Liquidator was apparent and from the records and proceedings, it was clearly established.	Arguments of Petitioner
On May 6, 2005, the officers of the appellant remained present at the site to accept possession, but the Official Liquidator did not come.	Arguments of Petitioner
A letter, said to have been written on May 5, 2005 was received by the appellant belatedly wherein the only ground given by the Official Liquidator was that he had received a higher bid of Rs.1.55 crores and the Company Judge had issued stay order.	Arguments of Petitioner
The socalled order passed by the Company Judge was also not sent along with the letter.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was alleged that the Official Liquidator did not hand over possession since the appellant did not oblige him by succumbing to his demands.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was asserted that against the said Official Liquidator, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had instituted proceedings alleging corruption and he was also arrested in that connection.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regarding bid of respondent No.3Society for Rs.3.5 crores, it was submitted that it is well settled that auction sales cannot be set aside on the ground that higher offers are received from other bidders after confirmation of sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
If this is allowed and sales are set aside, there is no end to it.	Arguments of Petitioner
In absence of illegalities or material irregularities, credibility of court sales cannot be doubted nor such sales be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
If price is the only consideration, today the property is worth Rs.5.5 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, sale in favour of respondent No.3 should also be set aside and fresh auction must be ordered.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was stated that the appellant was a bona fide purchaser.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was not even the allegation of the Official Liquidator or any other bidder that highest bid of the appellant for Rs.1.47 crores was in any way improper, insufficient or inadequate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant, hence, cannot be deprived of the fruits to which it was otherwise entitled to.	Arguments of Petitioner
On all these grounds it was submitted that the order passed by the courts below deserve to be set aside.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the Official Liquidator, an affidavit is filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may, however, be stated that the present incumbent is different than the one who was in of the office at the relevant time.	Arguments of Petitioner
The deponent denied the allegations levelled by the appellant but stated that in view of the higher offer received by the then Official Liquidator and stay granted by the Company Judge, possession was not handed over to the appellant and the said action could not be said to be illegal or contrary to law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was stated that as per the order of the Company Judge, fresh tenders were invited and in the said process, respondent No.3Society offered Rs.3.5 cores which was accepted and no interference is called for.	Arguments of Petitioner
A counter affidavit is also filed by respondent No. 3 stating that the appellant had not approached the Court with true and full facts.	Arguments of Respondent
Sale notice which was issued on October 19, 2004 was incomplete and invalid.	Arguments of Respondent
It did not state valuation of movable and immovable properties.	Arguments of Respondent
Reserve price was also not fixed.	Arguments of Respondent
No inventory of plant and machinery was made.	Arguments of Respondent
There was no full description of movable properties.	Arguments of Respondent
Necessary material was not made available at the site nor in the office of the Official Liquidator.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of those irregularities, the property could not fetch fair price.	Arguments of Respondent
When all the above defects were brought to the notice of the Company Judge, the Company Judge was satisfied that the process undertaken was not proper and hence fresh bids were invited.17.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that no formal order of confirmation in favour of the appellant was at any time made by the Court.	Arguments of Respondent
But even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that the order of the Company Judge issuing direction to the Official Liquidator to hand over possession to the appellant can be said to be an order of confirmation, it would not take away the power of the Company Judge to invite fresh tenders if sale was not held in accordance with law.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, if auction sale was confirmed by the Court on March 24, 2005, the appellant was bound to pay the remaining amount of 75 before 15th day of confirmation.	Arguments of Respondent
Admittedly, the appellant failed to pay the remaining amount within the stipulated period.	Arguments of Respondent
It, therefore, cannot claim any benefit on the basis of such auction sale.18.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel urged that even otherwise this Court has held in several cases that the Court has power to set aside even confirmed sale if it is satisfied that the property would have fetched higher price.	Arguments of Respondent
The approach of the Court in such matters is to ensure that the property must fetch maximum price which would benefit the Company in clearing its dues and liabilities towards its creditors, contributors and workers.	Arguments of Respondent
In the final analysis, the auction sale in favour of respondent No. 3 for an amount of Rs.3.5 crores which was substantially higher than the bid of the appellant for Rs.1.47 crores may not be interfered with.19.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further stated that when respondent No. 3 made an offer of Rs.3.5 cores, the Court, in fairness, extended opportunity to the appellant if it wanted to participate in the proceedings and willing to offer higher price.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant, however, refused to take part as also refused to pay anything more than what was offered earlier.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, therefore, not open to the appellant to complain and insist to get ownership rights and possession of property for Rs.1.47 cores.20.	Arguments of Respondent
It was stated that respondent No. 3 has paid full amount, got sale deed executed in its favour and had spent substantial amount thereafter and on that ground also, the Court may not exercise discretionary and equitable jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, in our opinion, no case has been made out by the appellant against the order passed by the High Court.	Reasoning
From the facts stated above, it is clear that in November, 2004, the bid of the appellant was highest and was accepted by the Official Liquidator.	Reasoning
But it is also clear that certain facts which were necessary to be brought to the notice of intending purchasers were not set out in the proclamation of sale nor were disclosed at the time of sale notice.	Reasoning
They related to valuation of movable and immovable properties, fixation of reserve price, noninventory of plant and machinery, etc.	Reasoning
The attention of the Company Judge was invited by other bidders by filing Company Applications.	Reasoning
The Company Judge considered the objections and having prima facie satisfied, ordered fresh auction.	Reasoning
We find no illegality in the said approach.	Reasoning
When fresh bids were received, it was found that the highest offer was of respondent No. 3Society which was of Rs.3.5 crores.	Reasoning
The Company Judge extended an opportunity to the appellant to raise its bid.	Reasoning
It, however, appears that the appellant was adamant to get the property for Rs.1.47 crores on the ground that the said offer was highest and all the proceedings taken by the Official Liquidator and Company Judge thereafter were totally illegal and unlawful.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the respondents are right that in such cases, the approach of the Company Judge should be to get highest price so as to satisfy maximum claims against the Company in liquidation.	Reasoning
The procedure followed by the Company Judge, therefore, cannot be said to be illegal.	Reasoning
It may be observed at this stage that even before the Division Bench, such opportunity was afforded to the appellant to raise its bid but it was not availed of by the appellant.	None
The Division Bench, in the impugned order, noted Even during the course of proceedings in this appeal, we had specifically asked the learned counsel for the appellant as to whether the appellantwas willing to go for interse bidding to which he flatly declined.	None
In this connection, we may refer to some of the decisions of this Court to which our attention has been invited.	None
In M s. Navalkha Sons v. Sri Ramanya Das Ors., 1969 (3) SCC 337 , it was held by this Court that the principles which should govern confirmation of sale are wellsettled.	None
Where the acceptance of the offer by the Commission is subject to confirmation of the Court, mere acceptance of offer by the Commission would not confer vested right to the property in favour of the bidder.	None
Condition of confirmation by Court operates as a safeguard against the property being sold at an inadequate price, whether or not it is a consequence of any irregularity or fraud in the conduct of the sale.	None
It is the duty of the Court to satisfy itself about the proper valuation.	None
But once the Court comes to the conclusion that the price offered is adequate, no subsequent higher offer can constitute a valid ground for refusing confirmation of the sale or offer already received.	None
In Kayjay Industries (P) Ltd. v.	None
M s Asnew Drums (P) Ltd.	None
Ors., (1974) 2 SCC 213 , this Court held that it is the duty of the Court to accept the highest bid and the Court is not bound to go on adjourning the sale on the basis of valuation report.	None
Referring to and relying on Navalkha, the Court stated that in public sales, the authority must protect interest of the parties keeping in view the fact that a Court sale is a forced sale and, notwithstanding the competitive element of public auction, the best price is not often forthcoming.	None
In Union Bank of India v. Official Liquidator, High Court of Calcutta Ors., (2000) 5 SCC 274 , this Court observed that in auction sale of the property of the Company which is ordered to be wound up, the Company Court acts as a custodian for the interest of the Company and its creditors.	None
It is the duty of the Company Court to satisfy itself as to reasonableness of price by disclosing valuation report to secured creditors of the Company and other interested persons.	None
It was further held that the Court should exercise judicial discretion to ensure that sale of property should fetch adequate price.	None
For deciding what would be reasonable price, valuation report of an expert is essential.	None
The Company Judge himself must apply his mind to the valuation report.	None
The Court observed that the High Court did not interfere with the auction sale on the ground of sympathy for the workers which was not proper.	None
The auction sale was, therefore, set aside by this Court and Official Liquidator was directed to resell the property after obtaining fresh valuation report and after furnishing copy of such report to secured creditors.	None
In Divya Manufacturing Company (P) Ltd. v. Union Bank of India Ors., (2000) 6 SCC 69 , this Court held that even confirmed sale can be set aside.	None
In that case, highest bid by a party was accepted by the Court and the sale was confirmed, but before possession was delivered to the auction purchaser and execution of sale deed, other parties offered much higher price.	None
The High Court required the subsequent bidders to deposit an amount of 25 which was done.	None
Considering the facts in their entirety, the High Court set aside the confirmation of past highest bid.	None
The said action was challenged in this Court.	None
This Court held that in an appropriate case, even confirmed sale can be set aside.	None
The Court in this connection, relied upon earlier two decisions in LICA (P) Ltd. (1) v. Official Liquidator, (1996) 85 Comp Cas 788 (SC) and LICA (P) Ltd. (2) v. Official Liquidator, (1996) 85 Comp Cas 792 (SC).	None
The learned counsel for the appellant is no doubt right in submitting that in Divya, there was a specific condition (Clause 11) which empowered the Court to set aside confirmed sale in the interest of creditors, contributors and all concerned and or public interests.	None
But the Court put the matter on principle and stated It is the duty of the Court to see that the price fetched at the auction is an adequate price even though there is no suggestion of irregularity or fraud.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It proceeded to observe Confirmation of the sale by a Court at grossly inadequate price, whether or not it is a consequence of any irregularity or fraud in the conduct of sale, could be set aside on the ground that it was not just and proper exercise of judicial discretion.	None
In such cases, a meaningful intervention by the Court may prevent, to some extent, underbidding at the time of auction through Court.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In Gajraj Jain v. State of Bihar Ors., (2004) 7 SCC 151 , this Court reiterated that in absence of valuation report and reserve price, the auction sale becomes only a pretence.	None
If there is no proper mechanism and if the intending purchasers are not able to know details of the assets or itomised valuation, auction sale cannot be said to be in accordance with law.	None
If publicity and maximum participation is to be attained, all bidders must know the details of the assets and the valuation thereof.	None
In the present case, it was alleged that there were several irregularities in the first auction.	None
The tender notice did not state valuation of movable and immovable property reserve price was not fixed, inventory of plant and machinery was not made available, etc.	None
If on consideration of these facts, the Company Judge ordered fresh auction, in our considered opinion, no complaint can be made against such action.	None
In our opinion, the submission of the learned counsel for respondent NO. 3 is also wellfounded that when its highest bid of Rs.3.5 crores was accepted, opportunity was afforded to the appellant.	None
It, however, did not avail such opportunity.	None
The counsel is also right in referring to subsequent events that after the fresh auction, sale deed was executed, possession was handed over to respondent No.3, it had incurred expenses.	None
If at this stage, the sale is set aside, serious prejudice will be caused to respondent No. 3Society.	None
At the same time, however, from the facts it is clear that the appellants bid was accepted in November, 2004.	None
Immediately, it had deposited 25 amount.	None
The appellant also deposited remaining amount of 75 on April 12/13, 2005.	None
It would, therefore, be appropriate if we direct respondent No. 3 to pay an amount of Rs.30 lacs to the appellant which in our opinion would serve the ends of justice.	None
Payment of Rs.30 lacs will serve as a solatium to the purchaser for his trouble and disappointment for the loss of that which is perhaps a good bargain.	None
Vide Chundi Charan v. Bankey Behary, (1899	None
) ILR 26 Cal 449 (FB).	None
Before parting, we may clarify that serious allegations have been levelled by the appellant against the then Official Liquidator.	Reasoning
It was also stated that Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has instituted criminal proceedings alleging corruption against the Official Liquidator and he was arrested.	Reasoning
We are disposing of the present appeal as in our opinion, the order passed by the Company Jude and confirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court are in consonance with law.	Reasoning
But we may not be understood to have expressed any opinion on the allegations levelled by the appellant against the Official Liquidator.	Reasoning
As and when the matter comes up for consideration before an appropriate Court Authority, it will be decided on its own merits irrespective of the disposal of this appeal by us.38.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reason, the appeal is partly allowed to the extent indicated above.	Decision
