 Sudhansu Jyoti Mukhopadhaya, J. Delay condoned.	None
Leave granted.	None
This appeal has been preferred by the appellantsclaimants in motor accident case against the judgment and order dated 19th March, 2009 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka, Bangalore in a motor accident case being Miscellaneous First Appeal No. 2344 of 2004(MV).	Issue
They are not happy with the meager enhancement of compensation granted by the High Court.	Issue
The brief facts of the case are as follows ThatRamadas, aged about 48 years, was working as a Typesetting Assistant in Computer Section of the Mysore Printers Limited (Deccan Herald).	Facts
On 27th July, 1999 at about 1.30 a.m. while he was returning home on his scooter bearing Registration No.KA 03/K 7514 on HosurLuskar road, near Mico Software, he met with accident with a Tanker bearing Registration No.KA 05/A 5995 driven by its driver in a rash and negligent manner.	Facts
On account of the said accident, Ramadas fell down and sustained grievous injuries all over the body.	Facts
He was shifted to Victoria Hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries.	Facts
His wife and children preferred the claim petition under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as the Act, 1988), claiming compensation of Rs.30,00,000/. The 2nd respondent (Insurance Company) contested the claim.	Facts
They had not disputed the accident or the insurance coverage.	Facts
On behalf of the claimant, witnesses were examined including P.W1, who was the claimant No.1 and another one Chandrashekar, an eyewitness to the accident.	Facts
Nine documents were led as evidence marked as Exhs.	Facts
P1 to P9.	Facts
No oral evidence was adduced by the respondents.	Facts
The Insurance Policy was marked as Exh.R1.	Facts
The Tribunal on appreciation of the oral and documentary evidence on record held that the accident was occurred on account of rash and negligent driving by the driver of the Tanker.	None
It took into consideration the fact that the deceased was drawing a salary of Rs.13,331/ p.m.	None
After deduction of the Income Tax, Professional Tax and personal expenses from the basic salary it awarded a compensation of Rs.9,03,600/. On appeal preferred by the claimants, the High Court enhanced the compensation to Rs.11,25,000/. The High Court rounded the age of the deceased as 50 years applied Rs.8,295/ as multiplicand and deducted 1/3rd amount towards personal expenses.	Facts
The High Court split the multiplier and applied multiplier of 10 for the multiplicand of Rs.8,295/ and multiplier of 2 for the multiplicand of Rs.4,147/.	Facts
The grievances of the claimants are summarised as follows Deduction of 1/3rd amount towards personal expenses in all cases is arbitrary and unreasonable.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) Multiplier under Second Schedule cannot be applied in for determination of compensation under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.	Arguments of Petitioner
iii) Split multiplier cannot be made applicable in the facts of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
iv) Interest granted by the Tribunal and the High Court is lower side which should be 9 in place of 6 per annum.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the time of argument learned counsel for the appellants insisted to issue a direction on the authority to comply with Section 158 (6) and 166 (4) of the Act, 1988.	None
Further prayer was made to direct the Central Government to amend the Second Schedule of the Act, 1988 in light of the present cost of living which increased manifold.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, according to the counsel for respondent No.2Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as, the Insurance Company) the compensation paid in favour of the claimants is just and proper, multiplier method is sound method of assessing compensation Section 163(A) directs to follow a structured formula indicated in Second Schedule to avoid long drawn litigation and delay in payment of compensation there is consistency and uniformity in the said approach.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we refer to the broad features of the Act, 1988, it is desirable to notice the background in which the Parliament considered it necessary to bring in the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
Before Indian Fatal Accident Act, 1855 came into force in India, there was no provision in Indian Laws to maintain a claim for damages compensation by the legal representative of the deceased for his death caused by tort civil wrong or even by crime.	None
The right to claim compensation died with the death of a person.	None
Prior to the enforcement of Indian Fatal Accident Act, 1855 in England there was a statute, namely, Fatal Accident Act, 1846 certain provisions of which read as under Whereas no action at law is now maintainable a person who by his wrongful act, neglect or default may have caused the death of another person, and it is oftentimes right and expedient that the wrongdoer in such cases should be answerable in damages for the injury so caused by him.	None
Be it therefore enacted by the Queens most Excellent Majesty, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the Authority of the same, that whensoever the death of a person shall be caused by a wrongful act, neglect and default is such as would (if death had not ensued) have entitled the party injured to maintain an action and recover damages in respect thereof, then and in every such case the person who would have been liable if death had not ensued shall be liable to an action for damages, notwithstanding the death shall have been caused under such circumstances as amount in law to a Felony.	None
And be it enacted, that every such action shall be for the benefit of the wife, husband, parent and child of the person whose death shall have been so caused, and shall be brought by and in the name of the executor or administrator of the person deceased and in every such action the Jury may give such Damages as they may think proportioned to the Injury for such death to the parties respectively for whom and for whose benefit such action shall be brought and the amount so recovered, after deducting the costs not recovered from the defendant In England, there have been several amendments and enactments after the Fatal Accidents Act, 1846.	None
Fatal Accident Act, 1855 was the first Indian legislation that provided a right to claim compensation for the death of a person caused by wrongful act of another.	None
It was enacted in accordance with English Fatal Accidents Act, 1846.	None
Section 1A of the Indian Fatal Accident Act, 1855 reads as under 1A Suit for compensation to the family of a person for loss occasioned to it by his death by actionable wrong?	None
Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by wrongful act, neglect, or default, and the act, neglect or default is such as would (if death had not ensued have entitled the party injured to maintain an action and recover damages in respect thereof, the party who would have been liable if death had not ensued, shall be liable to an action or suit for damages, notwithstanding the death of person injured, and although the death shall have been caused under such circumstances as amount in law to felony or other crime.	None
3	None
Every such action or suit shall be for the benefit of the wife, husband, parent and child, if any, of the person whose death shall have been so caused, and shall be brought by and in the name of the executor, administrator or representative of the person deceased and in every such action, the court may give such damages as it may think proportioned to the loss resulting from such death to the parties respectively, for whom and for whose benefit such action shall be brought, and the amount so recovered, after deducting all costs and expenses, including the costs not recovered from the defendant, shall be divided amongst the before mentioned parties, or any of them, in such shares as the court by its judgment or decree shall direct.	None
Indian Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 followed the principles in English Fatal Accident Act, 1896 with regard to payment of compensation.	None
Thus, compensation damages proportionate to the loss resulting from such death was payable.	None
Under Section 306 of the Indian Succession Act 1925 all rights for claiming damages after the death of a person survive and legal representative could claim damages.	None
Section 306 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 reads as under Demands and rights of action of or against deceased survive to and against executor or administrator All demands whatsoever all rights to prosecute or defend any action or special proceedings existing in favour of or against a person at the time of his decease, survive to and against his executors or administrators except causes of action for defamation, assault, as defined in the Indian Penal Code, 1960 (45 of 1860) or other personal injuries not causing the death of the party and except also cases where, after the death of the party, the relief sought could not be enjoyed or granting it would be nugatory.	None
Motor Vehicle Act was enacted in 1939.	None
Later, by Act No. 100 of 1956 with effect from 16th February, 1957 Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 was amended and claims tribunals were constituted under Section 110.	None
Section 110 to Section 110F of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 were brought.	None
Section 110B of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 as amended reads as under 110B. Award of the Claims Tribunal  	None
On receipt of an application for compensation made under Section 110A, the Claims Tribunal shall, after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, hold an inquiry into the claim or, as the case may be, each of the claims and, subject to the provisions of Section 109B, may make an award determining the amount of compensation which appears to it to be just and specifying the person or persons to whom compensation shall be paid and in making the award the Claims Tribunal shall specify the amount which shall be paid by the insurer or owner or driver of the vehicle involved in the accident or by all or any of them, as the case may be.	None
In 1988, Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 was repealed and Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 came into force.	None
By bringing Section 168 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 it was reiterated that the amount of compensation payable would be which appeared to be just Section 168 of the amended Motor Vehicle Act reads as under Award of the Claims Tribunal On receipt of an application for compensation made under Section 166, the Claims Tribunal shall, after giving notice of the application to the insurer and after giving the parties (including the insurer) an opportunity of being heard, hold an inquiry into the claims or, as the case may be, each of the claims and, subject to the provisions of Section 162 may make an award determining the amount of compensation which appears to it to be just and specifying the person or persons to whom compensation shall be paid and in making the award the Claims Tribunal shall specify the amount which shall be paid by the insurer or owner or driver of the vehicle involved in the accident or by all or any of them, as the case may be Provided that where such application makes a claim for compensation under Section 140 in respect of the death or permanent disablement of any person, such claim and any other claim (whether made in such application or otherwise) for compensation in respect of such death or permanent disablement shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Chapter X.	None
Thus according to the English Law compensation damages were payable according to the proportionate loss whereas in India compensation is payable which appears to the Tribunal to be just is payable.	None
The approach of the Courts according to the English law and according to the Indian Law have to be distinct and separate.	None
Indian Law recognizes just compensation whereas English law required compensation proportionate to the loss suffered.	None
English courts have been calculating loss of money as a bargain as to how much monetary loss has been caused to the claimant, as a result the death of bread earner deceased.	None
The English Law being different, English judges were having different approach towards the grant of compensation to the deceaseds family.	None
Here in India, we have a different culture.	None
Here, every parent thinks that it is his moral and legal duty to give fullest education to his children.	None
Parents think that marriage of their children is their responsibility and even providing a house to their children and grand children is their responsibility.	None
Here, in India, the concept of culture and family life is totally distinct from the culture and family life in England and in other foreign countries.	None
Here, parents not only educate the children but spend huge amounts or at least sufficient amounts on the marriages of their children, on their education, for their housing needs and in majority of cases in return they are looked after in old ages.	None
Most of the people work even after their retirement to support their children.	None
The longevity of life in India has increase at least upto 69 years in many cases, peoples live longer than that.	None
The salaries and cost of things increase rapidly.	None
At a glance, between every 910 years they double.	None
Though the method of multiplier is one of the best methods in providing compensation while choosing the multiplier the court tribunal has to take into consideration the rising inflation, increasing salaries and increasing cost of living.	None
Therefore, we have to determine just compensation keeping in view the Indian background, the Indian culture, the Indian legal background, and the sociocultural circumstances existing in India.	None
Relevant statutory provisions of Act, 1988 Liability without fault in certain cases is provided under Chapter X. Section 140 prescribes liability upon the owner of the vehicle on the principle of no fault and reads as follows Liability to pay compensation in certain cases on the principle of no fault.	None
(1) Where death or permanent disablement of any person has resulted from an accident arising out of the use of a motor vehicle or motor vehicles, the owner of the vehicle shall, or, as the case may be, the owners of the vehicles shall, jointly and severally, be liable to pay compensation in respect of such death or disablement in accordance with the provisions of this section.	None
The amount of compensation which shall be payable under sub section (1) in respect of the death of any person shall be a fixed sum of 1fifty thousand rupees and the amount of compensation payable under that subsection in respect of the permanent disablement of any person shall be a fixed sum of 2twentyfive thousand rupees.	None
In any claim for compensation under subsection (1), the claimant shall not be required to plead and establish that the death or permanent disablement in respect of which the claim has been made was due to any wrongful act, neglect or default of the owner or owners of the vehicle or vehicles concerned or of any other person.	None
A claim for compensation under subsection (1) shall not be defeated by reason of any wrongful act, neglect or default of the person in respect of whose death or permanent disablement the claim has been made nor shall the quantum of compensation recoverable in respect of such death or permanent disablement be reduced on the basis of the share of such person in the responsibility for such death or permanent disablement.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2) regarding death or bodily injury to any person, for which the owner of the vehicle is liable to give compensation for relief, he is also liable to pay compensation under any other law for the time being in force Provided that the amount of such compensation to be given under any other law shall be reduced from the amount of compensation payable under this section or under section 163 A. Section 141 relates to provisions as to whether right to claim compensation for death or permanent disablement and reads as follows Provisions as to other right to claim compensation for death or permanent disablement.	None
The right to claim compensation under section 140 in respect of death or permanent disablement of any person shall be in addition to any other right (hereafter in this section referred to as the right on the principle of fault) to claim compensation in respect thereof under any other provision of this Act or of any other law for the time being in force.	None
A claim for compensation under section 140 in respect of death or permanent disablement of any person shall be disposed of as expeditiously as possible and where compensation is claimed in respect of such death or permanent disablement under section 140 and also in pursuance of any right on the principle of fault, the claim for compensation under section 140 shall be disposed of as aforesaid in the first place.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), where in respect of the death or permanent disablement of any person, the person liable to pay compensation under section 140 is also liable to pay compensation in accordance with the right on the principle of fault, the person so liable shall pay the firstmentioned compensation and (a) if the amount of the firstmentioned compensation is less than the amount of the secondmentioned compensation, he shall be liable to pay (in addition to the firstmentioned compensation) only so much of the secondmentioned compensation as is equal to the amount by which it exceeds the firstmentioned compensation (b) if the amount of the firstmentioned compensation is equal to or more than the amount of the secondmentioned compensation, he shall not be liable to pay the secondmentioned compensation.	None
Section 142 prescribes permanent disablement as follows Permanent disablement.	None
For the purposes of this Chapter, permanent disablement of a person shall be deemed to have resulted from an accident of the nature referred to in subsection (1) of section 140 if such person has suffered by reason of the accident, any injury or injuries involving (a) permanent privation of the sight of either eye or the hearing of either ear, or privation of any member or joint or (b) destruction or permanent impairing of the powers of any member or joint or (c) permanent disfiguration of the head or fact.	None
Section 144 provides for nonobstante clause.	None
Section 163A contains special provisions as to payment of compensation on structured formula basis.	None
It came into force from 14th November, 1994 and reads as follows 163A. Special provisions as to payment of compensation on structured formula basis.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force or instrument having the force of law, the owner of the motor vehicle of the authorised insurer shall be liable to pay in the case of death or permanent disablement due to accident arising out of the use of motor vehicle, compensation, as indicated in the Second Schedule, to the legal heirs or the victim, as the case may be.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this subsection, permanent disability shall have the same meaning and extent as in the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923).	None
In any claim for compensation under subsection (1), the claimant shall not be required to plead or establish that the death or permanent disablement in respect of which the claim has been made was due to any wrongful act or neglect or default of the owner of the vehicle or vehicles concerned or of any other person.	None
The Central Government may, keeping in view the cost of living by notification in the Official Gazette, from time to time amend the Second Schedule.	None
The Second Schedule referred to in Section 163A of the Act, 1988 prescribes structured formula for the purpose of grant of compensation.	None
By reasons thereof, a multiplier system has been introduced in terms of which amount of compensation is required to be calculated having regard to the age of victim and his annual income.	None
In terms of the note appended to the said Schedule, the amount of compensation so arrived at in cases of fatal accident, is to be reduced by 1/3rd in consideration of the expenses which the victim would have incurred towards maintaining himself.	None
The Second Schedule mandates that the amount of compensation shall not be less than Rs.50,000/.	None
It also prescribes for grant of compensation under different heads such as general damage in case of death, general case of injury and disability disability in nonfatal accident and notional income for compensation for those who had no income at the time of accident.	None
The maximum amount which can be paid under different heads has been specified therein.	None
Section 163B provides two options for claim in certain cases as quoted below 163B. Option to file claim in certain cases.	None
Where a person is entitled to claim compensation under section 140 and section 163A, he shall file the claim under either of the said sections and not under both.	None
Section 166 relates to application for compensation preferred before the Claim Tribunal and Section 167 provides option regarding claim for compensation in certain cases, they reads as follows Application for compensation.	None
(1) An Application for compensation arising out of an accident of the nature specified in subsection (1) of section 165 may be made (a) by the person who has sustained the injury or (b) by the owner of the property or (c) where death has resulted from the accident, by all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased or (d) by any agent duly authorised by the person injured or all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased, as the case may be Provided that where all the legal representatives of the deceased have not joined in any such Application for compensation, the Application shall be made on behalf of or for the benefit of all the legal representatives of the deceased and the legal representatives who have not so joined, shall be impleaded as respondents to the Application.	None
Every Application under subsection (1) shall be made, at the option of the claimant, either to the Claims Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area in which the accident occurred or to the Claims Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the claimant resides or carries on business or within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the defendant resides, and shall be in such form and contain such particulars as may be prescribed Provided that where no claim for compensation under section 140 is made in such Application, the Application shall contain a separate statement to that effect immediately before the signature of the applicant.	None
3	None
The Claims Tribunal shall treat any report of accidents forwarded to it under subsection (6) of section 158 as an Application for compensation under this Act.	None
Option regarding claims for compensation in certain cases.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923) where the death of, or bodily injury to, any person gives rise to a claim for compensation under this Act and also under the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923, the person entitled to compensation may without prejudice to the provisions of Chapter X claim such compensation under either of those Acts but not under both.	None
In Deepal Girishbhai Son and others vs. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., Baroda, (2004) 5 SCC 385 , a larger Bench of threeJudge held Section 140 of the Act dealt with interim compensation but by inserting Section 163A, Parliament intended to provide for the making of an award consisting of a predetermined sum without insisting on a longdrawn trial or without proof of negligence in causing the accident.	None
The amendment was, thus, a deviation from the common law liability under the law of torts and was also in derogation of the provisions of the Fatal Accidents Act.	None
The Act and the Rules framed by the State in no uncertain terms suggest that a new device was sought to be evolved so as to grant a quick and efficacious relief to the victims falling within the specified category.	None
The heirs of the deceased or the victim in terms of the said provisions were assured of a speedy and effective remedy which was not available to the claimants under Section 166 of the Act.	None
Section 163A was, thus, enacted for grant of immediate relief to a section of the people whose annual income is not more than Rs 40,000 having regard to the fact that in terms of Section 163A of the Act read with the Second Schedule appended thereto, compensation is to be paid on a structured formula not only having regard to the age of the victim and his income but also the other factors relevant therefor.	None
An award made thereunder, therefore, shall be in full and final settlement of the claim as would appear from the different columns contained in the Second Schedule appended to the Act.	None
The same is not interim in nature.	None
The note appended to column 1 which deals with fatal accidents makes the position furthermore clear stating that from the total amount of compensation onethird thereof is to be reduced in consideration of the expenses which the victim would have incurred towards maintaining himself had he been alive.	None
This together with the other heads of compensation as contained in columns 2 to 6 thereof leaves no manner of doubt that Parliament intended to lay a comprehensive scheme for the purpose of grant of adequate compensation to a section of victims who would require the amount of compensation without fighting any protracted litigation for proving that the accident occurred owing to negligence on the part of the driver of the motor vehicle or any other fault arising out of use of a motor vehicle.	None
In the said case the Court further held It may be true that Section 163B provides for an option to a claimant to either go for a claim under Section 140 or Section 163A of the Act, as the case may be, but the same was inserted ex abundanti cautela so as to remove any misconception in the minds of the parties to the lis having regard to the fact that both relate to the claim on the basis of nofault liability.	None
Having regard to the fact that Section 166 of the Act provides for a complete machinery for laying a claim on fault liability, the question of giving an option to the claimant to pursue their claims both under Section 163A and Section 166 does not arise.	None
If the submission of the learned counsel is accepted the same would lead to an incongruity.	None
Although the Act is a beneficial one and, thus, deserves liberal construction with a view to implementing the legislative intent but it is trite that where such beneficial legislation has a scheme of its own and there is no vagueness or doubt therein, the court would not travel beyond the same and extend the scope of the statute on the pretext of extending the statutory benefit to those who are not covered thereby.	None
(See Regional Director, ESI Corpn.	None
v. Ramanuja Match Industries (1985) 1	None
SCC 218.	None
We, therefore, are of the opinion that the remedy for payment of compensation both under Sections 163A and 166 being final and independent of each other as statutorily provided, a claimant cannot pursue his remedies thereunder simultaneously.	None
One, thus, must opt elect to go either for a proceeding under Section 163A or under Section 166 of the Act, but not under both.	None
In Sarla Verma(Smt.)	None
and others vs. Delhi Transport Corporation and another, 2009(6) SCC 121,this Court compared Section 163A with Section 166 of the Act, 1988 and reiterated that the principles relating to determination of liability and quantum of compensation were different for the claims under Section 163A and claims made under Section 166.	None
Thus it will be evident from the provisions of the Act that the structured formula as prescribed under Second Schedule and the multiplier mentioned therein is not binding for claims under Section 166 of the Act, 1988.	None
Multiplier This Court in order to bring uniformity and certainty in granting compensation always envisaged payment of just compensation based on multiplier method which is accepted method for determining and ensuring payment of just compensation.	None
This Court has applied different multipliers in following different cases General Manager, Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, Trivandrum vs. Susamma Thomas (Mrs.) and others, (1994) 2 SCC 176  	None
The multiplier applied is 12.	None
6 (2) S.Chandra and others vs. Pallavan Transport Corporation, 1994(2) SCC 189  	None
The multiplier applied is 20. 7 (3) Sarla Dixit (Smt.) and another vs. Balwant Yadav and others, (1996) 3 SCC 179  	None
The multiplier applied is 15.	None
8 (4) U.P. State RoadTransport Corporation and others vs. Trilok Chandra and othrs, (1996) 4 SCC 362  	None
The multiplier applied is 15.	None
This Court further held that multiplier cannot exceed 18 years purchase factor.	None
9 (5) Jyoti Kaul and others vs. State of M.P. and another, (2002) 6 SCC 306  	None
The multiplier applied is 15.	None
10 (6) T.N. State Transport Corpn.	None
Ltd. vs. S. Rajapriya and others, (2005)	None
6 SCC 236  The multiplier applied is 12.	None
11 (7) New India Assurance Co.Ltd. vs. Charlie and another, (2005) 10 SCC 720  	None
The multiplier applied is 18. 12 (8) U.P. State RoadTransport Corpn.	None
vs. Krishna Bala and others, (2006)	None
6 SCC 249  The multiplier applied is 13. 13 (9) New India Assurance Co.Ltd. vs. Kalpana (Smt.)and others, (2007) 3 SCC 538	None
The multiplier applied is 13.	None
14 (10) Oriental Insurance Company Limited vs. Jashuben and others, (2008) 4 SCC 162 the multiplier applied is 13.	None
However, in Jyotsana Dey and Ors. vs. State of Assam Ors., 1987 ACJ 172 , this court applied a multiplier of 25 years and in Hardeo Kaur Ors.	None
vs. Rajasthan State Transport Corporation Anr., (1992) 2 SCC 567 , this Court applied a multiplier of 24 years.	None
In Sarla Verma (Supra) this Court held that the multiplier should be used in the following manner 1 42.	None
We therefore hold that the multiplier to be used should be as mentioned in Column (4) of the table above (prepared by applying Susamma Thomas, Trilok Chandra and Charlie), which starts with an operative multiplier of 18 (for the age groups of 15 to 20 and 21 to 25 years), reduced by one unit for every five years, that is M17 for 26 to 30 years, M16 for 31 to 35 years, M15 for 36 to 40 years, M14 for 41 to 45 years, and M13 for 46 to 50 years, then reduced by two units for every five years, that is, M11 for 51 to 55 years, M9 for 56 to 60 years, M7 for 61 to 65 years and M5 for 66 to 70 years.	None
This Court laid down the above guidelines to ensure uniformity and consistency in the selection of multiplier while awarding compensation in motor accident claims made under Section 166.	None
The application of multiplier fell for consideration recently before threeJudge Bench in Reshma Kumari Ors.	None
vs. Madan Mohan Anr.	None
, (2013)9 SCC 65 .	None
In the said case this Court held We have already noticed the table prepared in Sarla Verma for the selection of multiplier.	None
The table has been prepared in Sarla Verma having regard to the three decisions of this Court, namely, Susamma Thomas1, Trilok Chandra and Charlie for the claims made under Section 166 of the 1988 Act.	None
The Court said that multiplier shown in Column (4) of the table must be used having regard to the age of the deceased.	None
Perhaps the biggest advantage by employing the table prepared in Sarla Verma is that the uniformity and consistency in selection of the multiplier can be achieved.	None
The assessment of extent of dependency depends on examination of the unique situation of the individual case.	None
Valuing the dependency or the multiplicand is to some extent an arithmetical exercise.	None
The multiplicand is normally based on the net annual value of the dependency on the date of the deceaseds death.	None
Once the net annual loss (multiplicand) is assessed, taking into account the age of the deceased, such amount is to be multiplied by a multiplier to arrive at the loss of dependency.	None
In Sarla Verma, this Court has endeavoured to simplify the otherwise complex exercise of assessment of loss of dependency and determination of compensation in a claim made under Section 166.	None
It has been rightly stated in Sarla Verma that claimants in case of death claim for the purposes of compensation must establish (a) age of the deceased (b) income of the deceased and (c) the number of dependants.	None
To arrive at the loss of dependency, the Tribunal must consider (i) additions deductions to be made for arriving at the income (ii) the deductions to be made towards the personal living expenses of the deceased and (iii) the multiplier to be applied with reference to the age of the deceased.	None
We do not think it is necessary for us to revisit the law on the point as we are in full agreement with the view in Sarla Verma.	None
If the multiplier as indicated in Column (4) of the table read with paragraph 42 of the Report in Sarla Verma is followed, the wide variations in the selection of multiplier in the claims of compensation in fatal accident cases can be avoided.	None
A standard method for selection of multiplier is surely better than a crisscross of varying methods.	None
It is high time that we move to a standard method of selection of multiplier, income for future prospects and deduction for personal and living expenses.	None
The courts in some of the overseas jurisdictions have made this advance.	None
It is for these reasons, we think we must approve the table in Sarla Verma17 for the selection of multiplier in claim applications made under Section 166 in the cases of death.	None
We do accordingly.	None
If for the selection of multiplier, Column (4) of the table in Sarla Verma is followed, there is no likelihood of the claimants who have chosen to apply under Section 166 being awarded lesser amount on proof of negligence on the part of the driver of the motor vehicle than those who prefer to apply under Section 163A.	None
As regards the cases where the age of the victim happens to be upto 15 years, we are of the considered opinion that in such cases irrespective of Section 163A or Section 166 under which the claim for compensation has been made, multiplier of 15 and the assessment as indicated in the Second Schedule subject to correction as pointed out in Column (6) of the table in Sarla Verma should be followed.	None
This is to ensure that claimants in such cases are not awarded lesser amount when the application is made under Section 166 of the 1988 Act.	None
In all other cases of death where the application has been made under Section 166, the multiplier as indicated in Column (4) of the table in Sarla Verma should be followed.	None
In what we have discussed above, we sum up our conclusions as follows In the applications for compensation made under Section 166 of the 1988 Act in death cases where the age of the deceased is 15 years and above, the Claims Tribunals shall select the multiplier as indicated in Column (4) of the table prepared in Sarla Verma read with para 42 of that judgment.	None
In cases where the age of the deceased is upto 15 years, irrespective of the Section 166 or Section 163A under which the claim for compensation has been made, multiplier of 15 and the assessment as indicated in the Second Schedule subject to correction as pointed out in Column (6) of the table in Sarla Verma should be followed.	None
As a result of the above, while considering the claim applications made under Section 166 in death cases where the age of the deceased is above 15 years, there is no necessity for the Claims Tribunals to seek guidance or for placing reliance on the Second Schedule in the 1988 Act.	None
to (vi) xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The above propositions mutatis mutandis shall apply to all pending matters where above aspects are under consideration.	None
Thus the view taken by this Court in Sarla Verma is affirmed by threeJudge Bench of this Court in Reshma Kumari.	None
SplitMultiplier For determination of compensation in motor accident claims under Section 166 this Court always followed multiplier method.	None
As there were inconsistencies in selection of multiplier, this Court in Sarla Verma prepared a table for selection of multiplier based on age group of the deceased victim.	None
Act, 1988 does not envisage application of split multiplier.	None
In K.R. Madhusudhan and others vs. Administrative Officer and another, (2011) 4 SCC 689 , this Court held as follows In the appeal which was filed by the appellants before the High Court, the High Court instead of maintaining the amount of compensation granted by the Tribunal, reduced the same.	None
In doing so, the High Court had not given any reason.	None
The High Court introduced the concept of split multiplier and departed from the multiplier used by the Tribunal without disclosing any reason therefor.	Reasoning
The High Court has also not considered the clear and corroborative evidence about the prospect of future increment of the deceased.	None
When the age of the deceased is between 51 and 55 years the multiplier is 11, which is specified in the 2nd column in the Second Schedule to the Motor Vehicles Act, and the Tribunal has not committed any error by accepting the said multiplier.	None
This Court also fails to appreciate why the High Court chose to apply the multiplier of 6.	None
We are, thus, of the opinion that the judgment of the High Court deserves to be set aside for it is perverse and clearly contrary to the evidence on record, for having not considered the future prospects of the deceased and also for adopting a split multiplier method.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that in absence of any specific reason and evidence on record the Tribunal or the Court should not apply split multiplier in routine course and should apply multiplier as per decision of this Court in the case of Sarla Verma(supra) as affirmed in the case of Reshma Kumari (supra).	None
Compliance of Section 158(6) and 166(4) of the Act, 1988 Information regarding any accident involving death or bodily injury to any person is to be recorded or reported under Section 158(6) of the Act, 1988 which mandates as follows 158 (6) As soon as any information regarding any accident involving death or bodily injury to any person is recorded or report under this section is completed by a police officer, the officer incharge of the police station shall forward a copy of the same within thirty days from the date of recording of information or, as the case may be, on completion of such report to the Claims Tribunal having jurisdiction and a copy thereof to the concerned insurer, and where a copy is made available to the owner, he shall also within thirty days of receipt of such report, forward the same to such Claims Tribunal and Insurer.	None
Sub Section (4) of Section 166 of the Act,1988 substantiates the object of enacting the provisions of subsection (6) of Section 158, which reads as under 166 (4) The Claims Tribunal shall treat any report of accidents forwarded to it under subsection (6) of Section 158 as an application for compensation under this Act.	None
Surprisingly, such a useful provision such as Section 158(6) of the Act, 1988 was lying dormant for a long period.	None
A writ petition for enforcement of the said provision came to be filed in this Court in the case of General Insurance Council Others v. State of Andhra Pradesh Others (2007) 12 SCC 354 in which it has been held and directed as under Since there is a mandatory requirement to act in the manner provided in Section 158(6) there is no justifiable reason as to why the requirement is not being followed.	None
It is, therefore, directed that all the State Governments and the Union Territories shall instruct, if not already done, all police officers concerned about the need to comply with the requirement of Section 158(6) keeping in view the requirement indicated in Rule 150 and in Form 54.	None
Periodical checking shall be done by the Inspector General of Police concerned to ensure that the requirements are being complied with.	None
In case there is noncompliance, appropriate action shall be taken against the erring officials.	None
The Department of Road Transport and Highways shall make periodical verification to ensure that action is being taken and in case of any deviation immediately bring the same to the notice of the State Governments Union Territories concerned so that necessary action can be taken against the officials concerned.	None
This Court in Jai Prakash v. National Insurance Co. Ltd.	None
Ors (2010) 2 SCC 607 again noticed the aforesaid provisions and issued following directions to the police authorities The Director General of Police of each State is directed to instruct all police stations in his State to comply with the provisions of Section 158(6) of the Act.	None
For this purpose, the following steps will have to be taken by the Station House Officers of the jurisdictional police stations Accident information report (AIR, for short) in Form No. 54 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 shall be submitted by the police (Station House Officer) to the jurisdictional Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, within 30 days of the registration of the FIR.	None
In addition to the particulars required to be furnished in Form No. 54, the police should also collect and furnish the following additional particulars in the AIR to the Tribunal	None
The age of the victims at the time of accident The income of the victim The names and ages of the dependent family members.	None
The AIR shall be accompanied by the attested copies of the FIR, site sketch mahazar photographs of the place of occurrence, driving licence of the driver, insurance policy (and if necessary, fitness certificate) of the vehicle and postmortem report (in case of death) or the injury wound certificate (in case of injuries).	None
The names addresses of injured or dependent family members of the deceased should also be furnished to the Tribunal.	None
Simultaneously, a copy of the AIR with annexures thereto shall be furnished to the insurance company concerned to enable the insurer to process the claim.	None
The police shall notify the first date of hearing fixed by the Tribunal to the victim (injured) or the family of the victim (in case of death) and the driver, owner and insurer.	None
If so directed by the Tribunal, the police may secure their presence on the first date of hearing.	None
To avoid any administrative difficulties in immediate implementation of Section 158(6) of the Act, we permit such implementation to be carried out in three stages.	None
In the first stage, all police stations Claims Tribunals in the NCT region and the State capital regions shall implement the provisions by the end of April, 2010.	None
In the second stage, all the police stations Claims Tribunals in district headquarters regions shall implement the provisions by the end of August, 2010.	None
In the third stage, all the police stations Claims Tribunals shall implement the provisions by the end of December, 2010.	None
The Directors General shall ensure that necessary forms and infrastructural support is made available to give effect to Section 158(6) of the Act.	None
Section 196 of the Act provides that whoever drives a motor vehicle or causes or allows a motor vehicle to be driven in contravention of the provisions of Section 146 shall be punishable with imprisonment which may be extended to three months, or with a fine which may extend to Rs 1000, or with both.	None
Though the statute requires prosecution of the driver and owner of uninsured vehicles, this is seldom done.	None
Thereby a valuable deterrent is ignored.	None
We therefore direct the Directors General to issue instructions to prosecute drivers and owners of uninsured vehicles under Section 196 of the Act.	None
The Transport Department, Health Department and other departments concerned shall extend necessary cooperation to the Directors General to give effect to Section 158(6).	None
Further, directions were issued to the Claim Tribunals for compliance of mandatory provisions of Section 158(6) of the Act, 1988 which reads as under The Registrar General of each High Court is directed to instruct all Claims Tribunals in his State to register the reports of accidents received under Section 158(6) of the Act as applications for compensation under Section 166(4) of the Act and deal with them without waiting for the filing of claim applications by the injured or by the family of the deceased.	None
The Registrar General shall ensure that necessary registers, forms and other support is extended to the Tribunal to give effect to Section 166(4) of the Act.	None
For complying with Section 166(4) of the Act, the jurisdictional Motor Accidents Claims Tribunals shall initiate the following steps The Tribunal shall maintain an institution register for recording the AIRs which are received from the Station House Officers of the police stations and register them as miscellaneous petitions.	None
If any private claim petitions are directly filed with reference to an AIR, they should also be recorded in the register.	None
The Tribunal shall list the AIRs as miscellaneous petitions.	None
It shall fix a date for preliminary hearing so as to enable the police to notify such date to the victim (family of the victim in the event of death) and the owner, driver and insurer of the vehicle involved in the accident.	None
Once the claimant(s) appear, the miscellaneous application shall be converted to claim petition.	None
Where a claimant(s) file the claim petition even before the receipt of the AIR by the Tribunal, the AIR may be tagged to the claim petition.	None
The Tribunal shall enquire and satisfy itself that the AIR relates to a real accident and is not the result of any collusion and fabrication of an accident (by any police officeradvocatedoctor nexus, which has come to light in several cases).	None
The Tribunal shall by a summary enquiry ascertain the dependent family members legal heirs.	None
The jurisdictional police shall also enquire and submit the names of the dependent legal heirs.	None
The Tribunal shall categorise the claim cases registered, into those where the insurer disputes liability and those where the insurer does not dispute the liability.	None
Wherever the insurer does not dispute the liability under the policy, the Tribunal shall make an endeavour to determine the compensation amount by a summary enquiry or refer the matter to the Lok Adalat for settlement, so as to dispose of the claim petition itself, within a timeframe not exceeding six months from the date of registration of the claim petition.	None
The insurance companies shall be directed to deposit the admitted amount or the amount determined, with the Claims Tribunals within 30 days of determination.	None
The Tribunals should ensure that the compensation amount is kept in a fixed deposit and disbursed as per the directions contained in Kerala SRTC v. Susamma Thomas.	None
As the proceedings initiated in pursuance of Sections 158(6) and 166(4) of the Act are different in nature from an application by the victim(s) under Section 166(1) of the Act, Section 170 will not apply.	None
The insurers will therefore be entitled to assist the Tribunal (either independently or with the owners of the vehicles) to verify the correctness in regard to the accident, injuries, age, income and dependants of the deceased victim and in determining the quantum of compensation.	None
In view of the directions already issued by this Court, we find no reason to issue any further direction.	None
Applicability of Second Schedule in the present scenario By Act 54 of 1994, Section 163A Special Provisions as to payment of compensation on structured formula basis has been inserted with effect from 14.11.1994.	None
Section 163A envisages that notwithstanding any contained in the Act or in any other law or instrument having the force of law, the owner of the motor vehicle shall be liable to pay in the case of death or permanent disablement due to accident arising out the use of motor vehicle, compensation as indicated in the second schedule, to the legal heirs or the victim, as the case may be.	None
The purpose of Section 163A and the Second Schedule is to avoid longdrawn litigation and delay in payment of compensation to the victims or his heirs who are in dire need of relief.	None
Subsection(2) of Section 163A envisages that the claimant shall not be required to plead or establish that the death or permanent disablement in respect of which the claim has been made was due to any wrongful act or neglect or default of the owner of the vehicle or vehicles concerned or of any other person.	None
Subsection (3) of Section 163A envisages that the Central Government may, keeping in view the cost of living by notification in the Official Gazette, from time to time amend the second schedule, which is as follows (Ins. by Act 54 of 1994, Sec. 64 (w.e.f. 14111994).)	None
THE SECOND SCHEDULE (See section 163A) SCHEDULE FOR COMPENSATION FOR THIRD PARTY FATAL ACCIDENTS INJURY CASES CLAIMS.	None
Fatal Accidents Table Note	None
The amount of compensation so arrived at in the case of fatal accident claims shall be reduced by 1/3rd in consideration of the expenses which the victim would have incurred towards maintaining himself had he been alive.	None
Amount of compensation shall not be less than Rs.50,000.	None
General Damages (in case of death)	None
The following General Damages shall be payable in addition to compensation outlined above Funeral expenses Rs.2,000/ Loss of Consortium, if beneficiary is the spouse Rs.	None
5,000/ Loss of Estate Rs. 2,500/ Medical Expenses actual expenses incurred before death supported by bills vouchers but not exceeding Rs.15,000/ General Damages in case of injuries and Disabilities Pain and Sufferings Grievous injuries  Rs. 5,000/ Nongrievous injuries  Rs. 1,000/ Medical expenses actual expenses incurred supported by bills Vouchers but not exceeding as one time payment  Rs.	None
15,000/ Disability in nonfatal accidents The following compensation shall be payable in case of disability to the victim arising out of non fatal accidents  Loss of income, if any, for actual period of disablement not exceeding fifty two weeks.	None
PLUS either of the following  	None
In case of permanent total disablement the amount payable shall be arrived at by multiplying the annual loss of income by the Multiplier applicable to the age on the date of determining the compensation, or In case of permanent partial disablement such percentage of compensation which would have been payable in the case of permanent total disablement as specified under item (a) above.	None
Injuries deemed to result in Permanent Total Disablement Permanent Partial Disablement and percentage of loss of earning capacity shall be as per Schedule 1 under Workmens Compensation Act, 1923.	None
Notional income for compensation to those who had no income prior to accident Fatal and disability in nonfatal accidents Nonearning persons Rs.15,000 p.a.	None
Spouse Rs.1/3rd of income of the earning surviving spouse.	None
In case of other injuries only general damage as applicable.	None
Perusal of Second Schedule shows that the legal heirs of the deceased person having an annual income, minimum Rs.3,000/ and maximum Rs.40,000/ could only derive benefit under Section 163A of the Act, 1988.	None
Legal heirs of the deceased person whose income is more than Rs.40,000/ per annum i.e. approximately Rs.3,600/ per month cannot derive advantage of the Second Schedule.	None
The largest multiplier envisaged is 18 in the case of victim above 25 years of age but not exceeding 30 years.	None
The multiplier for the higher age is required to be relooked in view of increase in life expectancy.	None
A minimum amount of compensation of Rs.50,000/ was fixed under Second Schedule in the year 1994.	None
In addition, general damages in lieu of funeral expenses, loss of consortium (if beneficiary is the spouse), medical expenses, pain and suffering, grievous injuries, nongrievous injuries, etc. are also provided for.	None
But no revision was made to these amounts in these 19 years.	None
In view of nonamendment of Second Schedule for 19 years, the appellant has also questioned the validity of the existing Second Schedule.	None
Several anomalies exit in the Second Schedule and the said anomalies were first noticed as early as in the year 1996 in U.P. State Road Transport Corporation Ors.	None
v. Trilok Chandra Ors.	None
(1996) 4 SCC 362 wherein this Court held that the table in Second Schedule suffers from several defects and cannot be used as a ready recknor and observed as follows We must at once point out that the calculation of compensation and the amount worked out in the Schedule suffer from several defects.	None
For example, in Item 1 for a victim aged 15 years, the multiplier is shown to be 15 years and the multiplicand is shown to be Rs 3000.	None
The total should be 3000 1545,000 but the same is worked out at Rs 60,000.	None
Similarly, in the second item the multiplier is 16 and the annual income is Rs 9000 the total should have been Rs 1,44,000 but is shown to be Rs 1,71,000.	None
To put it briefly, the table abounds in such mistakes.	None
Neither the tribunals nor the courts can go by the ready reckoner.	None
It can only be used as a guide.	None
Besides, the selection of multiplier cannot in all cases be solely dependant on the age of the deceased.	None
For example, if the deceased, a bachelor, dies at the age of 45 and his dependants are his parents, age of the parents would also be relevant in the choice of the multiplier.	None
But these mistakes are limited to actual calculations only and not in respect of other items.	None
What we propose to emphasise is that the multiplier cannot exceed 18 years purchase factor.	None
This is the improvement over the earlier position that ordinarily it should not exceed 16.	None
We thought it necessary to state the correct legal position as courts and tribunals are using higher multiplier as in the present case where the Tribunal used the multiplier of 24 which the High Court raised to 34, thereby showing lack of awareness of the background of the multiplier system in Davies case.	None
Again this Court in Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hansrajbhai V. Kodala (2001) 5 SCC 175 held that there is a specific provision under Section 163A(3) of the Act, 1988 which require that the Central Government keeping in view the cost of living by notification in Official Gazette from time to time amend the Second Schedule and held In addition, the learned counsel also pointed out that in case of a fatal accident and disability in a nonfatal accident, it has been provided that notional income for the claimant who had no income prior to the accident shall be Rs 15,000 per annum and still, however the Second Schedule provides table of income ranging from Rs 3000 to Rs 40,000 and the breakup also does not provide any calculation for Rs 15,000, as the columns in the Schedule inter alia provide for compensation for a person having income of Rs 12,000, and thereafter straight away at Rs 18,000.	None
The learned counsel also submitted that despite the specific provision in Section 163A(3) that the Central Government may, keeping in view the cost of living, by notification in the Official Gazette from time to time amend the Schedule, nothing has been done so far.	None
Further, by order dated 3082000, this Court again noticed a number of anomalies in the Second Schedule and, therefore, thought it fit to have assistance of either the Attorney General of India or the Solicitor General of India.	None
When the matter was called out on 15122000, Mr Altaf Ahmed, ASG, stated before the Court that the order passed by this Court on 3082000 has already engaged serious attention of the Ministry of Surface Transport Department and the Government was considering the matter for bringing necessary correction in the Second Schedule of the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
Thereafter, we again sought assistance of the Additional Solicitor General on the interpretation of Section 163A and also to verify whether there are corrections in the Second Schedule.	None
Learned Additional Solicitor General stated that amendment might take some time.	None
In this view of the matter, we think it would be appropriate if the Central Government takes necessary action as early as possible under Section 163A(3).	None
In Deepal Girishbhai Soni (supra) this Court having regard to inflation and fall in rate of bank interest observed that it is desirable that the Central Government bestows serious consideration to amend the Second Schedule and made following observation Section 163A was introduced in the year 1994.	None
The executive authority of the Central Government has the requisite jurisdiction to amend the Second Schedule from time to time.	None
Having regard to the inflation and fall in the rate of bank interest, it is desirable that the Central Government bestows serious consideration to this aspect of the matter.	None
Discrepancies errors in the multiplier scale given in the Second Schedule were also noticed in the case of Sarla Verma.	None
Para 35 and 36 of the judgment in Sarla Verma is quoted hereunder There are however discrepancies errors in the multiplier scale given in the Second Schedule table.	None
It prescribes a lesser compensation for cases where a higher multiplier of 18 is applicable and a larger compensation with reference to cases where a lesser multiplier of 15, 16, or 17 is applicable.	None
From the quantum of compensation specified in the table, it is possible to infer that a clerical error has crept in the Schedule and the multiplier figures got wrongly typed as 15, 16, 17, 18, 17, 16, 15, 13, 11, 8, 5 and 5 instead of 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 12, 10, 8, 6 and 5.	None
Another noticeable incongruity is, having prescribed the notional minimum income of nonearning persons as Rs 15,000 per annum, the table prescribes the compensation payable even in cases where the annual income ranges between Rs 3000 and Rs 12,000.	None
This leads to an anomalous position in regard to applications under Section 163A of the MV Act, as the compensation will be higher in cases where the deceased was idle and not having any income, than in cases where the deceased was honestly earning an income ranging between Rs 3000 and Rs 12,000 per annum.	None
Be that as it may.	None
In spite of assurance by the Central Government to the Court, no change is brought in the Second Schedule keeping in view the cost of living.	None
The appellants have produced the copy of the report of the 6th Pay Commission to consider the trends in prices including natural inflation.	None
The same is quoted below Trends Prices 1.3.6 The General Wholesale price index (WPI) (52 weeks average) increased 1.6 times between 199596 to 200506 while the price index for manufactures increased by 1.4 in times and that of agriculture 1.6 times.	None
Between 199697 and 200001, the general inflation averaged 5.1 percent.	None
Acceleration in inflation post 2006 was caused by acceleration in inflation in primary commodities and continued high escalation in price of the commodities in fuel group due to hardening of global prices.	None
1.3.7 The Consumer Price Index (CPI) with Base 1982, increased from a level of 342 in 199697 to 579 in 200607.	None
Consumer Price Index CPI (IW) General Base 1982100 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 019969797989899992000200001200102200203200304200405200506200607 Mr. P.P. Malhotra, learned Amicus Curiae produced a table relating to Minimum Support Price for food grains according to crop year (Fair Average Quality).	None
Second Schedule of Act, 1988 came into effect from 14th November, 1994.	None
If the Minimum Support Price for food grains of the year 19941995 is compared with the Minimum Support Price for the year 20112012 the resulting figures come as follows Table 25 Minimum Support Price for Foodgrains According to Crop Year (Fair Average Quality)	None
(Rs. per quintal) 12345678 199495340280360670760760760 199596360300380700800800800 201011100088011202100300031702900 2011121080980320035003300 Percentage increase in price of food grains since 199192 has been shown as under PERCENTAGE INCREASE IN PRICE OF FOODGRAINS SINCE 199192 Table (Figures in Rupees per quintal) Minimum Support Price for nonfoodgrains according to crop year (Fair Average Quality) has been brought to our notice which is as follows Table 26 Minimum Support Price for NonFoodgrains According to Crop Year (Fair Average Quality)	None
Table Percentage increase in price of nonfoodgrains in the year 199192, 199293, 199495 and 201112 has been shown as under PERCENTAGE INCREASE IN PRICE OF NONFOODGRAINS SINCE 199192	None
Table	None
We are not comparing the average price of gold and silver in domestic and foreign markets as increased since 199495 till 201112.	None
The rates of minimum wages, annual income as per rates of minimum wages, dependency actual income 1/4th of annual income etc. has been shown in a chart, relevant portion of which is as follows ILLUSTRATION Compensation granted to the dependants (assuming to be his wife, mother and two children) of an unskilled aged under 25 years in the year 1990 Annual income as per rate of minimum wages Rs.9360 Annual dependency as in the year 1/4th of Rs.9360 Rs.7020 Compensation granted to the dependants based on the judgment Sarla Verma vs. DTC Annual dependency X Multiplier applicable in the age group 2025 years i.e. 18 Rs 7020 X 18 Rs.126360 STATE DELHI YearRate of minimum wagesAnnual income asper rate of minimum wagesBalance Compensation(Remaining compensation Dependency interest received)Dependency (annual income 1/4th of annual income)rate of interestInterest received 19907809360126360 (compensation granted)70201011934 1994140116812148371126091013576 19951520182401493381368011.6015736 2010527863336475027.50 20116443.66777324579939	None
The aforesaid charts have been prepared by learned Amicus Curiae.	None
Learned Amicus Curiae also produced a copy of the Family Welfare Statistics in India 2011 published by Statistics Division, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India.	None
Therein the expectation of life at birth has been shown at Table A.12 and the same is quoted below Table A.12 EXPECTATION OF LIFE AT BIRTH Census Year1 Male2Female3 190110 22.623.3 191120 19.420.9 192130 26.926.6 193140(a)32.131.4 194150 32.431.7 195160 41.940.6	None
196170 46.444.7 197075	None
50.549.0 197680(b)52.552.1 198185 55.455.7 198690 57.758.1 199196	None
60.661.7 199601(c)62.365.3 200105 63.866.1 200610	None
65.868.1 201115(d)67.369.6 201620 68.871.1 202125	None
69.872.3 Considering the current trend of inflation cost of food grains and all other items, Mr. P.P. Malhotra, Senior Advocate, Amicus Curiae submitted that for just compensation the multiplier should be enhanced to 2425 years.	None
Further, according to him, while calculating the compensation, the amount payable towards dependency should be increased as the life expectancy is upto 7075 years and secondly after 10 years of earning capacity it should be doubled in view of escalation of cost of living and progressive increase in the income.	None
Keeping in view the cost of living, the Central Government is required to amend the Second Schedule See Section 163A (3).	None
The Second Schedule was enacted by Act 54 of 1994 w.e.f. 14th	None
November, 1994.	None
Now more than 19 years have passed but no amendment has been made.	None
Cost of living has gone up many fold.	None
In view of finding recorded above, we hold that Second Schedule as was enacted in 1994 has now become redundant, irrational and unworkable, due to changed scenario including the present cost of living and current rate of inflation and increased life expectancy.	None
A letter dated 5th December, 2012 issued by the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport Highways, New Delhi has been brought to our notice by Mr. P.P. Malhotra.	None
Giving reference to the present case therein, the officer has informed that the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill, 2012, inter alia, to amend Section 163A of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 was passed by the Rajya Sabha on 8th May, 2012.	None
The said Bill proposes to substitute Section 163A(3) of the Act by empowering the Central Government to revise the amount or the multiplier specified in the Second Schedule after every three years and furthermore, the Bill also seeks to substitute the Second Schedule so as to provide that for death of nonearning persons, a fixed compensation of Rs.1,00,000 for children up to 5 years of age and Rs.1,50,000/ for persons more than 5 years of age.	None
It is informed that though the Bill has been passed by the Rajya Sabha and it is still pending consideration before the Lok Sabha for its approval.	None
The letter dated 5th December, 2012 reads as follows No. RT11021/19/2012MVL Dated December 5th, 2012 Sub Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.4639 of 2010 filed by Puttamma Ors.	None
v. K.L.	None
Narayana Reddy Anr.	None
before the Supreme Court of India.	None
Sir, Kindly refer to your D.O. letter No.117/Genl ASG(PPM)/2012 dated 29th November, 2012 regarding SLP(C)	None
No.4639 of 2010 titled as Puttamma Ors. v. K.L.	None
Narayana Reddy Anr.	None
before the Supreme Court of India.	None
In this connection, I am to inform that the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill, 2012, inter alia, to amend Section 163A of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, was passed by Rajya Sabha on 8.5.2012.	None
The said Bill proposes to substitute Section 163A(3) of the Act by the following section The Central Government keeping in view the cost of living and the rise in the price index, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, revise the amount or the multiplier specified in the Second Schedule after every three years.	None
2.1.	None
Furthermore, the Bill also seeks to substitute the Second Schedule so as to provide that for death of nonearning persons, a fixed compensation shall be payable as under Rs.1,00,000 for children up to 5 years of age ii) Rs.1,50,000/ for persons more than 5 years of age.	None
The minimum amount payable is sought to be revised to Rs.1,00,000.	None
2.2.	None
The following steps have been proposed for working out compensation The proven annual income of the victim is to be worked out Appropriate multiplier (higher of the multiplier based on the age of the victim and the age of the surviving dependent parents spouse children) to be applied Multiply the proven annual income by the appropriate multiplier to arrive at compensation amount, subject to following, namely The amount of compensation payable for Permanent Total Disablement as defined in Schedule 1 of the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of 1923) shall be determined by application of appropriate multiplier to proved income, subject to maximum of Rs.10 lakhs.	None
ii)	None
The amount of compensation so arrived shall be reduced by 1/3rd in respect of fatal accidents (reduction of 1/3rd represents living expenses for deceased person, had he been alive) 2.4	None
The Bill is presently pending in Lok Sabha.	None
You are requested to place the above facts before the Honble Supreme Court of India.	None
Further development in this matter may please be intimated to this Ministry.	None
Yours sincerely, (Sanjay Bandopadhyaya) ShriP.P.	None
Malhotra, Additional Solicitor General of India, Supreme Court of India, 57 Lodhi Estate, New Delhi 110003.	None
From the proposed Bill we find that there is a proposal to change the multiplier applicable for different age groups it does not contemplate schedule structure of compensation.	None
The factors to be considered for working out compensation are (a) age of the victim (b) multiplier (c) annual income up to Rs.1,00,000/ (the maximum annual income for calculation of compensation will be deemed to be Rs.1,00,000/even if the income exceeds Rs.1,00,000/).	None
Separate provisions have been made for grievous injury and nongrievous injury etc.	None
The Central Government was bestowed with duties to amend the Second Schedule in view of Section 163A(3), but it failed to do so for 19 years in spite of repeated observations of this Court.	None
For the reasons recorded above, we deem it proper to issue specific direction to the Central Government through the Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport Highways to make the proper amendments to the Second Schedule table keeping in view the present cost of living, subject to amendment of Second Schedule as proposed or may be made by the Parliament.	None
Accordingly, we direct the Central Government to do so immediately.	None
Till such amendment is made by the Central Government in exercise of power vested under subsection (3) of Section 163A of Act, 1988 or amendment is made by the Parliament, we hold and direct that for children upto the age of 5 years shall be entitled for fixed compensation of Rs.1,00,000/(rupees one lakh) and persons more than 5 years of age shall be entitled for fixed compensation of Rs.1,50,000/ (rupees one lakh and fifty thousand) or the amount may be determined in terms of Second Schedule whichever is higher.	None
Such amount is to be paid if any application is filed under Section 163A of the Act, 1988.	None
Grant of Interest Section 171 of the Act, 1988 deals with the award of interest where any claim is allowed, it reads as follows Award of interest where any claim is allowed.	None
Where any Claims Tribunal allows a claim for compensation made under this Act, such Tribunal may direct that in addition to the amount of compensation simple interest shall also be paid at such rate and from such date not earlier than the date of making the claim as it may specify in this behalf.	None
Under the said provision no rate of interest has been fixed and its duty is bestowed upon the Tribunal to fix the rate of interest.	None
The rate of interest provided and granted under different Acts is as under The Section 4 (A) (3) of the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 provides payment of interest 12 per annum or at such higher rate not exceeding the maximum of the lending rate of the scheduled banks for the delayed payment of compensation.	None
The Consumer Protection Act even though provides no provision for grant of interest, this Court has granted interest by invoking Section 3 of the Interest Act and Section 34 of the CPC and has awarded interest 12 to 18 for delayed payment.	None
The Land Acquisition Act provides for the interest for delayed payment 9 for the first year and 15 for the rest of the years.	None
The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 provides for interest 18 per annum under Section 31(7) of the Act.	None
This Court in Kaushnuma Begum v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
(2001) 2 SCC 9 noticed that the Nationalized Banks are granting interest 9 on fixed deposit for one year and held as follows Now, we have to fix up the rate of interest.	None
Section 171 of the MV Act empowers the Tribunal to direct that in addition to the amount of compensation simple interest shall also be paid at such rate and from such date not earlier than the date of making the claim as may be specified in this behalf.	None
Earlier, 12 was found to be the reasonable rate of simple interest.	None
With a change in economy and the policy of Reserve Bank of India the interest rate has been lowered.	None
The nationalised banks are now granting interest at the rate of 9 on fixed deposits for one year.	None
We, therefore, direct that the compensation amount fixed hereinbefore shall bear interest at the rate of 9 per annum from the date of the claim made by the appellants.	None
The amount of Rs 50,000 paid by the Insurance Company under Section 140 shall be deducted from the principal amount as on the date of its payment, and interest would be recalculated on the balance amount of the principal sum from such date.	None
This Court in Abati Bezbaruah v. Deputy Director General, Geological Survey of India Anr.	None
(2003) 3 SCC 148 noticed that varying rate of interest is being awarded by the Tribunals, High Courts and this Court.	None
In the said case, this Court held that the rate of interest must be just and reasonable depending on the facts and circumstances of the case and should be decided after taking into consideration relevant factors like inflation, change in economy, policy being adopted by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time, how long the case is pending, loss of enjoyment of life etc.	None
In Supe Dei v. National Insurance Co. Ltd.	None
Anr.	None
(2009) 4 SCC 513 this Court held that proper interest would be 9 per annum.	None
In view of the aforesaid provisions of the Act, 1988 (Section 171) and the observation of this Court, as noticed above, we keep this question open for Tribunals and Courts to decide the rate of interest after taking into consideration the rate of interest allowed by this Court in similar case and other factors such as inflation, change in economy, policy adopted by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time and the period since when the case is pending.	None
Present Case In the present case, the following fact emerges The deceased was drawing gross salary of Rs. 13,331/ per month and he was paying a sum of Rs.789/ per month towards income tax and an amount of Rs. 100/ per month towards professional tax.	None
Thus he was paying total amount of Rs.889/ per month towards tax and if that amount is deducted from the gross income of the deceased it comes to Rs.12,442/ per month.	None
The deceased was 48 years old at the time of death.	None
He would have continued in service for another 12 years and he would have been entitled for pension.	None
Therefore, if increase in the future income is taken at 50 it will come to Rs.18,663/ (Rs.12,442/ Rs. 6221).	None
As per decision in Sarla Verma the deduction towards personal and living expenses of the deceased should be onethird (1/3rd) where the number of dependent family members is 2 to 3 onefourth (1/4th) where the number of dependent family members is 4 to 6 and onefifth (1/5th) where the number of dependent family members exceeds 6.	None
In the present case, there are four dependent family members.	None
Therefore, the deduction towards personal and living expenses of the deceased should be 1/4th.	None
If 1/4th amount is deducted from the income of the deceased it will come to Rs.13,998/ (Rs. 12,442/	None
Rs. 6,221 Rs. 4665).	None
At the time of accident, the deceased was 48 years old, hence on the basis of decision in Sarla Verma multiplier of 13 will be applicable.	None
In that case the claimants should be entitled to get the following benefits Amount of compensation with 12 months salary and 13 as multiplier (13,998/ x 12 x13)  	None
Rs.	None
21,83,688/ Compensation to the family members (children and family members other than wife) for loss of love and affection, deprivation of protection, social security etc.  	None
Rs. 1,00,000/ Compensation to the widow of the deceased for loss of love and affection, pains and sufferings, loss of consortium, deprivation of protection, social security etc.  	None
Rs.	None
50,000/	None
Cost incurred on account of funeral and ritual expenses  Rs. 10,000/ Total Compensation Rs.23,43,688/	None
In the appeal which was filed by the claimants before the High Court, the High Court instead of deciding the just compensation allowed meager enhancement of compensation.	Reasoning
In doing so, the High Court introduced the concept of split multiplier and departed from the multiplier system generally used in light of the decision in Sarla Verma (supra) case without disclosing any reason.	Reasoning
The High Court has also not considered the question of prospect of future increase in salary of the deceased though it noticed that the deceased would have continued in pensionable services for more than 10 years.	Reasoning
When the age of the deceased was 48 years at the time of death it wrongly applied multiplier of 10 and not 13 as per decision in Sarla Verma.	Reasoning
Thus, we fail to appreciate as to why the High Court chose to apply split multiplier and applied multiplier of 10.	Reasoning
We, thus, find that the judgment of the High Court is perverse and contrary to the evidence on record and is fit to be set aside for having not considered the future prospects of the deceased and also for adopting split multiplier method against the law laid down by this Court.	Reasoning
In view of our aforesaid finding, we hold that the judgment of the High Court deserves to be set aside.	Reasoning
We, accordingly, set aside the impugned judgment and hold that the claimants are entitled for total compensation of Rs.23,43,688/. They shall also get interest on the enhanced compensation at the rate of 12 per annum from the date of filing of the complaint petition.	Reasoning
Respondent No.2Insurance Company is directed to pay enhanced additional compensation and interest to the claimants within a period of three months by getting prepared a demand draft in their name.	Reasoning
The Insurance Company is directed to submit its compliance report in the Registry of the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore the Registry shall place the same before an appropriate Bench for perusal.	Decision
If the Bench finds that the Insurance Company has failed to comply with the directions contained in this judgment, it will be open to the Bench to initiate action against the officers of the Company.	Decision
The appeal is allowed with aforesaid observations and directions.	Decision
