 SUJATA V. MANOHAR, J. CAs Nos. 470812, 47184727 of 1989 The Karnataka Excise Act, 1965 provides for the levy of duties on the manufacture, transport, purchase and sale, import and export of liquor and intoxicants.	Facts
In exercise of the rulemaking power conferred on the State under the Karnataka Excise Act, 1965 various rules have been framed by the State of Karnataka.	Facts
We are concerned in these matters with the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968, the Karnataka Excise (Brewery) Rules, 1967, the Karnataka Excise (Distillery and Warehouse) Rules, 1967 and the Karnataka Excise (Manufacture of Wine from Grapes) Rules, 1968 as amended on 1391989 by notifications issued by the State of Karnataka By reason of the amendments carried out in these Rules, a distributor licence is prescribed for the first time under Rule 3(11) of the amended Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968.	Facts
Under Rule 3(11) a distributor licence shall be granted by the Excise Commissioner for the whole of the State or any part thereof to deal in the products of all distilleries, breweries or wineries in the State or to import liquor from outside the State for the purpose of distribution or sale within the State or any part of it, as may be specified in the licence.	Facts
The licensee is required to establish not less than one depot in each district within the State or within that part of the State where it proposes to distribute or sell such liquor.	Facts
What is more important for our purpose, the rule provides that a distributor licence shall be issued only to such company owned or controlled by the State Government as the State Government may specify.	Facts
The other rules mentioned above have also been correspondingly amended to provide that the licensees under those Rules shall sell the liquor only to a holder of a distributor licence under the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968, subject to certain exceptions specified in each of these Rules.	Facts
In other words, as a result of these amendments, a licensee either for manufacture or sale of liquor is prohibited from selling liquor to anyone other than the holder of a distributor licence.	Facts
And the holder of such a licence can only be a company owned or controlled by the State Government, specified under the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968.	Facts
The State Government has specified Mysore Sales International Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as MSIL) as a company so specified and has granted it the distributor licence	Facts
The appellants challenged the validity of these amendments on various grounds.	Facts
The challenge was repelled by the Karnataka High Court.	Facts
Hence the present appeals and other matters have come before us.	Facts
One of the main contentions raised by the appellants was By compelling the appellants to sell liquor to MSIL and prohibiting them from selling liquor to anyone else, the State Government had violated their fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution to carry on trade or business.	Facts
They further contended that the restrictions placed by these amendments on their right to carry on trade were far from reasonable This issue relating to violation of the fundamental rights of the appellants under Article 19(1)(g) has already been negatived by this Court in the present cases in Khoday Distilleries Ltd. v. State of Karnataka 1995 (1) SCC 574 .	None
It has been held (para 60) that the right to carry on any occupation, trade or business does not extend to carrying on trade or business in activities which are inherently pernicious or injurious to health, safety and welfare of the general public.	Facts
This Court has further held that a citizen has no fundamental right to do trade or business in intoxicating liquor.	Facts
Hence such trade or business in liquor can be completely prohibited.	Facts
For the same reason, the State can create a monopoly either in itself or in the agency created by it, for the manufacture, possession, sale and distribution of liquor as a beverage and it can also sell licences to citizens for this purpose by charging fees.	Facts
When the State permits trade or business in potable liquor with or without limitation, the citizen has the right to carry on trade or business only subject to the limitations so placed.	Facts
After thus deciding the above question, the appeals, special leave petitions and writ petitions were directed to be placed before an appropriate Bench for decision of other questions arising in these matters Accordingly, these matters have been placed before us.	Facts
The appellants contend that the Rules as amended in 1989 are ultra vires because they go beyond the scope of the delegated authority given to the State to formulate Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants have contended that there is no legislative policy prescribed by the Karnataka Excise Act of 1965 for a distributor licence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence the Rules prescribing a distributor licence have travelled beyond the scope of the main Act and are beyond the ambit of the delegated authority In order to evaluate this contention, it is necessary to look at the scheme of the Karnataka Excise Act, 1965.	None
The Preamble to the Karnataka Excise Act, 1965 states, Whereas it is expedient to provide for a uniform law relating to the production, manufacture, possession, import, export, transport, purchase and sale of liquor and intoxicating drugs and the levy of duties of excise thereon in the State of Karnataka, the Karnataka Excise Act has been enacted.	Facts
The Preamble has a clear reference to Entry 8, List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which empowers the States to legislate in connection with intoxicating liquors, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors.	None
Chapter IV of the Act deals with manufacture, possession and sale of intoxicating liquors.	None
Section 13 which forms a part of Chapter IV prohibits manufacture, possession or sale of the excisable article in question except under a licence.	None
It provides 13.	None
(1) No person shall  (a)(c) (d) construct or work a distillery or brewery or (e) bottle liquor for sale (f) , except under the authority and subject to the terms and conditions of a licence granted by the Deputy Commissioner in that behalf or under the provisions of Section 18.	None
Section 15(1) provides that no intoxicant shall be sold except under the authority and subject to the terms and conditions of a licence granted in that behalf.	None
Both these sections, therefore, provide for issuing a licence for the manufacture, possession, purchase or sale of liquor.	None
In fact such activity is prohibited without a licence.	None
The terms and conditions of the licence may be such as may be prescribed.	None
Section 17 deals with the power to grant a lease of the right to manufacturer etc.	None
SubSection (1) of Section 17 provides as follows 17.	None
(1) The State Government may lease to any person, on such conditions and for such period as it may think fit, the exclusive or other right  (a) of manufacturing or supplying by wholesale or of both or (b) of selling by wholesale or by retail, or (c) of manufacturing or supplying by wholesale, or of both and of selling by retail, any Indian liquor or intoxicating drug within any specified area.	None
Section 71 provides as follows 71.	None
(1) The State Government may, by notification and after previous publication, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the State Government may make rules  (a) (b) omitted (c) (d) regulating the import, export, transport, manufacture, cultivation collection, possession, supply or storage of any intoxicant (e) regulating the periods and localities in which, and the persons or classes of persons to whom, licences for the wholesale or retail sale of any intoxicant may be granted and regulating the number of such licences which may be granted in any local area (f)(g) (h) prescribing the authority by which, the form in which and the terms and conditions on and subject to which any licence or permit shall be granted, and may, by such rules, among other matters, (i) fix the period for which any licence or permit shall continue in force to (vi) to (m) (n) any other matter that may be prescribed under this Act.	None
Subsection (3) of Section 71 provides that every rule made under this Act shall have effect as if enacted in this Act subject to such modifications as may be made under subsection (4).	None
Subsection (4) requires every rule to be laid as soon as may be before each House of the State Legislature for a total period of 30 days in the manner prescribed there.	None
Section 71, therefore, clearly contemplates rules being made prescribing different kinds of licences which may regulate the activity of manufacture and sale of intoxicants and the terms and conditions subject to which such licences may be issued.	None
It also contemplates regulation of the number of such licences.	None
The Act does not specify the kinds of licences which may be issued.	None
This is left to the rulemaking authority.	None
Thus different kinds of licences are specified under the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968.	None
Rule 3 of the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968 deals with licences for the vend of Indian liquor (other than arrack) or foreign liquor of both.	None
It deals with licences of all types.	None
Subrule (1) deals with wholesale licences for vend of Indian liquor or foreign liquor or both.	None
Subrule (2) deals with retail of shop licence for vend of Indian liquor or foreign liquor or both.	None
Subrule (4) deals with licences to clubs.	None
Subrule (5) deals with occasional licences.	None
Subrule (6) deals with special licences.	None
Subrule (7) deals with hotel and boardinghouse licences and so on.	None
Subrule (11) which is introduced by the amendment deals with distributor licences.	None
All kinds of licences, therefore, which regulate the activity of manufacture, distribution and sale of liquor are covered by Rule 3 of the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968 Is a distributor licence something different from or alien to the licences contemplated under the Act and prescribed under the above Rule 3 ?	Reasoning
We do not think so.	Reasoning
A distributor licence is basically not different from the licences so prescribed.	Reasoning
In fact the licences cover the whole gamut of activities from manufacture to consumption of liquor.	Reasoning
Clause (11) of the amended Rule 3 of the Karnataka Excise (Sale of Indian and Foreign Liquors) Rules, 1968 which prescribes a distributor licence refers to it as a licence to deal in the products of all distilleries or breweries or wineries in the State, or a licence to import liquor from outside the State for the purpose of distribution or sale within the State or to export liquor outside the State.	Reasoning
This is clearly a licence to deal in liquor in the above manner.	Reasoning
The licence shall be in Form CL 11 and shall be subject to renewal each year at the discretion of the Excise Commissioner.	Reasoning
The Form CL 11 prescribes the conditions of a distributor licence.	Reasoning
Conditions 2, 3 and 6 are The licensee may purchase the liquor only from distilleries breweries wineries located within Karnataka or import from outside the State The licensee shall sell the liquor only to a person who is holding CL 1 licence in the State or export liquor to a person outside the State, who is holding a valid licence to deal in liquor The licensee shall sell only the approved brands of liquor.	Reasoning
A distributor licence, therefore, is only a licence to deal in liquor by sale and purchase of liquor.	Reasoning
This activity is not something different from what is contemplated under the Act itself or in respect of which the rulemaking authority has been delegated to the State under Section 71.	Reasoning
The mere fact that a monopoly of distributor licence is sought to be created, does not take the licence outside the ambit of the Act.	Reasoning
The Act itself provides that the number of licences can be regulated by the State.	Reasoning
If the State chooses to regulate licences by providing that the licence shall be granted only to a company owned by the State, it cannot be said that such a licence is something which is outside the purview of the Act or the rulemaking authority of the State under the Act The appellants also contend that the amended Rules are beyond the legislative competence of the State.	Reasoning
This argument may be rejected.	None
The Act is clearly within the legislative competence of the State Legislature.	None
Nobody has challenged it.	Reasoning
The amended Rules are within the scope of the delegated authority under Section 71.	Reasoning
If the main Act is within the legislative competence of the State Legislature and the Rules have been framed under a validly delegated authority and are within the scope of that authority, we fail to see how the Rules can be challenged on the ground of lack of legislative competence.	Reasoning
If the Act is valid, so are the Rules It is next submitted before us that the amended Rules are arbitrary, unreasonable and cause undue hardship and, therefore, violate Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Although the protection of Article 19(1)(g) may not be available to the appellants, the rules must, undoubtedly, satisfy the test of Article 14, which is a guarantee against arbitrary action.	Reasoning
However, one must bear in mind that what is being challenged here under Article 14 is not executive action but delegated legislation.	Reasoning
The tests of arbitrary action which apply to executive actions do not necessarily apply to delegated legislation.	Reasoning
In order that delegated legislation can be struck down, such legislation must be manifestly arbitrary a law which could not be reasonably expected to emanate from an authority delegated with the lawmaking power.	Reasoning
In the case of Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India 1985 (1) SCC 641 1985 SCC(Tax) 121 1985 (2) SCR 287 (SCR at p. 243) this Court said that a piece of subordinate legislation does not carry the same degree of immunity which is enjoyed by a statute passed by a competent legislature.	Reasoning
A subordinate legislation may be questioned under Article 14 on the ground that it is unreasonable unreasonable not in the sense of not being reasonable, but in the sense that it is manifestly arbitrary.	Reasoning
Drawing a comparison between the law in England and in India, the Court further observed that in England the Judges would say, Parliament never intended the authority to make such Rules they are unreasonable and ultra vires.	Reasoning
In India, arbitrariness is not a separate ground since it will come within the embargo of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
But subordinate legislation must be so arbitrary that it could not be said to be in conformity with the statute or that it offends Article 14 of the Constitution In this connection, we would also like to refer to a decision of this Court in the State M.P. v. Nandlal Jaiswal 1986 (4) SCC 566 1987 (1) SCR 1 (SCR at p. 53).	None
This Court has held that though there is no fundamental right in a citizen to carry on trade or business in liquor and the State under its regulatory power has the power to prohibit absolutely every form of activity in relation to intoxicants such as its manufacture, storage, export, import, sale and possession nevertheless when the State decides to grant such right or privilege to others, the State cannot escape the rigour of Article 14.	Reasoning
The Court, however, observed But while considering the applicability of Article 14 in such a case we must bear in mind that having regard to the nature of the trade or business the Court would be slow to interfere with the policy laid down by the State Government for grant of licences for manufacture and sale of liquor.	None
The Court would, in view of the inherently pernicious nature of the commodity allow a large measure of latitude to the State Government in determining its policy of regulating manufacture and trade in liquor.	None
Moreover, the grant of licences for manufacture and sale of liquor would essentially be a matter of economic policy where the Court would hesitate to intervene and strike down what the State Government has done unless it appears to be plainly arbitrary, irrational or mala fide.	None
In the present case, therefore, we must examine whether there is any manifest arbitrariness in prescribing a distributor licence which can be granted only to a company owned by the State and in compelling the appellants to sell their product to the distributor.	Reasoning
The appellants have pointed out that the amendments must be considered as arbitrary because they cause undue hardship to all those who are concerned with the manufacture and sale of liquor.	Reasoning
They point out that although the manufacturers are obliged to sell their commodity to the MSIL, there is no corresponding obligation cast on the MSIL to buy the liquor manufactured by the manufacturers in the State of Karnataka.	Reasoning
In the absence of such an obligation on the MSIL to buy the liquor, it can well happen that MSIL may act arbitrarily or capriciously and may purchase or not purchase liquor from the manufacturers at its own sweet will.	Reasoning
This would seriously affect the business of all those engaged in the manufacture and sale of liquor.	Reasoning
This apprehension does not appear to be justified.	Reasoning
In the Statement of Objections on behalf of the State Excise Commissioner which were filed before the High Court of Karnataka, the respondents have explained in para 16 that it is not correct to state that the government company is at liberty to purchase or not to purchase the liquor produced by the petitioners.	Reasoning
It is bound to purchase the liquor if there is demand from the wholesalers.	Reasoning
Even otherwise it has been submitted that proper guidelines will be issued to the government company in this behalf.	Reasoning
The government company is expected to act bona fide and with responsibility and it is not correct to contend that the government agency will be interested only in a particular manufacturer.	Reasoning
This submission has considerable force.	Reasoning
What is more important, during the period that these appeals were pending before us, MSIL has not merely established several depots but has carried on distribution of liquor in the State of Karnataka on a large scale.	Reasoning
The learned counsel appearing for the respondents have stated before us that MSIL receives orders for supply from various purchasers.	Reasoning
These orders specify the brand of liquor and the company from which the supplies are required.	Reasoning
Accordingly MSIL places orders with the companies concerned for the brands of liquor which are demanded by their purchasers.	Reasoning
It is on the basis of these demand requisitions received by MSIL that MSIL places orders.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no question of any hardship being caused to the appellants by reason of the fact that their sales have to be channelled through an intermediary.	Reasoning
Depending upon the orders received by the MSIL, it in turn, places orders with the suppliers or manufacturers concerned.	Reasoning
The business activity of the appellants cannot, therefore, be said to be curtailed in any manner.	Reasoning
Nor can there be any hardship on the appellants.	Reasoning
Once the Rules oblige the manufacturers to supply their product only to the company holding the distributor licence, a corresponding duty is cast on the distributor to place orders with the suppliers concerned whenever demand for a particular product is received by it Looking to the channelising role of MSIL, the fear of discrimination between different suppliers expressed by the appellants does not appear to be justified.	None
In the case of Maganlal Chhaganlal (P) Ltd. v. Municipal Corpn. of Greater Bombay 1974 (2) SCC 402 1975 (1) SCR 1 (SCR at p. 23)	None
this Court has observed that it is not every fancied possibility of discrimination but the real risk of discrimination that we must take into account.	None
The same view was reiterated in Director of Industries v. Deep Chand Agarwal 1980 (2) SCC 332 1980 (2) SCR 1015 (SCR at pp. 102122).	None
Also, if there is discrimination in actual practice, this Court is not powerless The second ground of hardship which is pointed out relates to excise duty.	None
Under the Karnataka Excise (Excise Duties and Privileges Fee) Rules, 1968 a rebate in excise duty is given in respect of liquor which is either exported outside India or is exported to another State within India.	Reasoning
This makes the liquor sold outside the State or exported considerably cheaper since it bears less incidence of excise duty.	Reasoning
Under the present scheme, however, all these sales are converted into local sales because the sale must be made to MSIL who, in turn, will either export it, if it has received an export order, or will export it to a place within India but outside the State.	Reasoning
In both these cases, since the first sale will be within the State to MSIL, a substantial rebate in excise will be lost and the goods manufactured by the appellants will become far more expensive and, therefore, will become much less competitive in the outside market.	Reasoning
There is a similar provision relating to rebate in sales tax which also the appellants will lose.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that this will cause some hardship to the appellants.	Reasoning
The fact, however, remains that any concession which is granted by the State for export sales or interState sales is a matter of policy.	Reasoning
Granting of such concession or absence of such concession cannot make the rule itself manifestly arbitrary or unreasonable.	Reasoning
If the appellants are aggrieved by the existing Rules or would like a similar concession to be extended to sales which are to be made to MSIL in respect of export orders or orders for supply outside the State received by it, it is open to them to make a suitable representation to the State Government.	Reasoning
The absence of availability of such a concession, however, cannot make the Rules arbitrary or violative of Article 14.	Reasoning
All manufacturers and suppliers within the State of Karnataka are governed by the same Rules and will, therefore, have to pay the same taxes.	Reasoning
All persons who are similarly situated are similarly affected by the amended Rules.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no discrimination under Article 14 in its traditional sense The appellants have placed reliance upon the observations of this Court in Doongaji Co. (I) v. State of M.P. 1991 (2) Supp(SCC) 313 (SCC at p. 220) to the effect that there is no fundamental right in a citizen to carry on trade or business in liquor.	Reasoning
However, when the State has decided to part with such right or privilege to others, then the State can regulate the business consistent with the principles of equality enshrined under Article 14 and any infraction in this behalf at its pleasure is arbitrary as violating Article 14.	None
Therefore, the exclusive right or privilege of manufacture, storage, sale, import and export of liquor through any agency other than the State would be subject to the rigours of Article 14.	Reasoning
We respectfully agree with these observations.	Reasoning
In the present case, however, there is no violation of Article 14	None
It was also submitted before us that the Rules must be considered manifestly arbitrary because the avowed purpose of formulating the amended Rules is to stop evasion of excise.	None
In the counterstatement filed by the Government of Karnataka before the High Court of Karnataka it has set out the object of the amendment.	None
The affidavit states The impugned Rules have been made with the sole object of preventing leakage of excise revenue and, therefore, they are reasonable restrictions within the meaning of Article 19(6).	None
It is submitted before us that such evasion could have been checked by other means which would have been more beneficial to or less hard on the appellants.	None
How such evasion is to be checked, however, is a matter of policy.	None
So long as the policy as formulated in the amended Rules is not manifestly arbitrary or wholly unreasonable, it cannot be considered as violative of Article 14.	Reasoning
There is, in the present case, no selfevident disproportionality between the object to be achieved and the Rules which have been framed It was lastly submitted that MSIL ought not to have been nominated for a distributor licence because it is not competent to discharge its obligations and does not have the necessary infrastructure.	Arguments of Respondent
This plea was raised before the Karnataka High Court at a time when MSIL had not started functioning.	None
It is now a fully functional authority.	Reasoning
MSIL has stated that it has a large number of depots in various districts of the State and is already handling very substantial business.	Reasoning
This plea, therefore, merits no further consideration.	Reasoning
In any event, some problems with the discharge of its duties by MSIL will not render the amended Rules providing for a distributor licence arbitrary or violative of Article 14	None
In the premises, these appeals have no merit and they are dismissed with costs.	Decision
Under the interim orders, the appellants are liable to pay compensation to MSIL if they lose in the appeals.	Decision
This is in view of the commission which is prescribed under the Rules which is to be paid to MSIL.	Decision
The appellants were also directed to keep separate accounts of their dealings and supply a copy of the same, inter alia, to MSIL.	Decision
Some of the appellants have accordingly supplied statements of account to MSIL.	Decision
Those who have not supplied such statements are directed to supply the same to MSIL within eight weeks from today.	Decision
The appellants are directed to pay to MSIL the requisite commission amount on the basis of the dealings conducted by them with twelve weeks from today.	Decision
WPs	Decision
Nos. 666, 667, 693, 694, 707 and 910 of 1990 For the same reasons, the writ petitions are also dismissed with the above directions SLPs (C) Nos. 1381713828 of 1993	Decision
These petitions are for leave to appeal against a judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court upholding the validity of the amendments made to subrule (2) of Rule 4 and subrule (2) of Rule 11 of the Andhra Pradesh (Foreign Liquor and Indian Liquor) Rules, 1970 as also subrule (12) of Rule 66 of the Andhra Pradesh Distillery Rules, 1970 and Rule 34(2) of the Andhra Pradesh Brewery Rules, 1970.	Facts
These Rules have been framed under the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act of 1968 in exercise of powers conferred by Section 72 of the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act of 1968.	Facts
They were amended by GOMs No. 187	Facts
Revenue Excise III(2) dated 1831991.	Facts
These amendments were challenged before the Andhra Pradesh High Court on the ground that they violated the petitioners rights under Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India.	Facts
These challenges have been negatived by the Andhra Pradesh High Court except for the retrospective operation of the amended Rules.	Facts
The present petitions are for leave to appeal against this judgment and order of the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	Facts
As a result of these amendments, the fee for the approval of any one variety of labels to be affixed on bottles of liquor is either enhanced from Rs 100 to Rs 25, 000 or fee of Rs 25, 000 for approval of labels is introduced for the first time.	Facts
The approval has to be obtained every year.	Facts
These amendments were challenged as violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution As common questions of law arise, these petitions have been heard along with the petitions and appeals challenging amendments to various rules under the Karnataka Excise Act.	None
On the question of violation of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution this Court has already held in these very matters (Khoday Distilleries Ltd. v. State of Karnataka 1995 (1) SCC 574 that the amended Rules do not violate Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	None
The only challenge, therefore, which survives is the challenge under Article 14.	None
The petitioners contend that the approval fee for labels has been suddenly enhanced from Rs 100 to Rs 25, 000 by virtue of the amendments.	None
In some cases such a fee has been introduced for the first time.	Arguments of Petitioner
These amendments are highly arbitrary and, therefore, violate Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act, 1968 does not contemplate any fee of this kind Now, Section 21(3) of the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act provides that different rates may be specified for different kinds of excisable articles and different modes of levying duties under Section 22 may be prescribed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 22 prescribes different modes of levying excise duty and countervailing duty under Section 21.	None
Clause (d) of Section 22 provides for imposition of fees or requirement of licences for manufacture, supply or sale of any excisable article.	None
Section 72 deals with the power to make rules.	None
Under Section 72(2)(g) and Section 72(2)(h)(ii) it is provided as follows 72.	None
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Government may make rules  (g) regulating the time, place and manner of payment of any duty or fee and the taking of security for the due payment of any duty or fee (h) prescribing the authority by which, the form in which and the terms and conditions on and subject to which any licence or permit shall be granted or issued and may, by rules, among other matters (ii) prescribe the scale of fees, or the manner of fixing the fees payable in respect of any lease, licence or permit, or the storing of any excisable article.	None
Thus the State Government is authorised to levy fees for various kinds of permits or licences which may be required for activities connected with the manufacture, supply or sale of liquor.	None
Labelling of liquor bottles with brand labels is an essential activity connected with the sale and distribution of different varieties of liquor manufactured in the State by different manufacturers or imported into or exported outside the State.	Reasoning
Different varieties of liquor produced by various manufacturers are thus identified for purchase or sale.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, permissible for the State Government under the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act, 1968 to levy fees for approval of different varieties of labels to be affixed to liquor bottles for the purpose of distribution and sale of liquor.	Reasoning
The amendments are within the rulemaking power of the State Government.	Reasoning
In fact prior to these amendments, a fee of Rs 100 was being charged for approval of labels.	Reasoning
It is nobodys case that the fee was beyond the rulemaking power under Section 72 of the Act It is also contended that the fee of Rs 25, 000 for the approval of any one variety of labels is exorbitant and totally disproportionate to the work involved.	None
Therefore, such levy violates Article 14.	Reasoning
But, in this connection, it is necessary to bear in mind that the State under its regulatory powers has the right even to prohibit absolutely every form of activity in relation to intoxicants, its manufactures, storage, export, import, sale or possession.	Reasoning
In all these respects the right to regulate these activities or to carry on these activities vests in the State.	Reasoning
When, therefore, such rights and parted with, it is open to the State to part with such rights for a consideration.	Reasoning
The fee for approval of labels is an aspect of the right to sell or distribute liquor which right the State Government has parted with for consideration in the form of a fee.	Reasoning
The increase in the fee from Rs 100 to Rs 25, 000 may appear, at first glance, to be exorbitant.	Reasoning
But it constitutes an extremely small percentage of the total turnover of various products to which these labels are affixed.	Reasoning
The fee for approval cannot, therefore, be considered as exorbitant or its imposition wholly arbitrary.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the petitioners that their trade in liquor is seriously affected by the levy of this increased fee.	Reasoning
In the case of Har Shankar v. Dy.	Reasoning
Excise Taxation Commr.	Reasoning
1975 (1) SCC 737 1975 (3) SCR 254 (SCR at p. 278) this Court upheld the right of the State to prohibit absolutely all forms of activities in relation to intoxicants.	Reasoning
It said that the wider right to prohibit absolutely would include the narrower right to permit dealing in intoxicants on such terms of general application as the State deems expedient.	Reasoning
The Court said that the Government has the power to charge a price for parting with its rights.	Reasoning
It also further observed that the licence fee which the State Government charged to the licensee through the medium of auctions or the fixed fee which was charged to the vendors of foreign liquor holding licences need bear no quid pro quo to the services rendered to the licensees.	Reasoning
The word fee in this context is not used in the technical sense of the expression.	Reasoning
By licence fee or fixed fee is meant the price or consideration which the Government charges to the licensees for parting with its privileges and granting them to the licensees.	Reasoning
As the State can carry on a trade or business, such a charge is the normal incidence of a trading or business transaction.	Reasoning
The contention, therefore, of the petitioners that there is no quid pro quo between the increased label fee and the services rendered also has no merit.	Reasoning
It is based upon a misconception of the nature of the levy In the premises, we agree with the reasoning and conclusions arrived at by the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	None
These special leave petitions are, therefore, dismissed with costs.	Decision
