 K. Das, J. 1.	None
This is a petition under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution in which the petitioners challenge the constitutional validity of S. 148B of the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 (Punjab VIII of 1925), hereinafter called the principal Act, the said section having been added to the principal Act by the Sikh Gurdwaras (Amendment) Act, 1959, hereinafter called the amending Act of 1959.	Issue
The petitioners profess and practice the Sikh faith and they allege that they are interested in the maintenance and management of Sikh Gurdwaras, scheduled and notified under the principal Act.	Facts
Their main contention is that S. 148B violates the fundamental right granted under Art. 26 (b) of the Constitution to every religious denomination or any section thereof including the Sikh denomination, to manage its own affairs in matters of religion.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents to the petition are, firstly, the State of Punjab and, secondly, President and twelve members of the Interim Gurdwara Board, Patiala, who under Cl.	None
(a) of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 148B shall be deemed to be members of the Board constituted under S. 43 of the principal Act.	Facts
That Board is now known by the name of the Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee.	Facts
The application has been contested before us by respondent No. 1 only, namely, the State of Punjab, on the found that S.148B does not, in any way, violate the fundamental right granted to the petitioners or other members of the Sikh denomination under Art.	Facts
26(b) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Therefore, the only question for consideration before us is if S. 148B of the principal Act does or does not contravene the fundamental right granted to the Sikhs under Art.	None
26(b) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
2.	None
We shall presently set out the provisions of S. 148B and also of some other relevant sections of the principal Act.	None
But before we do that, it is necessary to state a few facts with regard to the passing of the amending Act of 1959.	None
It has been stated before us that in or about the year 1919 there was considerable unrest amongst the Sikhs in the Punjab in respect of the management of their gurdwaras and shrines, and in 1922 an Act called the Sikh Gurdwaras and Shrines Act was passed this did not satisfy the Sikhs and in 1925 the principal Act was passed, as its preamble states, for the better administration of certain Sikh gurdwaras and for enquiries into matters and settlement of disputes connected therewith.	None
The principal Act was amended from time to time.	None
On 1111956, there was merger of the erstwhile State of Patiala and the East Punjab States Union (hereafter called Pepsu in brief) with the State of Punjab.	None
Sometime in February 1957 the Government of the State of Punjab appointed an advisory committee to report as to whether the principal Act should be extended to the area which was formerly within Pepsu.	None
In September 1957 the committee recommended in favour of such extension.	None
On 841958, a bill called the Sikh Gurdwaras (Amendment) Bill, 1958 was introduced in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha and the Bill was sent to the regional committees constituted by an order of the President called the Punjab Regional Committees Order, 1957 made under Cl.	None
(1) of Art. 371 of the Constitution.	None
The regional committees dealt with the Bill and made certain recommendations.	None
For the purposes of the application before us, it is unnecessary to go into details of the proceedings before the regional committees.	None
Sometime in November 1958 there was a meeting of the Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee for the purpose of the annual election.	None
Learned counsel for the petitioners has stated before us that at this meeting there was a majority by a very small margin (three votes only) in favour of a particular group of Sikhs and against another group known as the Shiromoni Akali Dal.	None
Within one week, however, a notice was given for calling a meeting to consider the provisions of the amending Bill this meeting could not, however, be held as an order of stay was obtained from the Judicial Commission constituted under the principal Act.	None
In December 1958 a special session of the Vidhan Sabha was summoned to consider the amending Bill.	None
It has been stated that originally the amending Bill did not contain provisions like those later embodied in S. 148B.	None
The Bill was accordingly sent back to the regional committees and on 27121958, the regional committees submitted a final report and recommended the addition of provisions which subsequently became the provisions of S. 148B of the principal Act.	None
It may be here stated that even in the regional committees there was some opposition to the provisions in question.	None
On 31121958, the Bill was passed by the Vidhan Sabha and on 311959, it was passed by the Legislative Council.	None
On 811959, it received the assent of the Governor and became Punjab Act No.	None
I of 1959, which is the Amending Act of 1959.	None
It came into force at once and some rules under the Act were made a few days after.	None
On 221959, the present petition was filed and on 142l959, the election of 35 Sikhs contemplated under Cl.	None
(b) of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 148B was completed.	None
3.	None
It is necessary at this stage to refer to some of the old provisions of the principal Act as also the new provisions added by the amending Act of 1959.	None
The Board which is known as the Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee acts as the committee of management in respect of some of the principal Sikh gurdwaras in addition, it also has the duty of ensuring that every committee of management deals with the property and income of the gurdwara or gurdwaras managed by it in accordance with the provisions of the Act and for the fulfilment of this duty it exercises control, direction and general superintendence over all committees appointed under the provisions of the principal Act (see S. 125).	None
The Board is constituted under S. 43 of the principal Act.	None
Previous to the passing of Punjab Act No. 44 of 1953, S. 43 said that the Board shall consist of (i) 84 elected members, (ii) the head ministers of certain wellknown Sikh gurdwaras, (iii) 12 members nominated by the Rajpramukh of Pepsu and (iv) 17 members resident in India of whom not more than four shall be residents in Punjab, coopted by the members of the Board as described in (i), (ii) and (iii) above.	None
In 1953 was passed Punjab Act No. 44 of 1953 and S. 43 of the principal Act was amended.	None
The amended section was in these termsS. 43, (1) The Board shall consist of  (i) one hundred and thirtytwo elected members (ii) the head ministers of the Darbar Sahib, Amritsar, and the following four Takhts, namely,  the Sri Akali Takht Sahib, Amritsar, the Sri Takht Kesgarh Sahib, Anandpur, the Sri Takht Patna Sahib, Patna, and the Sri Takht Nazur Sahib, Hyderabad Deccan and (iii) twentyfive members resident in India of whom at least twelve shall be residents of Pepsu, at least nine of other parts of India than Punjab and Pepsu and not more than four of Punjab, coopted by the members of the Board as described in clauses (i) and (ii).	None
(2) It would thus appear that after the passing of Punjab Act No. 44 of 1953 the Board consisted of only three categories of members, namely (1) elected members, (2) certain designated members and (3) 25 coopted members.	None
Now, we come to S. 148B which was added by the amending Act of 1959.	None
That section in so far as it is material for our purpose is in these termsS. 148B (1).	None
As from the commencement of the Amending Act, in addition to the members of the Board constituted under S. 43 and till the next election of the new Board under S. 43A  (a) every person in the extended territories who, immediately before the commencement of the Amending Act, is a member of the Interim Gurdwara Board, Patiala, constituted by Punjab Government, Home Department, notification No. 18 Gurdwaras, dated 1011958, shall be deemed to be a member of the Board, constituted under S. 43 and (b) thirtyfive Sikhs including six Sikhs belonging to the Scheduled Castes residents in the extended territories, to be divided among different districts thereof in proportion to the Sikh population of each district in the prescribed manner, who shall, within forty days of the commencement of the Amending Act, be elected by the persons specified in subsec.	None
(2) in accordance with the rules made in this behalf by the State Government, shall become the members of the Board from the date specified in subsec.	None
(3).	None
(2) The thirtyfive persons referred to in clause (b) of subsec.	None
(1) shall be elected by (i) the persons who are deemed to be the members of the Board under clause (a) of subsec.	None
(1) (ii) the twelve members of the Board being residents of Pepsu as are referred to in clause (iii) of subsec.	None
(1) of S. 43 (iii) the sitting Sikh members of Parliament and the two Houses of State Legislature returned from any constituency or part thereof from the extended territories (iv) the Sikh members of Municipal Committees in the extended territories (v) the Presidents or Chairman of such Singh Sabhas and the Managers or Secretaries of such Sikh educational institutions or Sikh religious organisations as are registered on or before the 1st December, 1958, in the extended territories and (vi) the Sikh Sarpanches and Sikh Nayay Pardhans of Nagar Panchayats and Panchayati Adalats, respectively Provided that the electors under Cls.	None
(iii) (iv), (v) and (vi) are not disqualified under the proviso to S. 49 of the Act.	None
(3) (4) (5) It is worthy of note here that S. 148B occurs in chapter XIIA and the heading of the chapter is Temporary and Transitional Provisions which indicates clearly enough that the provisions in Ss.	None
148B to 148F are temporary and transitional provisions.	None
It has been stated at the Bar that in about a year, a fresh election of the Board is due under S. 43A, and the temporary and transitional provisions in chapter XIIA are to be in force only for the intervening period.	None
Section 43A which was also added by the amending Act of 1959 says S. 43A (1).	None
Whenever a new Board within the meaning of S. 51 is constituted, it shall consist of (i) One hundred and forty elected members (ii) the Head Ministers of the Darbar Sahib, Amritsar, and the following, four Takhats, namely the Sri Takhat Sahib, Amritsar, the Sri Takhat Keshgarh Sahib Anandpur, the Sri Takhat Patna Sahib, Patna and the Sri Takhat Hazur Sahib, Nanded and (iii) fifteen members resident in India, of whom not more than five shall be residents of Punjab, coopted by the members of the Board as described in clauses (i) and (ii).	None
(2) The State Government shall, as soon as may be, call a meeting of the members of the Board described in clauses (i) and (ii) of subsec.	None
(1) for the purpose of coopting the members described in clause (iii) of that subsection, and after the members have been coopted, the State Government shall notify the fact of the Board having been duly constituted and the date of the publication of the notification shall be deemed to be the date of the constitution of the Board.	None
Thus, the new or permanent Board which will be constituted under S. 43A will consist of (1) one hundred and forty elected members, (2) five designated members, and (3) fifteen coopted members, and there will be no room for any nominated members therein.	None
The petitioners have raised no objections to the constitution of the Board under S. 43A all their objections are confined to the constitution of the Board under S. 148B, even though it is a transient provision for the transitional period only.	None
4.	None
What then are these objections, in so far as they bear on the alleged violation of the petitioners fundamental right under Art.	Issue
26(b) of the Constitution?	Arguments of Petitioner
5. Learned counsel for the petitioners has first commented on what he has characterised as undue haste in passing the amending Act of 1959.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has submitted that the Pepsu area came within the State of Punjab in November, 1956 and for about two years, the Punjab Government evinced no serious anxiety to extend the principal Act to that area but from 16111958, when the annual election of the Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee was held, up to January,1959, when the amending Act of 1959 was passed, hurried proceedings were taken to enact the amending law in question and so constitute the Board that a particular group of Sikhs might not regain the majority it had lost on 16111958.	Reasoning
In our opinion these submissions (we do not say whether they are right or wrong) have no bearing on the question at issue before us.	None
The petitioners have not specifically alleged in their petition that the State Government has acted in any mala fide manner and whatever justification some people may feel in their criticisms of the political wisdom of a particular legislative or executive action, this Court cannot be called upon to embark on an enquiry into public policy or investigate into questions of political wisdom or even to pronounce upon motives of the legislature in enacting a law which it is otherwise competent to make.	Reasoning
We do not say that in pronouncing on the rights of the parties before it, this Court must always stand aloof on the chill and distant heights of abstract logic and pay no heed to the great tides and currents which move society and men.	Reasoning
If and when the occasion demands, for example, when there is violation of a fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution, it will never hesitate to act.	Reasoning
But it is well to remember that a fundamental right, such as freedom of religion, is of an enduring character and must stand beyond the sweep of changing and deflecting forces of current opinion.	Reasoning
Our limited function in this case, therefore, is to examine the constitutionality of S. 148B, and to that task we must now confine our attention.	None
6.	None
The main argument of learned counsel for the petitioners is that Art.	None
26(b) gives to every religious denomination, or any section thereof, the right to manage its own affairs in matters of religion and the right is subject only to public order, morality and health.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, according to him, the right is given to all members of the Sikh denomination and not to any particular members thereof, to manage Sikh gurdwaras therefore, the right must be exercised by all Sikhs, and they alone must elect their representatives to manage Sikh gurdwaras and to the extent that S. 148B departs from the aforesaid principle, it constitutes an infringement of the right guaranteed to the petitioners under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
26(b) of the Constitution.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	None
Article 26 of the Constitution, so far as it is relevant for our purpose, saysArt. 26.	None
Subject to public order, morality and health, every religious denomination or any section thereof shall have the right (a) (b) to manage its own affairs in matters of religion (c) (d) to administer such property in accordance with law.	None
The distinction between Cls. (b) and (d) strikes one at once.	None
So far as administration of its property is concerned, the right of a religious denomination is to be exercised in accordance with law, but there is no such qualification in Cl.	None
(b).In The Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt, 1954 SCR 1005 at pp.	None
1023, 1026 (AIR 1934 SC 282 at pp. 289, 290) this distinction was pointed out by this Court and it was there observedThe administration of its property by a religious denomination has thus been placed on a different footing from the right to manage its own affairs in matters of religion.	None
The latter is a fundamental right which no legislature can take away, whereas the former can be regulated by laws which the legislature can validly impose.	None
Secondly, the expression used in Cl.	None
(b) is in matters of religion.	None
In what sense has the word religion been used?	None
This was considered in two decisions of this Court 1954 SCR 1005 (AIR 1954 SC 282 ), and Sri Venkataramana Devaru v. State of Mysore, 1958 SCR 895 (AIR 1958 SC 255 )and it was held that freedom of religion in our Constitution is not confined to religious beliefs only, but extends to essential religious practices as well subject to the restrictions which the Constitution has laid down.	None
In 1954 SCR 1005 (AIR 1954 SC 282 ) (Supra) it was observed at p. 1026 (of SCR) (at p. 290 of AIR) that under Art.	None
26(b),a religious denomination or organisation enjoys complete autonomy in the matter of deciding as to what rites and ceremonies are essential according to the tenets of the religion they hold (we emphasise here they word essential).The same emphasis was laid in the later decision of 1958 SCR 895 (AIR 1958 SC 255 ), where it wad said that matters of religion in Art.	None
26(b) include practices which are regarded by the community as part of its religion.	None
Two questions, therefore, arise in connection with the argument of learned counsel for the petitioners (1) does S. 148B added to the principal Act by the amending Act of 1959 have reference only to administration of property of Sikh gurdwaras and, therefore, must be judged by Cl.	Issue
(d) of Art.	Issue
26 or (2) does it affect matters of religion within the meaning of Cl.	Issue
(b) of the said Article?	None
8.	None
The argument on behalf of the petitioners is that the principal Act to which S. 148B has been added relates not merely to administration of properties of Sikh gurdwaras but also to matters of religion and in so far as S. 148B brings in new members into the Board, it affects Sikhs in their religious affairs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument on behalf of the respondent State is that matters of religion in the sense of essential beliefs and practices of the Sikh faith are left untouched by S. 148B, and even other relevant sections of the principal Act do not interfere with Sikh religion.	None
In this connection, our attention has been drawn to the provisions in Ch. X which deal with the powers and duties of the Board and to those in Ch. XI which deal with powers and duties of Committees.	None
Section 125, to which we have already referred, states that the duty of the Board is to ensure that every Committee deals with the property and income of the gurdwara or gurdwaras it manages in accordance with the provisions of the Act and in fulfilment of that duty, the Board has vested in it control, direction and general superintendence over all committees appointed under the provisions of the Act.	None
Section 129 statesS. 129.	None
The Board in any meeting may consider and discuss any matter with which it has power under this Act to deal and any matter directly connected with the Sikh religion, but shall not consider or discuss, or pass any resolution or order upon, any other matter.	None
If S. 129 is read subject to S. 125 as the learned Advocate General for the State contends it should be read, then the powers and duties of the Board, in substance and effect, relate to administration of gurdwara properties and matters ancillary, thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
They have hardly any reference to matters of religion.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 133 states generally the powers of Committees, and one of the powers is enforcing the proper observance of all ceremonies and religious observances in connexion with such gurdwara or gurdwaras and of taking all such measures as may be necessary to ensure the proper management of the gurdwara or gurdwaras and the efficient administration of the property, income and endowments thereof. .	None
Learned counsel for the petitioners has emphasised that part of the section which relates to proper observance of all ceremonies and religious observances and has contended that as the Board is the committee in respect of some of the principal gurdwaras, it has a duty to ensure proper observance of all essential religious ceremonies of the Sikh faith, which according to him is a matter of religion.	None
Under S. 134, the Committee has power inter alia to dismiss an officeholder or minister, if he fails in the performance of any rituals and ceremonies in accordance with the teachings of Sri Guru Granth Sahib or has ceased to be a Sikh it is contended that this power also relates to a matter of religion within the meaning of Art.	None
26(b).	None
9.	None
Without a fuller and more detailed examination of the provisions of the principal Act we hesitate to pronounce finally on the larger question if any of the other provisions of the principal Act affect matters of religion nor do we think it necessary to decide that larger question in the present case.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the present petition can be decided on a shorter ground, even if we proceed on the assumption that some of the provisions of the principal Act relate to matters of religion and the Board, either acting in exercise of its power of control, direction and superintendence over other committees or in its capacity as the committee for certain gurdwaras, can pass orders about matters of religion.	Reasoning
We may point out, however, that the preamble of the principal Act indicates that it is mainly a law to provide for the better administration of certain Sikh gurdwaras and it is admitted that in so far as the powers of the Board relate to mere administration of gurdwara properties in either of its two capacities, such administration must be in accordance with law, and the appropriate legislature can lay down what the law should be.	Reasoning
The question which is decisive of the present petition is  does S. 148B interfere in matters of religion?	None
Sections 133 and 134 of the principal Act are not impugned before us what is impugned is S. 148B.	None
That section has not in any way affected whatever powers the Board or Committee has under Ss. 133 and 134 of the principal Act.	None
The gravamen of the objections urged on behalf of the petitioners is that S. 148B introduces,even though as a temporary measure, some more, designated Sikh Members into the Board by Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) thereof and further introduces the election of thirtyfive Sikhs (from the Pepsu area) into the Board by means of an indirect method, that is, by a limited Sikh electorate, the members of which electorate are in their turn elected by Sikhs as well as nonSikhs.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to establish their case, the petitioners must prove not merely that some provisions of the principal Act refer to matters of religion, but that the introduction of new members into the Board in respect of the extended territories of the Pepsu area, in the manner envisaged by S. 148B, violates by itself the right of the Sikhs in a matter of religion.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the petitioners is thus forced to take up the stand that a direct election of the members of the Board by the entire Sikh community is itself a matter of the Sikh religion and, therefore, part of the content of the right guaranteed under Art.26(b).We do not think that such a stand is correct or justified by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
26 of the Constitution	Reasoning
nor has any authoritative text been placed before us to show that a direct election by the entire Sikh community in the management of gurdwaras is part of the Sikh religion.	Reasoning
The principal Act, as it stood before the amending Act of 1959, does not support any such contention.	Reasoning
However great our respect may be for the democratic principle of direct election, we do not think that having regard to the provisions of the principal Act and the circumstances in which S. 148B came to be added thereto, the principle of direct election on universal denominational suffrage can be raised to the pedestal of religion within the meaning of Art.	Reasoning
26(b) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
If it were so raised, then the cooption of some members which has not been challenged by the petitioners would also be violative of their fundamental right so also any restrictions which the principal Act or the rules made thereunder may impose in the matter of election or the exercise of the vote, such as, restrictions with regard to the age of the voter etc.	Reasoning
Obviously, these are not matters of religion and we say without meaning any offence to anybody that to treat these as matters of religion is tantamount to confusing religion with current politics.	Reasoning
10.	None
It is to be remembered that the principal Act constituted a Board representative of the Sikhs both inside Punjab and outside it that is why in the constitution of the Board there was provision for election, nomination, designation of the head ministers of certain principal Sikh gurdwaras, and also cooption.	Reasoning
The purpose obviously was to make the Board as representative as possible, and because an Act passed by the Punjab legislature could not contain provisions for the election of members from constituencies outside the Punjab, there arose the necessity for nomination, designation and cooption.	Reasoning
The designation of the head ministers of the five principal Sikh shrines may be also attributed to the reason that they were important functionaries who should be on the Board.	Reasoning
In 1953, nomination was done away with and the number of coopted members was increased to twentyfive, of whom at least twelve were to be residents of Pepsu.	Reasoning
This was even before the principal Act was extended to the Pepsu area.	Reasoning
When the amending Act of 1959 extended the principal Act to the Pepsu area, the problem at once arose as to how to give some representation to the Sikhs in the extended areas, for the intervening period before the next election of the Board, and also as a permanent measure S.148B gives representation to those areas as an interim measure and S. 43A as a permanent measure.	Reasoning
Considering S. 148B in the light of these circumstances, we are unable to hold that it violates the fundamental right of the Sikhs under Art.	Reasoning
26(b) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The method of representation for the extended areas during the interim period appears to us to be an arrangement dictated merely by considerations of convenience and expediency, and does not involve any principle of religion.	Reasoning
The question before us is not whether a more satisfactory arrangement could have been made even for the interim period perhaps, it could have been.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the petitioners has pointed out that many Sikhs of influence and standing in the Pepsu area will have no vote for the interim period.	Reasoning
That may be unfortunate, but is not a relevant consideration for determining the question before us, namely, whether there has been interference with freedom of religion.	None
11.	None
We now proceed to consider the specific grievances which the petitioners have made in respect of the persons who come into the Board under S. 148B.	None
As to the members of the Interim Board, Patiala, who under Cl.	None
(a) of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 148B are deemed to be members of the Board constituted under S. 43, it is argued that they were appointed under a Punjab Government notification dated 1011958 and though they are Sikhs, they do not represent the Sikh community and are mere nominees of Government furthermore, they are not subject to the disqualifications mentioned in Ss. 45 and 46 of the Act in respect of elected and coopted members respectively.	None
We have pointed out earlier that the principal Act contained a provision before 1953 or nomination of 12 members by the Rajpramukh of Pepsu and after 1953, the coopted members included twelve residents of Pepsu.	None
By an order of the Maharaja of Patiala, the Interim Gurdwara Board, Patiala, was constituted to look after certain gurdwaras of the Pepsu area, and after merger the appointment was made by the Governor of the Punjab.	None
Under S. 148A which was also added to the principal Act by the amending Act of 1959, the interim Gurdwara Board, Patiala, has ceased to function, and under S. 148B (1) (a) the members of the Interim Board, Patiala have become members of the Board constituted under S. 43.	None
We are unable to hold that the designation of such members, as an interim measure, to represent those gurdwaras in the Pepsu area which they were actually managing is violative of any fundamental, right nor do we think that the nonapplication of the disqualifications stated in Ss. 45 and 46 of the Act to these members advances the case of the petitioners any further.	Reasoning
The principal Act did not contain any provisions as to disqualification of designated members it contained provisions for disqualification of elected, nominated or coopted members and after nomination had ceased in 1953, of elected or coopted members only.	Reasoning
It is permissible to presume that the legislature knows that the members it is designating do not suffer from any disqualifications furthermore, the petitioners have not even suggested in their petition that the members of the Interim Board, Patiala, suffer from any of the disqualifications stated in S. 45 or S. 46.	None
12.	None
With regard to the thirtyfive Sikhs to be elected under cl.	None
(b) of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 148B, there is a threefold contention.	None
It has been submitted that (1) the electorate detailed in subs (2) of S. 148B is not representative of all the Sikhs (2) some of the members of the electorate like Sikh members of Parliament and Municipal Committees are in their turn elected by joint constituencies of Sikhs and nonSikhs and (3) some of the members of the electorate like Sikh Sarpanches and Sikh Naya Pradhans are in the service, and under the influence of Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not agree that these considerations are determinative of the problem before us.	None
We have already said that the method of representation to the Board for the extended areas as in interim measure is not a matter of religion.	None
The circumstance that some members of the electorate are in their turn elected by constituencies consisting of Sikhs and nonSikhs is far too remote and indirect to constitute an infringement of freedom of religion.	None
The members of the electorate itself are all Sikhs and they have to elect thirtyfive Sikhs.	Reasoning
Unless one proceeds mechanically on mere abstract considerations, there is no real basis for the contention that nonSikhs can in any way influence the Board.	Reasoning
We do not agree that Sikh Sarpanches and Naya Pradhans are in the service of Government or that their inclusion as members of the electorate violates the right of the Sikhs under Art.	Reasoning
26(b) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It may not be quite irrelevant to point out here that the twelve members of the Interim Gurdwara Board, Patiala, plus thirtyfive elected Sikhs from the Pepsu area will be a minority as against 132 elected members and twenty five coopted members of the Board.	Reasoning
13.	None
For the reasons given above, we hold that the petitioners have failed to make out a case of violation of their fundamental right.	Decision
Accordingly, the petition fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
14.	None
Petition dismissed.	None
