 	Reasoning
Venkatarama Reddi, J. By the impugned judgment, the High Court at Allahabad allowed the first appeal filed by the respondentplaintiff, decreed the suit and ordered that the plaintiff should be put in physical possession of the suit properties and the indenture (sale deed) dated 22.2.1971 should be deemed to be void and cancelled and therefore be delivered up to the plaintiffvendor.	Issue
A decree was also granted for a sum of Rs. 95,000/ being the value of properties wrongfully demolished and sold, after adjustment of Rs. 55,000/ received by the plaintiff, towards the sale consideration.	Issue
The suit was ostensibly filed under Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act for cancellation of indenture dated 22.2.1971 and also for physical possession of the property in dispute and for recovery of Rs. 95,000/ being the value of property wrongfully demolished after adjusting an amount of Rs.	Issue
55,000/.	Issue
The Trial Court dismissed the suit.	Issue
At the same time, it granted a decree in favour of the plaintiff for a sum of Rs. 1,45,000/ representing the balance sale consideration.2.	Issue
The facts giving rise to the suit and the appeal are these The plaintiffCompany executed a sale deed on 22.2.1971 in favour of the defendants in respect of an oil mill located at Khurja in UP State with the structures, open land, machinery and fixtures, leasehold rights in the land etc. for a consideration of Rs. 2 lakhs.	Issue
A sum of Rs.	Issue
50,000/ was to be paid before the SubRegistrar at the time of registration and it was stipulated in the sale deed that the balance amount will be paid in two instalments falling on 15.3.1971 and 30.4.1971.	Issue
It was further stipulated that the transferee shall not be entitled to deal with, sell, transfer or assign the property sold, till such time as the entire balance sale price of Rs. 1.50 lakhs was paid to the transferor.	Issue
A sum of Rs. 50,000/ was accordingly paid to transferor on the date of registration.	Issue
Possession was admittedly handed over to the defendants.	Issue
The respondentplaintiff produced the income tax clearance certificate on the date of registration i.e. 22.2.1971.	Issue
However, before the formalities of registration viz., copying out the deed was completed, the SubRegistrar received a communication from the Income Tax Officer that the I.T.C. was cancelled and therefore the SubRegistrar should stop registration of the property till a fresh certificate was issued by him.	Issue
Therefore, the SubRegistrar did not take further steps in the matter.	Issue
Moreover, the sale deed was impounded on the ground of insufficient stamp and it was sent to the District Registrar for adjudication.	Issue
By an order dated 4.1.1972, the Income Tax Officer revoked his earlier order and restored the certificate issued by him earlier.	Facts
On appeal by plaintiff, the Commissioner of Income Tax directed the Income Tax Officer to issue a fresh I.T.C. instead of validating the earlier one.	Facts
On 13.6.1972, a fresh I.T.C. was issued.	Issue
The document which was sent for assessment of deficient stamp duty was received back by the Sub Registrar on 3.5.1973.	Facts
When there was a notice from the Sub Registrar in August 1973 to furnish the I.T.C. for the purpose of registration, the plaintiff in its reply	Issue
dt. 28.8.1973 maintained that the document was no longer effective as the contract stood rescinded on account of the breach committed by the defendants in declining payment of balance sale price.	Issue
SubRegistrar was requested to return the document without registration.	Issue
The SubRegistrar, by his order dated 19.9.1973, refused to register the document as ITC was not produced.	Issue
An appeal was filed against the said order by the appellantsdefendants before the District Registrar.	Issue
On 16.10.1973 the appellants also filed a civil suit impleading the respondent, SubRegistrar and also the I.T.O. for a direction that I.T.C. should be issued and the SubRegistrar should register the sale deed.	Issue
On 3.7.1976, the suit out of which the present appeal arises was filed seeking the relieves as stated above.	Issue
In that suit, a disclosure was made as to obtaining the fresh I.T.C. On 24.12.1976, the District Registrar allowed the appeal and directed the SubRegistrar to register the sale deed.	Facts
In view of this subsequent event, the Income Tax Officer also sent a copy of I.T. clearance certificate to the SubRegistrar.	Issue
The formalities of registration of sale deed were then completed on 28.12.1976.	Issue
The suit filed by the appellants therefore became infructuous.	Issue
The appellants amended the plaint in the present suit questioning the legality of the order of Dy.	Facts
Registrar and the consequential action of SubRegistrar in registering the sale deed.	Issue
On 27.8.1979, offer was made to pay the balance consideration by issuing a notice but the respondent refused to accept payment taking the stand that the matter was subjudice.	Issue
The suit in question was dismissed on 2.5.1980 subject to the direction as to the payment of balance of sale money.	Issue
The money was deposited in court thereafter.	Issue
The first appeal to the High Court filed by the respondent herein was allowed by the impugned judgment dated 5.7.1996.3.	Facts
It is now necessary to advert to certain other events that happened between the date of presentation of sale deed for registration and the date of filing of the suit including the exchange of correspondence.	Facts
On 16.3.1971, plaintiff issued notice to defendants to pay Rs.	Facts
50,000/ towards the first instalment specified in the indenture of sale.	Facts
The defendants expressed their willingness to pay the amount provided that the plaintiff obtained a fresh ITC.	Facts
On 12.1.1972, a second notice was issued from the plaintiffs side informing the defendants that they have illegally withheld the payment due under the terms of sale for which they were liable to pay interest and further protesting against the demolition of portions of building and sheds and disposing of the building material and machinery.	Facts
This was replied to by the defendants stating that in the absence of valid Income Tax Clearance Certificate the sale deed could not be delivered after due registration and therefore they were not liable to pay the balance sale price.	Facts
Moreover, the defendants referred to the fact that one of the Directors of the plaintiffCompany by name Raj Kumar Meattle agreed not to demand the balance unless the fresh clearance certificate was obtained and other formalities connected to the sale were fulfilled.	Facts
The alleged settlement took place on 17.1.1972 on which date a sum of Rs. 5,000 was paid to the said Director.	Facts
One more fact, which according to the defendants justified the withholding of payment, was the suit filed by the one Seth Shanti Lal questioning the validity of the sale.	Facts
In the concluding para it is stated I would request you not to stick to your unreasonable demand for the balance money and let the clear picture emerge.	Facts
I again assure you that the balance will be paid the moment these formalities are complied.	Facts
A third notice was issued by the plaintiff on 25.5.1973.	Facts
By that time it may be noted that a fresh ITC was issued to the plaintiff and the document which was impounded for assessment of deficient duty was received back in the office of the SubRegistrar, Khurja.	Facts
By the notice dated 25.5.1973, the plaintiff found fault with the defendants in declining payment of balance money on the ground of cancellation of ITC and alleged that the defendants committed breach of contract by wrongfully withholding the payment and also demolishing and dealing with the property quite contrary to the prohibition contained in the sale deed.	Facts
The plaintiff then gave last opportunity to make the balance sale price together with interest at the rate of one per month within a period of 15 days upon which the requisite certificate under Section 230A of the Income Tax Act will be produced.	Facts
The defendants were further warned that in case of failure to make the payment, the contract of sale dated 22.2.1971 will stand rescinded and the defendants will be liable to restore the possession of all the properties covered by the sale deed and to compensate the plaintiff for the damage done to the properties.	Facts
The defendants sent a reply reiterating that there was a clear agreement on 17.6.1971 arrived at on the intervention of plaintiffs Director Shri Raj Kumar Mittal and the payment of Rs. 5,000/ made pursuant to such agreement.	Facts
The defendants once again referred to the suit filed by Seth Shanti Lal Jain impleading both the plaintiff and the defendants.	Facts
The defendants also called upon the plaintiff to bear the amount of Rs. 2,980/ on account of extra stamp expenses.	Facts
In the concluding para it is stated, I hope you will wait for the payment till the formalities are completed and the suit of Seth Shanti Lal is decided finally.	Facts
A month later i.e. on 3.7.1973, the 4th and final notice came to be issued by the plaintiff.	Facts
In that notice it was stated that Shri Raj Kumar Mittal had no authority to give any assurance or make any commitment on behalf of the plaintiffCompany, that too without any resolution of the Board of Directors.	Facts
The plaintiff offered to give credit to the additional stamp duty said to have been paid by the defendants of Rs.	Facts
2,980/. The defendants were then informed of the dismissal of the suit filed by Shanti Jain for default.	Facts
Moreover, the plaintiff took the stand that the suit of Shanti Lal Jain was a frivolous suit and that the pendency of the suit ought not to be a ground to withhold the payment.	Facts
The plaintiff was even willing to waive the claim for interest and handover the requisite certificate under Section 230A of the Income Tax Act, provided that balance consideration of Rs. 1.50 lakhs subject to adjustment of Rs. 5,000 and the excess stamp duty, was paid to it within 15 days.	Facts
The defendants were warned that if they failed to make the payment as aforesaid within the stipulated time which is of essence, the contract of sale dated 22.2.1971 shall stand rescinded in which case the defendants will have to restore all the properties to it within 15 days thereafter.	Facts
On 19.7.1973, the defendants sent a rely through their lawyers wherein it was asserted that the plaintiff was legally bound to complete the formalities pertaining to registration and to deliver the sale deed before they could ask for the balance sale money.	Facts
Further, the plaintiff was notified that the demand of balance money even before the suit of Seth Shanti Lal was finally decided, was unjustified.	Facts
An assurance was given that the entire balance amount will be paid when all the formalities are completed and the title was proved in the pending litigation.	Facts
The plaintiff was called upon to produce the ITC before 3.9.1973 as per the requisition made by the SubRegistrar.	Facts
Thereafter, the plaintiff sent a letter on 28.8.1973 to the SubRegistrar stating that the defendants committed breach of contract of sale and therefore, the contract stood rescinded.	Facts
The SubRegistrar was informed that the document was no longer effective and the question of registration of that document on the production of ITC as required in his letter did not arise at all.	Facts
The SubRegistrar was requested to return the document without registration.	Facts
It appears that the suit of Seth Shanti Lal Jain which was filed on 7.4.1971 was finally dismissed on 10.4.1978.	Facts
It was dismissed for default earlier and restored.4.	Facts
The Trial Court held that the defendants did not commit breach of the contract in not paying the balance price before the registration of the sale deed and the plaintiff had no right to rescind the contract.	Facts
In fact, there was no rescission because the plaintiff did not send specific intimation of rescission of contract with effect from a particular date.	Facts
The learned trial Judge further held that the contract was neither voidable nor terminable by the plaintiff and therefore Section 27 or 31 of the Specific Relief Act was not attracted.	Facts
According to the trial court, the sale was complete and title passed irrespective of nonpayment of balance sale price.	Facts
The following were the circumstances relied upon by the Trial Court for reaching the conclusion that no breach was committed by the defendants and the plaintiff was not entitled to put an end to the contract are The plaintiff got the I.T.C. cancelled by setting up his relative by name Shri R.K. Meattle to file a complaint2.	Facts
After the certificate was restored on 4.1.1972, the plaintiff instead of filing the order of I.T.O., challenged that order on the ground that fresh certificate should have been issued, for which there was no bona fides on the part of the plaintiff.	Facts
Moreover, the factum of restoration of issuance of fresh clearance certificate was not intimated to the SubRegistrar3.	Facts
The plaintiff having knowledge of the fact that the document has not been registered for want of I.T.C. was not justified in making demand for payment of balance money4.	Facts
On the intervention of Shri R.K. Meattle  one of the Directors of the plaintiffCompany, a binding agreement came into being according to which the terms of the contract as to the payment of balance money got altered.	Facts
The undertaking given by Shri R.K. Meattle on 17.8.1971 was binding on the plaintiff and in fact the plaintiff acted according to that undertaking by not demanding the payment for about a year and5.	Facts
On account of the suit filed by the Seth Shanti Lal Jain in the year 1971 claiming to be the coowner of the properties, there was a bona fide doubt in the mind of the defendants as regards title and that is the reason why a commitment was made by the plaintiff through its Director, Shri R.K. Meattle.6.	Facts
In the circumstances of the case the time for payment stipulated in the sale deed cannot be regarded as the essence of the contract.	None
The learned trial Judge observed thus In fact, it was a breach of the contract from the side of the plaintiff, who deliberately did not manage the affairs in such a way that the clearance certificate may be produced before the SubRegistrar, Khurja, at an earlier and the registration of the document could be completed.	Facts
It appears to me that the plaintiff was only interested in the payment of balance sale consideration of Rs.	Facts
One lac fifty thousand and he was not interested in the registration of the document.	Facts
The circumstances and conduct of the plaintiff are as such which go against the plaintiff and show that it was the plaintiff on whose account the document could not be registered.	Facts
The non payment on the stipulated dates by the defendants was justifiable because the time was not the essence of the contract.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that under the contract title to the property would pass only on the payment of the entire sale consideration, that the Trial Court committed an error of law by holding that time was not essence of the contract and title had passed even before the payment of balance money.	Facts
The High Court then observed that Section 47 of the Registration Act does not come to the aid of the defendants because the contract was terminated for valid reason before the document was registered.	Facts
Referring to the suit of Seth Shanti Lal Jain, the High Court observed that the defendants having enjoyed property after taking possession should have made the payment first and sue the plaintiff for indemnification, if necessary.	Facts
Referring to the alleged agreement entered into between Shri R.K. Meattle and the defendants, the High Court observed that the alleged agreement was not believable.	Facts
The High Court then observed that the appellant should have made the payment at least after the final notice sent in July, 1973, wherein it was mentioned that I.T.C. was procured and the sale deed could be got registered on payment of balance money.	Facts
The High Court was therefore of the view that the defendants failed to fulfil the contractual obligation on their part and therefore the contract was voidable and could be repudiated by the plaintiff.	Facts
The appeal was therefore allowed and the suit was decreed.	Facts
It is the contention of the appellants that the requirements of either Section 31 or 27 are not attracted to the present case and therefore the suit itself is misconceived.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the rescission of executed contract on account of nonpayment of balance sale consideration does not arise as the title passed to the appellants with the registration of document and delivery of possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though the formalities of registration were completed on 24.12.1976, the registration, by virtue of Section 47 of Indian Registration Act must be deemed to have related back to the date the sale deed was executed i.e. 22.2.1971.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the socalled rescission for the alleged breach of the terms of the contract subsequent to its execution has no legal sanctity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The only remedy of the plaintiff was to recover the balance sale price for which a statutory charge is provided in respect of the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that the view taken by the High Court that the payment of balance money on the stipulated dates was a condition precedent for passing the title is erroneous in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
The restriction against sale, transfer or assignment offends Section 10 of the Property Act moreover, such a condition does not detract from the irrevocable nature of sale transaction.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the contract is neither voidable nor terminable by the plaintiff and therefore the conditions requisite for seeking relief under Section 27 or 31 of the Specific Relief Act are not attract.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plaintiff could not unilaterally put an end to the contract under Section 39 of the Contract Act on the ground that the defendants refused to perform the promise to pay the balance money within the stipulated time as Section 39 is wholly inapplicable to the contract which was complete and which had been acted upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any case, it is submitted that there was no breach of the contractual terms by the appellant and there was ample justification for nonpayment of balance sale price within the time stipulated in the sale deed or in the notice issued by the plaintiff.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance in this connection is based on the findings of the Trial Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it is contended on behalf of the respondents (defendants) that there was no general rule that mere registration of the document without reference to other circumstances would operate to transfer to title.	Arguments of Respondent
The clause in the sale deed prohibiting transfer or assignment by the vendor till the balance money was paid spells out an intention to make the passing of title conditional on payment thereof.	Arguments of Respondent
In any case, it is submitted that the plaintiff was well justified in rescinding the contract in the year 1973 before the actual registration of the document and therefore the registration does not impart any sanctity to the purported sale.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 47 of the Registration Act has no application in this fact situation and the theory of dating back cannot be invoked by the defendants.	Arguments of Respondent
The refusal to pay the balance sale consideration on the ground of pendency of suit of Seth Shanti Lal and the alleged agreement with one of the Directors of the plaintiffCompany is wholly untenable and amounts to refusal to perform the contract within the meaning of Section 39 of the Contract Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The contract, it is submitted, is voidable on account of persistent refusal by the defendants to pay the balance sale consideration even after the notice was given by the plaintiff making the time the essence of contract.	Arguments of Respondent
Having thus clarified the legal position, the learned senior counsel for the respondents have taken us through the correspondence and the findings of the High Court in support of his argument that the plaintiff was amply justified in putting an end to the contract when it became apparent that the defendants were in no mood to fulfil the essential promise under the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
Finally, the learned senior counsel contended that the conduct of the defendants was most reprehensible.	Arguments of Respondent
Having taken possession and started enjoying the property soon after the execution of the sale deed and even gone to the extent of demolishing the structures, failed to pay the balance money.	Arguments of Respondent
On these grounds, the judgment under appeal is sought to be supported by the learned counsel for the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of the view that the High Court failed to address itself to certain crucial factors which disentitles the plaintiff to equitable relief.	Reasoning
The High Court reversed a well considered judgment of trial Court without adverting to the reasoning of trial Court except in a cursory manner.	Reasoning
In the view we are taking, it is not necessary for us to dilate on various legal issues debated before us.	Reasoning
We shall proceed on the basis that in law the plaintiff could annul the contract of the sale before the act of registration got completed and title passed to the appellants.	Reasoning
We shall further assume that the plaintiff in fact rescinded the contract with effect from the date of expiry of the time stipulated in the 4th and final notice dated 3.7.1973.	Reasoning
If such rescission or termination of contract is not justifiable on facts or having regard to the conduct of the plaintiff, the equitable relief under Section 27 or 31 of the Specific Relief Act has to be denied to the plaintiff, no further question arises for consideration.	Reasoning
In such a case, the appellants plea has to be accepted and the suit is liable to be dismissed.	Reasoning
Before we proceed further, we would like to make it clear that it is not our endevour to reappreciate the evidence on record and to disturb the findings of fact, had they been arrived at on a consideration of all the relevant matters and the evidence on record.	None
Let us now take stock of those relevant and important aspects.	None
The first aspect which needs to be adverted to is the conduct of the plaintiff visavis the production of Income Tax clearance certificate.	None
On a petition filed by the nephew of one of the Directors of plaintiffCompany, the ITC was cancelled when the document was about to be registered.	None
This fact was admitted by Shri B.D. Mittal, Director of the plaintiffCompany, who was examined as a witness for the plaintiff.	None
The finding of the trial Court is that the complaint was filed at the instance of the plaintiff.	None
This part of the finding of the trial Court is based on probabilities, though not positive evidence, coupled with the fact that the circumstances in which the nephew filed the petition were not explained by the plaintiffs witness.	None
The second aspect which evoked adverse comments of the trial Court is the fact that after the ITC was restored by the Income Tax Officer, the plaintiff challenged the order of the ITO contending that it was an illegal order and a fresh certificate should have been issued.	None
This move on the part of the plaintiff was evidently meant to delay the process of registration and casts any amount of doubt on the bona fides of plaintiff.	None
Moreover, even after obtaining a fresh certificate pursuant to the order passed by the higher authority, the plaintiff did not make the defendants or the SubRegistrar aware of this fact for more than a year.	None
It was only in the letter dated 3.7.1973, an indication was given that the certificate under Section 230(A) of Income Tax Act was available.	None
What is more surprising is that the plaintiff returned the certificate to Income Tax Office on 10.9.1974 (vide paras 34 and 35 of trial Courts judgment).	None
These facts noticed and commented upon by the Trial Court were not at all adverted to by the High Court.	None
The plaintiff cannot on the one hand withhold the production of I.T.C. which was essential for registration and on the other hand take the stand that the defendants committed breach of contract.	None
The other important aspect which did not receive due consideration from the High Court is the agreement or understanding arrived at between the Director of the plaintiffCompanyShri R.K. Meattle and the defendants on 12.8.1971.	None
By that time, a suit was filed by one Shri Shanti Lal Jain claiming rights over the suit schedule .	None
The property and the defendants in the present suit were also impleaded therein.	None
At that juncture, informal agreement was reached.	None
The agreement couched in the form of a letter reads as follows Dear Sir, Yesterday Shri R.K. Meattle, a Director of your firm came to us and requested to pay a sum of Rs. 5,000/ against the arrears of the sale deed executed by your firm in our favour of the expenses to get the dispute decided so that formality of sale deed may be completed soon with the assurance that your firm will not claim further any amount, out of arrears till all the formalities are finally completed.	None
Yours faithfully (Raj Kr.	None
Poddar) (Lalit Kumar Jain, Khurja)	None
Yes, this is our proposal and our firm agrees on this settlement (Sd) 12.8.1971	None
Director For Jaipur Trading Corp. (P) Ltd.	None
The commitment made in this letter was construed by the trial Court as a change in the terms of the contract by reason of which the demand for the payment of balance sale consideration was deferred till all the formalities were completed and the litigation was settled.	None
The contention that Shri R.K. Meattle acted without authority and therefore the commitment made by him was not binding on the plaintiffCompany was not accepted by the Trial Court.	None
The High Court reversed this finding on the ground that no prudent person would agree to such arrangement which had the effect of postponing the demand of balance sale price till the dispute was settled and or the formalities of registration were completed.	None
The High Court observed that in the absence of proper authorisation by the Company, the alleged undertaking was not believable.	None
Whether the alleged agreement is true and binding is not doubt primarily a question of fact.	None
But for the fact that the High Court overlooked certain material factors which have vital bearing in arriving at a finding on this point, this Court would not have though of probing into a factual aspect.	None
The averments in the plaint and the material portion of the deposition of the plaintiffs witness were not adverted to while reaching a finding in this regard.	None
In the plaint, the factum of sending Shri R.K. Meattle to the defendants and Shri R.K. Meattle signing the letter are admitted.	None
But, what is stated in the plaint is that Shri Meattle was not authorised to do so.	None
When we come to the deposition of Shri B.D. Meanttle examined as P.W.1, a version was put forward that the letter was got forcibly written by the defendants.	None
If that is so, and if the private limited company having two Directors at the relevant point of time (R.K. Meanttle and B.N. Ahuja) did not approve of the action of R.K. Meattle, why did the plaintiff keep silent for nearly two years without questioning the authority of Shri Meattle?	None
This question remained practically unanswered.	None
Shri B.D. Meattle merely stated that the defendants had no money and therefore they sought time.	None
It is needless to say that this explanation is vague and irrelevant.	None
Another important fact is that the bank draft for the amount of Rs. 5,000/ received from the defendants was not returned and it is not the case of the plaintiff that the draft was not credited to their account.	None
When Shri B.D. Meattle (P.W.1) was confronted with this fact, he came forward with a peculiar explanation that the relationship was not so much strained and therefore the bank draft was not returned.	None
If at all, this is a factor which goes in favour of the defendants rather than the plaintiff.	None
All this would show that the plaintiff consciously agreed to honour the understanding arrived at between the Director of the Company Shri R.K. Meattle and the defendants which was reduced into writing in the form of a letter.	None
If that agreement is true and binding, as has been held by the Trial Court, the plaintiff could not have rescinded the contract in September 1973, despite the fact that the suit filed by the Seth Shanti Lal Jain was pending and the formalities requisite for completion of registration were not completed.	None
It may be an imprudent act on the part of Shri R.K. Meattle, going by the tenor of arrangement, but, in the absence of any allegations of collusion and misrepresentation, the Court cannot disregard the agreement embodied in the letter dated 12.8.1971 which was believed by the trial Court.	None
We are, therefore, of the view that reversal by the High Court of the trial Courts finding on this aspect is unwarranted and as already noted, is vitiated by nonconsideration of the relevant material on record.	None
This Court has, therefore, no option but to disturb the factual finding reached by the High Court.	None
One more fact which disentitles the plaintiff to the equitable relief under Section 27/31 of the Specific Relief Act is the unexplained delay in filing the suit after the exchange of notices in September 1973.	None
Almost three years later, the suit was filed.	None
This inaction has its own revelation.	None
Either the plaintiff did not stand by his declaration to rescind the contract, as held by the trial Court, or the plaintiff was sitting on the fence and waiting to see whether the turn of events would be to his advantage or disadvantage.	None
If the above facts and circumstances are cumulatively considered, the plaintiff has no legitimate ground to seek the equitable remedy.	None
While these are the factors that can be put against the plaintiff, the defendantsappellants are not free from blame.	None
We cannot lose sight of the fact that their conduct is also open to question.	None
The defendants, in the initial stages, insisted on incometax clearance certificate.	None
When the defendants were informed of the readiness of the plaintiff to hand over the ITC subject to payment of balance money within 15 days, the defendants then raised the plea of pendency of the suit of Seth Shanti Lal which was by then dismissed for default.	None
The factum of dismissal of suit was intimated to the defendants through the notice dated 3.7.1973, though the suit was subsequently restored and was finally dismissed in the year 1978.	None
The fact remains that the defendants who, in the initial stages, were prepared to pay the balance sale price on receipt of ITC, for reasons best known to them, dodged to make the payment on the ground of pendency of suit.	None
Though this conduct on the part of the defendants is not above board the conduct of the plaintiff, who has sought equitable remedy, should be kept uppermost in the mind of the Court.	None
The plaintiff seeking equitable remedy cannot approach the Court with unclean hands or be guilty of laches.	None
Irrespective of the conduct of the defendants we must hold that the plaintiff has, for various reasons discussed, above, disentitled himself to the relief of cancellation of instrument and for recovery of possession from the defendants that too after the property was substantially developed.	None
The result of the foregoing discussion is that the suit is liable to be dismissed and it has been rightly dismissed by the trial Court.	Reasoning
However, in view of the fact that the defendants are not free from blame as discussed above and they have utilised the property to the best of their advantage right from day one without, at the same time, paying the balance sale price for several years we put it to the counsel for the appellants whether they are willing to pay to the plaintiff a substantial amount over and above the sale price already deposited in the Court, in order to do justice to the parties.	Reasoning
In fact, in the course of arguments by the learned counsel for the appellants, there was an indication that the appellants were prepared to offer a reasonable amount, without prejudice to their contentions.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the appellants has filed a letter dated 18.4.2002 stating that the appellants can pay and agree to pay a further sum of Rs. 35 lacs (Rupees thirty five lacs) in 3 instalments of Rs. 15 lacs and Rs. 10 lacs and Rs. 10 lacs, in three weeks, by the end of August and by the end of November, 2002 respectively.	Reasoning
When we suggested to the learned counsel that it would be fair if some more amount is offered, the learned counsel for the appellants agreed on behalf of his clients for payment of Rs. 40 lacs in lump sum within a period of six months commencing from today.	Reasoning
Having regard to the offer made in the letter coupled with the oral representation made today and to mere out justice to the parties, we direct that the undertaking to pay the sum of Rs. 40 lacs within six months should form part of the decree in the suit.	Reasoning
This shall be in addition to the sale price already deposited in the Court.	Reasoning
The same shall be deposited in the Court within a period of six months and the appellants are entitled to withdraw the same in addition to the amount already deposited.	Reasoning
The judgment of the High Court is set aside and the appeal is allowed subject to the direction as given above.	Decision
With regard to the deposit of the said additional sum of Rs. 40 lacs, the decree of the trial Court shall stand modified accordingly.	Decision
Parties are left to bear their own costs.	Decision
