 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Claimant before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal is the appellant before us.	Issue
On 11.8.2001, he was driving a two wheeler vehicle being a scooter.	Issue
It was hit by a bus bearing Registration No.DL1PA0746.	Issue
He was a motor mechanic.	Facts
In July 2003, he filed a claim in terms of Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for short, the Act) claiming a sum of Rs.10,00,000/ along with interest at the rate of 18 per annum.	Facts
Allegedly, he suffered 60 total disability.	Facts
His claim was based on the premise that he was earning a sum of Rs.4,500/ per month.3.	Facts
Before the Tribunal, the appellant relied upon a certificate purported to have been issued by the Civil Surgeon, Faridabad on 11.11.2003 stating that he had suffered 60 disability.	Facts
The learned Motor Vehicle Accident Claims Tribunal awarded a sum of Rs.1,68,941 by way of compensation opining that his income was Rs.3,000/ per month and he was entitled to compensation upon taking 30 of his income at the rate of Rs.900/ per month being a total sum of Rs.20,000 besides the amount of compensation towards pain and sufferings and a sum of Rs.5,000/ as general damages including conveyance, special diet etc.	Facts
An interest at the rate of 7 per annum was also awarded.4.	Facts
He preferred an appeal there against.	Facts
The High Court awarded a further sum of Rs.84,800/, opining Minimum wages notified on 1.1.1980 for skilled workers was Rs.320/ per month.	Facts
It rose to Rs.1043/ as on 1.1.1990.	Facts
It rose to Rs.3,016/ as on 1.1.2001.	Facts
The trend shows that minimum wages double every 10 years.	Facts
Considering the age of the deceased being 34 years, it would be safe to assume that by the time he would turn 60, his income would have doubled.	Facts
I accordingly treat the average monthly income of the deceased at Rs.4,500/. Applying the disability certificate, Ex.PW 2/2, being 30 disability, loss on account of disability comes to Rs.1350/ per month.	Facts
Since multiplier adopted by the tribunal is 12 and the Respondents have raised no objection thereto, loss of future income comes to Rs. 1350/ x 12 x 12 1,94,400/.	Facts
It was further observed Damages on account of compensation for loss of amenities of life, hardship and discomfort including frustration and stress under general damages awarded in sum of Rs.5,000/ is inadequate.	None
I increase the same to Rs.25,000/. Mr. Gaurav Goel, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, would submit that having regard to the provisions contained in Section 163A of the Motor Vehicles Act, for the purpose of awarding compensation on disability, the provisions of the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 would be attracted.	None
According to him, in view of the fact that there is no dispute in regard to the genuineness of the said disability certificate, the High Court committed a serious error in assessing the total disability at 30 only.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that the appellant was an indoor patient in the Lady Harding Hospital for a month.	Arguments of Petitioner
The injury suffered by him was considered to be a grievous one and allegedly onethird of his lower limb had been amputated.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the fact that no evidence, contrary thereto, has been produced by the respondents, it was urged that the learned Tribunal as also the High Court committed a serious illegality in arriving at the aforementioned finding.	None
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentinsurance company, however, supported the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
The claim petition was filed under Section 166 of the Act and not under Section 163A thereof.	None
It was contended by the claimantappellant that the driver of the bus in question was rash and negligent as a result whereof, the accident took place.	None
By reason of Section 167 of the Act, an injured person had the option either to file a claim under the Motor Vehicles Act or the Workmens Compensation Act, if both the Acts apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, a case where the claimant could have filed at his option an application under the Workmens Compensation Act.	Reasoning
Section 163A provides for filing of a claim petition where an accident took place by reason of use of the motor vehicle.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to prove any fault on the part of the driver or the vehicle.	Reasoning
The Tribunal in a proceeding arising under Section 166 of the Act is required to hold a full fledged trial.	Reasoning
It is required to collect datas on the basis whereof, the amount of compensation can be determined.	Reasoning
Under Section 163A of the Act, however, the question of liability and extent of proof thereof are not justiciable.	Reasoning
The Tribunal can determine the amount on the basis of the basic datas provided therefor.	Reasoning
Explanation appended to Section 163A of the Act, reads, thus Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this subsection, permanent disability shall have the same meaning and extent as in the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923.	None
The reference to Workmens Compensation Act by incorporation was only for the purpose of subsection (1) of Section 163A.	Reasoning
It was not meant to apply in a case falling under Section 166 of the Act.	Reasoning
Had the provisions of the Workmens Compensation Act were applicable, the procedure laid down therein would also apply.	Reasoning
For the purpose of the definition of total disablement as also person who can grant a certificate therefor, namely, a qualified medical practitioner, Section 2(e) and 2(i) would be attracted.	Reasoning
In terms of the 1923 Act, the amount of compensation is required to be determined as specified in Section 4.	Reasoning
The Rules made in terms of Section 32 of the Act known as Workmens Compensation Rules 1924, would also be applicable.9.	Reasoning
The certificate in question in this case was obtained after two years.	Reasoning
It is not known as to whether the Civil Surgeon of the hospital treated the appellant.	Reasoning
On what basis, such a certificate was issued two years after the accident took place is not known.	Reasoning
The author of the said certificate had not been examined.	Reasoning
Unless the author of the certificate examined himself, it was not admissible in evidence.	Reasoning
Whether the disability at 60 was calculated on the basis of the provisions of the Workmens Compensation Act or otherwise is not known.	Reasoning
It is also not known as to whether he was competent to issue such a certificate.	Reasoning
It even does not appear that the contentions raised before us had either been raised before the Tribunal or the High Court.	Reasoning
The Tribunal as also the High Court, therefore, proceeded on the materials brought on record by the parties.	Reasoning
In absence of any contention having been raised in regard to the applicability of the Workmens Compensation Act which, in our opinion, ex facie has no application, the same, in our opinion, cannot be permitted to be raised for the first time.10.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion, that it is not a case where we should interfere in the impugned judgment of the High Court as also the award of the Tribunal.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed with no order as to costs.	None
