 K. Das, J. (On behalf of himself, Kapur and Sarkar, JJ.)1.	None
These are three consolidated appeals which arise from the judgment and order of a Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court dated August 9, 1957.	Issue
They have been preferred to this Court on the strength of a certificate granted by the said High Court under Art.	Issue
132 of the Constitution certifying that the cases involve a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of Art.	Issue
301 and other connected articles relating to trade commerce and intercourse within the territory of India, contained in Part XIII of the Constitution.	Issue
These appeals were originally heard by a Bench of five Judges and on April 4, 1961 that Bench recorded an order to the effect that having regard to the importance of the constitutional issues involved and the views expressed in the decision of this Court in Atiabari Tea Co. Ltd. v. State of Assam, (1961)	Issue
1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 )	Issue
the appeals should be heard by a larger Bench.	Issue
The appeals were then placed before the learned Chief Justice for necessary orders, and on his orders have now come to this Bench of seven Judges for disposal.	Issue
As the constitutional issues involved affect the States of the Union, notices were issued to the AdvocatesGeneral concerned.	Issue
A notice was also issued to the Attorney General on behalf of the Union of India.	Issue
The States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Madras, Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal intervened and were represented before us either through their respective AdvocateGeneral or other Counsel.	Issue
M s. M. A. Tulloch and Co.	Issue
Andhra Pradesh Motor Congress and Naxeeria Motor Service, Nellore, applied for intervention on the ground that they would be affected in a pending litigation by the decision of this Court on the Constitutional issues involved.	Issue
Those applications were allowed by us.	Issue
The result has been that we have heard very full arguments not only from Counsel appearing for the appellants and the respondents, but also from the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Union of India, the learned AdvocatesGeneral or Counsel appearing for the intervening States and also from learned Counsel appearing on behalf off the other three interveners referred to above.2.	None
The appellants in the three appeals are (1) the Automobile Transport (Raj.) Ltd., Ajmer, in Civil Appeal No. 42 of 1959 (2) the Rajasthan Roadways Ltd., Ajmer in Civil Appeal No. 43 of 1959, and (3) Framji C. Framji and others in Civil Appeal No. 44 of 1959.	Facts
The respondents are (1) the State of Rajasthan, (2) the Regional Transport Officer who is ex officio Motor Vehicles Taxation Officer, Jaipur, and (3) the Collector of Jaipur.	Facts
The first two appellants are private, limited liability companies registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and having their registered offices at Ajmer.	Facts
The third appellant is a partnership firm named Framji Motor Transport registered under the Indian Partnership Act.	Facts
These three appellants carried on the business of plying stage carriages.	Facts
The first appellant had nine transport vehicles plying between two stations in the State of Ajmer and between Ajmer and Kishangarh a town in Rajasthan at the relevant period.	Facts
The two stations in Ajmer were Nasirabad and Deoli.	Facts
The road from Nasirabad to Deoli was mainly in the former State of Ajmer but for some distance it passed through certain narrow strips of territory of the State of Rajasthan.	Facts
Similarly, the road from Ajmer to Kishangarh was partly in the former State of Ajmer and partly in the State of Rajasthan, approximately twothirds of the road lying in Ajmer and onethird in Rajasthan.	Facts
The second and the third appellant also had some transport vehicles which plied on the NasirabadDeoli route or from Kishangarh to Sarwar a town situated on the NasirabadDeoli road in the State of Rajasthan.	Facts
On the passing of the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1951 (Rajasthan Act XI of 1951) (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and the promulgation of the rules made thereunder the second respondent demanded of the appellants payment of the tax due on their motor vehicles for the period beginning on April 1, 1951 and ending on March 31, 1954.	Facts
The first appellant was called upon to pay Rs. 22,260, the second appellant Rs. 6,540 and the third appellant Rs. 10,260 under R. 23 of the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules.	Facts
When the appellants failed to pay the tax demanded from them, the second respondent issued certificates under S. 13 of the Act to the third respondent for recovery of the tax due as arrears of land revenue.	Facts
On receipt of the demand notices the second and the third appellants filed appeals before the Transport Commissioner, Jaipur, under Section 14 of the Act.	Facts
These appeals were however, dismissed by an order of the Transport Commissioner dated October 21, 1953.	Facts
The first appellant did not file any appeal.	Facts
Thereafter the three appellants filed three separate writ petitions in the Rajasthan High Court in which their main contention was that the relevant provisions of the Act imposing a tax on their motor vehicles were unconstitutional and void as they contravened the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India declared by Art.	Facts
301 of the Constitution and therefore, the demand and attempted collection of such tax were illegal and should be prohibited.	Facts
The prayers which the appellants made in their respective writ petitions were mainly these (1) that it be declared that the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Act of 1951 and the Rules made thereunder are invalid and not in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of India and consequently null and void and inoperative, and (2) that a writ of prohibition or mandamus or any other appropriate writ, direction or order directing the respondents not to realise any tax from the appellants under the provisions of the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Act of 1951 be issued.	Facts
The three writ petitions were heard together by a Division Bench consisting of Bapna and Bhandari JJ.	Facts
They dealt with and disposed of certain other objections to the validity of the Act, with which we are no longer concerned but as to the contravention of Art.	Facts
301 of the Constitution	Facts
, they felt that in view of the complexity of the points involved and the apparent conflict between certain decisions of other High Courts the question should be referred to a Full Bench.	Facts
Accordingly, they referred the question whether Ss. 4 and 11 of the Act infringed the right of freedom of traded commerce or intercourse granted under Art.	Facts
301 of the Constitution.	Facts
The Full Benchdealt with the question from two different stand points.	Facts
Firstly, they considered the validity of the Act from the stand point of Art.	Facts
19(1) of the Constitution which guarantees to all citizens of India the right to move freely throughout the territory of India this the Full Bench dealt with under the heading of freedom of intercourse from the stand point of the individual citizen and came to the conclusion that the restrictions which the Act imposed on the individual citizen were reasonable restrictions having regard to the necessity of raising funds for the maintenance of roads and the making of new roads in the State of Rajasthan.	Facts
Then the High Court considered the validity of the relevant provisions of the Act from the stand point of freedom of trade and commerce and came to the conclusion that the regulation of trade, commerce and intercourse within the territory of India, both interState and intraState, was not incompatible with its freedom and in the matter of such regulation of trade, commerce and intercourse a distinction must be drawn between restrictions which are direct and immediate and restrictions which are indirect and consequential.	Facts
The High Court expressed it final conclusion in the following words.	Facts
Reported in AIR 1958 Raj 114(FB).Transport vehicles are provided by individuals carrying on business in them and those who carry on trade and commerce as a whole, can use these transport vehicles.	Facts
The fact that on account of this taxation, the charges of transport vehicles are higher, let us say by an anna a maund is, it our opinion, merely an indirect or consequential result of this Act, and such an impediment may fairly be called remote.	Facts
It would be a different matter, if the taxation is so high that it virtually kills trade and commerce by compelling the traders to raise their prices to an exorbitant rate.	Facts
But this being not the nature of the tax in this case, and the taxation being not directly on trade, commerce or intercourse. . . . . .	Facts
we are of opinion that this taxation cannot be said to offend against Art.	Facts
301, for its effect on trade and commerce is only indirect and consequential and the impediment, if any, may fairly be regarded as remote.	None
In view of that conclusion the Full Bench answered the question referred to it in the negative.	None
The cases then went back to the Division Bench with the answer given by the Full Bench and the writ petitions were dismissed by the Division Bench by its judgment and order dated August 9, 1957.	Facts
The three appellants then moved the High Court for a certificate under Art. 132 of the Constitution which certificate the High Court granted by it, order dated October 16, 1957.3.	Facts
It may be here stated that neither Division Bench nor the Full Bench of the Rajasthan High Court had the advantage of the decision of this Court in Atiabari Tea Co. case, (1961) 1	Facts
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), which decision came much later in point of time.	None
The main argument on behalf of the appellants before us has been that the provisions of the Act under which the appellants were sought to be taxed in respect of their motor vehicles plying on the NasirabadDeoli or Kishangarh road contravened Art 301 of the Constitution and were not saved by Art. 304(b) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
We shall presently read the relevant provisions of the Act, but before we do so we may briefly refer to one short point by way of clearing the ground for the discussion which will follow.	None
Article 305 of the Constitution as it originally stood said that nothing in Arts.	None
301 and 303 shall affect the provisions of any existing law except in so far as the President may by order otherwise provide.	Facts
This article was substituted by another article, somewhat wider in scope by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act 1955.	Facts
The new article repeated the words of the old article in the first part thereof and in the second part it said that nothing in Art.	Facts
301 shall affect the operation of any law made before the commencement of the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, in so far as it relates to or prevent Parliament or the Legislature of a State from making any law relating to any such matter as is referred to in subcl.	Facts
(ii) of cl.	Facts
(6) of Art.	Facts
19.	Reasoning
That subclause refers to the carrying on by the State or by a corporation owned or controlled by the State, of any trade, business, industry or service, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise.	Facts
The first part of Art.	Facts
305 does not apply in the present cases because the expression existing law means any law, ordinance order, bye law etc. passed or made before the commencement of the Constitution.	Facts
The Act which we are considering now in the present appeals was made in 1951, i.e. after the commencement of the Constitution.	Facts
The second part of Art. 305 has also no bearing on the questions which we have to consider in these appeals.	Facts
Article 305, old or new, is, therefore out of our way.4.	Facts
We now proceed to read the relevant provisions of the Act.	Facts
The Act was made by the Rajpramukh of the State of Rajasthan on April 1, 1951.	Facts
The history of the constitution of the United State of Rajasthan and the powers of the Rajpramukh under the covenant creating the State were stated in Thakur Amar Singhji v. State of Rajasthan, (1955) 2	Facts
SCR 303 at pages 312 to 316 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 504 at pp. 513514).	Facts
With that history we are not concerned in the present cases.	Facts
The competence of the Rajpramukh to make the Act was challenged in the High Court but was decided against the appellants.	Facts
That point has not been agitated before us and we must proceed on the footing that the Act was validly made by the Rajpramukh.	Facts
Section 4 of the Act is the charging section, the validity of which has been challenged before us on the ground that it violates the freedom of trade commerce and intercourse granted under Art.	Facts
301 of the Constitution.	Facts
It is, therefore, necessary to quote S. 4.4.	None
Imposition of tax.  	None
(1) Save as otherwise provided by this Act or by rules made thereunder or by any other law for the time being in force, no motor vehicle shall be used in any public place or kept for use in Rajasthan unless the owner thereof has paid in respect of it, a tax at the appropriate rate specified in the Schedule to this Act within the time allowed by Section 5 and, save as hereinafter specified, such tax shall be payable annually not withstanding that the motor vehicle may from time to time cease to be used.(2) An owner who keeps a motor vehicle of which the certificate of fitness and the certificate of registration are current, shall, for the purposes of this Act be presumed to keep such vehicle for use.(3)	Facts
A person who keeps more than ten motor vehicles for use solely in the course of trade and industry shall be entitled to a deduction of ten per cent, on the aggregate amount of tax to which he is liable.	None
Explanation.	Facts
The expression trade and industry includes transport for hire.	Facts
Sections 5 to 7 deal with (1) payment of tax, (2) tax payable on first liability to tax, and (3) refund of tax.	None
With these details we are not concerned here.	None
Section 8 imposes on the owner of every motor vehicle an obligation to make a declaration every year in respect of the motor vehicle in the prescribed form stating the prescribed particulars etc.	None
it also imposes an obligation on every owner to pay the tax which he is liable to pay in respect of the motor vehicle.	None
This section is also challenged as unconstitutional and it is obvious that it is connected with S. 4.	None
If S. 4 is unconstitutional, so must be S. 8Section 9 deals with the payment of additional tax in circumstances which need not be stated here.	None
Section 10 deals with the grant of receipt and token.	None
Section 11 says11.	None
Penalties under this Act.  	None
Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of of this Act or of any rule made thereunder shall on conviction be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 100 and in the event of such person having been previously, convicted of an offence under this Act or under any rule made thereunder with fine which may extend to Rs. 200.Section 12 deals with the compounding of offences and S. 13 lays down that when any person without any reasonable cause fails or refuses to pay the tax, the Taxation Officer may forward to the Collector of the district concerned a certificate over his signature specifying the amount of tax due from such person and the Collector shall recover the tax as if it were an arrear of land revenue.	None
Section 14 provides for appeals to the Transport Commissioner.	None
Section 16 lays down that the liability of a person to pay the tax shall not be questioned or determined otherwise than as provided in the Act or in the rules made thereunder.	None
Sections 17 to 21 deal with certain ancillary matters and S. 22 enables the Government to make rules for carrying into effect the purposes of the Act.	None
There are four Schedules to the Act to which a more detailed reference will be made later.	Reasoning
It is enough to state here that the Schedules divide motor vehicles into two parts Schedule I deals with vehicles other than transport vehicles plying for hire or reward Schedule II deals with transport vehicles of two kinds, transport vehicles and goods vehicles Schedule III deals with goods vehicles registered outside Rajasthan but using roads in Rajasthan and Schedule IV deals with vehicles used for the carriage of goods in connection with a trade or business carried on by the owner of the vehicle under a private carriers permit.	Reasoning
Various rates of tax are provided for various kinds of vehicles in these Schedules.	Reasoning
The High Court has pointed out that Schedule I is concerned with vehicles other than transport vehicles and is mainly concerned with what would come within the term intercourse in Art.	Reasoning
301 and the other Schedules deal with what would come within the term trade and commerce in that article.	Reasoning
The result of reading S. 4 of the Act with the Schedules is that no one can use or keep a motor vehicle in Rajasthan without paying the appropriate tax for it and if he does so he is made liable to the penalties imposed under S. 11, of the Act.	Reasoning
In brief, this appears to be the scheme of the Act.5.	None
Is this scheme in conflict with the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse within the territory of India assured by Art.	None
301 and other connected articles in Part XIII of the constitution?	Reasoning
That is the problem before us.	None
It is necessary, therefore, to read at this stage the relevant articles in Part XIII of the constitution.	None
For this purpose we must read Arts.	None
301 to 304 as they stood at the relevant time.301.	None
Subject to the other provisions of this Part, trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India shall be free.302.	None
Parliament may by law impose such restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse between one State and another or within any part of the territory of India as may be required in the public interest.303.	Reasoning
(1) Notwithstanding anything in Article 302, neither Parliament nor the Legislature of a State shall have power to make any law giving, or authorising the giving of, any preference to one State over another, or making, or authorising the making of, any discrimination between one State and another, by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce in any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule.(2) Nothing in clause (1) shall prevent Parliament from making any law giving or authorising the giving of, any preference or making, or authorising the making of, any discrimination if it is declared by such law that it is necessary to do so for the purpose of dealing with a situation arising from scarcity of goods in any part of the territory of India.304.	None
Notwithstanding anything in Article 301 or Article 303, the Legislature of a State may by law(a) impose on goods imported from other States any tax to which similar goods manufactured or produced in that State are subject, so, however, as not to discriminate between goods so imported and goods so manufactured or produced and(b) impose such reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse with or within that State as may be required in the public interestProvided that no Bill or amendment for the purposes of clause (b) shall be introduced or moved in the Legislature of a State without the previous sanction of the President.	None
Article 305 we have already stated is out of our way.	None
Article 306, which was later repealed by the constitution (Seventh Amendment Act, 1956 is also not material for the consideration of the problem before us.	None
Article 307 is also not material as it relates to appointment of an appropriate authority for carrying out the purposes of Arts.	None
301 to 304.6.	None
The series of articles on the true scope and effect of which the decision of the problem before us depends were the subject matter of consideration of this Court in the Atiabari Tea Co. case (1961)1 SCR 809 (AIR 1961.	Issue
SC 232).	Issue
In that decision three views were expressed and once of the questions mooted and argued before us is whether the principle of the majority decision in that case requires reconsideration, or modification in any respect or whether any of the other two views expressed therein is the correct view.	Issue
Another connected question is that if the majority view is the correct view, does the principle underlying it apply to the facts of the present cases?	Issue
It Is, therefore, necessary to set out briefly the facts of the Atiabari Tea Co. case (1961) 1	Facts
SCR 809 (AIR 1961SC 232), and the three views expressed therein.	Facts
The three appellants in that case were tea companies, two of which carried on the trade of growing tea in Assam and the other carried on its trade in Jalpaiguri in west Bengal.	Facts
They carried their tea to Calcutta in order that it might be sold in the Calcutta market for home consumption or export outside India.	Facts
Tea produced in Jalpaiguri had to pass through a few miles of territory in Assam, while the tea produced in Assam had to go all the way through Assam to reach Calcutta.	Facts
Besides the tea which was carried by rail, a substantial quantiy had to go by road or by inland water ways and as such became liable to pay to lax leviable under the Assam Taxation (on goods carried by Roads or Inland Waterways) Act, 1954.	Facts
That Act levied a tax on certain goods carried by road or inland waterways in the State of Assam and the validity of the levy of such a tax was in question in the Atiabari Tea Co. case (1961)1 SCR 809 (AIR1961 SC 232).	Facts
The principal ground of attack was that the Assam Act violated the provisions of Art.	Facts
301 of the Constitution and was not saved by the provisions of Art. 304(b)	Facts
We may now summarise the views expressed in that decision.	Facts
First, as to the view of the learned Chief justice.	Facts
He expressed the view that taxation simpliciter was not within the terms of Art.	Facts
301 and a tax on movement of goods or passengers did not necessarily connote impediment or restraint in the matter of trade and commerce He drew a distinction between taxation as such for the purpose of revenue on the one hand and taxation for the purpose of making discrimination or giving preference on the other hand the latter, he said, could be treated as impediment to free trade and commerce.	Facts
He expressed his final conclusion in these wordsThus, on fair construction of the provisions of Part XIII, the following propositions emerge (1) trade, commerce, and intercourse throughout the territory of India are not absolutely free, but are subject to certain powers of legislation by Parliament or the Legislature of a State (2) the freedom declared by Art, 301 does not mean freedom from taxation simpliciter, but does mean freedom from taxation which has the effect of directly impeding the free flow of trade commerce and intercourse (3) the freedom envisaged in Art.	Facts
301 is subject to nondiscriminatory restrictions imposed by Parliament in public interest (Art, 302) (4) even discriminatory or preferential legislation may be made by Parliament for the purpose of dealing with an emergency like a scarcity of goods in any part of India (Art. 303(2))	Facts
(5) reasonable restrictions may be imposed by the Legislature of a State in the public interest (Art. 304 (b) )	Facts
(6) nondiscriminatory taxes may be imposed by the Legislature of a State on goods imported from another State or other States, if similar taxes are imposed on goods produced or manufacture in that State (Art.	Facts
304(a)j and lastly (7) restrictions imposed by existing laws have been continued, except in so far as the President may, by order otherwise direct (Art. 305).	Facts
(pp. 831832 (of SCR) (at p. 242 of AIR) )	Facts
.The majority view differed from that of the learned Chief Justice in that it did not accept as correct the contention that tax laws were governed by the provisions of Part XII of the Constitution only and were outside Part XIII.	Facts
The majority expressed the view that when Art.	Facts
301provided that trade shall be free throughout the territory of India, it was the movement or transport part of the trade that must be free.	Facts
The majority saidIt is a federal constitution which we are interpreting, and so the impact of Art.	Facts
301 must be judged accordingly.	Facts
Besides, it is not irrelevant to remember in this connection that the Article we are construing imposes a constitutional limitation on the power of the Parliament and the State Legislatures to levy taxes, and generally, but for such limitation, the power of taxation would be presumed to be for public good and would not be subject to judicial review or scrutiny.	Facts
Thus, considered we think it would be reasonable and proper to hold that restrictions freedom from which is guaranteed by Art. 301, would be such restrictions as directly and immediately restrict or impede the free flow or movement of trade.	Facts
Taxes may and do amount to restrictions but it is only such taxes as directly and immediately restrict trade that would fall within the purview of Art.	Facts
301.	Reasoning
The argument that all taxes should be governed by Art. 301 whether or not their impact on trade is immediate or mediate, direct or remote, adopts, in our opinion, an extreme approach which cannot he upheld.	Facts
(p. 860 (of SCR) (at p. 254 of AIR)).The third view held by Shah, J. was that the freedom contemplated was freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse in all their varied aspects inclusive of all activities which constitute commercial intercourse and not merely restrictions on the movement aspect.	Facts
He saidThe guarantee of freedom of trade and commerce is not addressed merely against prohibitions, complete or partial it is addressed to tariffs, licensing, marketing regulations, pricecontrol, nationalisation, economic or social planning, discriminatory tariffs, compulsory appropriation of goods, freezing or standstill orders and similar other impediments operating directly and immediately on the freedom of commercial intercourse as well.	Facts
Every, sequence in the series of operations which constitutes trade or commerce is an act of trade or commerce and burdens or impediments imposed on any such step are restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	Facts
What is guaranteed is freedom in its widest amplitudefreedom from prohibition, control, burden or impediment in commercial intercourse.	Facts
(p.874 (of SCR) (at p. 260 of AIR) )	Facts
.7.	None
So far we have set out the factual and legal background against which the problem before us has to be solved.	Facts
We must now say a few words regarding the historical background.	Facts
It is necessary to do this, because extensive references have been made to Australian and American decisions, Australian decisions with regard to the interpretation of S. 92 of the Australian Constitution and American decisions with regard to the Commerce Clause of the American Constitution.	Facts
This Court pointed out in the Atiabari Tea Co, case (1961) 1SCR 809 (AIR1961 SC 232), that it would not be always safe to rely, upon the American or Australian decisions in interpreting the provisions of our Constitution.	Facts
Valuable as those decisions might be in showing how the problem of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse was dealt with in other federal constitutions, the provisions of our Constitution must be interpreted against the historical background in which our Constitution was made the background of problems which the Constitution makers tried to solve according to the genius of The Indian people whom the constitutionmakers represented in the Constituent Assembly.	Facts
The first thing to be noticed in this connection is that the Constitutionmakers were not writing on a clean slate.	Facts
They had the Government of India Act, 1935 and they also had the administrative set up which that Act envisaged.	Facts
India then consisted of various administrative units known as Provinces, each with its own administrative set up.	Facts
There were differences of language, religion etc.	Facts
Some of the Provinces were economically more developed than the others.	Facts
Even inside the same Province, there were underdeveloped, developed and highly developed areas from the point of view of industries, communications etc.	Facts
The problem of economic integration with which the Constitutionmakers were faced was a problem with many facets.	Facts
Two questions, however, stood out one question was how to achieve a federal, economic and fiscal integration, so that economic policies affecting the interests of India as a whole could be carried out without putting an everincreasing strain on the unity of India, particularly in the context of a developing economy.	Facts
The second question was how to foster the development of areas which were underdeveloped without creating too many preferential or discriminative barriers.	Facts
Besides the Provinces, there were the Indian States also known as Indian India.	Facts
After India attained political freedom in 1947 and before the Constitution was adopted, the process of merger and integration of the Indian States with the rest of the country had been accomplished so that when the Constitution was first passed the territory of India consisted of part A States, which broadly stated represented the Provinces in British India, and Part B States which were made up of Indian States.	Facts
There were trade barriers raised by the Indian States in the exercise of their legislative powers and the Constitution makers had to make provisions with regard to those trade barriers as well.	Facts
The evolution of a federal structure or a quasifederal structure necessarily involved in the context of the conditions then prevailing, a distribution of powers and a basic part of our Constitution relates to that distribution with the three legislative lists in the Seventh Schedule.	Facts
The Constitution itself says by Art, 1 that India is a Union of states and in interpreting the Constitution one must keep in view the essential structure of a federal or quasifederal Constitution, namely, that the units of the Union have also certain powers as has the Union itself.	Facts
One of the grievances made on behalf of the intervening States before us was that the majority view in the Atiabari Tea Co. case (1961) 1	Facts
SCR 809 (AlR 1961 SC 232) , did not give sufficient importance to the power of the States under the Indian Constitution to raise revenue by taxes under the legislative heads entrusted to them in interpreting the series of article relating to trade, commerce and intercourse in Part XIII of the Constitution.	Facts
It has been often stated that freedom of interstate trade and commerce in a federation has been a baffling problem to constitutional experts in Australia, in America and in other federal constitutions.	Facts
In evolving an integrated policy on this subject our Constitutionmakers seem to have kept in mind three main considerations which may be broadly stated thus first, in the larger interests of India there must be free flow of trade, commerce and intercourse, both interState and intraState second, the regional interests must not be ignored altogether and third, there must be a power of intervention by the Union in, a power case of crisis to deal with particular problems that may arise in any part of India.	Facts
As we shall presently show all these three consideration have played their part in the series of articles which we have to consider in Part XIII of the Constitution.	Facts
Therefore, in interpreting the relevent article in Part XIII we must have regard to the general scheme of the Constitution of India with special reference to Part III (Fundamental Rights), Part XII (Finance, Property etc, containing Arts, 276 and 286) and their interrelataion to Part XIII in the context of a federal or quasifederal constitution in which the States have certain power including the power to raise, revennue for their purposes by taxation.8.	Facts
On behalf of the appellants it has been contended before us that S, 4 of the Act read with the Schedules constitutes a direct and immediate restriction on the movement of trade and commerce with and within Rajasthan inasmuch as motor vehicles which carry passengers and goods within or through Rajasthan have to pay the tax which, it is stated, imposes a pecuniary burden on a commercial activity and is, therefore, hit by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
301 of the Constitution and is not saved by Art. 304(b) inasmuch as the proviso to Art. 304(b) was not complied with nor was the Act assented to by the President within the meaning of Art. 255 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel for the appellants has submitted before us that the correct interpretation of the series of relevant articles in Part XIII of the Constitution is the one made by Shah, J. in the Atiabari Tea Co. case (1961)	Arguments of Petitioner
1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
He has however, submitted that even on the interpretation accepted by the majority of Judges in the Atiabari Tea Co. case (1961) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 809 (AIR 1961SC 232), he is entitled to succeed, because the relevant provisions of the Act constitute a direct and immediate restriction on the movement part of trade, commerce and intercourse.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents the argument has proceeded on the footing that taxation per se i.e. taxation for the purpose of raising revenue or for the maintenance of roads etc. is not hit by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
301 and the impugned	Arguments of Respondent
, provisions of the Act in question did not constitute an immediate or direct impediment on the movement of trade and commerce inasmuch as the tax imposed was a consolidated tax on the vehicle itself though the quantum of the tax was fixed in some instances with reference to the seating capacity or loading capacity etc.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument is that in this respect the facts of the present cases differ from the facts of the Aitabari Tea Co. case, (1961) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), it is argued that in the latter the tax was on the carriage of goods, whereas in the present cases the tax is a consolidated tax on the vehicle itself, like a property tax, and, therefore, it does not relate to the movement part of trade, commerce and intercourse, though it may have an indirect effect on trade and commmerce by raising the tariff or fare for passengers and goods.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel for the respondents has in this way tried to distinguish the majority decision in the Atiabari Tea Co. case, (19611 1 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), but he has mainly argued in favour of the view expressed by the learned Chief Justice.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the interveners, some have supported the majority view with or without modifications and some the other two views.	None
Mr. N. C. Chaiterjee appearing on behalf of the Union of India supported the majority view, though the stand taken by the Attorney General on behalf of the Union of India in the Atiabari Tea Co. case, (1961) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), was somewhat different, Mr. Ranadeb Chaudhuri appearing on behalf of one of the interveners (M s. M. A. Tulloch and Co.) has accepted the majority view with some modifications.	Arguments of Respondent
He has stated that Art.	Arguments of Respondent
301 relates to movement or carriage he has called.	Arguments of Respondent
it the channelling of trade and commerce.	Arguments of Respondent
He has however tried to reconcile the various provisions in Part XIII by suggesting that there are two connected but independent subjects dealt with therein one is freedom of movement of trade, commerce and intercourse (this, he has described, as channelling of trade, commerce and intercourse), and the second is protection from discrimination and preference which is not necessarily connected with movement but may arise from subsidy etc.	Arguments of Respondent
These are the two ideas which, according to him, inspired the relevant series of articles in Part XIII.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of some of the interveners the argument has been that the freedom declared under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
301 is not freedom from such regulatory measures as do not impede trade, commerce and intercourse but rather facilitate such trade, commerce and intercourse, e.g. traffic regulations, regulations for safeguarding public health, such as, prohibiting the sale of adulterated food etc.	Arguments of Respondent
This view suggests that in the matter of taxation, such taxes as are compensatory in nature, namely, those levied for the maintenance of roads on which traffic is to move, do not come within the restrictions freedom from which is contemplated by Art, 301.	Arguments of Respondent
This is the view which Mr. Sikri, Advocate General of Punjab, has mainly contended for, Mr. Seervai appearing on behalf of the State of Maharashtra and some other States has contended that part XIII of the Constitution is confined to such action, legislative or executive, as is taken in relation to any of the entries relating to trade and commerce in any of the lists in the Seventh Schedule, namely, entries 41 and 42 in list I entry 26 of list II, and entry 33 of list III, The expression throughout the territory of India occurring in Art, 301 has reference, according to this view, to space rather than to movement.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Seervai the mode of approach should be to consider (i) the position of the States in the Indian Constitution with plenary powers in their respective fields (ii) the historical background of S.297 of the Government of India Act, 1935 (iii) the decisions of the Australian cases upto 1950 when the Constitution of India was made and (iv) Part XIII of the Constitution as.	Arguments of Respondent
compared and contrasted with Part III and Part XII thereof.	Arguments of Respondent
As to taxation, his contention is that it does not come within Part XIII except to the extent mentioned in Art. 304(a).	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Lalnarain Sinha appearing for the State of Bihar has supported the view of the learned Chief Justice in Atiabari Tea Co. case (1961) 1SCR 809 (AIR1961 SC 232), though the reasons given by him are somewhat different.	Arguments of Respondent
His argument has been that Art.	Arguments of Respondent
301 secures for trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India a qualified freedom from restrictions based on geographical classifications only the freedom thus secured is in regard to barriers (in the geographical sense) impeding trade, commerce and intercourse between one State and another or between one territory and another within or without the same State, and also against territorial discriminations in respect of trade, commerce and intercourse either interState or intraState.	Arguments of Respondent
With regard to taxation, his contention, is that taxes (meant for raising revenue only and called fiscal taxes) do not operate as interState or interterritorial barriers nor involve any territorial discriminations, and they do not come within Part XIII.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. D. Sahu appearing for the State of Orissa argued that the freedom granted by Art, 301 was confined to (i) inter State barriers, and (ii) customsbarriers which at one time existed between the Indian States and adjacent British Indian territory.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the intraState aspect of the freedom assured by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
301 was confined to old customsbarriers only which some of the Indian States which have now merged in particular States of the Indian Republic had earlier imposed.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. C. B. Agarwala appearing for the state of Uttar pradesh argued that the subject matter of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
301 was trade commerce and intercourse, namely, the entries relating to trade and commerce in any of the lists in the Seventh Schedule but the restrictions from which freedom was granted might come from any direction they might come from legislative or executive action relating to other entries also.9.	Arguments of Respondent
We have tried to summarise above the various standpoints and views which were canvassed before us and we shall now proceed to consider which, according to us is the correct interpretation of the relevant articles in Part XIII of the Constitution.	None
We may first take the widest view, the view expressed by Shah, J. in the Atiabari Tea Co. case (1961) 1	Reasoning
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ) a View which has been supported by the appellants and one or two of the interveners before us.	Reasoning
This view, we apprehend, is based on a purely textual interpretation of the relevant articles in Part XIII of the Constitution and this textual interpretation proceeds in the following way.	Reasoning
Article 301 which is in general terms and is made subject to the other provisions of Part XIII imposes a general limitation on the exercise of legislative power, whether by the Union or the States, under any of the topicstaxation topics as well as other topicsenumerated in the three lists of the Seventh Schedule in order to make certain that trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India shall be free.	Reasoning
Having placed a general limitation on the exercise of legislative powers by Parliament and the State Legislature, Art. 302 relaxes that restriction in favour of Parliament by providing that that authority may by law impose such restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse between one State and another or within any part of the territory of India as may be required in the public interest.	Reasoning
Having relaxed the restriction in respect of Parliament under Art. 302, a restriction is put upon the relaxation by Art.	Reasoning
303(1) to the effect that Parliament shall not have the power to make any law giving any preference to any one State over another or discriminating between one State and another by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce in lists I and III of the Seventh Schedule.	Reasoning
Article 303(1) which places a ban on Parliament against the giving of preferences to one State over another or of discriminating between one State and another, also provides that the same kind of ban should be placed upon the State Legislature also legislating by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce in lists II and III of the Seventh Schedule.	Reasoning
Article 303(2) again carves out an exception to the restriction placed by Art.	Reasoning
303(1) on the powers of Parliament, by providing that nothing in Art.	Reasoning
303(1) shall prevent Parliament from making any law giving preference to one State over another or discriminating between one State and another, if it is necessary to do so for the purpose of dealing with a situation arising from scarcity of goods in any part of the territory of India.	Reasoning
This exception applies only to Parliament and not to the State Legislalatures.	Reasoning
Article 304 comprises two clauses and each clause operates as a proviso to Arts.	Reasoning
301 and 303.	Reasoning
Clause (1) of that article provides that the Legislature of a State may impose on goods imported from other States any tax to which similar goods manufactured or produced in that State are subject, so, however, as not to discriminate between goods so imported and goods so manufactured or produced.	Reasoning
This clause, therefore, permits the levy on goods imported from sister States any tax which similar goods manufactured or produced in that State are subject to under its taxing laws.	Reasoning
In other words, goods imported from sister States are placed on a par with similar goods manufactured or produced inside the State in regard to State taxation within the State allocated field.	Reasoning
Thus the States in India have full power of imposing what in American State legislation is called the use tax, gross receipts tax etc., not to speak of the familiar property tax, subject only to the condition that such tax is imposed on all goods of the same kind produced or manufactured in the taxing State, although such taxation is undoubtedly calculated to fetter interState trade and commerce.	Reasoning
As was observed by Patanjali Sastri, C. J., in State of Bombay v. United Motors, (India) Ltd., 1953 SCR 1069 (AIR 1953 SC 252 ) the commercial unity of India is made to give way before the State power of imposing any nondiscriminatory tax on goods imported from sister States.	Reasoning
Now cl.	Reasoning
(b) of Art.	Reasoning
304 provides that notwithstanding anything in Art.	Reasoning
301 or Art. 303, the Legislature of a State may by law impose such reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse with or within that State as may be required in the public interest.	Reasoning
The proviso to cl.	Reasoning
(b) says that no bill or amendment for the purposes of cl.	Reasoning
(b) shall be introduced or moved in the Legislature of a State without the previous sanction of the President.	Reasoning
This provision appears to be the State analogue to the Union Parliaments authority defined by Art. 302, in spite of the omission of the word reasonable before the word restrictions in the latter article.	Reasoning
Leaving aside the prerequisite of previous Presidential sanction for the validity of State legislation under cl.	Reasoning
(b) provided in the proviso thereto, there are two important differences between Art. 302 and Art. 304(b) which require special mention.	Reasoning
The first is that while the power of Parliament under Art. 302 is subject to the prohibition of preferences and discriminations decreed by Art.	Reasoning
303(1) unless Parliament, makes the declaration contained in Art.	Reasoning
303(2) the States power contained in Art. 304 (b) is made expressly free from the prohibition contained in Article 303(1), because the opening words of Art.	Reasoning
304 contain a non obstante clause both to Art.	Reasoning
301 and Art.	Reasoning
303.	Reasoning
The second difference springs from the fact that while Parliaments power to impose restrictions under Art. 302 upon freedom of commerce in the public interest is not subject to the requirement of reasonableness, the power of the States to impose restrictions on the freedom of commerce in the public interest under Art. 304 is subject to the condition that they are reasonable.10.	Reasoning
On the basis of the aforesaid textual construction, which is perhaps correct so far as it goes, the view expressed is that the freedom granted by Art.	Reasoning
301 is of the widest amplitude and is subject only to such restrictions as are contained in the succeeding articles in Part XIII.	Reasoning
But even in the matter of textual construction there are difficulties.	Reasoning
One of the difficulties which was adverted to during the Constituent Assembly debates related to the somewhat indiscriminate or inappropriate use of the expressions subject to and notwithstanding in the articles in question.	Reasoning
Article 302, as we have seen, makes a relaxation in favour of Parliament.	Reasoning
Article 303 again imposes a restriction on that relaxation notwithstanding anything in Art.	Reasoning
302	Reasoning
but Art.	Reasoning
303 relates both to Parliament and the State Legislature, though Art.	Reasoning
302 makes no relaxation in favour of the State Legislature.	Reasoning
The non obstante clause in Art. 303 is, therefore, somewhat inappropriate.	Reasoning
Clause (2) of Art.	Reasoning
303 carves out an exception from the restriction imposed on Parliament by cl.	Reasoning
(1) of Art. 303.	Reasoning
But again cl.	Reasoning
(2) relates only to Parliament and not to the State Legislature even though cl.	Reasoning
(1) relates, to both.	Reasoning
Article 304 again begins with a non obstante clause mentioning both Art.	Reasoning
301 and Art. 303, though Art.	Reasoning
304 relates only to the Legislature of a State.	Reasoning
Article 303 relates to both the State Legislature and Parliament and again the non obstante clause in Art. 304 is somewhat inappropriate.	Reasoning
The fact of the matter is that there is such a mixup of exception upon exception in the series of articles in Part XIII that a purely textual interpretation may not disclose the true intendment of the articles.	Reasoning
This does not mean that the text of the articles, the words used therein, should be ignored.	Reasoning
Indeed, the text of the articles is a vital consideration in interpreting them but we must at the same time remember that we are dealing with the constitution of a country and the interconnection of the different parts of the constitution forming part of an integrated whole must not be lost sight of.	Reasoning
Even textually, we must ascertain the true meaning of the word free occurring in Art.	Reasoning
301.	Reasoning
From what burdens or restrictions is the freedom assured?	Reasoning
This is a question of vital importance even in the matter of construction.	Reasoning
In S. 92 of the Australian Constitution the expression used was absolutely free and repeatedly the question was posed as to what this freedom meant.	Reasoning
We do not propose to recite the somewhat chequered history of the Australian decisions in respect of which Lord Porter, after a review of the earlier cases, said in Commonwealth of Australia v. Bank of New South wales, 1950 AC 235 that in the labyrinth of cases decided under Section 92 there was no golden thread.	Reasoning
What is more important for our purpose is that he expressed the view that two general propositions stood out from the decisions (i) that regulation of trade, commerce and intercourse among the States is compatible with its absolute freedom, and (ii) that S. 92 of the Australian Constitution is violated only when a legislative or executive act operates to restrict such trade, commerce and intercourse directly and immediately as distinct from creating some indirect or inconsequential impediment which may fairly be regarded as remote.	Reasoning
Lord Porter admitted that in the application of these general propositions, in determining whether an enactment is regulatory or something more, or whether a restriction is direct or only remote or incidental, there cannot fail to be differences of opinion.	Reasoning
It seems clear, however, that since the conception of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse in a community regulated by law presupposes some degree of restriction upon the individual, that freedom must necessarily be delimited by considerations of social orderliness.	None
In one of the earlier Australian decisions (Duncan v. State of Queensland, (1916) 22 CLR 556) Griffith, C. J. said But the word free does not mean extra legem, any more than freedom means anarchy.	None
We boast of being an absolutely free people, but that does not mean that we are not subject to law.	None
(p. 573)As	None
the language employed in Art.	None
301 runs unqualified the Court, bearing in mind the fact that that provision has to be applied in the working of an orderly society, has necessarily to add certain qualifications subject to which alone that freedom may be exercised.	None
This point has been very lucidly discussed in the dissenting opinion which Fullagar, J. wrote in McCarter v. Brodie, (1950) 80 CLR 432 an opinion which was substantially approved the Privy Council in Hughes and Vale Proprietary Ltd. v. State of New South Wales, 1955 AC 241.	None
The learned Judge gave several examples to show the distinction between what was merely permitted regulation and what was true interference with freedom of trade and commerce.	None
He pointed out that in the matter of motor vehicles most countries have legislation which requires the motor vehicle to be registered and a fee to be paid on registration.	None
Every motor vehicle must carry lamps of a specified kind in front and at the rear and in the hours of darkness these lamps must be alight if the vehicle is being driven on the road.	None
Every motor vehicle must carry a warning device such as a horn it must not be driven at a speed or in a manner which is dangerous to the public.	None
In certain localities a motor vehicle must not be driven at more than a certain speed.	None
The weight of the load which may be carried on a motor vehicle on a public highway is limited.	None
Such examples may be multiplied indefinitely.	None
Nobody doubts that the application of rules like the above does not really affect the freedom of trade and commerce on the contrary they facilitate the free flow of trade and commerce.	None
The reason is that these rules cannot fairly be said to impose a burden on a trader or deter him from trading it would be absurd, for example, to suggest that freedom of trade is impaired or hindered by laws which require a motor vehicle to keep to the left of the road and not drive in a manner dangerous to the public.	None
If the word free in Art.	None
301 means freedom to do whatever one wants to do then chaos may be the result for example, one owner of a motor vehicle may wish to drive on the left of the road while another may wish to drive on the right of the road.	None
If they come from opposite directions, there will be an inevitable clash.	None
Another class of examples relates to making a charge for the use of trading facilities, such as, roads bridges, aerodromes etc.	None
The collection of a toll or a tax for the use of a road or for the use of a bridge or for the use of an aerodrome is no barrier or burden or deterrent to traders who in their absence may have to take a longer or less convenient or more expensive route.	None
Such compensatory taxes are no hindrance to anybodys freedom so long as they remain reasonable but they could of course be converted into a hindrance to the freedom of trade.	None
If the authorities concerned really wanted to hamper anybodys trade, they could easily raise the amount of tax or toll to an amount which would be prohibitive or deterrent or create other impediments which instead of facilitating trade and commerce would hamper them.	None
It is here that the contrast, between freedom (Art. 301) and restrictions (Arts. 302 and 304) clearly appears that which in reality facilitates trade and commerce is not a restriction, and that which in reality hampers or burdens trade and commerce is a restriction.	Reasoning
It is the reality or substance of the matter that has to be determined.	Reasoning
It is not possible a priori to draw a dividing line between that which would really be a charge for a facility provided and that which would really be a deterrent to a trade but the distinction, if it has to be drawn, is real and clear.	Reasoning
For the tax to become a prohibited tax it has to be a direct tax the effect of which is to hinder the movement part of trade.	Reasoning
So long as a tax remains compensatory or regulatory it cannot operate as a hindrance.11.	Reasoning
The most serious objection to the widest view canvassed before us is that it ignores altogether that in the conception of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse in a community regulated by law freedom must be understood in the context of the working of an orderly society.	Reasoning
The widest view proceeds on the footing that Art.	Reasoning
301 imposes a general restriction on legislative power and grants a freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse in all its series of operations, from all barriers, from all restrictions, from all control and from all regulation, and the only qualification that is to be found in the article is the opening clause, namely subject to the other provisions of Part XIII.	Reasoning
This in actual practice will mean that if the State Legislature wishes to control or regulate trade, commerce and intercourse in such a way as to facilitate its free movement, it must yet proceed to make a law under Art. 304(b) and no such bill can be introduced or moved in the Legislature of a State without the previous sanction of the President.	Reasoning
The practical effect would be to stop or delay effective legislation which may be urgently necessary.	Reasoning
Take for example a case where in the interests of public health, it is necessary to introduce urgently legislation stopping trade in goods which are deleterious to health, like the trade in diseased potatoes in Australia.	Reasoning
If the State Legislature wishes to introduce such a bill, it must have the sanction of the President.	Reasoning
Even such legislation as imposes traffic regulations would require the sanction of the President.	Reasoning
Such an interpretation would, in our opinion seriously affect the legislative power of the State Legislatures which power has been held to be plenary with regard to subjects in list II.	Reasoning
The States must also have revenue to carry out their administration and there are several items relating to the imposition of taxes in list II.	Reasoning
The Constitutionmakers must have intended that under those items the States will be entitled to raise revenue for their own purposes.	Reasoning
If the widest view is accepted then there would be for all practical purposes, an end of State autonomy even within the fields allotted to them under the distribution of powers envisaged by our Constitution.	Reasoning
An examination of the entries in the lists of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution would show that there are a large number of entries in the State list (list II) and the Concurrent list (list III) under which a State Legislature has power to make laws.	Reasoning
Under some of these entries the State Legislature may impose different kinds of taxes and duties, such as property tax, profession tax, sales tax, excise duly etc., and legislation in respect of any one of these items may have in indirect effect on trade and commerce.	Reasoning
Even laws other than taxation laws, made under different entries in the lists referred to above, may indirectly or remotely affect trade and commerce.	Reasoning
If it be held that every law made by the Legislature of a State which has a repercussion on tariffs, licensing marketing regulations, pricecontrol etc., must have the previous sanction of the President, then the Constitution in so far as it gives planary power to the States and State Legislatures in the fields allocated to them would be meaningless.	Reasoning
In our view the concept of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse postulated by Art.	Reasoning
301 must be understood in the context of an orderly society and as part of a Constitution which envisages a distribution of powers between the States and the Union, and if so understood, the concept must recognise the need and the legitimacy of some degree of regulatory control, whether by the Union or the States this is irrespective of the restrictions imposed by the other articles in Part XIII of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, unable to accept the widest view as the correct interpretation of the relevant articles in Part XIII of the Constitution.12.	Reasoning
We proceed now to deal with another interpretation of the relevant provisions in Part XIII this interpretation may be characterised as the narrow interpretation.	None
According to this interpretation taxing laws are governed by the provision of Part XII of the Constitution and except Art.	None
304(a) none of the other provisions of Part XIII extend to taxing laws.	None
An additional argument is that the provision of Part XIII apply only to such legislation as is made under entries in the Seventh Schedule which deal with trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
According to this argument entry 42 in list I, which refers to interState trade and commerce, entry 26 in list II which deals with trade and commerce within the State subject to the provisions of entry 33 in list III, and entry 33 in list III which deals with trade and commerce as specified therein, are the only entries legislation relating to which attracts the provisions of Part XIII, and legislation on other topics is not affected by those provisions.	None
In support of this argument assistance has been sought from the heading of Part XIII and from the use of the expression subject to in Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
It has been pointed out that the title of Part XIII is trade, commerce and intercourse intercourse, it is stated, means commercial intercourse there being no separate legislative entry in any of the three lists relating to intercourse and the word throughout has reference to space rather than to movement.	None
The expression subject to it is stated, means conditional upon thus connecting the provisions of Art.	None
303 with the provisions of Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
Article 303 specifically uses the expression by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce in any of the lists in the Seventh Schedule.	None
It is argued that by reason of the connection between Art. 301 and Art. 303, the words by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce etc. must be read into Art.	None
301 also so that Art.	Reasoning
301 will then be construed as a fetter on the commerce power i.e., the power given to the Legislature to make laws under entries relating to trade and commerce only.	None
As to taxation being out of the provisions of Part XIII of the Constitution except for Art. 304(a), the argument is that we must look to the historical background of S. 297 of the Government of India Act, 1935 and Arts.	None
274, 276 and 285 to 288 in Part XII of the Constitution.	None
It is pointed out that the power to tax is an incident of sovereignty and it is divided between the Union and the States under the Constitution Part XII of the Constitution deals with several aspects of taxation and all the restrictions on the power to tax are contained in Part XII which according to this interpretation, is selfcontained.	None
Therefore, so it is argued, the freedom guaranteed by Art.	None
301 does not mean freedom from taxation, because taxation is not a restriction within the meaning of the relevant articles in Part XIII.13.	None
It would appear from what we have stated above that this interpretation consists of two main parts one part is that taxation simpliciter is not within the terms of Art.	None
301 and the second part is that Art.	Reasoning
301 must take colour from the provisions of Art. 303 which, it is said, is restricted to legislation with respect to entries relating to trade and commerce in any of the lists in the Seventh Schedule.	None
In Atiabari Tea Co. case, (1961) 1	None
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), this Court dealt with the correctness or otherwise of this narrow interpretation and by the majority decision held against it.	None
The majority judgment in the Atiabari Tea Co. case, (1961) 1 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), deals with the arguments advanced in support of the interpretation in detail and as we are substantially in agreement with the reasons given in that judgment, we do not think that any useful purpose would be served by repeating them.	Reasoning
It is enough to point out that though the power of levying tax is essentially for the very existence of government, its exercise may be controlled by constitutional provisions made in that behalf.	None
It cannot be laid down as a general proposition that the power to tax is outside the purview of any constitutional limitations.	None
We have carefully examined the provisions in Part XII of the Constitution and are unable to agree that those provisions exhaust all the limitations on the power to impose a tax.	None
The effect of Art. 265 was considered in the majority decision and it was pointed out that the power of taxation under our Constitution was subject to the condition that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	None
Article 245 which deals with the extent of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States expressly states that the power of Parliament and of the State Legislatures to make laws is subject to the provisions of this Constitution.	None
The expression subject to the provisions of this Constitution is surely wide enough to take in the provisions of both Part XII and Part XIII.	None
In view of the provisions of Art.	None
245, we find it difficult to accept the argument that the restrictions, in Part XIII of the Constitution do not apply to taxation laws.	None
As to the argument that Art.	None
301 must take colour from Art. 303, we are unable to accept as correct the argument that the provisions of Art.	None
303 must delimit the general terms of Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
It seems to us that so far as Parliament is concerned, Art.	None
303(1) carves out an exception from the relaxation given in favour of Parliament by Art.	None
302 the relaxation given by Art.	None
302 is itself in the nature of an exception to the general terms of Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
It would be against the ordinary canons of construction to treat an exception or proviso as having such a repercussion on the interpretation of the main enactment so as to exclude from it by implication what clearly falls within its express terms.14.	None
After carefully considering the arguments advanced before us we have come to the conclusion that the narrow interpretation canvassed for on behalf of the majority of the states cannot toe accepted, namely, that the relevant articles in Part XIII apply only to legislation in respect of the entries relating to trade and commerce in any of the lists of the Seventh Schedule.	Reasoning
But we must advert here to one exception which we have already indicated in an earlier part of this judgment.	Reasoning
Such regulatory measures as do not impede the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse and compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities are not hit by the freedom declared by Art.	Reasoning
301.	Reasoning
They are excluded from the purview of the provisions of Part XIII of the Constitution for the simple reason that they do not hamper trade, commerce and intercourse but rather facilitate them.15.	Reasoning
This disposes of two of the main interpretations which have been canvassed before us.	Reasoning
We accept neither the widest interpretation nor the narrow interpretation for the reasons which we have already indicated.	Reasoning
It remains now to consider some of the other interpretations which have been canvassed before us.	Reasoning
Mr. Lalnarain Sinha has in substance contended that Art.	Reasoning
301 is restricted to freedom from geographical barriers only Mr. D. Sahu has contended that Art.	Reasoning
301 is confined to (i) interState barriers, and (ii) customsbarriers which at one time existed between the Indian States and the adjacent British Indian territory.	Reasoning
In our opinion both these interpretations proceed on a somewhat narrow basis and are not justified by the general words used in Art.	Reasoning
301 and the other relevant articles in Part XIII of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In our opinion the ambit of the relevant articles in Part XIII is wider than what these interpretations assume it to be.	Reasoning
While on this point it may be advisable to refer to the contrast between Art. 19 in Part III and Art.	Reasoning
301 in Part XIII of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Article 19 guarantees to all citizens certain rights which are compendiously stated to be the right to freedom two such rights are (i) to move freely throughout the territory of India and (ii) to carry on any occupation, trade or business.	Reasoning
The right to move freely throughout the territory of India is subject to reasonable restrictions in the interests of the general public or for the protection of any scheduled tribe.	Reasoning
The right to carry on any occupation, trade or business is subject to reasonable restrictions in the interests of the general public and in particular to any law relating to the carrying on by the State of any trade, business etc., whether in the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise.	Reasoning
The first contrast between Art. 19 and Art.	Reasoning
301 is that Art. 19 guarantees the right to freedom to a citizen whereas freedom granted by Art.	Reasoning
301 is not confined to citizens.	Reasoning
Another distinction which has been drawn is that Art, 19 looks at the right from the point of view of an individual, whereas Art.	Reasoning
301 looks at the matter from the point of view of freedom of the general volume of trade, commerce and intercourse.	Reasoning
We do not think that this distinction, if any such distinction at all exists, is material in the present cases, because an individual trader may complain of a violation of his freedom guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(g) and he may, also complain if the freedom assured by Art. 301 has been violated.	Reasoning
In a particular set of circumstances the two freedoms need not be the same or need not coalesce.	Reasoning
In some of the Australian decisions a distinction was sought to be drawn between the free flow of the same volume of interState trade and the individuals right to carry on his trade in more than one State and it was argued that S. 92 of the Australian Constitution related to the free flow of the volume of trade as distinguished from an individuals right to carry on his trade.	Reasoning
Such a distinction was negatived and the Privy Council pointed out that the redoubtable Mr. James who fought many a battle for the freedom of his trade and occupation was after all an individual.	Reasoning
Another aspect of this contrast between Art. 19 and Art. 301 of the Constitution which has been adverted to before us is this it has been argued that if a law imposing a restriction on the right of a citizen to carry on his trade or business is justified under cl.	Reasoning
(6) of Art. 19 as being in the interests of the general public, that law cannot again be impeached as being violative of Art.	Reasoning
301	Reasoning
otherwise so it is argued, the Constitution will be taking away by Art.	Reasoning
301 what it has granted by cl.	Reasoning
(6) of Art.	Facts
19.	Reasoning
The argument is that trade or business must be such as a person is entitled to carry on before he can complain of any impediment to the freedom of that trade or business.	Reasoning
This is an aspect of the problem which may require a more detailed and careful examination in an appropriate case.	Reasoning
If we are right in the view which we are expressing that the freedom granted by Art.	Reasoning
301 does not take in regulatory measures or compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities, then whether we look at such measures from the point of view of Art. 19(1)(g) or from the point of view of Art. 301, the result will be the same.	Reasoning
It is not possible, however, to say from a contrast of Art.	Reasoning
19 with Art.	Reasoning
301 that the latter article relates only to freedom from geographical barriers as was contended by Mr. Lalnarain Sinha.	Reasoning
By geographical barrier Mr. Sinha apparently meant something like a customs barrier.	Reasoning
His point was that the freedom assured by Art.301 was a freedom from any restriction for goods crossing that barrier in the course of trade.	Reasoning
He said that that barrier might be put up anywhere, that is, either at the State border or even within the territories of a State.	Reasoning
Thus, according to him, it was only when a restriction was put upon goods crossing such a barrier either in the shape of an imposition or otherwise, that Art 301 was violated.	Reasoning
It seems to us that this will be restricting too much the freedom which Art.	Reasoning
301 is intended to assure Suppose that instead of saying that a tax will be paid upon goods carried in the course of trade over a certain imaginary line drawn across any part of India, it was said that if a contract was made for the sale of goods lying or to be manufactured at place A and to be delivered at place B situated across the line, there would then be no restriction put upon the goods crossing any imaginary line or any geographical barrier.	Reasoning
We think that Art.	Reasoning
301 contemplated that trade in the given illustration would be free from the restriction mentioned.	Reasoning
If Art. 301 is intended to protect trade in movement from restrictions, with which view we think Mr. Lalnarain Sinha also agreed, then it would be impossible to intepret Art.	Reasoning
301 as contemplating only freedom from restrictions against movement of goods in the course of trade across geographical barriers.	Reasoning
We are for this reason unable to accept Mr. Sinhas contention.	Reasoning
Mr. Ranadeb Chaushuri appearing on behalf of one of the interveners accepted the majority view that Art.	Reasoning
301 was aimed at the movement aspect of trade.	Reasoning
commerce and intercourse this he called the channelling of trade commerce and intercourse.	Reasoning
But he raised the question of subsidy and said that Art. 303 which related to discrimination and preference also aimed at the mischief of subsidy which might be given to a State by way of preference or discrimination that mischief, he said, would come within Art. 303	Reasoning
even if it did not relate to the movement aspect of trade and commerce.	Reasoning
We are not concerned in the present cases with the question of subsidy and need not, therefore, consider the argument of Mr. Ranadeb Chaudhuri with regard to it.16.	Reasoning
As to the word intercourse there has also been some argument before us.	None
On behalf of some of the States it has been contended that the word intercourse in the context in which it occurs in Art.	None
301 means commercial intercourse.	None
On behalf of the appellants it has been argued that the word intercourse takes in not merely trade and commerce in the strict sense, but also activities, such as, movement of persons for the purpose of friendly association with one another, telephonic communications etc.	None
For the purpose of the cases which we are considering nothing very much turns upon whether we take the word intercourse in a wide sense or in a narrow sense.	None
Even taking the word intercourse in a wide sense, the question will still be what does the word free mean?	None
Does it mean free from all regulation, even regulation which is necessary for an orderly society?	None
We have already stated that the word free in Art. 301 cannot be given that wide meaning.17.	None
We have, therefore, come to the conclusion that neither the widest interpretation nor the narrow interpretations canvassed before us are acceptable.	Reasoning
The interpretation which was accepted by the majority in the Atiabari Tea Co. case, (1961) 1 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ) is correct, but subject to this clarification.	Reasoning
Regulatory measures or measures imposing compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities do not come within the purview of the restrictions contemplated by Art.	Reasoning
301 and such mensures need not comply with the requirements of the proviso to Art. 304(b) of the Constitution.18.	None
Now the question is do the relevant provisions of the Act read with the Schedules fall within what we have called permitted regulation which does not really or materially affect freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse or do the taxes imposed by the relevant provisions of the Act read with the Schedules come within the category of compensatory taxes which are no hindrance to freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse, being taxes for the use of trading facilities in the shape of roads, bridges etc.	Issue
In an earlier part of this judgment we have quoted S. 4 which is the charging section.	None
That section makes it quite clear that the tax is imposed on a motor vehicle which shall be used in any public place or kept for use in Rajasthan the tax is to be at appropriate rates specified in the Schedules to the Act and save as specified in the Act the tax shall be payable annually notwithstanding that the motor vehicle may, from time to time, cease to be used.	Reasoning
Section 7 says in effect that if the motor vehicle in respect of which such tax has been paid has not been used for a continuous period of not less than three months, then the owner shall be entitled to a refund of an amount equal to 1/12 of the annual rate of the tax paid.	Reasoning
It appears from the Schedules that a vehicle other than a transport vehicle is charged with a consolidated tax, according as the motor vehicle is fitted with pneumatic tyres or not.	Reasoning
The rate of tax varies according to the nature of vehicle, whether it is a motor cycle, or a motor tricycle drawing a tractor, or a side car etc.	Reasoning
Schedule II relates to transport vehicles which again are classified into various categories, those fitted with pneumatic tyres and those not so fitted, motor vehicles plying for conveyance of passengers and light personal luggage, goods vehicles plying under public carriers permit etc.	Reasoning
The quantum of tax is fixed with regard to the seating capacity in some cases and loading capacity in other cases.	Reasoning
The tax on some goods vehicles is fixed per day or per annum.	Reasoning
Schedule III relates to goods vehicles only.	Reasoning
A classification is again made between different classes of goods vehicles fitted with pneumatic tyres, conveying a trailer etc.	Reasoning
The tax fixed is a tax for use per day.	Reasoning
Schedule IV deals with vehicles plying with a private carriers permit.	Reasoning
Here again a classification is made of vehicles fitted with pneumatic tyres with a general permit for use in Rajasthan and those with a permit for plying within the limits of one region only.	Reasoning
The tax varies according to the loading capacity etc.19.	Reasoning
An examination of these provisions indicates clearly enough that the taxes imposed are really taxes on motor vehicles which use the roads in Rajasthan or are kept for use therein, either throughout the whole area or part of it.	Reasoning
The tax is payable by all owners of motor vehicles, traders or otherwise.	None
In dealing with the question whether these taxes were reasonable restrictions on the right of individuals to move freely throughout the territory of India etc.	None
the High Court said In this connection, it is well to remember that the State maintains old roads, and makes new ones, and these roads are at the disposal of those who use motor vehicles either for private purposes or for trade or commerce.	None
This naturally casts the State.	None
It has, therefore, to find funds for making new roads and maintenance of those that are already in existence.	None
These funds can only be raised through taxation, and if the State taxes the users of motor vehicles in order to make and maintain roads, it can hardly be said that the State is putting unreasonable restrictions on the individuals right to move freely throughout the territory of India, or to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.	None
We have looked into figures of income and expenditure in this connection of the Rajasthan State to judge whether this taxation is reasonable.	None
We find that in 195253 income from motor vehicles taxation under the Act was in the neighbourhood of 34 lakhs.	None
In that very year, the expenditure on new roads and maintenance of old roads was in the neighbourhood of 60 lakhs.	None
In 195455, the estimated income from the tax was 35 lakhs, while the estimated expenditure was over 65 lakhs.	None
It is obvious from these figures that the State is charging from the users of motor vehicles something in the neighbourhood of 5o of the cost it has to incur in maintaining and making roads.	None
The High Court further pointed out that in the case of private motor cars the tax was Rs, 12 per seat and for an ordinary fiveseater car, it came to Rs, 60 per year.	None
On payment of this amount the owner of the motor vehicle could use the car anywhere in Rajasthan and all the roads were open to him.	None
In the case of a goods vehicle, the tax was Rs, 2,000 per year for a goods vehicle with a load capacity of over five tons i.e. over 135 maunds.	None
Assuming that such a vehicle could be reasonably used for 200 days in a year, the tax amounted to Rs. 10 per day for about 140 maunds of goods carried over any length of the roads in Rajasthan.	None
This worked out to about Re. 1 for 14 maunds i.e. almost an anna a maund.	None
If the Act and the Schedules appended thereto are examined in this manner, it will be noticed that the tax imposed is really a tax for the use of the roads in Rajasthan and it cannot be said that it hinders the free movement of trade commerce and intercourse.	None
The taxes are compensatory taxes which instead of hindering trade, commerce and intercourse facilitate them by providing roads and maintaining the roads in a good state of repairs.	None
Whether a tax is compensatory or not cannot be made to depend on the preamble of the statute imposing it.	None
Nor do we think that it would be right to say that a tax is not compensatory because the precise or specific amount collected is not actually used in providing any facilities.	None
It is obvious that if the preamble decided the matter, then the mercantile community would be helpless and it would be the easiest thing for the Legislature to defeat the freedom assured by Art.	None
301 by stating in the preamble that it is meant to provide facilities to the tradesmen.	None
Likewise actual user would often be unknown to tradesmen and such user may at some time be compensatory and at others not so.	None
It seems to us that a working test for deciding whether a tax is compensatory or not is to enquire whether the trades people are having the use of certain facilities for the better conduct of their business and paying not patently much more than what is required for providing the facilities.	None
It would be impossible to judge the compensatory nature of a tax by a meticulous test, and in the nature of things that cannot be done.20.	None
Nor do we think that it will make any difference that the money collected from the tax is not put into a separate fund so long as facilities for the trades people who pay the tax are provided and the expenses incurred in providing them are borne by the State out of whatever source it may be.	None
In the cases under our consideration the tax is based on passenger capacity of commercial buses and loading capacity of goods vehicles both have some relation to the wear and tear caused to the roads used by the buses.	Reasoning
In basing the taxes on passenger capacity or loading capacity, the Legislature has merely evolved a method and measure of compensation demanded by the State, but the taxes are still compensation and charge for regulation.21.	Reasoning
We were addressed at some length on the distinction between a tax, a fee and an excise duty.	Reasoning
It was also pointed out to us that the taxes raised under the Act were not specially earmarked for the building or maintenance of roads.	Reasoning
We do not think that these considerations necessarily determine whether the taxes are compensatory taxes or not.	Reasoning
We must consider the substance of the matter and so considered.	Reasoning
there can be no doubt that the taxes imposed are no hindrance to the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	Reasoning
If a statute fixes a charge for a convenience or service provided by the State or an agency of the State, and imposes it upon those who choose to avail themselves of the service or convenience, the freedom of trade and commerce may well be considered unimpaired.	Reasoning
In such a case the imposition assumes the character of remuneration or consideration charged in respect of an advantage sought and received.	Reasoning
In Armstrong v. State of Victoria, (1957)99 CLR 28, Dixon, C. J, saidThe reason, as I venture to suggest, simply is that, without the bridge, the aerodromes and airways, the wharves and the sheds, the respective interState operations could not be carried out and that the charges serve no purpose save to maintain these necessary things at a standard by which they may continue.	Reasoning
However it may be stated, the ultimate ground why the exaction of the payments for using the instruments of commerce that have been mentioned is no violation of the freedom of interState trade lies in the relation to interState trade which their nature and purpose give them.	Reasoning
The reason why public authority must maintain them is in order that the commerce may use them, and so for the commerce to bear or contribute to the cost of their upkeep can involve no detraction from the freedom of commercial intercourse between States.	Reasoning
(P.43)The learned Chief Justice reiterated the same view in Commonwealth Freghters Proprietary Ltd. v. Sneddon (1959) 102 CLR 280 at p. 291.22.	None
We have, therefore, come to the conclusion that the Act does not violate the provisions of Art.	Reasoning
301 of the Constitution and the taxes imposed under the Act are compensatory taxes which do not hinder the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse assured by that article.	Reasoning
The taxes imposed were, therefore, legal and the High Court rightly dismissed the writ petitions filed by the appellants.	Reasoning
In the result the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs one hearing fee.	Decision
Subba Rao, J.23. 1 agree with the conclusion arrived at by my learned brother, S. K. Das, J., but, in view of the importance of the question raised, I would prefer to give my own reasons for the construction of the relevant provisions of part XIII of the Constitution.24.	None
The question in these appeals is, what is the ambit of the freedom enshrined in Art, 301of the Constitution and what are the limitations implict in it or envisaged in the succeeding articles?25.	None
The conflicting and sometimes mutually destructive arguments of learned counsel appearing for the various parties and interveners, omitting the immaterial variations, may conveniently be placed under the following heads .(1)	None
Trade, commerce and intercourse is a term if widest amplitude taking in the gamut of activities starting from production or manufacture and ending with the completion of a particular commercial transaction or transactions and every restriction imposed by any law or executive action on any part of the said integrated activity would be violative of the freedom under Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
(2) The expression trade, commerce and intercourse means only transportation in the course of trade across the State or intra State barriers, and any law, be it taxation or otherwise, directly and materially affecting the said transportation, would infringe the freedom.	None
(3) The freedom recognized under Art.	None
301 is only the freedom against geographical barriers between States or intraState units created by law and laws, including only discriminatory laws of taxation, creating the said barriers would offend against Art, 301.	None
(4) The freedom envisaged by Art, 301 is only a freedom from laws showing preference to one State over another and discrimination between one State and another made only by virtue of entry 42 of List I, entry 26 of List II and entry 33 of List III of the seventh schedule to the Constitution.	None
(5) The law of fiscal taxation is entirely outside the domain of freedom declared by Art, 301.	None
All the learned counsel appearing in the ease have agreed, or at any rate no argument was advanced to the contrary, that the freedom, whatever may be its content or scope on which there is difference of opinion, relates to both interstate and intrastate trade.26.	None
Before considering the Provisions of the said articles, it will be useful to make certain general observations.	None
We have to bear in mind in approaching the problem presented before us that our Constitution was not written on a clean slate.	None
Many of the concepts were borrowed from the Government of India Act or from other Constitutions and adapted to suit the conditions of our country.	None
We cannot ignore the fact that the Constitution was drafted by persons some of whom had a deep knowledge of the constitutional problems of other countries and, therefore, they must be assumed to have had the knowledge of the interpretation put upon certain legal concepts by the highest tribunals of those countries.	None
At the same time, it can be reasonably assumed that they have made a sincere attempt to accept the good and to avoid the defects found by experience in the other constitutions and also to mould them to suit our conditions.	None
Further, a brief survey of the relevant provisions of those constitutions, which form the background of this article, and the interpretation put on them by the highest tribunals of the respective countries would not only be relevant but also be necessary for appreciating the correct scope of Art, 301 of our Constitution.	None
Our Constitution provides for a federal structure with a bias towards a Central Government.	None
But real and substantial autonomy was conferred on the States within the boundaries of the fields chalked out for them.	None
Therefore, in approaching the problem of construing the provisions of Part XIII of our Constitution, unless the terms of the provisions of the said Part are clear and unambiguous, it would be the duty of this Court to construe them in such a manner as not to disturb the framework of the Constitution.	None
Before I attempt to construe the relevant provisions of the Constitution, it would be convenient at this stage to consider briefly the American and Australian law material to the present inquiry.27.	None
Clause 3 of S. 8 of Art. 1 of the Constitution of the United States of America says that the Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States and with the Indian tribes.	None
This clause has two aspects, namely,(i)	None
it is a source of national power, and (it) it operates as a curb on State power.	None
This clause gave rise, among others, to two questions, namely, (i) what was the scope and content of the commerce power?	None
and (ii) how to resolve the conflicts that arose between the law made by the Congress in exercise of that power and the law made by the State in exercise of its police power or other powers, expressed or implied, when they came into conflict with each other ?	None
An authoritative definition of the word commerce was given by Marshall, C. J., in Gibbons v. Ogden, (1824) 9 Wheat 1 wherein he observed This would restrict a general term applicable to many objects to one of its significations.	None
Commerce, undoubtedly is traffic, but something moreit is intercourse.	None
The decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States of America on the subject are not uniform.	None
Indeed, they have adopted the commerce power to meet all the demands, namely, economic commercial industrial and transport revolutions of that country.	None
It is not necessary for the purpose of this case to consider the conflict or the various nuances of the decisions the concept of commerce was enlarged or reduced to meet the exigencies of different situations.	None
but the common thread was that transportation across the borders, either physically or conceptually, was uniformly held to be a necessary ingredient of the expression commerce.	None
After noticing the conflict, Willis in his book on Constitutional Law, summarizes the latest position thus, at p. 288 . . . . . .	None
today the correct definition of commerce is that it is traffic and commercial intercourse.	None
This, of course, gives Congress power wherever traffic or intercourse concerns an interState market.	None
When commerce is properly defined as traffic, and the mental picture is formed, not of an isolated journey across a state boundary line, but, of an onward coursing stream of business which knows no state lines, which is constantly fed and as constantly feeds the streams of production, and which debouches into the interstate market, then regulations of it by Congress, whether taking the form of a prohibition of certain phases of transportation or some other form, ceases to be open to the charge of an ulterior intention to usurp their power, because it operates most upon the very subjectmatter entrusted to Congress or, at most, upon local incidents thereof, the fringe, so to speak, of a nationspread fabric.	None
In this context the following references are instructive R. C. Tway Coal Co. v. C. H. Clank, (1936)	None
80 Law Ed l160, Kidd v. Pearson, (1888) 32 Law Ed 346, Welton v. Missouri, (1875) 91 US 275, Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, (1919) 249 US 236.	None
It may be stated broadly that in America commerce means traffic in its operation across the State borders.28.	None
On the second question some of the American decisions adopted a pragmatic approach to resolve the conflict.	None
To solve the conflict that arose between the laws made by the Congress regulating commerce and those made by the State in exercise of its police power, the Supreme Court of America evolved certain doctrines, such as, original package, silence of Congress, preemption, undue and unreasonable burden, and direct and indirect effect.	None
The following decisions dealing with ,direct and indirect effect on interState trade can be usefully referred to in this regard, for in my view, they afford some guide to resolve the difficulties that might arise under our Constitution MCulloch v. State of Maryland, (1819)4 Law Ed 579, Hendrick v. State of Maryland, (1914) 59 Law Ed 385 Interstate Busses Corporation v. Blodgett, (1927)	None
72 Laws Ed 551 Interstate Transit v Lindsey, (1930) 75 Law Ed 953 and A. L.A. Schechter Poultry Corporation v United States of America, (1935) 79 Law Ed 1570.	None
The said decisions show that in America the principle accepted was that every restriction imposed by a State law did not offend the commerce clause, unless it directly affected it, and that even taxation was permissible, if it was for services rendered by the State to promote trade.29.	None
The Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act was passed in 1900.	None
At the time that Act was made, the framers of that Act had the background of the evolution of the American law on, the commerce clause.	None
Under that Act, certain defined powers of legislation are conferred on the Commonwealth in respect of trade and commerce.	None
Section 51 reads Trade and commerce with other countries and among the States Section 98 says The power of the Parliament to make laws with respect to trade and commerce extends to navigation and shipping and to railways the property of any State.	None
Section 99 prohibits the Commonwealth, by any law or regulation of trade, commerce, or revenue, from giving preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof.	None
Section 100 prohibits the Commonwealth from abridging the right of a State or of the residents therein to the reasonable use of the waters of rivers for conservation or irrigation.	None
Other legislative powers are conferred in respect of specific subjects of trade and commerce, such as, bounties, currency, coinage, bills of exchange, bankruptcy, copyrights, customs, excise, etc. Section 92 says On the imposition of uniform duties of customs, trade, commerce, and intercourse, among the States, whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free.	None
Unlike the American Constitution, the Australian Constitution confers a legislative power on the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws in respect of trade and commerce with other countries and among the States, and also in respect of certain specific subjects of trade and commerce and then declares that trade, commerce and intercourse among the States shall be absolutely free.	None
Unlike the American Constitution, in the Australian Constitution, there is a declaration of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse among the States.	None
While in America the expression used is commerce, in S. 92 of the Australian Constitution the expression, trade, commerce and intercourse is used.	None
The Australian Constitution Act not only does not provide for any restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse, but also used an expression of the widest amplitude, viz., absolutely free emphasizing the freedom declared by the section.	None
This section, just like the commerce clause in the American Constitution, was the subject of judicial scrutiny and conflict of decisions.	None
The interpretation of this subsection fell to be considered in the context of marketing, banking and transport legislation.	None
The question raised was whether the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse was interfered by the laws made by the State.	None
Paradoxically, the Courts of Australia and, in appeals from some decisions of those Courts, the Privy Council evolved the power to restrict the said freedom by the States from the concept of absolute freedom itself.	None
This was necessitated because there were no statutory provisions limiting the absolute freedom and, as uncontrolled freedom in the field of interState Commerce may lead to chaos, limitations on the freedom were evolved to save the said freedom.	None
The scope of the limitations so evolved would be useful to construe the relevant provisions of our Constitution which expressly provides for similar limitations.	None
The scope of the freedom and its limitations are found in the leading decisions on the Subject, which throw considerable light on the question now raised, and they are Rex v. Smither, (1912) 16 CLR 99, W. and A. McArthur Ltd. v. State of Queensland, (1920) 28 CLR 530, James v. Commonwealth of Australia, (No. 2), 1936 AC 578, 1950 AC 235.	None
In the aforesaid Australian decisions the expression trade, commerce, and intercourse among the States has been understood in the widest sense as including trade in all its manifestations involving transportation or movement across the frontiers of the State it also includes noncommercial intercourse.30.	None
On the second question, some of the leading Australian decisions contain an interesting and instructive exposition of the conflict of jurisdiction and useful suggestions for resolving it.	None
In this context the following decisions may usefully be consulted James v. Cowan, (1930) 43 CLR 386, 1950 AC 235, 1955 AC 241, Hughes and Vale private Ltd. v. State of New South Wales, (1955) 93 CLR 160, Grannall v, Marrickville Margarine Proprietary Ltd., (1955) 93 CLR 55, (1957) 99	None
CLR 28, (1959) 102 CLR 280.	None
The Australian decisions broadly laid down the following three propositions (i) the impugned law, whether fiscal or otherwise, shall directly and immediately restrict traffic across the borders before it could be said to violate the freedom under S.92 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act (ii) compensatory measures for the purpose of regulating commerce are not restrictions on the said freedom and (iii) when a question arises whether a fiscal statute amounts to a restriction on the said freedom, a careful scrutiny of the provisions may rebut the presumption that otherwise may arise that the impugned Act is really a compensatory measure for the amenities provided or services rendered,31.	None
The following principles emerge from the foregoing American and Australian decisions (1) Though in American law the commerce clause only confers a power upon the Congress, under the Australian Constitution Act, freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse is enshrined in S. 92 as a cherished freedom the composite expression in S. 92 of the said Act was borrowed from the American decisions.	None
(2) The expression trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
though it is not an expression of art, has acquired a definite signification in the constitutional law of both the countries, namely, it is traffic and commercial intercourse concerning an interState market, or, to put it differently, the free flow or movement of trade across the State borders, (3)	None
The said freedom should not be infringed by any law, whether taxation or otherwise or by executive action.	None
(4) The restriction may be before or after movement it may be a prior restraint or a subsequent burden, (5)	None
The word freedom does not mean anarchy, but assumes transactions based on law and carried out under the superintendence and direction of law such laws are, (a) laws of contract, property, tort, etc., (b) regulations for preserving and maintaining the freedom, such as police regulations about safety, speed, lighting, rule of the road, etc., (c) laws providing for services and for compensation for services rendered, namely, the construction and maintenance of wharfs, roads, aerodromes, etc., and the levy of taxes to meet the expenditure incurred in connection therewith the said laws are not restrictions on the said freedom but only facilities to promote the same.32.	None
Now let us look at the provisions of Art.	None
301 of the Constitution.	Facts
The article readsSubject to the other provisions of this Part, trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India shall be free.	None
Three groups of words in the said article, in their juxtaposiiton and interaction, furnish the key to the problem, and they are, (i) trade, commerce and intercourse, (ii) throughout the territory of India, and (iii) shall be free.	None
The expression trade, commerce and intercourse is a composite one and has received, as already, noticed, the fullest judicial attention from the highest courts of America and Australia though they may not be words of art, they have acquired a secondary meaning or significance.	None
I shall accept the meaning acquired by that expression by the gradual evolution of law in those countries.33.	None
Now, let us analyse the words shall be free.	None
Three questions occur to ones mind in regard to this, namely, (i), what is free?	Issue
(ii) free from what and (iii) where is it free?	None
As I have already indicated, the said composite expression means trade across the borders what is free is that trade.	None
It is implicit in the concept of freedom that there will be obstructions to it.	None
Such obstructions or barriers may be, in the present context, to the freedom to trade across the borders.	None
Article 301 provides for freedom from the said barriers or impediments in effect operating as barriers.	None
This freedom from barriers cannot operate in vacuum and must be limited by space.	None
A barrier may be put up between two States at the boundary of the States or between two districts, two taluks, two towns or between two parts of a town.	None
The barrier may be at a particular point at a boundary or might take the form of a continuous impediment till the boundary is crossed.	None
It may take different forms.	None
The restrictions may be before or after movement.	None
It may be a prior restraint or a subsequent burden.	None
But the essential idea is that a barrier is an obstacle put across trade in motion at a particular point or different points.	None
The expression shall be free declares in a mandatory form a freedom of such transport or movement from such barriers.34.	None
The next question is, where is it free?	None
The second expression throughout the territory of India demarcates the extensive field of operation of the said freedom.	None
The said intercourse shall be free throughout the territory of India.	None
The use of the words territory of India instead of among .	None
the several States found in the American Constitution or among the States found in the Australian Constitution, removes all interstate or intraState barriers and brings out the idea that for the purpose of the freedom declared, the whole country is one unit.	None
Trade cannot be free throughout the territory of India, if there are barriers in any part of India, be it interState or intraState.	None
So long as there it impediment to that freedom, its nature or extent is irrelevant.	None
The difference will be in degree and not in quality.	None
The freedom declared under Art, 301 may be defined as a right to free movement of persons or things, tangible or intangible, commercial or noncommercial, unobstructed by barriers, interState or intraState or any other impediment operating as such barriers.	None
To state it differently, all obstructions or impediments, whatever shape they may take, to the free flow or movement of trade, or noncommercial intercourse, offend Art.	None
301 of the Constitution except in so far as they are saved by the succeeding provisions.	None
But we are not concerned in this case with noncommercial intercourse.35.	None
The next question is, what is the content of the concept of freedom?	None
The word freedom is not capable of precise definition, but it can be stated what would infringe or detract from the said freedom.	None
Before a particular law can be said to infringe the said freedom, it must be ascertained whether the impugned provision operates as a restriction impeding the free movement of trade or only as a regulation facilitating the same.	None
Restrictions obstruct the freedom, whereas regulations promote it.	None
Police regulations, though they may superficially appear to restrict the freedom of movement, in fact provide the necessary conditions for the free movement.	None
Regulations such as provision for lighting, speed, good condition of vehicles, timings, rule of the road and similar others, really facilitate the freedom of movement rather than retard it.	None
So too, licensing system with compensatory fees would not be restrictions but regulatory provisions for without it, the necessary lines of communication, such as roads, waterways and airways, cannot effectively be maintained and the freedom declared may in practice turn out to be an empty one.	None
So too regulations providing for necessary services to enable the free movement of traffic, whether charged or not cannot also be described as restrictions impeding the freedom.	None
To say all these is not to say.	None
that every provision couched in the form of regulation but in effect and substance a restriction can pass off as a permissible regulation.	None
It is for the Court in a given case to decide whether a provision purporting to regulate trade is in fact a restriction on freedom.	None
If it be a colourable exercise of power and the regulatory provision in fact is a restriction, unless the said provision is one of the permissible restrictions under the succeeding articles, it would be struck down.	None
This view is consistent with the principles laid down by the Australian High Court and the Privy Council in the context of interpretation of the words absolutely free in S. 92 of the Common wealth of Australia Constitution Act, which is more emphatic than the word free in Art, 301 of our Constitution.36.	None
The Constitution confers on the Parliament and the State Legislatures extensive powers to make laws in respect of various matters.	None
A glance at the entries in the Lists of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution would show that every law so made may have some repercussion on the declared freedom.	None
Property tax, profession tax, saleslax, excise duty and other taxes may all have an indirect effect on the free flow of trade.	None
So too, laws, other than those of taxation, made by virtue of different entries in the Lists, may remotely affect trade.	Reasoning
Should it be held that any law which may have such repercussion must either be passed by the Parliament or by the State Legislature with the previous consent of the President, there would be an end of provincial autonomy, for in that event, with some exceptions, all the said laws should either be made by the Parliament or by the State Legislature with the consent of the Central Executive Government.	None
By so construing, we would be making the Legislature of a State elected on adult franchise the handmaid of the Central executive.	None
We would be rewriting the Constitution and introducing by sidewind autocracy in the field of legislation allotted to the States while our Constitution has provided meticulously for democracy.	None
Therefore, any construction which may bring about such an unexuected result shall be avoided unless the Constitution compels us by express words to do so.	None
There are admittedly no such words of compulsion.	None
At the same time it is also difficult to accept the argument advanced by the States that the laws made under entry 42 of List I, entry 26 of List II and entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution only are subject to that freedom for firstly, the article does not restrict the freedom to the area covered by those entries, and, secondly, laws made under the other entries may more effectively and directly affect the movement of trade.	None
If a law directly and immediately imposes a tax for general revenue purposes on the movement of trade, it would be violating the freedom.	None
On the other hand, if the impact is indirect and remote, it would be unobjectionable.	None
The Court will have to ascertain whether the impugned law in a given case affects directly the said movement or indirectly and remotely affects it.37.	None
At this stage, an argument elaborated by Mr. Lalnarain Sinha may also be noticed.	None
The learned Advocate said that the field occupied by Art, 19 of Part III of the Constitution and that occupied by Part XIII thereof are distinct that Art. 19 deals generally with freedom of trade and that Art.	None
301 with discriminator barries, and that fiscal statutes could not be restrictions under Art.	None
19	Reasoning
and, therefore, they could not equally be restrictions under Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
He would say that whatever might be said of regulatory taxes or destructive ones, fiscal taxes are always in public interest and it is not possible for a court to decide whether a particular tax is reasonable or not.	None
On this premises, the regiment proceeds, a reasonable restrictions is a restriction, the reasonableness whereof can be ascertained by court and in a case where the reasonableness of a particular restriction is impossible of ascertainment by a court, such as a law fixing a rate, the Constitution must be deemed to have released such a restriction from the impact of the concept of freedom.	None
This is an argument in reverse gear.	None
The freedom declared by the Constitution cannot be controlled by an involved process of reasoning.	None
It is not permissible to limit the content of the freedom by the criterion of a courts ability to ascertain the reasonableness of a restriction imposed thereon.	None
What is guaranteed to a citizen by the Constitution is a fundamental right to carry on business.	None
If cl (5) of Art. 19 were not in the Constitution, every restriction on that right, be it by a law of taxation or otherwise, which limited that freedom, would certainly violate the same.	None
The fact that the Constitution saves laws made imposing reasonable restrictions on the freedom has no relevance to the content of the freedom, though it protects certain laws made infringing that freedom.	None
If on a construction of the provisions of Art.	None
19(6), it should be held that a fiscal taxation was not a restriction within the meaning of the said clause every law imposing such a tax would infringe the fundamental right.	None
This result could not have been intended by the makers of the Constitution.	None
Therefore, the contention should be that every law of taxation is a reasonable restriction in public interest, There are no merits in the contention either.	None
It is said that taxation is always in public interest, and that it is not possible for any court to ascertain on the material placed before it that a rate is reasonable or not.	None
It is conceded that regulatory taxes or laws of taxation intended to prohibit or restrict an activity and not to raise a general tax in the interest of revenue may be a restriction and a court may be in a position to see whether such laws pass the tests laid down in Art, 19(6) of the Constitution.	None
The argument is confined only to what is described as fiscal taxation, that is, taxation solely intended for raising revenue for the State.	None
It is also not denied that unreasonable procedural restrictions imposed by law of taxation would infringe the freedom.	None
It is also admitted that a fiscal law may offend the fundamental right enshrined in Art.	None
14 of the Constitution, If so, it is beyond my comprehension on what principle the law of taxation could offend with impunity the freedom enshrined in Art.	None
19(1)	None
(g).	None
Article 13(2) says in express	None
normsThe State shall not make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by this Part and any law made in contravention of this clause shall, to the extent of the contravention, be void.	None
A law of taxation is made by Parliament or the Legislature of a State, as the case may be, in exercise of the power conferred under the Constitution by virtue of the entries found therein.	None
It is a law just like any other law made under the Constitution.	None
This Court in Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala, AIR1961 SC 552, and in Balaji v. Incometax Officer, AIR 1962 SC 123 , held that a law of taxation would be void if it infringed the fundamental right guaranteed under Art. 19 of the Constitution.	None
Therefore, the law of taxation also should satisfy the two tests laid down in Art. 19(6) of the Constitution.	None
It is said that a law of taxation is always in public interest.	None
Ordinarily it may be so	None
but it cannot be posited that there cannot be any exceptions to it.	None
A taxing law may be in public interest in the sense that the income realised may be used for public good, but there may be occasions, when the rate or the mode of taxation may be so abhorrent to the principles of natural justice or even to well settled principles of taxation that it may cause irremediable harm to the public rather than promote public good, that the Court may have to hold that it is not in public interest.	None
Nor can I agree with the contention that it is impossible for a court to hold in any case that a rate of taxation is reasonable or not.	None
As a proposition it is unsound.	None
It may be legitimately contended that it is difficult for a court to come to a definite conclusion on the correctness of a rate fixed by the Legislature.	None
Dixon, C. J., in (1959) 102 CLR 280 (292), gives a very cogent answer to such an argument in a different context.	None
The learned Chief Justice said Highly inconvenient as it may be, it is true of some legislative powers limited by definition, whether according to subject matter, to purpose or otherwise, that the validity of the exercise of the power must sometimes depend on facts, facts which somehow must be ascertained by the court responsible for deciding the validity of the law ., ,.,,.,	None
All that is necessary it to make the point that if a criterion of constitutional validity consists in matter of fact, the fact must be ascertained by the court as best it can, when the court is called upon to pronounce upon validity.	None
I entirely agree with these observations.	None
It is commonplace to point out that intricate problems come before a court involving decision on different and complicated aspects of human activity.	None
Questions involving science, medicine, engineering, geology, biology, economics, psychology etc. all come for judicial scrutiny, and I have never heard any court saying that it is difficult to decide upon such a question and, therefore, the proceeding raising such a question is outside the jurisdiction of such a court.	None
In saying this, I am not ignoring the difficulties inherent in a problem of fixing the rate of taxes by a court.	None
Experience shows that the court applies certain presumptions such as that of the wisdom, knowledge and the good intentions of the Legislature, and does not also meticulously go into the question, but only looks at the broad features.	None
On the argument of learned counsel, when it is permissible and possible for a court to ascertain whether a tax is fiscal or regulatory, I do not see how it becomes impossible, though it may be difficult, to hold whether a fiscal tax is reasonable or not.	None
The distinction lies not in the nature of the enquiry but only in degree.	None
That apart, no restriction, if it is unreasonable, can be more deleterious to the freedom than the imposition of fiscal burden on it, which may in certain circumstances destroy the very freedom.	None
I, therefore, hold, on a true construction of the expressed words of Art, 19 of the Constitution, that it is not possible or even permissible to hold that laws of taxation are outside the scope of the freedom enshrined therein.	None
As the premises of Mr. Lalnarain Sinhas argument lack a reasonable basis, his further argument that the freedom in Art.	None
301 excludes from its scope fiscal laws must be rejected.38.	None
Having ascertained the scope and content of the freedom envisaged in Art, 301 of the Constitution, let us look at the succeeding provisions which place limitations on the said freedom.	None
Under Art.	None
302,Parliament may by law impose such restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse between one State and another or within any part of the territory of India, as may be required in the public interest.	Reasoning
This is an exception to Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
The restrictions contemplated therein are restrictions on the said freedom.	None
But the restrictions can be imposed by Parliament only by law.	None
Parliaments power to make law is derived from Arts.	None
245 and 246 of the Constitution.	None
Thereunder, it can make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in Lists I and III of the Seventh Schedule and in respect of a territory not included in a State with respect to matters enumerated in any of the three Lists.	None
Therefore, in exercise of the said power and by virtue of the language of the entries correlated to that power, Parliament can make any law imposing restrictions on the said freedom.	None
The article in terms, or even by necessary implication, does not exclude restrictions by way of taxation.	None
It is not the source or the nature of the law that matters but the impact of that law, be it a law of taxation or otherwise on the freedom that is crucial.	None
It is also not possible to accept the argument that Art.302 confers an independent power on the Parliament, that is, a power in addition to that conferred on it by Arts, 245 and 246.	None
There is no room for this argument for the words by law in the article clearly refer to the power of the Parliament to make law under the Constitution.	None
That apart, if it was the intention of the Constituent Assembly to confer a fresh power, those words would not have been used in Art. 302, but instead words suitable to confer a new power, namely, shall have the power would have been used.	None
Therefore, under this article the Parliament can only impose restrictions by virtue of any of the entries in the Lists in respect of which it can make laws.	None
A perusal of the entries in List I shows that laws can be made restricting the said freedom under most of the entries, for instance, entries 22.	None
23, 24, 25, 27, 29, 42, 52, 58.	None
56, 81, 89, 91 etc.	None
Whether there is a restriction or not, does not depend upon the relevant entry, but on the nature of the impact of the law on the freedom.	None
But a limitation is sought to be placed upon this power by an a attempt to confine it to the entries mentioned in Art. 303.	None
Article 303, which prohibits the Parliament from making a law giving preference to one State over another or making any discrimination between one State and another, is confined only to the entries relating to trade and commerce.	Reasoning
But Art. 303 is in the nature of an exception or proviso to Art. 302.	None
The proviso leaves the generality of the substantive enactment unqualified except in so far as it concerns the particular subjects to which the proviso relates.	None
When the language of the main enactment is clear and unambiguous, a proviso can have no repercussion on the interpretation of the main enactment so as to exclude from it, by implication, what clearly falls within its expressed terms see M. and S. M. Ry. Co. Ltd. v. Bezwada Municipality, AIR 1944 PC 71 at p.	None
73.The words in Art. 302 are clear and unambiguous and they do not confine its operation to any particular entries and, therefore, the limitation imposed under Art.	None
303 cannot curtail the generality of the provisions of the said article,39.	None
But the more difficult question is, what does the word restrictions mean in Art. 302?	None
The dictionary meaning of the word restrict is to confine, bound, limit.	None
Therefore, any limitations placed upon the freedom is a restriction on that freedom.	None
But the limitation must be real, direct and immediate, but not fanciful, indirect or remote.	None
In this context, the principles evolved by American and Australian decisions in their attempt to reconcile the commerce power and the State police power or the freedom of commerce and the Commonwealth power to make laws affecting that freedom can usefully be invoked with suitable modifications and adjustments.	None
Of all the doctrines evolved in my view, the doctrine of direct and immediate effect on the freedom would be a reasonable solvent to the difficult situation that might arise under our Constitution.	None
If a law, whatever may have been its source, directly and immediately affects the free movement of trade, it would be restriction on the said freedom.	None
But a law which may have only indirect and remote repercussions on the said freedom cannot be considered to be a restriction on it.	None
Taking the illustration from taxation law, a law may impose a tax on the movement of goods or persons by a motorvehicle it directly operates as a restriction on the free movement of trade, except when it is compensatory or regulatory.	None
On the other hand, a law may tax a vehicle, as property, or the garage wherein the vehicle used for conveyance is kept.	None
The said law may have indirect repercussion on the movement, but the said law is not one directly imposing restrictions on the free movement.	None
In this context two difficulties may have to be faced firstly, though a law purporting to impose a tax on a property or a motorvehicle, as the case may be, may in fact and in reality impose a tax on the movement itself secondly, a law may not be on the movement of trade, but on the property itself, but the burden may be so high that it may indirectly affect the free flow of trade.	None
In the former case, the court may have to scrutinize the provisions of a particular statute to ascertain whether the tax is on the movement.	None
If the provisions disclose a tax on the movement, it will be a restriction within the meaning of Art. 302.	None
In the latter case, if the provisions show that the tax is on property, the reasonableness of the tax may have to be tested against the provisions of Art. 19 of the Constitution.	None
The question whether a law imposes a restriction or not depends on the question whether the said law imposes directly and immediately a limitation on the freedom of movement of trade.	None
If it does, the extent of the impediment relates to the question of degree rather than to the nature of it.	None
If it is a restriction, it must satisfy the conditions laid down in Art. 302 of the Constitution.40.	None
Article 303 is an exception or a proviso to Art.	None
302.	Reasoning
Article 303 opens out with a nonobstante clause, namely, Notwithstanding anything in Art. 302.	None
This phrase is equivalent to saying that in spite of Art. 302 or that Art. 302 shall be no impediment to the operation of Art. 303.	None
It is accepted on all hands that there is a defect in the phraseology used in this article.	None
This article prohibits both Parliament and the State Legislature from making a law giving preference to a State or States or making a discrimination among the States.	None
The nonobstinate clause has no relevance so far as the Legislature of a State is concerned, for Art. 302 does not deal with Legislature of a State.	None
In these circumstances, the nonobstinate clause can only be made applicable to that to which it is appropriate i.e., only to the limitations imposed on Parliament under Art. 303.	None
The article, so far as it relates to Parliament, may be read Notwithstanding anything in Art. 302, the Parliament shall not have power to make any law giving, or authorising the giving of, any preference to one State over another, or making, or authorising the making of, any discrimination, between one State, and another, by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce in any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule.	None
Now this provision prohibits the making of laws of the nature mentioned therein only by virtue of the entries relating to trade and commerce in any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule.	None
This article clearly says that neither Parliament nor the Legislature of a State can make a law imposing a restriction which has the effect of giving preference or making discrimination, as the case may be, among the States.	None
But a difficulty that confronts one is whether the limitation on the laws is confined only to the law made by virtue of the entries referring to trade and commerce or by virtue of any entry in the Seventh Schedule, which may affect trade and commerce.	None
The entries which refer to trade and commerce are entries 41 and 42 of List I, entry 26 of List II and entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
But it is contended that the words by virtue of the entries relating to trade and commerce in any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule are of wider import than the words by virtue of the said entries and, therefore, any law specified in Art.	None
303 made by virtue of any entry in any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule, if it relates to trade and commerce, would be covered by the exception.	None
The words any entry relating to trade and commerce in any of the Lists are of the widest import	None
and they yield to a very, liberal interpretation.	None
The phraseology used supports this interpretation.	None
The reason for the exception also sustains it.	None
There cannot be any distinction on principle, from the standpoint of the mischief sought to be averted between a law made by virtue of an entry ex facie referring to trade and commerce and that made by virtue of any entry affecting trade and commerce.	None
For instance, a law may be made by Parliament under entries relating to railways, highways shipping etc.	None
these entries do not expressly refer to trade and commerce though they may directly affect trade and commerce.	None
If a law made under entry 26 of List it giving preference or making discrimination among the States is objectionable it should also be objectionable if made by virtue of any other entry.	None
I would, therefore, hold that any law made by Parliament by virtue of any entry imposing the said discriminatory restrictions would be bad under the said article.41.	None
Article 303(2) lifts the ban imposed on Parliament under Art.	None
303(1), if a law made by Parliament imposing such discriminatory restrictions is necessary for the purpose of dealing with a situation arising out of scarcity of goods in any part of the territory of India.	Reasoning
That part of Art. 303, which prohibits the Legislature of a State from making a law of the nature mentioned therein, also bears the same constructions and it is not necessary to restate it, except to mention that cl.	None
(2) of Art.	Facts
303 does not lift the ban in respect of the State Legislature.42.	None
Coming to Art. 304, we are again confronted with a defect in phraseology.	None
The article opens out again with a nonobstante clause, namely, Notwithstanding anything in Art.	None
301 or Art. 303.	None
Under Art. 304 (a), the Legislature of a State may by law impose on goods imported from other States or the Union territories any tax to which similar goods manufactured or produced in that State are subject so, however, as not to discriminate between them and Art. 304(b) enables the State Legislature to impose such reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse with or without that State as may be required in the public interest.	None
But no Bill or amendment for the purpose of cl.	None
(b) shall be introduced or moved in the Legislature of a State without the previous sanction of the President, Clause (a) therefore, only enables the Legislature of a State to impose nondiscriminatory taxes on goods imported from, other States or the Union territories.	None
The nonobstante clause visavis Art. 304 (a) may have some relevance so far as Art.	None
301 is concerned, for it enables the Legislature of a State to impose an impediment on the free movement of trade in spite of the freedom declared under Art.	Reasoning
301.	Reasoning
But it has no relevance to Art. 303, which only prohibits the State Legislature from making a discriminatory law and it does not in any way prohibit the State Legislature from imposing a nondiscriminatory tax permitted under Art. 304(a).	None
But, with reference to Art. 304(b), the nonobstante clause has significance and meaning even in regard to Art. 303, as cl.	None
(b) lifts the ban imposed by Art.	None
303, subject to the limitations mentioned therein.	None
Therefore, the nonobstante clause must be deemed to apply only to that part of Art.	None
304 appropriate to the said clause.	None
If so read, the difficulty in the construction disappears.	None
Article 304 (a) lifts the general ban imposed by Art.	None
301 in respect of imposition of nondiscriminatory taxes on goods imported, which indicates that but for the said provision the law of taxation in that regard would infringe the freedom declared under Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
Clause (b) of Art. 304 enables a State to make laws imposing reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse and I would interpret the word restrictions in the same way as I have interpreted the said expression in Art. 302.	None
It cannot be said, as it is contended, that cl.	None
(b) only lifts the ban imposed by Art.	None
303 on the power of the Legislature of a State, but it does more than that.	None
It enables the State Legislature to impose all reasonable restrictions on the said freedom in the sense I have already explained, subject to the, proviso.43.	None
Again, in the context of Art, 304(b), a strong plea is made by some of the learned Advocates appearing for the States, relying upon the other provisions of the Constitution for holding that taxation laws are outside the ken of the said provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference is made to Arts.	Arguments of Respondent
31(5)(b)(i), 248, 265, 276, 285, 287 and 288.	Arguments of Respondent
I do not propose to consider the arguments based on the said articles in detail, as, in my view, these and similar articles of the Constitution do not even remotely touch the question raised before us.	None
They fit in the scheme of the Constitution.	None
The Constitution confers power on the Legislatures to make laws of taxation, circumscribes that power with reference to the entries in the Seventh Schedule and other constitutional provisions, and provides for resolving conflict of powers.	None
The aforesaid articles, except Art. 31(5)(b)(i) and Art. 248, appear in Ch.	None
I of part XII under the general heading Finance( Article 265 declares that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law that is to say, tax cannot be levied or collected by an executive fiat.	None
Article 276 fixes a ceiling on taxes payable to local boards on professions, trades, callings and employment.	None
Article 285 exempts property of the Union from State taxation.	None
Article 286 prohibits the States from imposing a tax on interState sales, subject to a proviso.	None
Article 287 exempts the Union from the State law of taxation on electricity and Art.	None
288 gives a similar exemption to the Union from taxes by States in respect of water or electricity in certain cases.	None
Article 31(5)(b)(i) exempts a law imposing or levying any tax from the impact of the fundamental rights enshrined in Art. 31(2) of the Constitution.	None
Article 248 preserves the residuary power of the Parliament in respect of any matter not enumerated in the Concurrent List or the StateList, including the power to impose taxes.	None
These articles, therefore, generally impose limitations on the appropriate legislative power of taxation of States or give exemption in special cases By and large, the said articles and similar others operate as limitations, or restrictions on the power of taxation conferred upon Parliament and the appropriate Legislatures under Art.	None
246 of the Constitution.	None
But, in exercise of the power of taxation, subject to these limitations, the appropriate Legislature cannot make a law infringing the freedoms conferred under the Constitution.	None
The conditions prescribed for imposing a tax or the ceilings fixed thereon may affect the ambit of the power but cannot either sanction encroachment on the freedom guaranteed by Art.	None
301 or curtail the same.	None
Assuming that some of the conditions prescribed in Art. 286 appear to come into conflict with those in Art. 304 (b)in my view, there is no such conflictthe said articles can coexist by a process of harmonious construction.	None
In short these articles may limit the power of the appropriate legislature in imposing tax, but cannot be relied upon to curtail the ambit of the freedom under Art. 30l of the Constitution.	None
44.	None
Reliance is also placed, on Art. 26 which provides that every religious denomination or any section thereof shall have the right, inter alia, to own and acquire movable and immovable property.	None
It is said that the freedom conferred by that article, cannot preclude the State from imposing a tax on the said property, and that, by the same parity of reasoning, Art. 30l which confers the freedom cannot preclude the Legislative power imposing a tax affecting that freedom.	None
It is true that the marginal heading of this article is Freedom to manage religious affairs but the subjectmatter of Art. 26 cannot be equated to that of the freedom of trade declared under Art. 30l.	None
I should not be understood to have expressed any view on the construction of that article in the present case.45.	None
Article 305, as it stood before the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, only saves the existing laws from the operation of Art.	None
301 and Art, 303, and it does not throw any light on the construction of Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
Article 306 was omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 but the said article saved the operation of any law made by any States  specified in Part B in the First Schedule before the commencement of the Constitution levying any tax or duty on the import of any goods into the State from other States or on the export of goods from the State to other States and enacted that if there be an agreement between the Government of India and the Government of that State in that behalf, the said tax or duty might be levied or collected for such period not exceeding ten years from the commencement of the Constitution, subject to the terms of the said agreement.	None
If a law of taxation cannot, under any conceivable circumstances, be a restriction on the freedom of trade, why did it become necessary to introduce a saving clause in terms of Art. 306 in the group of articles in Part XIII?	None
It is suggested that the saving clause might have become necessary as there was an impediment under the other provisions of the Constitution.	None
But that circumstance cannot deprive the force of the nonobstante clause in Art.	None
301 in its application to the provisions of Part XIII.	None
This article indicates the consciousness of the makers of the Constitution that the restrictions contemplated in that Part take in restrictions by way of taxation and, therefore, it was necessary to provide for an exemption in the case of Part B States for a specified period of time.46.	None
The foregoing discussion may be summarized in the following propositions (1) Art.	None
301 declares a right of free movement of trade without any obstructions by way of barriers, interState or intraState or other impediments operating as such barriers.	None
(2) The said freedom is not impeded, but, on the other hand, promoted, by regulations creating conditions for the free movement of trade, such as, police regulations, provision for services, maintenance of roads, provision for aerodromes, wharfs etc., with or without compensation.	None
(3) Parliament may by law impose restrictions on such freedom in the public interest and the said law can be made by virtue of any entry with respect whereof Parliament has power to make a law.	None
(4) The State also, in exercise of its legislative power, may impose similar restrictions, subject to the two conditions laid down in Art. 304(b) and subject.	None
to the proviso mentioned therein.	None
(5) Neither Parliament nor the State Legislature can make a law giving preference to one State over another or making discrimination between one State and another, by virtue of any entry in the Lists, infringing the said freedom.	None
(6) This ban is lifted in the case of Parliament for the purpose of dealing with situations arising out of scarcity goods in any part of the territory of India and also in the case of a State under Art 304(b) subject to the conditions mentioned therein.	None
And (7) the State can impose a nondiscriminatory tax on goods impored from other States or the Union territory to which similar goods manufactured or produced in that State are subject.47.	None
The construction I have placed on the provisions of the Constitution brings not the harmony between the various articles in Part XIII of the Constitution and also discloses an integrated scheme of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse maintaining a balance between federalism and provincial autonomy,48.	None
I agree with my learned brother, Das, J., that the provisions of the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Act (XI of 1951) are regulatory in character and that they do not infringe the freedom enshrined in Art.	None
301 of the Constitution.49.	Facts
The appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
Hidayatullah, J.50.	None
The Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1951(No.	Facts
XI of 1951) in S. 4 provided(1) Save as otherwise provided by this Act or by rules made thereunder or by any other law for the time being in force, no motor vehicle shall be used in any public place or kept for use in Rajasthan unless the owner thereof has paid in respect of it, a tax at the appropriate rate specified in the schedules to this Act within the time allowed by section 5 and, save as hereinafter specified, such tax shall be payable actually notwithstanding that the motor vehicle may from time to time cease to be used.(2) An owner who keeps a motor vehicle of which the certificate of fitness and the certificate of registration are current shall, for the purposes of this Act be presumed to keep such vehicle for use.(3)A person who keeps more than ten motor vehicles for use solely in the course of trade and industry shall be entitled to a deduction of ten per cent on the aggregate amount of tax to which he is liable.	Facts
Explanation.	Facts
The expression trade and industry includes transport for hire.	Facts
The Schedules referred to in the first subsection are four in number.	Facts
They specify the kind of vehicles liable to the tax, the rates of the tax applicable to each kind, and some other conditions.	Facts
A detailed reference to the Schedules will be made by us later.	Facts
Section 11, which created penalties for contravention of the Act, was as followWhoever contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule made thereunder shall on conviction be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 100 and in the event of such person having been previously convicted of an offence under this Act or under any rule made thereunder with fine which may extend to Rs. 200.51.	Facts
The appellants who held permits, plied their buses from the State of Ajmer.	None
Their routes passed through the territory.	Facts
of Rajasthan, and they were required to pay the tax in Rajasthan.	Facts
They filed petitions under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Rajasthan, impugning the demand as a contravention of the provisions of Part XIII and of Art.	Facts
19 of the Constitution.	Facts
A Divisional Bench of the High Court, which heard the petition, referred for the decision of a Full Bench the following question Whether Ss. 4 and 11 of the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1951, infringe the right of freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse granted under Art.	Facts
301 of the Constitution ?	Facts
The Full Bench answered the question in the negative, and in view of the answer the petitions were dismissed.	Facts
The appellants were, however, granted a certificate under Art. 132 of the Constitution, and the present appeals have been filed.52.	Facts
The appellants contend that the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1951 is outside the competence of the State Legislature inasmuch as its pith and substance is InterState trade and commerce, which is a Union subject under Entry 42 of the Union List that it is null and void being in violation of Art.	Facts
19(1)(d), (f) and (g) of the Constitution that it is ultra vires and illegal, as it contravenes the freedom guaranteed under Art.	Facts
301 that even if permissible, it is not a reasonable restriction of trade and commerce within Art. 304, and that not having been enacted with the previous sanction of the President, it is not effective as law under Art.	Facts
265.53.	Facts
At an earlier hearing, the attention of the Constitution Bench of this Court was drawn to 19611 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ) where this Court struck down by majority the Assam Taxation (on Goods Carried by Roads or Inland Waterways) Act,1954 as offending against the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	Facts
On that occasion, three views were expressed.	Facts
Sinha, C. J. held that the freedom guaranteed by Art.	Facts
301 was against trade barriers, tariff walls, or imposts which have a deleterious effect on the free flow of trade, commerce and intercourse but not against taxation simpliciter.	Facts
Shah, J. held that the freedom envisaged was wide enough to comprehend within itself a ban of prohibition, control or impediment of any kind whatever and of taxes whether they fell on movement of trade or commerce or otherwise.	Facts
The majority (Gajendragadkar, Das Gupta and Wanchoo, JJ.) held that though taxes as such were not within the ban of Part XIII, such taxes as impeded the free flow of trade and were directly placed on movement were included in it.	Facts
The appellants relied on the views of Shah, J., and failing that, on the majority view which, they contended, also held good here, while the State Government based its case upon the views of the learned Chief Justice.	Facts
The Constitution Bench was thus of the opinion that having regard to the importance of the Constitutional issues involved and	Facts
the views expressed in 19611 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 )	Facts
this case should be heard by a larger Bench, and these appeals have thus come before this special Bench.	Facts
Certain other parties obtained permission to intervene, and notices having issued to the AdvocatesGeneral of States, we have had the benefit of arguments from various angles.54.	Facts
That freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse is secured by Art.	Issue
301, subject to the other provisions of Part XIII, has not been disputed in this case.	Issue
The dispute is only as to what is comprehended within that freedom, and a further question is whether the powers of Parliament and the State Legislatures to levy taxes according to the sundry Entries in the Legislative Lists are meant to be circumscribed in any way, and if so, to what extent.55.	Issue
Article 301 of the Constitution, so far as its language goes, is fairly modeled on S. 92 of the Australian Commonwealth Act,1900, and numerous decisions of the High Court of Australia and on appeal, by the Privy Council, were cited before us to define the content and extent of the freedom envisaged.	None
Besides, the Government of India Act, 1935 also contained in S. 297 a provision on the subject of freedom of trade and commerce, and the contention of the State partly has been that Part XIII enacts little more than what was contained there.56.	None
Since the arguments made much of these two analogies, it is necessary to state first certain wellknown and wellaccepted propositions relating to the interpretation of Constitutions, in which there are fundamental limits upon the power to legislate.	None
In Queen v. Burah, (1878) 3 AC 889.	None
Lord Selborne laid down a proposition which in its exposition of the subject and the manner of expression can hardly be improved.	None
Lord Selborne said The established Courts of justice when a question arises whether the prescribed limits have been exceeded, must of necessity determine that question and the only way in which they can properly do so, is by looking to the terms of the instrument by which, affirmatively, the legislative powers were created, and by which, negatively, they are restricted.	None
If what has been done is legislation within the general scope of the affirmative words which give the power, and if it violates no express condition or restriction by which that power is limited.	None
. .	None
. .	None
it is not for any Court of justice to inquire further, or to enlarge constructively those conditions or restrictions.	None
We have thus to see what powers have affirmatively been conferred on the legislatures of the States and what are the restrictions on that power.	None
In this connection, we must also bear in mind the weighty observations of Gwyer, C. J. in Bhola Prasad v. King Emperor, 1942 FCR 17 at p. 27 (AIR 1942 FC 17 at p. 20)	None
We must again refer to the fundamental proposition enunciated in (1878) 3 AC 889 that Indian Legislatures within their own sphere have plenary powers of legislation as large and of the same nature as those of Parliament itself.	None
If that was true in 1878, it cannot be less true in 1942.	None
Every intendment ought therefore to be made in favour of a Legislature which is exercising the powers conferred on it.57.	None
The legislative powers of the States after the establishment of the Republic of India are certainly not any the less and it must be conceded at once that within the range of their powers as conferred by the legislative entries in Sch.	None
VII, the State Legislatures are supreme, subject, of course, to such restrictions as are to be found in the Constitution itself.	None
The power to tax motor vehicles is the subject of Entry 57 in the State List, and it reads Taxes on vehicles, whether mechanically propelled or not, suitable for use on roads, including tramcars subject to the provisions of entry 35 of List III.The words suitable for use on roads describe the kinds of vehicles and not their condition.	None
They exclude from the Entry, farm machinery, aeroplanes, Railways etc. which though mechanically propelled are not suitable for use on roads.	None
The inclusion of trams using tracks which may be on roads or off them, makes the distinction still more apparent.	None
It is thus clear that the power to tax motor vehicles is plenary, subject to Entry 35 of the Concurrent List or any other restriction to be found elsewhere in the Constitution.	None
Entry 35 above referred to reads 35.	None
Mechanically propelled vehicles including the principles on which taxes on such vehicles are to be levied.	None
The existence of such an Entry in the Concurrent List cuts down the supremacy of the State Legislatures, and in respect of taxation of motor vehicles, if the principles of taxation are laid down by Parliamentary legislation, the State laws repugnant there to must be void, in view of the provision of Art. 254 of the Constitution.	None
The question whether the power of Parliament to legislate and lay down principles of taxation under Entry 35 of the Concurrent List would also have to be considered under Part XIII, does not arise in this case, for admittedly there is no law by Parliament under that Entry either prior or subsequent to the State Act.	None
Thus, so far as the taxing power of the State Legislature is concerned, it must be admitted that it was not only exercised under Entry 57, but, if judged solely under that Entry, that it was properly exercised.58.	None
The question thus is whether on the exercise of this power there are to be found other curbs in other parts of the Constitution, and whether those curbs have not been observed.	Issue
Such curbs may be of three kinds.	Issue
The first may arise from the operation of the power of legislation granted to Parliament by Entry 42 of the Union List, and the contention in this connection is that the present impugned Act in its pith and substance is legislation under that Entry and thus void.	None
The second may arise from Art. 19, subcls.	None
(d), (f) and (g), if the law deprives the motor operators of the right (a) to move freely throughout the territory of India, (b) to acquire, hold and dispose of property, and (c) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business, and the restriction is incapable of being justified as reasonable.	None
The third may arise from the provisions of Part XIII where freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India has been guaranteed, subject only to the provisions of that Part.	None
These, in the main, are also the contentions, and these appeals can be effectively disposed of from these three view points.59.	None
The first contention that the impugned Act is bad because it is legislation directly under Entry 42 of the Union List need not detain us long.	None
The subject of Entry 42 of the Union List is not taxation but interState trade and commerce.	None
The scheme of the Legislative Lists shows that taxation entries are separate from other entries, and the other entries do not include a power to impose a tax, though the power to levy fees is included as it is expressly so stated.	None
The subject of Entry 57 of the State List is taxation on vehicles.	None
An Act which seeks directly to levy a tax on motor vehicles even though there may be incidental and subsidiary provisions about the regulation of a particular interState trade carried on with the aid of or in motor vehicles is legislation really within Entry 57 and not within the other Entry though it may touch it, and is thus within the competence of the State Legislature.	None
That these motor vehicles come into the taxing State from an extra State point and are taxed within the taxing State by reason of their use or presence there, may raise problems under Part XIII.	None
but not under Entry 42 of the Union List, The words of the charging section are No motor vehicle shall be used in any public place or kept for use in Rajasthan unless the owner thereof has paid, in respect of it, a tax at the appropriate rate specified in the Schedule to his ActThe pith and substance of the Act is the levy of a tax on motor vehicles in Rajasthan or their use in that State irrespective of where the vehicles come from.	None
In one sense, it does not seek directly or immediately to legislate on interState trade or commerce or to prohibit the entry of such motor vehicles if the tax be paid, except in so far as a person deterred by the tax may keep out.	None
This may be a point for consideration under Part XIII or even Art. 19 of the Constitution, but not under Entry 42 of the Union List.	None
Even if the levy of the tax may be said to touch interState trade or commerce, it is not legislation in respect of interState trade or commerce.	None
It has been held consistently by this Court, the Privy Council and the Federal Court that a law substantially in its pith and substance under an Entry in one List may touch incidentally on a topic of legislation in a rival List without being void or ultra vires.	None
This, in our opinion, is sufficient to dispose of the first point.60.	None
The next attack is with the aid of Art. 19 of the Constitution.	None
That Article guarantees to the citizens of India certain basic freedoms.	None
Freedom from taxation is not one of them.	None
It is hardly necessary in this case to examine the subject from the angle of Art. 19, because a law to be good under that Article must satisfy the test of reasonableness.	None
If the impugned sections here are declared to be unreasonable restrictions upon the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse, they would fall also under Part XIII.	None
If this were to happen, it would be wholly unnecessary to decide whether taxation laws are within the reach of Art.	None
19 and also whether the impugned provisions have to pass the independent scrutiny of Art.	None
19 before they can be sustained.61.	None
This brings us to the consideration of the last point on which arguments occupied the Court for several days.	None
It would be unnecessary (if not, impossible) to try to discuss the arguments which, though proceeding from the same side, were oftan conflicting.	None
The use of language borrowed from S. 92 of the Australian Constitution in Art. 301 of our Constitution led to the citation of many Australian rulings.	None
Those rulings are so numerous that they provoked a former Chief Justice of the High Court of that Country to say that when he died, S. 92 would be found to be written on his heart.	None
But it is reasonable to suppose that those who borrowed the language in India were fully aware of the conflict of opinion in Australia.	None
It is reasonable to assume that the framers of our Constitution must have sought to avoid these dangers.	None
It must not also be overlooked that the decisions of the Privy Council in 1950 AC 235 and 1955 AC 241 which to some extent have narrowed down the controversy in Australia, were not rendered when the draft Constitution was framed or the Constitution was adopted.	None
A note has, however, to be taken of the fact that the history of the establishment of federation in the two Countries is so vastly different that in spite of certain resemblance in the language employed in the comparable provisions of the two Constitutions, they cannot mean the same thing.	None
Indeed, they differ in so many respects that nothing is more dangerous than to suppose that the Indian Constitution wished to secure freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse in the same way as did the Australian Commonwealth.	None
These differences are not to be found solely in the language of the corresponding provisions but in the evolution of the two Countries and the checks and balances provided in our Constitution which are not to be found in the Australian Constitution.	None
We shall refer to these differences briefly before examining what checks and balances have been provided in our Constitution.62.	None
The Commonwealth of Australia was formed out of a number of Colonies which were separated by high tariff walls and numerous differential interColonial duties.	None
The idea of a federation was born out of a desire to secure free trade on a reciprocal basis between the Colonies.	None
The Federation was, however, delayed by the failure to reach agreement on the financial aspects of the Constitution.	None
Numerous conventions took place which tried unsuccessfully to solve the problem which was aptly described as the lion in the path of unity.	None
It was after surmounting many difficulties that the financial clauses were settled by agreement.	None
It is in the background of these historical facts that the provisions relating to freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse have been interpreted by the High Court of Australia.	None
The provisions of the Australian Constitution themselves enact the underlying agreements.	None
Sections 51, 88, 89, 90, 100 and 102 insist upon uniformity and the absence of discrimination in matters of trade and commerce after the imposition of uniform duties of customs which was to be achieved in two years.	None
Section 92 then epitomizes the whole concept of this unity and freedom from preferential treatment by enacting On the imposition of uniform duties of customs, trade, commerce and intercourse among the States, whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free.	None
It may be pointed out here that the alternative phrase throughout the Commonwealth was not accepted, though it was suggested as an amendment more than once.63.	None
The provisions of the Australian Constitution such as bear on trade and commerce, are no more than covenants entered into at the Conventions, which have been introduced bodily into the Australian Constitution, the fate of which depended for a long time on how to secure an agreement about uniform tariffs, customs, excises and bounties.	None
The declaration of freedom of trade commerce and intercourse was the logical culmination of the negotiations for the establishment of the Federation.	None
The language of S. 92 was thus made emphatic, even though its full purport remained vague.	None
As observed by Viscount Haldane, L. C. in AttorneyGeneral for the Commonwealth of Australia v. Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd., 1914 AC 237 It is a matter of historical knowledge that in Australia the work of fashioning the future constitution was one which occupied years of preparation through the medium of conventions and conferences in which the most distinguished statesmen of Australia took part.	None
Alternative systems were discussed and weighed against each other with minute care.	None
The Act of 1900 must accordingly be regarded as an instrument which was fashioned with great deliberation, and if there is at points obscurity in its language this may be taken to be due not to any uncertainty as to the adoption of the stricter form of federal principle, but to that difficulty in obtaining ready agreement about phrases which attends the drafting of legislative measures by larger assemblages.64.	None
But declarations in a Constitution, however worded, must be given effect to, and they always loom large on the horizon of lawmaking, if they curtail legislative power, and it is not surprising that the Australian High Court was faced with the problem of deciding which laws rendered trade, commerce and intercourse unfree and which did not.	None
In the course of these decisions, a wide cleavage in opinion soon appeared  one view holding that any burden on trade, commerce or intercourse between the States was bad, and the other view attempting justification to save laws which were impugned.	None
Various grounds for such justification were evolved.	None
Some laws were upheld on the ground that they were merely regulatory but some others were declared void as having crossed the line of legitimate regulatory action.	None
Some taxation laws were upheld on the ground that though they burdened trade or commerce, they were compensatory in character.	None
Even there, differences arose about the tests to be applied to discover when such laws could be said to have exceeded the limits.	None
The number of such cases is legion, and almost any view can be supported by citations from some judgment or other from the Australian Law Reports.	None
Lord Porter in 1950 AC 235 aptly summed up In this labyrinth there is no golden thread (page 310).	None
The maze of law round S. 92 was, of course, something of which the framers of our Constitution were not unware.	None
They knew that in spite of the force of the words absolutely free, it was well settled that the freedom so contemplated was a qualified freedom.	None
In (1916) 22 CLR 556 (573), Griffith, C. J. had observed, what was generally accepted, that the word free does not mean extra legem, any more than freedom means anarchy.	None
The task of the Bench as also the Bar was to ascertain the limits of freedom or more appropriately, the limits to which restrictions could go.	None
In this, the Australian High Court was the actor in the main but the Privy Council also delivered four judgments.	None
Of these, two were before our draft Constitution and two, thereafter.	None
It is, therefore, necessary to investigate, to find out what was the accepted position in about 1948 to be able to see if any of the principles so laid down were accepted and to what extent they were modified to suit our Constitution in the light of our own history.	None
We shall first notice those cases which were decided before our Constitution was drafted in 1948.65.	None
The first point on which difference arose in Australia was whether S. 92 of the Commonwealth of Australia Act was addressed only to the States, or whether it bound the Commonwealth as well.	None
In (1920) 28 CLR 530, the majority held that the Commonwealth was not bound.	None
Gavan Duffy, J. alone held that the language of the section clearly controlled both the powers conferred on the Federal Parliament and those reserved to State Parliament.	None
The view of the majority was negatived by the Privy Council in 1936 AC 578.	None
Indeed, the High Court of Australia had already doubted the correctness of the view, but it felt itself bound by it.	None
The privy Council traced the development of that view, and pointed out that though in The King v. Vizzard, (1933) 50 CLR 30 the Commonwealth agreed to be bound within certain limits, the ruling in Mc Arthurs case, (1920) 28 CLR 530 was not departed from, and that though the view was reaffirmed in Australia from time to time, it was not applied in practice.	None
The Board, however, did not shelter under the decision in Mc Arthurs case, (1920) 28 CLR 530, and decided that the Commonwealth was also bound.	None
Thus, the opinion of Issacs, J, in Foggit Jones and Co. v. State of New South Wales,, (1916) 21 CLR 357 that S. 92makes Australia one indivisible Country for the purpose of commerce and intercourse between Australians and that it was beyond the power of any State Parliament, or even of the Commonwealth parliament, by any regulation of trade and commerce, to impair that fundamental provision.was accepted at least in its first part66.	None
The second point was what was meant by absolutely free.	None
The AttorneyGeneral for Australia in the course of his arguments in 1936 AC 578 summarised the propositions which were urged and supported by authorities in the argument before the Privy Council in that case, and they were six, as follows(1)	None
The first meaning of free is free of all law of every description(2)	None
Free of any restrictions imposed upon trade and commerce by reason of its interState character.	None
That is, free of any discriminating trade law(3) Free as trade and commerce of all interference whether specially directed to it or not(4) Free of all laws the pith and substance of which is a regulation of inter State trade or commerce(5)	None
Freedom attaches to trade and commerce regarded as a whole and not distributively.	None
Individuals are not guaranteed freedom in relation to their trade and commerce so long as trade and commerce as a whole are not impaired.(6) Free from pecuniary impoststhat is the narrowest meaning of S. 92.These six propositions fairly represent the views in the various judgments of the Australian High Court, Issacs, j, in (1912) 16 CLR 99 at p. l17 had observedIn my opinion, the guarantee of interState freedom of transit and access for persons and property under S. 92 is absolute that is, it is an absolute prohibition on the Commonwealth and States alike to regard State borders as in themselves possible barriers to intercourse between Australians.	None
In Mc Arthurs case (1920).	None
28 CLR 530, the claim was made against all Governmental control and the majority also held that to be its meaning.	None
The Privy Council examined the scheme of the Constitution of Australia and drew the line thusThe true criterion seems to be that what is meant is freedom as at the frontier or, to use the words of S. l12, in respect of goods passing into or out of the State.	None
What is meant by that needs explanation, The idea starts with the admitted fact that federation in Australia was intended (inter alia) to abolish the frontiers between the different States and create one Australia.	None
That conception involved freedom from customs duties, imports, border prohibitions and restrictions of every kind the people of Australia were to be free to trade with each other, and to pass to and fro among, the States without any burden, hindrances or restrictions based merely on the fact that they were not members of the same State.	None
After referring to some cases in which the burdens and hindrances took diverse forms and appeared under various disguises, the Board observed that it must be a question of fact in every case whether there was an interference with the freedom of passage, and finally observedAs a matter of actual language, freedom in S. 92 must be somehow limited, and the only limitation which emerges from the context, and which can logically and realistically be applied, is freedom at what is the crucial point in interState trade, that is at the State barrier.	None
The language of S. 92, particularly among the States whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free, taken with the history to which we have already referred apparently decided the controversy.	None
This was departed from later in 1950 AC 235, but after our Constitution was drafted.67.	None
The next question decided was what was meant by trade and commerce.	None
Again, in Mc Arthurs case, .(1920) 28 CLR 530, the meaning given was a very wide one.	None
It was not confined to the mere act of transportation of merchandise over the frontier.	None
It was said that all the commercial arrangements of which transportation is the direct and necessary result form part of trade and commerce.	None
In the concept of trade and commerce were thus includedthe mutual communing the negotiations, verbal and by correspondence, the bargain, the transport and the delivery are all, but not exclusively, parts of that class of relations between mankind which the world calls trade and commerce.	None
In reaching this conclusion, Knox, C. J, referred to Chartered Mercantile Bank of India, London and China v. Wilson, (1878,) 3	None
Ex D 108 and Commissioners of Taxation v. Kirk, .1900 AC 588 at p. 592, where Lord Davey observedThe word trade no doubt primarily means traffic by way of sale or exchange or commercial dealing, but also added that it may have a larger meaning.	None
The view of Knox, C. J. was expressly disapproved by the privy Council in 1936 AC 578 involving, as it did, a conception of interState trade, commerce and intercourse commencing at whatever stage in the State of origin, and continuing until the moment in the other State when the operation of interState trade could be said to end, the freedom attaching to every step in the transaction from beginning to end.	None
It was said that such a view would lead to an immunity from law of a whole body of acts or dealings by the mere fact that they are parts of an interState transaction.	None
The concept of trade and commerce was thus limited to that movement which crosses a State barrier.68.	None
As regards intercourse also, the earlier meaning was wide.	None
The question was whether such intercourse must be commercial.	None
It was held in earlier cases that this conferred a personal right on an Australian and independent of any commercial attributes he may possess, to pass over the Continent irrespective of any the border as a reason in itself for interference.	None
(per Isaacs, J, in (1912) 16 CLR l17).	None
This view was affirmed in (1916) 22 CLR 556 and also in Mc Arthurs case (1920) 28 CLR 530, Later, it was held that the concept of trade, commerce and intercourse meant what was held to be included in the concept of commerce as understood in the United States (per Dixon, J, in the Bank case, Bank of New South Wales v. The Commonwealth), (1948) 76 CLR I at pp.	None
380 and 381).	None
With the exact meaning of the word, we are not presently concerned.69.	None
We shall next see how the doctrine of the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse was applied in practice.	None
In this connection, three cases filed by one James to question the marketing legislation of the states and the Commonwealth did much to settle some of the controversies.	None
The two cases decided by the Privy Council before our draft Constitution were due to his efforts.	None
His first case did not reach the Privy Council, and is reported in James v. South Australia, (1927) 40 CLR I, but it was approved by the Privy Council in James v. Cowan,1932 AC 542.	None
These cases may be noticed briefly.70.	None
In (1927) 40 CLR 1, State legislation creating a Dried Fruits Board and empowering it to fix maximum prices (S.19) and to determine where and in what quantities dried fruits should be marketed (S. 20) and to acquire on behalf of the Minister dried fruits from dealers (S. 28), was challenged under S 92.	None
Section 28 was expressly made subject to S. 92.	None
Section 20 was declared invalid by the High Court of Australia, but Ss. 28,29 and were held to be valid.	None
In 1932 AC 542, the question was the compulsory acquisition of dried fruits in South Australia by the Minister of Agriculture through a Board, after determination by the Board in its absolute discretion what quantities should be marketed locally and fixing quotas for the other States.	None
The question was whether this affected freedom of commerce among the States.	None
The Privy Council emphatically answered that it did.	None
But it made remarks which showed that if the primary object of the legislation was not directed to trade or commerce but such matters as defence, famine, disease and the like, the incidental effect on trade and commerce was immaterial.	None
The action of the Minister was declared ultra vires, and James was held entitled to succeed in his claim for damages.71.	None
The legislation by the State having been declared invalid, the Commonwealth made the Dried Fruits Act (1928)	None
Under that law, no person could send dried fruit from one State to another unless he exported his quota outside Australia.	None
This was challenged by James, When the case reached the Privy Council, three points were considered by the Privy Council and decided.	None
The first was that S. 92 bound also the Commonwealth, the second was that it created a ban against prohibition or burdens at the frontier, and lastly, that it protected commerce in motion and passing the frontiers of the States.	None
A large number of cases, were noticed in which it was decided that trade and commerce was validly burdened in the exercise of power to make laws without impairing movement of trade at the borders.	None
These laws dealt with various subjects like monopolies, price fixation, health regulations, licensing systems, entry of goods or persons and transport.72.	None
The last group consisted of cases in which restrictions applying to motor vehicles as integers of trade and commerce or their owners were considered.	None
Willard v. Rawson, (1933) 48 CLR 316, was concerned with a law which required registration of all motor vehicles on payment of a fee.	None
(1934) 50 CLR 30 was concerned with the licensing of motor vehicles acting as common carriers.	None
OGilpins case (1935) 52 CLR 189 was concerned with owners of vehicles carrying their own goods, and Bessell v. Dayman (1935) 52 CLR 215 was concerned with law affecting interState journeys.	None
These laws were declared valid by the High Court, and special leave to appeal having been refused, it was understood that the Privy Council had approved them.	None
In all these cases, the decisions were by majority, but Dixon and Starke, JJ. dissented.	None
In (1936)	None
AC 578, the Privy Council selected (1934) 50 CLR 30, as the best example.	None
In that case, the question was whether the State Transport (Coordination) Act, 1931 (N. S. W.) contravened S. 92.	None
Under that Act, no public motor vehicle could operate in the State unless the motor vehicle was licensed.	None
Licensing was by a Board which had complete discretion, and a fee had to be paid.	None
The lorry of the appellant in that case plying between Melbourne and New South Wales was unlicensed, and the driver was convicted for breach of the Act.	None
The Australian High Court held by majority that the Act did not contravene S. 92.	None
The Privy Council described the judgment of Evatt, J. as of great importance and quoted the following passage from itSection 92 does not guarantee that, in each and every part of a transaction which includes the interState carriage of commodities, the owner of the commodities, together with his servant and agent and each and every independent contractor cooperating in the delivery and marketing of the commodities, and each of his servants and agents, possesses, until delivery and marketing are completed, a right to ignore State transport or marketing regulations, and to choose how, when and where each of them will transport and market the commoditiesThis was before the decision of Riverina Transport pty.	None
Ltd. v. Victoria (1937) 57 CLR 327, which was decided on the basis of (1934) 50 CLR 30, though not without same doubts.73.	None
In 1945, the Australian High Court decided Australian National Airways pty.	None
Ltd.	None
v. The Commonwealth (1946)  	None
71 CLR 29.	None
Under the Airlines Act, 1945, authority was given to establish Statemanaged services to the exclusion of existing commercial lines whose business was to terminate, whenever a line was effectively started by the Government Airlines Commission.	None
The validity of the entire Act was challenged by private operators who stood excluded from the field, on the ground of an infringement of S. 92 of the Commonwealth of Australia Act.	None
The establishment of the Airlines Commission was upheld, but the creation of monopoly was held to be invalid.	None
Latham, C. J. observed I venture to repeat what I said in the former case (Milk Board case)	None
One proposition which I regard as established is that simple legislative prohibition (Federal or State), as distinct from regulation of interState trade and commerce is invalid.	None
Further, a law which is directed against interState trade and commerce is invalid.	None
Such a law does not regulate such trade, it merely prevents it.	None
But a law prescribing rules as to the manner in which trade (including transport) is to be conducted is not a mere prohibition and may be valid in its application to interState, notwithstanding S. 92.74.	None
One other important case was decided by the High Court of Australia before our draft constitution was prepared, and to that we next turn.	None
That case is 194876 CLR 1.	None
The question was about the constitutionality of the Banking Act, 1947 and alternatively of some of is sections.	None
The Act provided for the acquisition of shares in certain private banks by the Commonwealth Bank by agreement or compulsion and generally for their closure and management by the Commonwealth Bank.	None
Five grounds were taken in attacking the Act.	None
One such ground was that the acquisition provisions, the management provisions and the prohibition provisions were contrary to S. 92 of the Australian Constitution.	None
Latham, C. J., after holding that banking was not trade or commerce, held that banking was an instrument which was used in interState trade and commerce.	None
He held, therefore, that since the overthrow of Mc Arthurs case, (1920) 28 CLR 530, by the Privy Council, the legislative control by the Act did not offend S. 92, because it was a general control and not a control of any interState element.	None
McTiernan, J. agreed in this conclusion.	None
The majority, however, held otherwise.	None
Rich and Williams, JJ.	None
in their judgment laid down that the freedom in S. 92 was a personal right attaching to the individual, that a banker who carried on business in more than one State was engaged in trade, commerce and intercourse among the States, that 1936 AC 578, could not be understood to have laid down that S. 92 protected only the actual passage of goods or persons from one State to another and the Act prohibiting such trade, commerce or intercourse offended S. 92.	None
Starke, J. began his judgment on this part by saying S. 92 of the Constitution prescribes but judicial decisions have much weakened the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
He then summarised the position as at that date as follows (l) The prohibition of S. 92 was addressed to the States as well as to Commonwealth Parliament.(2)	None
The freedom was from both legislative and executive control.(3)	None
The freedom was available to the individual as also to trade and commerce viewed as a whole.(4)	None
The individuals were to conduct their commercial dealings independently of State boundaries.(5)	None
The freedom was assured not only to tangibles but also to intangibles, and the words of the section by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation in S. 92 could not be held to mean only tangibles.	None
Starke, J. himself said that these words trade, commerce and intercourse were wide enough to include intangibles and took the aid of some American decisions which had held that insurance was within the Commerce power.(6)	None
Though the freedom was at the frontiers of the States but any restraint put upon trade, commerce and intercourse even before some tangible property leaves the State of origin was also contemplated.(7)	None
Dixon, J.s dictum in OGilpins case, (1935) 52 CLR 189 where he observed It is not, therefore, every regulation of commerce or of movement that involves a restriction or burden constituting an impairment of freedom.	None
Traffic regulations affecting the lighting and speed of vehicles, tolls for the use of a bridge, prohibition of fraudulent descriptions upon goods, and provisions for the safe carriage of dangerous things, supply examples of regulatory provisions not strictly restrictions within S. 92.According to Starke, J. all Transport cases except (1933) 48 CLR 3l6, were wrongly decided.	None
(1933) 48 CLR 316, according to the learned Judge, was a pure case of traffic regulation, but in the other cases, the burdens imposed directly and immediately upon the transport and movement of passengers and goods whether engaged in domestic, interState or other trade or commerce, were wrongly held to be merely regulatory of the freedom and not its restriction.75.	None
Dixon, J. in dealing with the words trade, commerce and intercourse stated that the compendious expression was evidently used to include all forms and variety of interState transactions whether by way of commercial dealing or all personal converse or passage.	None
He also held that intangibles like insurance, banking, etc. were included in that concept, and agreed with the view that though regulation of trade, commerce and intercourse was compatible with freedom of interState passage or converse, anything which restricted the freedom of such an intercourse was excluded by S. 92.	None
The analysis of the Banks case, 194876 CLR 1 in the High Court in the judgment of Starke, J. represents adequately the views entertained on the subject of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse in relation to S. 92 of the Commonwealth of Australia Act before our Constitution was framed.76.	None
We shall now leave the Australian scene for the time being, but will revert to it to show how further difficulties arising in Australia from the settled views were solved, to begin with, by the Privy Council and subsequently thereto, by the High Court of Australia.	None
We shall also refer to the later cases that were decided in reference to S. 92 of the Australian Commonwealth Act, but which were not available to the Constituent Assembly in India when our Constitution was framed.	None
we shall then be in a position to see how in Australia the difficulties were surmounted and how in India those difficulties were envisaged and tried to be met by proper legislative enactments.77.	None
Before we proceed to an examination of the provisions in the Indian Constitution and their evolution, we will refer to the provisions on the subject of freedom of trade and commerce in the Constitutions of Canada and the United States of America, because they were also precedents which were available.	None
In the British North America Act, 1867, S. 91(2) places The Regulation of Trade and Commerce in the exclusive power of Parliament.	None
Section 121 then provides All Articles of the Growth, Produce, or Manufacture of any one of the Provinces shall, from and after the Union, be admitted free into each of the other Provinces.	None
Several important decisions were rendered by the Privy Council and to some of them we find it necessary to refer.	None
In Citizens Insurance Co. v. Parsons, (1881) 7 AC 96 and again in Bank of Toronto v. Lambe, (1887) 12 AC 575 the Privy Council found it necessary to limit the general words of No. 2 of S. 91 to afford scope for powers given exclusively to the provincial Legislatures.	None
In City of Montreal v. Montreal Street Railway, 1912 AC 333 (344) the same was observed again.	None
Lord Halsbury, L. C. in Liquor Prohibition Appeal 1895, Attorney General for Ontario v. Attorney General for the Dominion 1896 AC 348 said that the words must be given a statutory meaning.	None
There is, however, no definite statement of the limits to be placed but generally the exercise of regulation of trade and commerce within the Provinces is upheld under No. 16 of S. 92, which gives the following power to the Provinces Generally all matters of a merely local or private nature in the Province.	None
And this is even where some prohibitions and restrictions affect the importation, exportation, manufacture, keeping, sale, purchase and use of commodities and must in some way interfere with business operations beyond the Province.	None
In (1887) 12 AC 575 at p. 586, the Privy Council said that if the general power of regulation given to Parliament could be said to prohibit provincial taxation on the persons or things regulated, it could only be by straining those general words to their widest extent.	None
In the Liquor Prohibition Appeal 1895, (1896) AC 348, Lord Watson asked the question which we may well ask Do you regulate a man when you tax him ?, and Lord Herschell said thereupon May it not be necessary to regard it from this point of view, to find what is within regulation of trade and commerce, what is the object and scope of the legislation ?	None
Is it some public object which incidentally involves some fetter on trade or commerce or is it the dealing with trade and commerce for the purpose of regulating it ?	None
May it not be that, in the former case, it is not a regulation of trade and commerce, while in the latter it is, though in each case trade and commerce in a sense may be affected ?	None
Lord Watson then said It would be difficult to imply from these words the regulation of trade and commerce, whilst the power of direct taxation is given to the provincethe clauses must be reasonably read togetherit would be difficult to suppose that regulating commerce meant the passing of an Act by the Dominion legislature exempting banks from provincial taxation, for practically that is what the argument in that case (1887) 12 AC 575, had come to that under the words regulating commerce was implied a power of exempting a bank from provincial taxation, or the liability to be taxed by the provincial parliament.	None
(Lefroy, Canadas Federal System (1913)	None
p.	None
391).We do not consider it necessary to refer to more cases but would refer later to the words of Lord Watson and Lord Herschell, which we have quoted here.78.	None
The law in United States of America need not detain us long.	None
Article I, S. 8 gives the commerce power in the following terse words The Congress shall have power .	None
To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.	None
In 1824, in the wellknown case of (1824) 9 Wheat 1, this clause was considered.	None
Marshall, C. J. gave the definition of commerce Commerce, undoubtedly, is traffic, but it is something more it is intercourse.	None
It describes the commercial intercourse between nations, and parts of nations, in all its branches, and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that, intercourse.	None
The principle of federation as understood in the United States is that sovereign States have surrendered a part of their power to the United States and barring what has been surrendered and what is prohibited by the constitution of the States, the residue belongs to the United States.	None
This is brought out in the Tenth Amendment	None
The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited by it to the States are reserved to the States respectively, or to the peopleMost of the cases in the American Reports are concerned with what rights belong to the States and how far the Congress can regulate commerce.	None
That is not a subject with which we are concerned in the present enquiry.79.	None
We now come to the Indian scene.	None
In Sundaramier and Co. v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1958)	None
SCR 1422 at p. 1478 (AIR 1958 SC 468 at p. 493).	None
Venkatarama Aiyar, J. rightly pointed out thatOur Constitution was not written on a tabula rasa, that a Federal Constitution had been established under the Government of India Act 1935, and though that has undergone considerable change by way of repeal, modification and addition, it still remains the framework on which the present Constitution is built, and that the provisions of the Constitution must accordingly be read in the light of the provisions of the Government of India Act (1935).The history of India during the last hundred years was one of continual transition.	None
From the fully centralised Government at the Centre and in the administrative units then called provinces to partial responsibility in the provinces called Dyarchy, from Dyarchy to provincial Autonomy in a federation of mere administrative units in which the Indian States were expected to join, and from thence to a Dominion under the Crown and lastly to a Republic of a Union of States are transitions within ones memory.	None
Earlier still, there was the rule of East India Company under the Crown through the Secretary of State for India and the GovernorGeneral.80.	None
The transition in India was thus in the converse order.	None
Whereas several independent units joined together in Australia to form a federation to evolve a Central Government, in India the transition was from a highly centralised Government to a federation of States which were made autonomous units.	None
The history of the last hundred years or more thus saw the emergence of selfgoverning States with separate legislatures, executives and financial resources, albeit controlled by the Centre.	None
The union of these States makes them members of a Sovereign Democratic Republic.	None
We shall briefly notice the steps in this transformation.	None
Our survey must begin somewhat earlier than the Government of India Act, 1935, but it need only embrace the degree of independence in the legislative and financial fields.81.	None
Under the East India Company, the notion of a Central Government did not emerge till the Charter of the Company was renewed in 1833, and the GovernorGeneral and his Council in Bengal began to exercise control over the Presidencies of Madras and Bombay.	None
There was thus a move towards a unitary form of government.	None
In view of the bitter lessons learnt in the days of Warran Hastings, the GovernorGeneral was also authorised by the Charter Act of 1833 to overrule his Council, a power which he continued to exercise down to 1935.	None
There was thus, in truth and reality, only one Government and the socalled Governments of the Presidencies and Provinces were agents of the Central Government.	None
After 1858, the Government of the country was carried on in the name of the Queen through her Secretary of State for India.	None
The general pattern was however, the same, though as time passed, democratic institutions in Government slowly emerged.82.	None
When the Reforms came in 1919 and introduced a system of local governments, the process was not decentralisation but deconcentration, as is known in France.	None
By stages, the Councils at the Centre and in the Provinces were greatly expanded a large number of nominated members being added.	None
When elections came, they included the representation of some special interests.	None
Legislation was even then from the Centre in the shape of Regulations or under instructions from the Centre unless it was of a wholly local character.83.	None
We shall pass over the details of the preparatory periods.	None
When Parliament began to modify all this, the aim was to give to the Provinces a separate existence, though under a strong Centre.	None
When the Government of India Act, 1915 was amended, there was a definite break up of the legislative machinery into two.	None
There emerged then the Legislative Assembly and local Legislatures.	None
In the field of local Legislatures, the first experiments in Democracy were tried.84.	None
To invest separate powers, there was a classification of subjects between the Centre and the Provinces, and the topics of legislation, taxation and administration were separated to distinguish the different spheres.	None
Such provision was to be made under S. 45A and the rules that were framed, go under the name of the Devolution Rules and its Schedules were the precursors of the Lists under the Government of India Act 1935 and the present Constitution.	None
The only difference was that there was no third List, which was hardly necessary, as the residual power was in the Centre.	None
The powers of the local Legislatures were, however, not unlimited.	None
Apart from the limitations arising from the allotment of subjects under the Devolution Rules, there was a control of the Centre.	None
Any Act passed by the local Legislature could be disallowed by the GovernorGeneral or the Crown.	None
In certain circumstances, it could be repealed by the Indian Legislature.	None
Thus, though the seed of federation was sowed, there was no semblance of a federation.85.	None
We shall now analyse the financial arrangements, including taxation, during the period covered by us already.	None
The finances of India during the early stages were also centralised.	None
The Provinces were given what was considered to be their needs and Provincial taxation as well as Provincial expenditure were centrally controlled.	None
The process of decentralisation in finance, however, may be said to have commenced earlier.	None
The Act of 1858 by which the rule of the East India Company was terminated also vested the revenues of India in the Crown with the necessary control in the Secretary of State.	None
Mr. Wilson, the founder of the Economist and the first Member for Finance, advocated that the Provinces should not depend on grants but should have independent resources.	None
His suggestions bore fruit in Lord Mayos regime, when in addition to fixed grants some sources of revenue were provincialised.	None
By 1882, there came to exist a bifurcation which was described in the phrase divided heads of revenue  a phrase used for years afterwards.	None
The MontaguChelmsford Report was the next important land mark and led to proper provincial enfranchisement.	None
The Report saidThe existing financial relations between the Central and Provincial Governments must be changed if the popular principle in Government is to have fair play in Provinces . . .	None
Our first aim has therefore been to find some means of entirely separating the resources of the Central and Provincial Governments.86.	None
Under the Government of India Act, the Devolution Rules (Rules 2 and 14) made the separation of the resources.	None
From this, it is not to be gathered that the Provinces had a separate fisc.	None
By R. 16, it was provided that all moneys were to be paid into an account in the custody of the GovernorGeneral and he made rules with the sanction of the Secretary of State and issued orders, both general and special, for payments, withdrawals or disbursements from that account.	None
By far the greater part of the Devolution Rules dealt with these matters and, in addition, there were congeries of rules and instructions.87.	None
Taxation in the Provinces was under Entry 48 in Part II of the First Schedule of the Devolution Rules, which read48.	None
Sources of Provincial Revenue not included under previous heads, whether(a) taxes included in the Schedule to the Scheduled Tax Rules or(b) taxes, not included in those schedules, which are imposed by or under provincial legislation which has received the previous sanction of the GovernorGeneral.	None
The Scheduled Tax Rules made by the GovernorGeneral in Council under S. 80A (3) (a) of the Government of India Act divided the heads of taxes into two parts.	None
The first part dealt with taxes which the Legislative Councils could impose without the previous sanction of the GovernorGeneral of the purposes of Local Government.	None
The second part dealt with taxes which the local Legislatures could impose or authorise the imposition of, without the previous sanction of the GovernorGeneral for purposes of local authority.	None
The first contained eight heads six taxes, one registration fee and one stamp duty.	None
The six taxes were (a) tax on land put to nonagricultural uses, (b) tax on succession, (c) tax on betting and gambling, (d) tax on advertisements, (e) tax on amusements and (f) tax on specified luxuries.	None
In the second part were (a) tolls, (b) taxes on vehicles or boats, (c) octroi, (d) terminal taxes if octroi was not levied in that area before a particular date, (e) taxes on trades, professions or callings, and (f) tax on private markets.	None
There were also taxes and fees on certain services which the local authorities render.	None
The six taxes in the second part were taxes on trade and commerce in motion.	None
They were of course taxes for local authorities, but the Indian Legislature the GovernorGeneral and finally the Crown could annul any law if not acceptable to them.	None
We shall pass over the Report of the Committee of inquiry presided over by Lord Meston which recommended the amounts payable to Local Governments from incometax etc.	None
We shall also pass over the Reforms Inquiry Committee presided over by Sir Alexander Muddiman and that presided over by Lord Inchcape.	None
Under the recommendations of the first and as a result of the retrenchment made by the second in 192728 the contributions by the Provinces ceased.	None
Thus, just before the establishment of the Indian Statutory Commission in 1927 there was not only Dyarchy working, but the sources of revenue were divided between the Centre and the Provinces.88.	None
It was at this stage that the Indian Statutory Commission (popularly known as the Simon Commission) was appointed.	None
The Commission recommended that the Organic Instrument to be framed should have provisions for its own development in other words that India should have a flexible and not a rigid Constitution, and that any development should have regard to India as a whole and not merely British India.	None
In this, there was the echo of what the MontaguChelmsford Report saidOur conception of the eventual future of India is a sisterhood of States, selfgoverning in all matters of purley real or provincial interest In this picture there is a place for the Native States.	None
The Commission emphasised one fact more than any other.	None
They observedEconomic forces are such that the States and British India must stand or fall together . . . .	None
The increasing importance of industry brings problems that must be faced by both together . . . . .	None
The States themselves have their own tariff policies, and there is a serious possibility that, unless provision can be made for the reconciliation of divergent interests, numbers of tariff walls will be perpetuated in an area where fiscal unity is most desirable.	None
The Commission also suggested thatthe new Constitution should provide an open door whereby, when it seems good to them, the Ruling Princes may enter on just and reasonable terms.	None
The Commission, therefore, recommended a federal Constitution composed of British India and the Indian States.	None
They saidWe are inclined ourselves to think that the easier and more speedy approach to the desired end can be obtained by reorganising the Constitution of India on a federal basis in such away that individual States or groups of States may have the opportunity of entering as soon as they wish to do so.89.	None
When the Government of India Act, 1935 was being fashioned, the Committee was assisted by a Financial Adviser in Mr. (later, Sir) Walter Leyton, whose task was to evolve some scheme under which the Provinces could get adequate revenues.	None
The Indian States, if they were to join in the Federation, also insisted that their position be safeguarded.	None
Mr. Leyton then pointed out that before the Indian States Committee, 192829 (commonly known as the Butler Committee) the Indian States had urged that they must receive a share of the customs which had by then risen to as much as Rs. 50 crores, and the Butler Committee had also suggested that this claim should be examined by a panel of experts.	None
When the Round Table Conference met, the question of the shares of the Indian States in the customs and excise revenues was again raised.	None
The Federal Structure Committee was commissioned, among other matters, to report on the powers of the Federal Legislature and the Provincial Constitution Committee, to report in the same way on the powers of the Provincial Legislatures.	None
In the report of the Federal Structure Committee, the subject of trade and taxes on it was dealt with only from, the angle of discrimination, but emphasis appears to have been placed only on British trade and the fiscal conventions.	None
Thus, the discussions before the Conference also centred round two questions (a) the protection of British interests and (b) no commercial discrimination on the ground of race etc.90.	None
When the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Indian Constitutional Reforms went into these questions and, recommended the abolition of Dyarchy in the federating units and the establishment of Provincial Autonomy, the Committee sensed the dangers of breaking up the unity of India and said. . . .	None
in transferring so many of the powers of Government to the Provinces, and in encouraging them to develop a vigorous and independent political life of their own, we have been running the inevitable risk of weakening or even destroying that unity, provincial Autonomy is, in fact, an inconceivable policy unless it is accompanied by such an adaptation of the structure of the Central Legislature as will bind these autonomous units together.	None
They also pointed out that the unity of India on which they had laid so much emphasis was dangerously imperfect so long as the Indian States had no constitutional relationship with British India.	None
The Committee recognised the difficulties of economic ties between the provinces inter se and also British India as a whole on the one hand, and the Indian States on the other, and observedOn the one hand, with certain exceptions, the States are free themselves to impose internal customs policies, which cannot but obstruct the flow of trade.	None
Even at the maritime ports situated in the States, the administration of the tariffs is imperfectly coordinated with that of the British Indian ports, while the separate rights, of the states in these respects are safeguarded by longstanding treaties or usage acknowledged by the Crown.	None
On the other hand, tariff policies, in which every part of India is interested, are laid down by a Government of India and BritishIndia Legislature in which no Indian State has a voice, though the States constitute only slightly less than half the area, and onefourth of the population of India.	None
Even where the Government of India has adequate powers to impose internal indirect taxation or to control economic development, as in the case of salt and opium, the use of these powers has caused much friction and has often left behind it, in the States, a sense of injustice.	None
They suggested the means by which internal trade and commerce could be secured some measure of freedom and their recommendations must be quoted in extenso.	None
In para 264 of the Report, they observedIt is greatly, to be desired that States adhering to the Federation should, like the Provinces, accept the principle of internal freedom for trade in India and that the Federal Government alone should have the power to impose tariffs and other restrictions on trade.	None
Many States, however, derive substantial revenues from customs duties levied at the frontiers on goods entering the State from other parts of India.	None
These duties are usually referred to as internal customs duties, but in many of the smaller States are often more akin to octroi and terminal taxes than to customs.	None
In some of the larger States the right to impose them is specifically limited by treaty.	None
We recognise that it is impossible to deprive States of revenue upon which they depend for balancing their budgets and that they must be free to alter existing rates of duty to suit varying conditions.	None
But internal customs barriers are in principle inconsistent with the freedom of interchange of a fully developed Federation, and we are strongly of the opinion that every effort should be made to substitute other forms of taxation for these internal customs . .	None
the accession of a state to the Federation should imply its acceptance of the principle that it will not set up a barrier to free interchange so formidable as to constitute a threat to the future of Federation . . . . .	None
91.	None
However, in dealing with commercial discrimination, the joint Parliamentary Committee was more concerned with British Imports and the Fiscal Convention which, it was anticipated, would lapse on the new Constitution coming into force.	None
The Committee, therefore, suggested that the GovernorGeneral and the Governors should be empowered to withhold their assent to Bills which were discriminatory in fact or had that tendency.	None
They also recommended statutory prohibition against certain specified kinds of discrimination, and added We need hardly add that the effect of our recommendation for the statutory prohibition of certain specified forms of discrimination would lay open to challenge in the Courts as being ultra vires any legislative enactment which is inconsistent with these prohibitions, even if the GovernorGeneral or Governor has assented to it.92.	None
With these suggestions in respect of the freedom of trade and commerce, a Federal Constitution was recommended.	None
It was also recognised that it would be the Provinces which would carry on the nation building activities and the need for more finances for the Provinces was acutely recognised.	None
The establishment of self governing units and selfgoverning institutions, the creation of deficit Provinces, the separation of Burma and the cost of establishment of a Federation were matters which were gone into by the Federal Finance Committee.	None
The Federal Structure Committee, Sir Walter Leyton, the Davidson Committee and experts like Sir Malcom Hailey and Sir Otto Niemeyer.	None
The Report of the First Taxation Inquiry Committee.	None
(1926) was also available from which guidance was taken, and just as the topies of legislation were demarcated between the Centre and the Provinces so also the sources of revenue were allocated between the Centre and the Provinces.	None
The intention was to create financially stable governments with welldefined powers of taxation.	None
This was, of course, absolutely necessary if the autonomous Provinces were to exist without subventions, which were necessary to support the deficit Provinces.	None
The legislative heads were, therefore completely divided between the Centre and the Provincesone List being exclusive to each and a third List was added by which certain subjects were to be within their concurrent jurisdiction.	None
The intention was to avoid the assignment of residual powers to a minimum, and as observed by Gwyer, C. J. in In re Central Provinces and Berar, Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1989 FCR 18 at p. 38 (AIR 1939 FC 1 at p. 5), this made the, Indian Constitution Act unique among federal Constitutions in the length and details of its Legislative Lists.	None
The Government of India Act 1935 provided by S. 5 that His Majesty was to declare by proclamation that as from a date to be appointedthere shall be united in a Federation under the Crown, by name of the Federation of India,(a) Provinces (b) The Indian states which have of may thereafter accede to the Federation.	None
This proclamation never issued.	None
.93.	None
The freedom of trade and commerce which was the subject of such anxious thought received short treatment in the Government of India Act, 1935, Chapter III in Part V (Legislative Powers) dealt with discrimination in a series of sections which Dr. Keith described as liable to be regarded as oppressive and unfair.	None
Though lip service was paid to caste, creed, colour etc the provisions were really designed to protect British interests.	None
The freedom of internal trade simpliciter was dealt with in Part XII (Miscellaneous and General), and S. 297 provided297 (1).	None
No Provincial Legislature or Government shall(a) by virtue of the entry in the Provincial Legislative List relating to trade and commerce within the Province, or the entry in that list relating to the production, supply, and distribution of commodities have power to pass any law or take any executive action, prohibiting or restricting the entry into or export from, the Province of goods of any class or description(b) by virtue of anything in this Act have power to impose any tax, cess, toll, or due which, as between goods manufactured or produced in the Provinces and similar goods not so manufactured or produced, discriminates in favour of the former, or which, in the case of goods manufactured or produced outside the Provinces, discriminates between goods manufactured or produced in one locality and similar goods manufactured or produced in another locality.(2)	None
Any law passed in contravention of this section shall, to the extent of the contravention, be invalid.94.	None
By this section, power was denied to the Provincial Legislatures under two Entries in the Provincial List, to impair free entry and export of goods in the provinces.	None
The two Entries were referred to separately and expressly by their content and were27.	None
Trade and Commerce within the Province and 29.	None
Production, supply and distribution of goods.	None
The word commodities was used instead of goods in the White Paper, and the change to goods.	None
appears to have been lost sight of in S. 297(1).	None
However, the definition of goods took in commodities, and the words goods of any class or description were wide enough to show what was meant.	None
The subject of taxation was not dealt with in cl.	None
(a) but in cl.	None
(b), and that provided that taxation in the Provinces was not to have a differential basis.	None
In this connection, reference may also be made to Entries 19, 20, 21.	None
22, 23, 24 and 26 of List I and Entries 20 and 32 in List III, which, in some measure, involve regulation of trade, commerce and intercourse.95.	None
The detailed examination of the history lying at the back of the Government of India Act.	None
1935 lays bare some fundamental facts and premises.	None
It shows that the process through a whole century was the breakup of a highly centralised Government and the creation of autonomous Provinces with distinct and separate political existence, to be combined inter se and with the Indian states, at a later period, in a federation.	None
To achieve this, not only was there a division of the heads of legislation, but the financial resources were also divided and separate fiscs for the federation and the Provinces were established.	None
The fields of taxation were demarcated, and those for the provinces were chosen with special care to make these units selfsupporting as far as possible with enough to spare for nationbuilding activities.	None
In this arrangement, the door was open for the Indian States to join on the same basis and on terms of equality.	None
The most important fact was that unlike the American and the Canadian Constitutions the commerce power was divided between the Centre and the Provinces as the Entries quoted by us clearly show.	None
The commercial power of the Provinces was exercisable within the Provinces.	None
The fetter on the commercial power of the Provinces was placed by S. 297.	None
This was in two directions.	None
Clause (a) of subsec.	None
(1) banned restrictions at the barriers of the Provinces on the entry and export of goods, and cl.	None
(b) prohibited discrimination in taxing goods between goods manufactured and produced in the Province as against goods not so manufactured or produced and local discriminations.96.	None
When drafting the Constitution of India, the Constituent Assembly being aware of the problems in various countries where freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse has been provided differently and also the way the Courts of those countries have viewed the relative provisions, must have attempted to evolve a pattern of such freedom suitable to Indian conditions.	None
The Constituent Assembly realised that the provisions of S. 297 and the Chapter on Discriminations in the Government of India Act, 1935 hardly met the case, and were inadequate.	None
They had to decide the following questions (a) whether to give the commerce power only to Parliament or to divide it between Parliament and the State Legislatures (b) whether to ensure freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse interstate, that is to say, at the borders of the states or to ensure it even intraState (c) whether to make the prohibition against restrictions absolute or qualified, and if so, in what manner (d) if qualified, by whom was the restriction to be imposed and to what extent (e) whether the freedom should be to the individual or also to trade and commerce as a whole (f) what to do with the existing laws in British India and more so, in the acceding Indian States (g) whether any special provisions were needed for emergencies (h) what should be the special provisions to enable the States to levy taxes on sale of goods, which taxes were to be the main source of income for the States according to the experts.	None
All these matters have, in fact, been covered in Part XIII, and the pitfalls which were disclosed in the Law Reports of the Countries which had accepted freedom of trade and commerce have been attempted to be avoided by choosing language appropriate for the purpose.	None
In addition to this, the broad pattern of the political setup, namely, a federation of autonomous States was not lost sight of.	None
These autonomous conditions had strengthened during the operation of the 1935 Constitution an led to what Prof. Coupland described as Provincial patriotism, for which the reason, according to the learned Professor wasIn the course of the last few years, moreover, the sense of Provincial patriotism has been strengthened by the advent of a full Provincial selfgovernment.	None
The peoples took a new, pride in Governments that were now in a sense theirs.	None
(The Constitutional Problem in India, part III, p. 40).97.	None
With this historical bankground of our country and the historical setting in which other Federations have dealt with the problem of trade and commerce, we now proceed to examine the Constitution to discover the meaning of the various Articles in Part XIII.	None
We begin by reading Part XIII here indicating in each Article the changes made and the relevant dates on which they were madePart XIIITrade, Commerce anal Interecourse within the Territory of India.301.	None
Subject to the other provisions of this Part, trade, commerce an intercourse throughout the territory of India shall be free.302.	None
Parliament may by law impose such restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse between one State and another or within any part of the territory of India as may be required in the public interest.303.	Reasoning
(1) Notwithstanding anything in article 302, neither Parliament nor the Legislature of a State shall have power to make any law giving, or authorising the giving of, any preference to one State over another, or making or authorising the making of any discrimination between one State and another, by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce in any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule.(2) Nothing in clause (1) shall prevent Parliament from making any law giving, or authorising the giving of, any preference or making or authorising the making of, any discrimination if it is declared by such law that it is necessary to do so for the purpose of dealing with a situation arising from scarcity of goods in any part of the territory of India.(In its application to the Stale of Jammu and Kashmir, in cl.	None
(1) of art.	Facts
303, the words by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce in any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule shall be omitted).304.	None
Notwithstanding anything in article 301, or article 303 the Legislature of a State may by law(a) impose on goods imported from other States(or the Union territories) any tax to which similar goods manufactured or produced in that State are subject, so, however as not to discriminate between goods so imported and goods so manufactured or produced and(Ins.	Reasoning
by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956.	None
S. 29 and Sch.)(b) impose such reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse with or within that State as may be required in the public interestProvided that no Bill or amendment for the purposes of clause (b) shall be introduced or moved in the Legislature of a State without the previous sanction of the President.305.	None
Nothing in articles 301 and 303 shall affect the provisions of any existing law except in so far as the President may by order otherwise direct and nothing in article 301 shall affect the operation of any law made before the commencement of the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, in so far as it relates to, or prevent parliament or the Legislature of a State from making any law relating to any such matter as is referred to in subclause (ii) of clause (6) of article 19.(This Article was substituted for original Article which was as followsNothing in articles 301 and 303 shall affect the provisions of any Existing law except in so far as the President may by order otherwise provide.)306.	Facts
Deleted.(The original Article before its deletion readNotwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this Part or in any other provisions of this Constitution, any State specified in Part B of the first Schedule which before the commencement of this Constitution was levying any tax or duty on the import of goods into the State from other State or on the export of goods from the State to other States may, if an agreement in that behalf has been entered into between the Government of India and the Government of that State, continue to levy and collect such tax or duty subject to the terms of such agreement and for such period not exceeding ten years as may be specified in the agreementProvided that the President may at any time after the expiration of five years from such commencement terminate or modify any such agreement it, after consideration of the report of the Finance Commission constituted under article 280, he thinks it necessary to do so.)307.	None
Parliament may by law appoint such authority as it considers appropriate for carrying out the purposes of articles 301, 302, 308 and 304, and confer on the authority so appointed such powers and such duties as it thinks necessary.98.	None
Part XIII, unlike some of the Constitutions which we have considered, contains within itself and in one place the provisions regarding freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
The commerce power as a head of legislation is divided in the Constitution and figures in all the three Lists.	None
Apart from other Entries under which trade and commence can be affected and which are to be found in all the three List, there are two Entries in the Union List two in the State List and one in the Concurrent List, which bear directly upon trade and commerce.	None
Union List 41.	None
Trade and commerce with foreign countries, import and export across customs frontiers42.	None
Interstate trade and commerce.	None
State List III.26 Trade and Commerce within the State subject to the provisions of entry 33 of List III.27.	None
Production, simply and distribution of goods subject to the provisions of entry 33 or List III.Concurrent List33.	None
(Trade and commerce in and the production, supply and distribution of (a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliamentary law to be expedient in the public interest) and imported goods of the same kind as such products(b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils(c) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates(d) raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned and cotton seed or(e) raw jute.	None
The words in brackets show the entry as it was prior to its amendment by the Constitution (Third Amendment) Act. 1954.	None
The word industries occurred in place of the word industry there.99.	None
By dividing the commerce power and by enacting the provisions of Part XIII, the problems which arose in the United States of America and Canada have been avoided.	None
In Canada, as we have shown already, the question was whether in passing a law the Provinces were encroaching upon the commerce power of the Dominion given by No. 2 of S. 91 and conversely, whether the regulation of trade by the Dominion meant an encorachment of the powers of the provinces.	None
In our Constitution, questions of conflict under two rival Lists may arise, but on the plane of exercise of commerce power, such questions can hardly arise.	None
In the United States the controversy is between the powers of the Congress and the powers of the States, American and Canadian precedents were thus avoided by dividing the commerce power.100.	None
The Constitution deliberately chose the Australian pattern in Art. 301, but made certain other provisions, and this was done to avoid the controversy as it had raged in Australia.	None
Article 301 states in general words (like S. 92 of the Australian Constitution) that trade, commerce and intercourse shall be free.	None
But the opening words Subject to the other provisions of this Part serve to direct attention to the provisions next following.	None
These words achieve two purposes.	None
They indicate (a) freedom is not absolute but subject to what is next provided and(b) that the curbs on freedom of trade and commerce are primarily to be found in Part XIII.Next, the words throughout the territory of India avoid disputes which took place in Australia till the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1 was decided by the Privy Council namely whether freedom is secured only at the frontiers of the States or also within the States.	None
The form of words adopted by our Constitution (throughout the territory) was suggested in Australia as an amendment but was not accepted, and the Privy Council in 1936 AC 578 was understood to have endorsed the view that freedom only at the barriers of the States was meant.	None
Our Constitution chose the form which was rejected in Australia, thereby anticipating the decision of the Privy Council in the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1.	None
It must be remembered that the Banks case 194876 CLR 1 was not decided by the Privy Council when our Constitution was drafted.	None
The freedom in India is interState as well as intraState.	None
This freedom is addressed to parliament as well as to the State Legislatures, as the next Articles clearly show.101.	None
Article 302 then makes the first exception to the freedom.	None
That Article gives power to parliament to put restrictions on this freedom.	None
This shows clearly that Parliament is bound by Art.	None
301, Disputes similar to those which took place in Australia in which it was hotly debated whether the Commonwealth was bound or not have thus been avoided.	None
By providing separate releases from Art. 301 for Parliament and the State Legislatures, that controversy can never arise.	None
Parliament which is authorised by Art 302 can impose restrictions on trade, commerce and intercourse in two aspects.	None
They are(a) between one State and another or(b) within any part of the territory of India.102.	None
By the first is meant trade and commerce in motion across the frontiers of States.	None
It means the interState character of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
By the second, the power is made more general Parliament may put restrictions in any part of the territory of India.	None
The territory of India is defined by Art.	None
1(3), which says(3)	None
The territory of India shall comprise(a) the territories of the States(b) the Union territories specified in the First Schedule(Before the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 the clause read the territories specified in Part D of the First Schedule)and (c) such other territories as may be acquired.	None
The words within any part of the territory of India give power to parliament to legislate for any part not only generally but also locally.	None
This power is subject to two restrictions, the first is that this must be done by law, which means that without a valid law the power cannot be exercised.	None
The second is that the law must be in the public interest.	None
Since law is made the prerequisite of action, mere executive action is out of the question.	None
This obviates the argument emphatically rejected by the Privy Council in 1932 AC 542 that the executive was not under the fetter of S. 92 of the Australian Commonwealth Act.	None
The word required limits the restrictions to the necessities of the situation so that the Article may not be liberally construed as a free charter.	None
The word reasonable is not included as qualifying restrictions as it does in Art.	None
304	None
but it is impossible that the freedom granted in Art301 was to be mocked at by making unreasonable restrictions permissible at the hands of Parliament, Normally, Parliament is the best judge of public interests, and a question of policy can hardly arise before the Courts.	None
But if a question arises whether Parliament has under colour of Art, 302 encroached upon Art. 301, the matter may in exceptionable circumstances be justiciable.	None
It will be useless in this connection to invoke the voice of Parliament.103.	None
Next comes Art. 303.	None
It begins with the nonobstante clause notwithstanding anything in Article 302.	None
The effect of these words is to take away the power granted to Parliament to fetter freedom in the preceding Article in the circumstances stated in this Article.	None
This nonobstante clause has been criticised as not being wholly related to what follows.	None
We do no agree.	None
The answer to the objection will appear from what we say next.	None
The Article says that neither (a) Parliament nor (b) Legislature of a State shall have power (i) to make any law giving or (ii) to make a law authorising the giving of(A) any preference to one State over another(B) any discrimination between one State and another,by virtue of any Entry relating to trade and commerce in any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule.	None
The main idea underlying this Article is to ban preference and discrimination between one State and another in matters of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
This principle of uniformity is so high that by the nonobstante clause the powers of parliament under Art.	None
302 are completely nullified, and along with the powers of Parliament all derivative powers of the State Legislatures where Parliament declares by law that a restriction is in the public interest and the State Legislature legislates under the shelter of such a declaration, are also nullified, see Entry 33(a), Entry 35 of the Concurrent List or Entry 57 of List II read with Entry 35 of List III, to confine the citation to Entries, with which we are primarily concerned here.	None
In the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, in addition to Entries 41 and 42 (List I), 26 and 27 (List II) and 33 (List III) there are many other Entries regulating special trades.	None
In some of them, the formula by law made by Parliament is again repeated out of abundant caution.	None
By the words of Art. 303 by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce is meant not the five Entries last named by us but others also, e.g., Entry 8 of List II, Entries 29, 30, 81 of List I, Entry 29, 15 of List III (to mention only a few from each List).	None
Thus is achieved one purpose which is paramount viz., that the exercise of the commerce power, however derived, is not to be exercised to create preferences and discrimination between one State and another whether the action proceeds from Parliament or a State Legislature or both acting in union.	None
No question of the content of the power or its source can arise in this context, because the prohibition is absolute.	None
The article makes a great advance upon S. 297 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
In the section, the inhibition was only against provincial Legislature or Government.	None
Here, the inhibition embraces not only these but is also against Parliament and the Central executive.	None
The executive limb has been made powerless, because the source of restrictions must be law, and if a law cannot be made, executive action per se would be ineffective without more.	None
Further, S. 297 was concerned only with goods and their taxation differentially.	None
The Article takes in its stride not only the passage of goods or their taxation but all other matters inherent in free trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
The Article has its echo in S. 99 of the Australian Constitution, which reads99.	None
Commonwealth not to give preference.	None
The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regulation of trade, commerce or revenue give preference to one State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof.	None
It is to be read with S. 102, under which Parliament can forbid preferences by State.	None
Article 303 however, goes much further.	None
It emasculates the total legislative power in the country from achieving a single preference or discrimination in trade, commerce and intercourse by a united or concerted action by Parliament and State Legislatures thus ensuring equality to all peoples of India from whatever part they may be drawn and wherever they may be living.104.	None
There is, however, one exception to it, and that is contained in cl.	None
(2).	None
Preference or discrimination may be made in one instance by Parliament by law.	None
The ambit of that exception plainly appears from the words of cl.	None
(2), which are explicit in themselves.	None
Let us quote them again Nothing in clause (1) shall prevent Parliament from making any law giving, or authorising the giving of, any preference or making, or authorising the, making of, any discrimination if it is declared by such law that it is necessary to do so for the purpose of dealing with a situation arising from scarcity of goods in any part of the territory of India.	None
The question of famine is primarily in mind, and secondarily the readjustment or even distribution of goods due to some economic imbalance.	None
Clause (2) is selfexplanatory, and questions such as fixing of quotas of dried fruits or their even distribution in home and outside markets which agitated the Australians can hardly arise, and similar questions can adequately be dealt with by Parliament under this power.105.	None
Next comes Art. 304.	None
It begins with the nonobstante clause Notwithstanding anything in Art.	None
301 or Art. 303.	None
It is contended that one can understand the mention of Art.	None
301 but not of Art. 303, and the Article is thus said to be inaccurately drafted.	None
We have already shown why in Art.	None
303 the State Legislatures found a mention, and unless Art. 303 was also put aside in Art. 304, there would arise a question of balancing it against Art. 304.	None
To avoid this, both Arts.	None
301 and 303 have been excluded from consideration.106.	None
Article 304 is divided into two parts.	None
It enables the Legislatures of States to pass laws which affect trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
Clause (a) of the Article enables taxation of goods from other States pari passu taxation of similar goods in the State but so as not to discriminate between them.	None
The ban of Art. 301 is lifted but uniformity is imposed.	None
Compared with S. 297 (1)(b), the Article is narrower in its enabling portion and shorter in its reach.	None
Section 297 inhibited tax, cess, tolls or due taking in its reach all kinds of imposts on movement, but the Article gives permission to impose only taxes on goods on nondifferential basis between State and State, saying nothing about other imposts.	None
Further, unlike the section, local areas are not mentioned in the Article treating the purely intraState matters on a different footing.	None
Trade, commerce and intercourse generally are next enabled by cl.	None
(b) to be restricted .	None
They can be restricted on two planesthe first in their interState aspect denoted by the words withthat State and second, in their intraState aspect denoted by the words within that State.	None
Both these aspects are open to restrictions provided that the restrictions are reasonable and are required in the public interest.	None
The use of the word reasonable brings in the justiciability of the law.	None
It is useless in this context to invoke the voice of the legislature.107.	None
The opinion of the legislature as expressed in the law may of, course raise a strong presumption, and create a heavy burden for one challenging the law, but extent of the restriction and whether it is commensurate with the requirements of the public interest (though a matter for the legislature to decide in the first instance) may have to be decided ultimately, by the Courts.	None
Of course, laws can be made without affecting trade, commerce and intercourse directly without having to be considered by Courts or processed under the proviso.	None
It is only a law which directly and immediately affects trade, commerce and intercourse which will need to be submitted to the President for his sanction, though the sanction of the President will not save it from being questioned.	None
The Joint Committee on Indian Constitutional Reform in its Report (Para 367) correctly pointed out We need hardly add that the effect of our recommendations for the statutory prohibition of certain specified forms of discrimination would lay open to challenge in the Courts as being ultra vires any legislative enactment which is inconsistent with these prohibitions, even if the GovernorGeneral or the Governor has assented to it.	None
The same will operate even if the President, gives his sanction.108.	None
Article 305 saved existing laws to start with, and at the time of the passing of the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, room was made for the operation of laws by which a State or a corporation owned or controlled by the State carries on any trade, business industry or service whether as a monopoly or otherwise.	None
Article 305 does not apply to the statute here impugned as it was not an existing law.109.	None
Article 306 was a transitory provision which enabled certain Part B States to continue levy of existing taxes or to restrict trade, commerce and intercourse for a period, notwithstanding the provisions of part XIII with that, we are not concerned after 1955 due to the repeal of that Article.	None
Article 307 also is immaterial in this case.	None
It provides for the appointment of an authority or carrying out the purposes of Arts. 301304, and is a counterpart of S. 101 of the Australian Constitution.110.	None
We shall now notice some cases which were decided by the High Court of Australia and the Privy Council, because it is these cases which have been cited to us in support by the rival parties.	None
After the Constitution of India came into force on January 26, 1950, came the decision of the Privy Council in 1950 AC 235.	None
In that case, the Privy Council departed from what had been understood to be some of its former opinions.	None
While adhering to its view that the test was whether an impugned law not remotely or incidentally but directly and immediately restricted the interState business of banking at the barriers of the States, the Privy Council observed that such phrases as freedom at the frontierin respect of goods passing into or out of the State and freedom of what is the crucial joint in interState trade, that is at the State barrier which it had used in 1936 AC 578 were to be read secundum subjectam materiam, and in the context in which they occurred, and observed They cannot be interpreted as a decision either that it is only the passage of goods which is protected by S. 92 or that it is only at the frontier that the stipulated freedom may be impaired.	None
It is not to be doubted that a restriction, applied not at the border but at a prior or subsequent stage of interState trade, commerce or intercourse, may offend against S. 92.	None
Nor, as their Lordships hold, in accordance with the view long entertained in Australia, is it in respect of the passage of goods only that such trade commerce and intercourse is protected.111.	None
The privy Council also corrected the view entertained in Australia that a full and unqualified approval was given to the opinion of Evatt, J, in (1934) 50 CLR 30 by Lord Wright in 1936 AC 578.	None
The privy Council observed But it does not appear to their Lordships that the whole of the learned judges reasoning received the considered approval of the Board.112.	None
The Privy Council next approved of the following passage from (1946)	None
71CLR 29, which has already been quoted by us	None
I venture to repeat what I said in the former case (the Milk case)	None
One proposition which I regard as established is that simple legislative prohibition (Federal or State), as distinct from regulation, of interstate trade and commerce is invalid.	None
Further, a law which is directed against interState trade and commerce is invalid.	None
Such a law does not regulate such trade, it merely prevents it.	None
But a law prescribing rules as to the manner in which trade (including transport) is to be conducted is not a mere prohibition and may be valid in its application to interState trade, notwithstanding S. 92.observing	None
With this statement, which both repeats the general proposition and precisely states that simple prohibition is not regulation, their Lordships agree.113.	None
The Privy Council also made it clear that in some cases regulation may take the form of prohibition, thus endorsing the statement of Harrison Moore that the power of legislation is not merely a power to regulate it ranges from creation to destruction, it may establish as well as prohibit The Commonwealth of Australia, 2nd Edn, p. 280.114.	None
The AdvocatesGeneral of Bombayand the Punjab and Mr. G. S. Pathak relied upon many decisions of the Australian High Court after the Banks case, (1948) 76 CLR 1.	None
Strictly speaking, these decisions could not have influenced the framing of our Constitution, because by the time they were rendered, our Constitution had already been framed.	None
The Banks case, (1948) 76 CLR .1 having drawn the distinction between regulation and simple prohibition, the later.	None
Australian cases began to allow a play for regulation of trade and commerce.	None
There being no machinery for achieving restrictions reasonable in themselves, restrictions to be valid had to be within the limits of regulation.	None
Indeed, this way of justifying legislation, otherwise restrictive, as regulatory was being adopted even before the Banks case, (1948) 76 CLR 1 and the Transport cases were all examples of justification of many laws as regulatory.	None
In some Transport cases, taxes which burdened trade and commerce were justified as compensatory being, it was said, a recompense for the wear and tear of roads.	None
We shall notice these cases briefly, since justification for the sections impugned here was attempted on the ground that the provisions were merely regulatory or compensatory.	None
We shall examine these cases as representing two different phases.115.	None
In (1950) 80 CLR 432, which was a transport case, the High Court of Australia was invited to overrule the Transport cases and to declare that the minority judgments throughout had been right.	None
The chief Justice basing himself on the Banks case, (1948) 76 CLR 1 opined that the Privy Council had finally decided that laws directly operating upon persons engaging in inter State trade and commerce were not infringements of S. 92 if they were what could fairly be described as regulation, If, however, they were laws which directly dealt with the subjectmatter of trade and commerce and exceeded regulation and passed into prohibition, they were invalid.	None
The law was thus upheld, but Dixon and Fullagar JJ. dissented.116.	None
Then came the decision of the Privy Council in 1955 AC 241.	None
By that decision, (1934) 50 CLR 30 and all Transport cases, following that decision and the majority judgment in (1950) 80 CLR 432 were overruled and the opinions of Dixon and Fullagar, JJ, in the last mentioned case were upheld.	None
The decision of the Privy Council in 1955 AC 241, must be examined a little closely.	None
All the earliest Transport cases were decided after the decision of the Privy Council in 1932 AC 542, but before 1936 AC 578, was decided.	None
The Riverina case (1937) 57 CLR 327, and (1946) 76 CLR 29, preceded the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1, and (1950) 80 CLR 432, followed it, and then came 1955 AC 241, from which the appeal went to the Privy Council.	None
Leave to appeal in (1950) 80 CLR 482 was refused.117.	None
Before we examine the decision of the Privy Council, let us recall and restate the main events in brief.	None
In (1927) 40 CLR 1, ,what was struck down by the High Court as a contravention of S. 92 was the executive determination of where and in what quantities dried fruit were to be marketed.	None
In 1932 AC 542, the action of the Minister expropriating the surplus dried fruits was also, held to be a contravention.	None
In 1936 AC 578, it was held that S. 92 bound not only the States but also the Commonwealth.	None
The last case was also generally understood as laying down that by free was meant freedom at the frontiers.	None
An extract from the judgment of Evatt, J. in (1934) 50 CLR.30 was quoted to show that freedom did not attach itself to each and every part of a transaction, and the other parts were not free from regulation or control.	None
Then came the Banks case (1948) 76,CLR 1, which laid down that regulation of trade, commerce and intercourse among the States was not incompatible with their absolute freedom, that there was a breach of S. 92 only when the legislature or the executive acted to restrict such trade, commerce or intercourse directly and immediately as distinct from creating some indirect or consequential impediment which could only be regarded as remote.	None
Thus, regulation was considered as the antithesis of simple prohibition.118.	None
The Transport cases involved almost always(i) a licensing system of motor transport vehicles by a Board(ii) a discretion to the Board to grant a licence or not(iii) a payment of a licence fee which had a maximum limit and(iv) sometimes a mileage charge as in OGilpins case (1935) 52 CLR 189.119.	None
How were these cases affected by the pronouncements of the Privy Council ?	None
The earlier view that (1934) 50 CLR 30, was approved by the Privy Council in 1936 AC 578, fell to the ground when the Privy Council in the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1, abjured this.	None
There was also the approval given to the Australian National Airways case (1946) 71 CLR 29, to which we have referred.	None
The implications of this approval had also to be considered.	None
These questions arose before the High Court in (1950) 80 CLR 432.	None
In that case the Transport Regulation Acts, 193347 provided for licensing of commercial goods vehicles by a Board with discretionary powers and for payment of a fee.	None
The effect of the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1 upon the Transport cases was urged, and it was contended that they must be overruled, but the majority applying (1934) 50 CLR 30, and the Riverina case (1937) 57 CLR 327 held the law to be valid.	None
Dixon and Fullagar, JJ., however, dissented.	None
In describing what was held by these learned Judges, we shall borrow their language, as was also done by the Privy Council.120.	None
According to Dixon, J. the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1, had proved wrong three propositions, and they were(1) that S. 92 did not guarantee freedom of the individual(2) that if the same volume of trade flowed from State to State before as after the interference with individual trader then the freedom of trade among the States remained unimpaired.(3) that because a law applied alike to interState commerce and to domestic commerce of a State, it might escape objection notwithstanding that it prohibited, restricted or burdened interState commerce,121.	None
Next, according to him two further points were settled by the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1.(1) That the object or purpose of all Act challenged as contrary to S. 92 was to be ascertained from what was enacted and consisted in the necessary legal effect of the law itself and not in its ulterior effect socially or economically and(2) That the doctrine of pith and substance though of help to find out whether it was nothing but a regulation of a class of transactions forming part of a trade and commerce was beside the point when the law amounted to a prohibition or the question of regulation could not fairly arise.122.	None
According to Dixon, J. the Transport cases involved a pragmatical solution.	None
The main reason of the error according to him was that trade and commerce was treated as a sum of activities and the interState commercial activities of the individual, and his right to engage in them were ignored, and much importance was attached to absence of discrimination against interState trade considered as a whole.	None
Dixon, J. then added to the five points a sixth, viz., the distinction taken between, on the one hand, motor vehicles as integers of traffic, and, on the other hand, the trade of carrying by motor vehicle as part of commerce.	None
This distinction according to him, was not valid.123.	None
Fullagar, J, in a concurring judgment drew a good picture of how a regulation by its severity could become a prohibition.	None
He observed that though traffic regulations and even licensing of motor vehicles including commercial vehicles could be said not to cross the line of regulation but both had to be reasonable so as not to impair the freedom.	None
And the same could be said also about licence fees, etc, which had to be reasonable and nondiscriminatory, lest they passed from regulation into what the Privy Council called simple prohibition.	None
The majority opinion, of course, prevailed but not for long.124.	None
The case of 1955 AC 241, came after (1950) 80 CLR 432.	None
The High Court followed the earlier decision, but Dixon, C. J. observed, , . , to my mind the distinction appears both clear and wide between, on the one hand, such levies and such provision prohibiting transportation without licence as the foregoing and on the other hand the regulation and registrations of motor traffic using the roads and the imposition of registration fees.	None
In the same way the distinction is wide between such provisions and the use of a system of licensing to ensure that motor vehicles used for the conveyance of passengers or goods for reward conform with specified conditions affecting the safety and efficiency of the service offered and not injure the highways by excessive weight or immoderate use or interfere with the use of the highways by other traffic.	None
The validity of such laws must depend upon the question whether they impose a real burden or restriction upon interState traffic.125.	None
When the case reached the Privy Council it was contended that where the tax was on the movement itself, the tax could not be regarded as regulatory and the reasons given in the judgments of Dixon, C. J. and Fullagar, J, were urged.	None
This was accepted by the Privy Council.	None
On the other side, it was contended that the provisions which were Statewide were regulatory and were imposed on all vehicles, and the effect on interState trade or commerce was indirect or consequential.	None
This was not accepted.	None
Even the other side conceded thatthe imposition of charges in respect of vehicles used on interState journeys would infringe section 92 if the charges (a) discriminated against interState road transport or vehicles engaged therein (b) were imposed at such a rate as to prohibitive of interState road transport, whether alone or in common with all road transport.126.	None
The Privy Council pointed out that in the Transport cases, sufficient weight was not given to 1932 AC 542 where determinations of executive in its discretion were said to be invalid.	None
It accepted the six propositions of Dixon, J. and followed the unusual practice of quoting in extenso the opinions of Dixon and Fullagar, JJ, in (1950) 80 CLR 432 and expressed them as their own.	None
The Board overruled the Transport cases, and observedIn their opinion it follows that if the validity of the Transport Act is to be established in the present case, it can only be upon the ground that the restrictions contained therein are regulatory in the sense in which that word is used in the Bank case (1948) 76 CLR 1.127.	None
We now come to the last phase.	None
The distinction between laws which merely regulate and those that restrict or prohibit having thus been established at the cost of all the Transport cases except (1933) 48 CLR 316, a new method was adopted by the Australian Legislatures.	None
Wynes in Legislative Executive and Judicial Powers in Australia (1956), tells us that the transport legislation was amended by four of the States and the amended law was challenged in several cases We shall not trouble ourselves with them or with those in which laws in bar of claims arising out of the decision of the Privy Council were considered, but must draw attention to the difference between regulation and restriction made in Hughes and Vale pty Ltd. v. State of New South Wales (No. 2) (1955) 93 CLR 127 (159162).	None
For the present however, we borrow the flowing summary inadequate though it is, from WynesSpeaking of regulation, their Honours said that Sec.	None
92 of course assumed that the transactions protected would be carried out in accordance with the general law merely, because a transaction was a part of interstate trade, commence or intercourse, the persons engaging in it were not excluded from the operation of that law.	None
What was precluded were restrictions of, real character preventing or obstructing the dealing across the border or the interState passage or interchange.	None
There was a clear distinction in conception between laws interfering with freedom to carry out the very activity constituting InterState trade and laws imposing on those engaged therein rules of proper conduct or other restraints directed to the due and orderly manner of carrying it out.	None
This distinction was naturally described as regulation a word of anything but fixed legal import which differed according to the nature of the thing to which it applied.	None
Perhaps the true solution in any given case could be found by distinguishing between the features of the activity in virtue of which it fell within the category of trade, commerce and intercourse among the States and those features which though invariably found to occur in some form or another in the activity, were not essential to the conception.128.	None
It was pointed out also that under the guise of what may legitimately be regulation, real burdens and restrictions could be placed129.	None
There was a divergence of opinion again over the question of licence charges and registration fees.	None
The majority was prepared to sustain charges if imposed as a real attempt to fix a reasonable recompense or compensation for the use of the highway and for a contribution to the wear and tear which the vehicle may be expected to make.	None
The minority thought that (except for a fee for a specific service)	None
no charges could be levied.	None
In two cases, viz., Nilson v. State of South Australia (1955) 93 CLR 292 and Pioneer Tourist Pty. Ltd. v. State of South Australia (1955) 93 CLR 307, it was held that a State could not require commercial motor vehicles to register and pay a fee exceeding mere administrative charges.130.	None
There is yet another line of cases recently decided in Australia.	None
The taxing of commercial vehicles employed in inter State or intraState transport has been justified in some cases on the ground that such taxes are compensatory, and the tax is a recompense for the wear and tear of roads.	None
In (1957) 99 CLR 28, Part II of the Commercial Goods Vehicles Act, 1955 (Victoria) was challenged.	None
That Act required the owner of every commercial vehicle of load capacity exceeding four tons to pay compensation for the wear and tear caused to the road.	None
There was a schedule under which the payment was determined.	None
Every vehicle paid onethird of a penny per ton of the sum of  (a) the tare weight of the vehicle and (b) forty per cent of the load capacity of the vehicle  per mile of public highway along which the vehicle travelled in Victoria.	None
The receipts were paid to the credit of a special account and applied solely for the maintenance of the highway.	None
This law was upheld under S. 92 by a narrow majority of 4 to 3 in its application to interState trade.	None
In the same case, S. 3 of the Motor Car Act, 1951 (Vict.), which levied fees on a motor car used for carrying goods for hire or in the course of trade according to the powerweight and varying according to the number of wheels and types of the tyres etc. was upheld by a majority of 6 to 1.	None
The main reason given was that these payments served to maintain roads at a standard by which interState operations of trade, commerce and intercourse were improved.	None
It was, however, said that the charge must not be more than a fair recompense for the actual use of the roads.	None
McTierman, J. relied on a passage in Adam Smiths The Wealth of Nations, where public works as roads, bridges, etc. are discussed as facilities of commerce.131.	None
The question was again considered in (1959) 102 CLR 280, where the Road Maintenance (Contribution) Act, 1958 (N. S. W.) which imposed upon owners of commercial goods vehicles a road charge at a rate per mile was upheld.	None
It will thus appear that tax legislation in Australia has now to resort to the creation of a separate fund to which State collections have to go earmarked for the maintenance of roads and to provide elaborate criteria for determining the amount payable, On this subject as well as on the subject of regulations as described, by Fullagar, J. in (1950) 80 CLR 432, the law for the time being seems settled.132.	None
Having dealt with the historical background of the Constitution, the possible models which were considered in the drafting of Part XIII, we proceed to consider the three views expressed in the Atiabari Tea Co. case 19611 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ).	None
These views are not sharply divided.	None
The majority accepts the view expressed by the learned Chief Justice, but goes beyond it, while Shah, J. accepts the views of the majority but goes still further.	None
The main question that arose then, as it has arisen here, is Do taxation laws come within the reach of Art.	None
301?	Reasoning
Now, it cannot be laid down as a general proposition that all taxes are hit by that Article.	None
We have shown above that the financial independence of the States was secured by an elaborate division of heads of taxation, which were well thought out to provide the States with the means of independent existence and the wherewithal of nationbuilding activities.	None
There is hardly any tax which the States are authorised to collect which could not be said to fall on traders.	None
Property tax, sales tax, municipal taxes, electricity taxes (to mention only a few) are paid by traders as well as by nontraders.	None
To say that all these taxes are so many restrictions upon the freedom of trade commerce and intercourse is to make the entire Constitutional document subordinate to trade and commerce.	None
Since it is axiomatic that all taxes which a tradesman pays must burden him, any tax which touches him must fall within Art.	None
304, if the word restriction is given such a wide meaning.	None
Every such legislation will then be within the pleasure of the President, and this could not have been intended.	None
Restriction must, therefore, mean something more than a mere tax burden.	None
In our opinion, the issue of taxation cannot be made justiciable with reference to Art.	None
301 in those cases where the tax is a general tax which a trader pays in common with others.	None
We would, therefore, respectfully disagree with the view of Shah, J. when he holdsNot merely discriminative tariffs restricting movement of goods are included in the restrictions which are hit by Art. 30l, but all taxation on commercial intercourse, even imposed as a measure for collection of revenue is so hit.	None
Between discriminatory tariffs and trade barriers on the one hand and taxation for raising revenue on commercial intercourse, the difference is one of purpose and not of quality.	None
Both these forms of burdens on commercial intercourse trench upon the freedom guaranteed by Article 301.133.	None
That a tax is a restriction when it is placed upon a trade directly and immediately may be admitted.	None
But there is a difference between a tax which burdens a trader in this manner and a tax, which being general is paid by tradesmen in common with others.	None
The first is a levy from the trade by reason of its being trade, the other is levied from all, and tradesmen pay it because every one has to pay it.	None
There is a vital difference between the two, viewed from the angle of freedom of trade and commerce.	None
The first is an impost on trade as such, and may be said to restrict it the second may burden the trader, but it is not a restriction of the trade.	None
To refuse to draw such a distinction would mean that there is no taxing entry in Lists I and II which is not subject to Arts.	None
301 and 304, however general the tax and however nondiscriminatory its imposition.	None
To bring all the taxes within the reach of Art.	None
301 and to bring them also within the reach of Art.	None
304 is to overlook the concept of a Federation, which allows freedom of action to the States, subject, however, to the needs of the unity of India.	None
Just as unity cannot be allowed to be frittered away by insular action, the existence of separate States is not to be sacrificed by a fusion beyond what the Constitution envisages.	None
No doubt.	None
Part XIII ensures economic unity to India and combines the federating States into the larger State called India.	None
The Constitution also permits independent powers of taxation.	None
What the Constitution does not permit is that trade, commerce and intercourse should be rendered unfree.	None
Trade and commerce remain free even when general taxes are paid by tradesmen in common with nontradesmen.	None
The question whether a tax offends Part XIII can only arise when it seeks to tax trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
Support for the contrary proposition is not to be found in 1936 AC 578.	None
The Privy Council in 1936 AC 578 did not lay downEvery step in the series of operations which constitutes the particular transaction is an act of trade, and control under the State law of any of these steps must be an interference with its freedom as trade.	None
(p. 629).134.	None
This passage represents the view held in McArthurs case (1920) 28 CLR 530.	None
That case was disapproved at p. 631.	None
We have already dealt with this view at some length.135.	None
Thus, taxation laws and taxes must be divided into two kinds.	None
Taxes which are general and for revenue purposes which fall on those engaged in trade, commerce and intercourse in the same way as they fall on others not so engaged cannot normally be within the reach of Part XIII.	None
A motor transport owner cannot claim that he will not pay property tax in respect of his garage buildings or electricity tax for the electricity he consumes in lighting them or incometax on his profits.	None
Part XIII has nothing to do with such taxes even though they fall upon tradesmen.136.	None
But this is not to say that we accept the view that all taxes or taxing laws are outside the reach of Part XIII.	None
We find ourselves unable to accept the argument that there must be a discernible point in the operations of trade, commerce and intercourse at which the tax becomes a barrier to the freedom of the movement of trade before it will offend the freedom guaranteed.	None
This argument considers the subject of freedom in terms of barriers, tariff walls and imposts, erected in the way of the free flow of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
Of course, if the tax does create barriers, tariff walls and imposts at some discernible point, the restriction is easy to detect.	None
But restrictions maybe diverse, subtle and disguised, and a tax may be a direct and immediate restriction without appearing to be so at a particular point in the movement of trade.	None
A law which prohibits trade, commerce and intercourse and releases them on the fulfillment of some unreasonable condition including the payment of an unreasonable or discriminatory tax will just as much be a restriction offending the freedom as a tariff wall or any other barrier.	None
No question of pith and substance in this context arises as was pointed out by the Privy Council in the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1.	None
The nature of the tax and its relation to trade, commerce and intercourse are the matters to consider.137.	None
In trying to establish that taxation entries are entirely outside the reach of Part XIII, it is contended that Part XII, which deals with taxation, is a code by itself and taken with the Legislative Lists, lays down the power of taxation which cannot be taken away by the provisions of Part XIII.	None
The power of taxation is, therefore, said to be not subject to the declaration of freedom in Art.	None
301.	Reasoning
The imposition of a tax is conditioned on the existence of a law.	None
Article 265 lays down that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	None
Article 301 is a curb on the lawmaking power, because by the unambiguous declaration contained in it, the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse is secured.	None
The prohibition is addressed not only to the Executive but also to the Legislature, because Arts. 302 and 304 lift the ban which has been imposed in favour of action by law made by Parliament and the State Legislatures respectively.	None
Article 304 expressly mentions the power to impose taxes which must include at least excise duties and sales tax, and from this, also, it is quite clear that taxation is within the prohibition contained in Part XIII.	None
This argument was also rejected by the majority in Atiabari Tea Company case, 19611 SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 ), and we respectfully agree.138.	None
Before, however, a tax can be struck down, the incidence of the tax and the method of its collection must be examined.	None
If the tax falls upon trade, commerce and intercourse as such, irrespective of whether it falls on trade viewed as a whole or on individual traders, and restricts the freedom guaranteed a question will immediately arise about the legality of the tax.	None
In this connection, even trade not in motion and more so trade in motion will be protected unless the law, if made by Parliament is in the public interest, and if made by the State Legislature it is reasonably in the public interest and the previous sanction of the President has been obtained.	None
What we have said about taxation and taxes is also true of other restrictions though not of a pecuniary character.	None
A restriction from whatever source it may proceed, must be backed by law made in the manner indicated and the law must comply equally with those conditions.	None
It may be stated here that it is not open under Part XIII to courts to devise their own technique for exempting patent and palpable interferences with the freedom of trade and commerce.	None
In the Australian constitution, there was no machinery for determining what freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse meant in given circumstances, and the court stepped in with its own, interpretation of S. 92 of the commonwealth of Australia Act.	None
In our constitution, many problems which agitated the Australian High court have been obviated, and in so far as restriction of the freedom is concerned, it can only be achieved by law made in the public interest and in the manner indicated.	None
In so far as State legislation is concerned, the law must be reasonably in the public interest, and the sanction of the President must be obtained.	None
Thus, the President in the first instance and finally the Courts will be the judges of the reasonableness of the restriction and the existence of public interest.139.	None
Part XIII, which has created the freedom, has thus also shown the way for restricting the freedom.	None
The Privy Council in the Banks case (1948) 76 CLR 1, observedIf these two tests are applied first whether the effect of the Act is in a particular respect director remote and secondly, whether in its true character it is regulatory, the area of dispute may he considerably narrower.140.	None
This may be true where the law attempts to regulate freedom but not true where the law restricts freedom.	None
There is real difference between regulation and restriction.	None
Traffic rules are regulations, not restrictions, Trade, commerce and intercourse are regulated so that they may flow freely.	None
The rule of the road is not a restriction of commercial traffic, but one designed to make the flow of traffic smooth.	None
The prescription that cars should have reliable brakes or lights or a sound device are not restrictions of trade.	None
These regulations are needed both for ensuring safety for those engaged in traffic as also for securing that every one engaged in traffic might equally enjoy that right.	None
The classification of heavy transport vehicles, the tare weight, the kinds of tyres they must have, the seating capacity, of buses and so on and so forth are not normally restrictions of trade, commerce and intercourse, but are meant for the better and more effective flow of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
Such laws cannot be viewed as restrictions at all, and do not come within the freedom angle nor do they require the process under witch freedom can be curtailed.	None
Just as a tax of a general character payable by all and sundry and not placed upon a trade directly and immediately cannot be considered as a restriction of trade even though it burdens a trader, so also regulations of trade without hampering it or impairing its freedom cannot be described as restrictions.	None
A regulation, when it ceases to be a regulation and becomes a prohibition may require justification as a reasonable restriction.	None
Fullagar, J. in (1950) 80 CLR 432 pointed out that a regulation of speed on the highways does not offend the freedom guaranteed, but a rule that commercial vehicles should travel at one mile per hour ceases to be regulation and becomes a restriction.	None
Here, the question is not one of degree but of the essence of the purpose.	None
The technique of justifying laws as regulatory was evolved in Australia in view of the intractable language of S. 92 without any indication of the circumstances in which the absolute freedom could be curtailed.	None
The detailed provisions contained in Part XIII render such a construction of Art.	None
301 at once unnecessary and impermissible.141.	None
Let us now see whether the validity of taxation laws directly impinging on tradeand commerce can be upheld on the ground that they are regulatory.	None
Here, a distinction must be made between fees and taxes.	None
Fees charged as quid pro quo for services rendered or as representing administrative charges are quite different from taxes, pure and simple.	None
Fees may partake of of regulation when they are demanded to enable Government to meet the cost of administration.	None
But the tax, with which we are concerned, is hardly a fee in that narrow sense.	None
It is a tax for raising revenue.	None
Of such a tax, Lord Watson asked the question Do you regulate a man when you tax him ?	None
As was pointed out by Lord Herschell during the arguments in the Liquor Prohibition Appeal 1895 (1896) AC 348 in a passage which we have quoted earlier, the matter may be looked at in two ways.	None
Lord Herschell observedMay	None
it not be necessary to regard it from this point of view, to find what is within regulation of trade and commerce, what is the object and scope of the legislation ?	None
Is it some public object which incidentally involves some fetter on trade or commerce or is it the dealing with trade and commerce for the purpose of regulating it?	None
May it not be that, in the former case, it is not a regulation of trade and commerce, while in the latter it is, though in each case trade and commerce in a sense may be affected?142.	None
In our judgment, the first test to apply is what is the object and scope of the legislation?	None
A regulation of trade and commerce may achieve some public purpose which affects trade and commerce incidentally but without impairing the freedom.	None
Sometimes, however, the regulation itself may amount to a restriction, and if such a stage is reached, then under our Constitution the restriction must be reasonably in the public interest, and the Presidents prior sanction must be obtained, if the law imposing such restriction is made by the State Legislature.	None
If, however, it does not reach the stage of restriction of trade and remains only a regulation incidentally touching trade and commerce, the regulation is outside the operation of Arts.	None
301 and 304.It is on this ground that laws prescribing the rule of the road and like provisions already referred to as well as a regulation that the height to which trucks may be loaded must be such as not to endanger the overhead bridges or wires, do not have do go before the President, since they do not affect the freedom guaranteed.	None
The object of such laws cannot be regarded as a restriction of trade and commerce.	None
Freedom in Art.	None
301 does not mean anarchy.	None
Similarly, a demand for a tax from traders in common with others is not a restriction of their right to carry on trade and commerce.	None
A system of licensing of motor vehicles is a regulation, but does pot impair the freedom of trade and commerce unless the licensing is made to depend upon arbitrary discretion of the licensing authority.	None
Similarly, a fee for administrative purposes may also be viewed as a part of regulation.	None
Such licensing and fees fall outside Art.	None
301, because they cannot be viewed as restrictions, and therefore do not need to be processed under Art. 304.	None
Such regulations are designed to give equal opportunity to every one, subject to a certain standard.	None
The object being a public object, such regulations cannot be questioned unless they amount to restrictions.	None
A tax, however, which is made the condition precedent of the right to enter upon and carry on business at all is a very different matter.	None
It is a restriction on the right to carry on trade and commerce and the restriction is released on the payment of the tax, which is the price of such release.	None
It is from this point of view that the impugned provisions in this case must be examined.143.	None
We have to examine the precise nature of the tax imposed, which has to be gathered from the charging section read with the Schedules, and the plain question is whether so read, there can be said to be anything other than a tax on a trader and on his activity as a trader.	Issue
The Act consists of 24 sections, and 4 Schedules.	None
Section 4(1) which imposes the tax is the charging section and has on its terms, to be read with each of the Schedules to the Act.	None
Apart from the usual sections generally found in every taxing measure such as prescribing the time the tax has to be paid, cases in which refund may be had, declarations which have to be made and provisions for recovery of tax, appeals, etc. there are provisions for penalties and for compounding.	None
There is one other provision, to which attention may be drawn and that is S. 20, which reads20.	None
Levy of toll on certain bridges.  	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act it shall be lawful for the Government to levy tolls on motor vehicles under any law or usage for the time being in force, such rates as it may from time to time fix(i) for the use of any bridges or(ii) on any bridge constructed, reconstructed or repaired after the commencement of this Act.144.	None
The four Schedules as their headings amply show, deal with different subjects.	None
Schedule I is divided into two parts A and B.	None
They deal with the subjects indicated in the headings.	None
A. Vehicles (other an Transport Vehicles plying for hire or required) if fitted solely with pneumatic tyres.	None
B.	None
If the above motor vehicles are fitted with resilient or nonresilient tyres, extra tax will be levied at 50 of the above rate.145.	None
Part A is then divided into three sections dealing with different classes of vehicles and prescribe different rates for each such class.	None
We are not at present concerned with vehicles which are not used as transport vehicles plying for hire.	None
Schedule II is also divided into two parts dealing respectively with vehicles fitted with pneumatic tyres and vehicles not so fitted.	None
The first part deals with two categories marked respectively A and B. A comprises motor vehicles plying for hire for the conveyance of passengers and light personal luggage of passengers, while B comprises goods vehicles plying under Public Carriers Permit.	None
There are further subdivisions in each category A and B according to the seating capacity of the vehicles on the basis of which different rates of tax are imposed, but it is not necessary to go into their details.146.	None
Schedule III comprises goods vehicles registered outside the State using roads in Rajasthan, and they are required to pay a tax calculated at a specified sum per day.	None
Schedule IV is headedVehicles used for the carriage of goods in connection with a trade or business carried on by the owner of the vehicle under a Private Carriers Permit.147.	None
These vehicles are again classified according to the kind of tyres with which they are fitted as well as by their load capacity and different amounts of tax are payable by each class.	None
Part II of this Schedule specifies the tax payable by dealers in or manufacturers of motor vehicles, which is described as a payment for a general licence dependent upon the number of vehicles which they manufacture or deal in.148.	None
From the above analysis, it will be seen that the tax in Schs.	None
II to IV is laid upon trade and commerce directly and immediately.	None
It cannot be described as a property tax.	None
Motor vehicles employed by a trader for transport of passengers and goods are integers of trade and commerce.	None
The tax is not like the property tax which a transport operator pays on buildings employed by him in his business.	None
There, the tax is payable also but not as a condition precedent to the business.	None
The tax, with which we are concerned, is one directly and immediately laid on trade and commerce and also on trade and commerce in movement.	None
In this connection, Sch.	None
I and Part II of Sch.	None
IV need not be considered, for we are dealing with motor vehicles used as integers of trade and commerce.	None
The tax is evidently not a fee for administrative purposes therefore, it cannot be justified as representing payment for services.	None
Its object is the raising of revenue, which distinguishes a tax from a fee.149.	None
We may next consider whether the tax can be justified as regulatory or compensatory.	Issue
For this purpose, some facts must be stated.	None
The appellants are three.	None
They owned buses which were registered in the former State of Ajmer.	None
They plied on diverse routes.	None
There was one route, Nazirabad to Deoli, which lay mainly in Ajmer State, but it crossed narrow strips of the territory of Rajasthan.	Facts
Another route, Ajmer to Kishengarh, was substantially in the Ajmer State, onethird of which was only in Rajasthan.	None
Kishengarh was, at the material time, a part of Rajasthan.	None
The appellants were required to charge fares prescribed by the Ajmer authorities, and could not change them to cover extra expenditure in the shape of taxes, which they had to bear in Rajasthan.	None
Formerly, there was an agreement between the Ajmer State and Kishangarh State, by which either State did not charge any tax or fees on vehicles registered in the respective States.	None
Later, Kishangarh became a part of Rajasthan, and the tax was demanded from these appellants for the period, April 1, 1951 to March 31, 1954.	None
The demand was made by virtue of S. 4.	None
the charging section, under pain of the application of S. 11 which provides for penalties.150.	None
The taxes, which are imposed by Schs. II, III and IV(I), operate on trade and commerce directly.	None
It is not denied that the carriage of passengers and goods amounts to trade.	None
It was, in fact, so held in the Transport cases in Australia and also by the Privy Council.	None
Under the Act this trade can only be carried on, if the tax is paid.	None
The Act, therefore, involves a prohibition against a trade, which prohibition is released on payment of tax.	None
The Schedules affect motor vehicles for carriage of passengers and goods on hire in Rajasthan and also similar vehicles coming from outside.	Reasoning
In so far as vehicles coming from outside are concerned, their entry into the State is barred unless the tax is paid.	None
The tax is thus not incidental to trade but is directly on it and is on its movement.	None
This is not a tax which the trader has to bear in common with others, and the tax is for revenue purposes.	None
This is a case in which if the tax is not paid, the trade is destroyed.	None
The charging provisions do not take into account what distance a particular vehicle travels within the State.	None
A vehicle travelling a hundred miles and another travelling only one mile have to pay an identical sum as tax.	None
How then can it be said that it involves a fair recompense for the wear and rear of roads?	None
To say that such tax is compensatory and is a recompense for the wear and rear of the roads is to misdescribe it.	None
Section 20, which we quoted earlier, may be compensatory for use of a bridge and may even be described as regulatory within the decision of Fullagar, J. in (1950) 80 CLR 432 but not the taxing provisions which even in Australia would not be regarded either as compensatory or regulatory.	None
It is impossible, therefore, to turn to the Australian precedents for help.151.	None
Further, the duty of maintaining roads is a duty of the State, and it performs it not from any special fund which is created from the receipt of these taxes but from its general funds.	None
The wear and tear of the roads is not caused by the transport vehicles only but by other vehicles not employed in the trade of transport.	None
The tax which is levied is not based on any theory of recompense, which has been evolved in Australia.	None
There, the distance travelled, the load carried are taken into account, and a charge is payable by each operator according to the distance actually travelled by him in consonance with the weight carried.	None
A further circumstance which goes into the determination of the amount payable is the kind of tyres and the number of wheels which the vehicle has.	None
To say that the impugned tax is compensatory without any attempt to apportion the charge according to the actual wear and tear, is to borrow a theory for justification, which does not apply to the facts here.152.	None
The only other question is whether the Act is, in its true character, regulatory.	Issue
There is no provision in the Act which can be regarded as regulatory of motor vehicles or their use.	None
The Act plainly levies a tax upon the possession or use of motor vehicles.	None
A tax does not regulate trade ordinarily it imposes a charge on the trade.	None
The question thus remains does the tax burden trade or impair the free flow of trade and commerce as contemplated by Art.	None
301?	Reasoning
It is clear that the tax is on trade.	None
It is also clear that it is on the movement of trade.	None
It is further clear that it creates a barrier between one State and another, which trade cannot cross except on a heavy payment.	None
The tax is not truly a fair recompense for wear and tear of roads even if a justification on the doctrine of compensatory taxes is applied.	None
It is nothing except a restriction, which Art.	None
301 forbids.	None
The Bill which became the Act, was not submitted to the President for his previous sanction, nor was it assented to subsequently after it passed the Legislature.	None
The question, therefore, whether the restriction imposed by the Act is reasonable or not does not arise.153.	None
We are, therefore, of opinion that S. 4(l) as read with Schs.	None
II, III and Part I of Sch.	None
IV offends Art.	None
301 of the Constitution, and as resort to the procedure prescribed by Art. 304 (b) was not taken, it is ultra vires the Constitution.	None
We wish to make it clear that we pronounce no opinion about the constitutional validity of S. 4(1) as read with Sch.	None
I or the second Part of Sch. IV.	None
The first raises a question as to the meaning of the expression intercourse in Part XIII and as that matter is not relevant for the appeal before us, and thus no arguments were heard on that point, we refrain from expressing any opinion on it.	None
The second involves many other questions, which are far remote from the controversy with which we are now concerned, and therefore need not be considered here.154.	None
We would, therefore, allow the appeals, and quash the demand made upon the appellants.	Decision
ORDER155.	Decision
BY THE COURT	Decision
In accordance with the opinion of the majority, these appeals are dismissed with costs, one hearing fee.156.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
