Arijit Pasayat, J. Challenge in this appeal is to the judgment rendered by a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court holding that the appellant was required to pay damages in terms of Section 14(B) of the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (in short the Act) amounting to Rs.14,50,172/. Brief reference to the factual aspects would suffice The appellant, an educational institution was affiliated to the Education Department to the Haryana Government.	Issue
A scheme of contributory provident fund was in operation which was under the control and guidance of the Haryana Government and same was being applied to the appellantinstitution.	Facts
Under the said scheme of contributory provident fund it was mandated that an account shall be opened in the name of each subscriber in a Cooperative Bank approved by the Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Haryana.	Facts
Appellant transferred its affiliation to Central Board of Secondary Education (in short CBSE) in April, 1984 after obtaining no objection certificate from the State Government.	Facts
As per C.B.S.E. byelaws, appellant was required to follow the State Government Rules regarding salary and service conditions of its staff members.	Facts
Accordingly, the scheme of contributory provident fund which was earlier being followed by the appellant, continued to be operative.	Facts
On being asked by the Regional Provident Fund Authorities the scheme under the Act was adopted by the appellant w.e.f.	Facts
1.7.1993	Facts
but the same was made operative retrospectively w.e.f.	Facts
August 1982 by the authority.	Facts
Thereafter in respect of each employee the provident fund contributions were deposited with the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner.	Facts
The accumulated balance in the contributory provident fund accounts of the various employees was transferred by the Department of Education, Haryana to the Employees Provident Fund Scheme under the Act in May and June, 1995 and an amount of Rs.17,33,914.60 was transferred by the Haryana Government.	Facts
On 5.2.1996, proceedings under Section 7(A) of the Act were initiated.	Facts
Taking into account the amount payable on assessment and giving credit to the aforesaid amount, it was held that there was extra deposit of Rs.44,031.85.	Facts
Therefore, the proceedings were dropped and no recovery was effected.	Facts
On 14.2.1997 notice under Section 14(B) of the Act was issued covering the period August, 1982 to June 1993.	Facts
Reply was furnished by the appellant taking the stand that since the deposit had been made with the Government Authorities in terms of the applicable scheme, there was no scope of levy of any damage.	Facts
However, the Commissioner imposed damages of Rs.14,50,172/ which was about 100 of the alleged amount of default.	Facts
For the purpose of levy reference was made to the table contained in Section 32A.	Facts
An appeal was filed before the Statutory Tribunal, i.e. Employees Provident Fund Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi (in short the Appellate Tribunal).	Facts
In appeal it was held that there was no default in view of the circumstances noted above.	Facts
A writ petition was filed challenging the order before the High Court taking the stand that there was no power to waive reduce the damages except in terms of the circumstances indicated in Section 14(B) (proviso).	Facts
The High Court placed reliance on a decision of this Court in Regional Provident Fund Commissioner v. S.D. College, Hoshiarpur and Ors.	Facts
(1997 (1) SCC 241 ) and held that the penalty as levied by the Commissioner were to be maintained.	Facts
In support of the appeal learned counsel for the appellant submitted that there was absolutely no remiss on the part of the appellant which had scrupulously followed the scheme of the State Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was a transfer of the amount which would show that by no stretch of imagination it can be conceived that there was any default, much less intentional.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed that S.D. Colleges case (supra) has no application to the facts of the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case the college in question continued to deposit the amount with the university in spite of the directions of this Court, and there the quantum of damages was reduced to 25.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondentCommissioner submitted that the appellant was aware of its liability and had filled up the form to make the deposits with the provident fund authorities but continued to make the deposit with the State Government.	Arguments of Respondent
That being so, the High Court was justified in its conclusions.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 14B reads as follows 14B. Power to recover damages.  	None
Where an employer makes default in the payment of any contribution to the Fund (the Family Pension Fund of the Insurance Fund) or in the transfer of accumulations required to be transferred by him under subsection (2) of Section 15 or subsection (5) of Section 17 or in the payment of any charges payable under any other provision of this Act or of any Scheme or Insurance Scheme or under any of the conditions specified under Section 17, the Central Provident Fund Commissioner or such other officer as may be authorised by the Central Government by notification in the official Gazette, in this behalf recover from the employer by way of penalty such damages, not exceeding the amount of areas, as may be specified in the Scheme Provided that before levying and recovering such damages, the employer shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heardProvided further that the Central Board may reduce or waive the damages levied under this Section in relation to an establishment which is a stick industrial company and in respect of which a scheme for rehabilitation has been sanctioned by the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction established under Section 4 of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986), subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified in the Scheme.	None
Therefore, reduction or waiver can be done in the indicated circumstances.	None
In S.D. Colleges case (supra) this Court took note of the fact that by order dated 29th January, 1988 the respondentcollege authorities were directed to deposit the contribution with the appellantCommissioner thereby there could be compliance of statutory obligation to deposit the amount in the manner as directed, from February 1988 onwards.	Reasoning
But the college authorities continued to deposit the amount with the University.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that the factual background in that case was somewhat different.	Reasoning
In the instant case there was no allegation that there was any delay in making the deposit with the Government under the scheme which was being followed by the appellant.	Reasoning
Even otherwise in S.D. Colleges case (supra) also this Court did not maintain the levy of damages at 100 and reduced it to 25.	Reasoning
Taking into account the special features involved, we direct that the damage imposed shall be restricted to 25 of the amount levied by the respondentCommissioner.7.	Reasoning
Appeal is allowed to the aforesaid extent without any order as to costs.	Decision
