 The first petitioner is the minor daughter of the second petitioner.	Issue
The petitioners in this writ petition challenge the government order dated May 2, 1966 on the ground that it offends Art.15(4) of the Constitution.	Issue
The petitioners also ask for an order directing the respondents, viz., the State and the Principal of the medical college at Trivandrum to allot a set to the first petitioner.	Issue
2. The first petitioner applied for admission to the MBBS course for 197576 in one of the medical colleges at Trivandrum in the State of Kerala Clause 9 subclause (vi) in the prospectus for admission provided among other things that the applicant should produce certificate of community and income (from all sources) in the prescribed form in the case of candidates belonging to the communities recognised by the Government as socially and educationally backward classes.	Facts
3.	None
The petitioner produced the certificate from the Tahsildar, showing that the total income of her family from all sources is Rs. 11,752 for the year 197576 and that she is an Ezhava. 4.	Facts
The minimum marks prescribed for admission for candidates belonging to Ezhava community in the State is 363 in the optional subjects of Physics, Chemistry and Biology.	Facts
The petitioner obtained 372 marks.	Facts
The petitions alleges that the list of candidates belonging to the Ezhava Thiyya community selected for the seats reserved to them under Art.15(4) of the Constitution was published on October 10, 1975 and the first petitioner was not selected though candidates belonging to Ezhava community who had obtained less marks than the first petitioner had been selected.	Facts
The petitioners further allege that the list shows that candidate Nos. 6 to 27 obtained marks ranging between 371 and 357.	Facts
The Principal, Medical College sent a memorandum to the first petitioner that, as the income exceeds Rs. 10,000 her case cannot be considered under reservation scheme.	Facts
5. Clause 11 of the prospectus for 197576 for admission to MBBS course in medical colleges in the State is as follows 11.	Facts
Selection for admission, reservation for S.Cs. S.Ts. socially and educationally backward class and reservation regional basis  Selection of candidates will be on the basis of merits as laid down in G. R. Rt.	Facts
1361/70/Health dated 18.6.1970 and D. O. Ms. M. O. No. 216/71/Health dated 8.7.1971 and subject to the provisions contained in G. O. (P) 208/66/Edn. dated 2.5.1966 and subsequent orders of the Government regarding reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other socially and educationally backward class, reservation for Malabar and Travancore Cochin, area etc.	Facts
The decision of the Government on matters concerning admission shall be final.	None
6.	None
On May 2, 1966 the State Government issued an order, inter alia, that only applicants who are members of families consisting of Ezhavas, whose aggregate annual income is below Rs. 6,000 would be entitled to admission to the seats reserved for students belonging to the socially and educationally backward class.	Facts
It should be stated here that the said order of the State Government came to be issued on the consideration of the report of the commission appointed by the State to enquire into the social and educational conditions of the people and report as to what sections of the people in the State of Kerala should be treated as socially and educationally backward classes.	Facts
7.	None
The commission assumed office on July 14, 1964 and submitted its report on December 31, 1965.	Facts
The Recommendation of the commission was that only citizens who are members of families which have an aggregate income of less than Rs. 4200 per annum and which belong to the castes and communities mentioned in Appendix VIII constitute socially and educationally backward classes for purposes of Art.15(4).	Facts
8.	None
When the Government passed the order on May 2, 1966 the government order stated inter alia as follows After the Commission collected data for its report, the cost of living has risen further and the income tax exemption limit has be raised.	None
Having regard to the current cost of maintenance of a student in a professional or technical institution, Government consider that the income limit of Rs. 4200 suggested by the Commission should appropriately be raised to Rs. 6000 per annum.	None
In the circumstances, the Government accepted the above recommendation subject to the modification that only citizens who are members of families which have an aggregate income of less than Rs. 6000 per annum and which belong to the castes and communities mentioned in the annexure to this government order will constitute socially and educationally backward classes for purposes of Art.15(4).	Facts
9.	None
The order of the Government dated May 2, 1966 was challenged in the Kerala High Court.	None
The learned Single Judge quashed the government order by decision dated February 24, 1975 reported in AIR 1975 Ker. 131 (Kumari T. Shameen v. Principal, Medical College, Trivandrum, 1975 Ker LT 260).	None
The State filed an appeal.	None
The validity of the government order dated May 2, 1966 was upheld by the Kerala High Court.	None
The decision of the High Court dated July 14, 1975 reversing the judgment of the learned Single Judge is reported in 1975 Kerala Law Times 851, State of Kerala v. Krishna Kumari.	None
The High Court held that the commission had material before it.	None
It is not for the court to weigh the evidence.	None
The question is whether the approach made by the commission is correct.	None
The High Court held that economic backwardness plays a part in social backwardness and in educational backwardness.	None
Poverty or economic standards is a relevant factor.	None
Economic backwardness contributes to social backwardness.	Reasoning
10.	None
On September 2, 1975 the State Government passed an order which inter alia states as follows After the issuance of the government order the cost of living has risen further and the income tax exemption limit has been raised.	None
Having regard to the current cost of maintenance of a student in a professional or technical institution, Government consider that the income limit of Rs. 6000 prescribed in the government order should be appropriately raised.	None
In the circumstances, Government are pleased to enhance the income limit of Rs. 6000 prescribed to Rs. 10,000 per annum with effect from the academic year 197576.	None
11.	None
The petitioners contended that there is no reason to exclude an insignificant part of the community on the basis of income alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners emphasised that if the socially and educationally backward classes are set out in the annexure, income cannot be the criterion of admission to determine the benefit of Art.15(4).	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	None
The contention of the State is that the government order dated May 2, 1966 is not in violation of Art.15(4) because the expression backward class in Art.15(4) is not used as synonymous with backward caste or backward community.	Arguments of Respondent
The members of an entire caste or community may in social, economic and educational scale of values, at a given time be backward and may on that account be treated as a backward class.	Arguments of Respondent
The reason is that they are treated as socially and educationally backward not because they are members of a caste or community but because they form a class.	Arguments of Respondent
13.	None
Backward classes for whose improvement special provisions are contemplated by Art.15(4) are in matter of their backwardness comparable to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.	None
This Court has emphasised in decisions that the backwardness under Art.15(4) must be both social and educational.	None
In ascertaining social backwardness of a class of citizens, the caste of a citizen cannot be the sole or dominant test.	Reasoning
Just as caste is not the sole or dominant test, similarly poverty is not the decisive and determine factor of social backwardness.	Reasoning
14.	None
The report of the commission for reservation of seats in educational institutions found on applying the relevant test that the lower income group of the communities named in Appendix VIII of the report constitute the socially and educationally backward classes and they are identified as those whose family income is below the specified limit.	Reasoning
The basis of the reservation is not income but social and educational backwardness.	Reasoning
15.	None
The object of the reservation under Art.15(4) is to recognise the factual existence of socially and educationally backward classes in our country and to make a sincere attempt to promote the welfare of the weaker sections of the community.	Reasoning
Art.15(4) gives effect to this principle.	Reasoning
The concept of backwardness in Art.15(4) is not intended to be relative in the sense that classes who are backward in relation to the most advanced classes of society should be included in it.	Reasoning
16.	None
The commission found that the rich people in the backward communities even though they have not acquired any high level of education are able to move in society today without being discriminated socially.	None
The commission further found that the benefit of the existing reservation of seats in educational institutions in favour of the Ezhavas and other backward communities is today enjoyed by the rich people of the type mentioned above.	None
Further, evidence before the commission was that the wealthy sections do not at present have any caste or communal disabilities worth mentioning and are not socially backward.	None
The commission found that the benefit of the present system of reservation based solely on caste or community is, to a considerable extent, being enjoyed by the wealthy sections to the prejudice of the poorer sections.	None
The commission, therefore, found that consideration of a means cum caste community test should be adopted for the classification so as to take in the poor and deserving sections and exclude the wealthier sections.	None
17.	None
The commission examined occupational test and found that all the persons belonging to a particular caste or community may not now be following its traditional occupation, but most of the persons who pursue any of those occupations belong to the caste or community whose traditional occupation it is.	None
The commission found that in such cases very often person following the traditional occupation will be closely related to persons who are pursuing occupations to which there is no social stigma.	None
In such cases, on account of the near relationship of the persons following the traditional occupation to the other persons and their caste communal associations, the stigma affects even the persons not following these traditional occupations.	None
The commission found that it is only the lower income group which is affected by the stigma.	None
The commission found that changes occur at short intervals and therefore identification of persons occupation wise becomes more difficult in their case.	None
18.	None
The commission referred to the habitational test.	None
The commission expressed the opinion that there are no great social differences in the State merely on account of places of residence.	None
Complete and reliable tests on the subject were not available to the commission to compare the people of the Malabar area to that of Travancore Cochin area.	None
The commission, however, said that Malabar is educationally backward compared to Travancore Cochin area.	None
19.	None
As regards educational backwardness of the classes of citizens, the commission found that the State average of the students in the last of the High School classes can safely be taken as one of the elements of the composite test for ascertaining educational backwardness.	None
The commission treated as backwardness the communities which have an abnormal fallout.	None
In such cases if their educational backwardness is established by the total absence of any student from the community, the lower income group is included among the socially and educationally, backward classes on being satisfied of their social backwardness.	None
Social backwardness can contribute to educational backwardness and educational backwardness may perpetuate social backwardness.	None
Both are often no more than the inevitable corollaries of the extremes of poverty and the deadening weight of custom and tradition.	None
20.	None
The commission applied the tests for educational backwardness, test of habitation, necessity for a means cum caste community test, the income level for the means cum caste community test, and came to the conclusion that citizens in the State of Kerala who are members of families which have an aggregate income of less than Rs. 4200 per annum from all sources and which belong to castes or communities mentioned in Appendix VIII constitute socially and educationally backward classes for purpose of Art.15(4).	None
The commission found that generally the members of the castes and communities mentioned in Appendix VIII are educationally backward and that the lower income groups which have an aggregate income of less than Rs. 4200 per annum are socially backward also.	None
The lower income group of these castes and communities belongs in the opinion of the commission to classes of citizens who are both socially and educationally backward.	None
21.	None
In ascertaining social backwardness of a class of citizens it may not be irrelevant to consider the caste of the group of citizens.	Reasoning
Caste cannot however be made the sole or dominant test.	Reasoning
Social backwardness is in the ultimate analysis the result of poverty to a large extent.	Reasoning
Social backwardness which results from poverty is likely to be aggravated by considerations of their caste.	Reasoning
This shows the relevance of both caste and poverty in determining factor of social backwardness of citizens.	Reasoning
Poverty by itself is not the determining factor of social backwardness.	Reasoning
Poverty is relevant in the context of social backwardness.	Reasoning
The commission found that the lower income group constitutes socially and educationally backward classes.	Reasoning
The basis of the reservation is not income but social and educational backwardness determined on the basis of relevant criteria.	Reasoning
If any classification of backward classes of citizens is based solely on the caste of the citizen it will perpetuate the vice of caste system.	Reasoning
Again, if the classification is based solely on poverty it will not be logical.	Reasoning
The society is taking steps for uplift of the people.	Reasoning
In such a task groups or classes who are socially and educationally backward are helped by the society.	Reasoning
That is the philosophy of our Constitution.	Reasoning
It is in this context that social backwardness which results from poverty is likely to be magnified by caste consideration.	Reasoning
Occupations, place of habitation may also be relevant factors in determining who are socially and educationally backward classes.	Reasoning
Social and economic consideration come into operation in solving the problem and evolving the proper criteria of determining which classes are socially and educationally backward.	Reasoning
That is why our Constitution provided for special consideration of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens as also schedule castes and tribes.	Reasoning
It is only by directing the society and the State to offer them all facilities for social and educational uplift that the problem is solved.	Reasoning
It is in that context that the commission in the present case found that income of the classes of citizens mentioned in Appendix VIII was a relevant factor in determining their social and educational backwardness.	Reasoning
22.	None
The problem of determining who are socially and educationally backward classes is undoubtedly not simple.	Reasoning
Sociological and economic consideration come into play in evolving proper criteria for its determination.	Reasoning
This is the function of the State.	Reasoning
The Courts jurisdiction is to decide whether the tests applied are valid.	Reasoning
If it appears that the tests applied are proper and valid the classification of socially and educationally backward classes based on the tests will have to be consistent with the requirements of Art.15(4).	Reasoning
The commission has found on applying the relevant tests that the lower income group of the communities named in Appendix VIII of the report constitute the socially and educationally backward classes.	Reasoning
In dealing with the question as to whether any class of citizens is socially backward or not, it may not be irrelevant to consider the caste of the said group of citizens.	Issue
It is necessary to remember that special provision is contemplated for classes of citizens and not for individual citizens as such, and so, though the caste of the group of citizens may be relevant, its importance should not be exaggerated.	Reasoning
If the classification is based solely on caste of the citizen, it may not be logical.	Reasoning
Social backwardness is the result of poverty to a very large extent.	Reasoning
Caste and poverty are both relevant for determining the backwardness.	Reasoning
But neither caste alone nor poverty alone will be the determining tests.	Reasoning
When the commission has determined a class to be socially and educationally backward it is not on the basis of income alone, and the determination is based on the relevant criteria laid down by the Court.	Reasoning
Evidence and material are placed before the commission.	Reasoning
Art.15(4) which speaks of backwardness of classes of citizens indicates that the accent is on classes of citizens.	Reasoning
Art.15(4) also speaks of schedule castes and scheduled tribes.	Reasoning
Therefore, socially and educationally backward classes of citizens in Art.15(4) cannot be equated with castes.	Reasoning
In R. Chitralekha v. State of Mysore (1964 (6) SCR 368 AIR 1964 SC 1823 )	Reasoning
this Court said that the classification of backward classes based on economic conditions and occupations does not offend Art.15(4).	Reasoning
23.	None
The different castes that have been described in Appendix VIII to the commission report have not been accepted by the commission as embodying the group of socially and educationally backward classes of people.	Reasoning
Only those among the members of the castes mentioned in Appendix VIII whose economic means was below that stated by the commission were treated as socially and educationally backward.	Reasoning
The educational backwardness is reflected to a certain extent by the economic conditions of the group.	Reasoning
24.	None
For the foregoing reasons the petition is dismissed.	Decision
Parties will pay and bear their own costs.	Decision
