 M. Khanwilkar, J.1.	None
The petitioners have filed this writ petition for issuance of a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ, for quashing the order passed by respondent No.1 dated 31st May, 2017, debarring the petitioner medical college from admitting students in the MBBS course for the academic sessions 201718 and 201819 and authorising the respondent No.2 Medical Council of India (for short MCI) to encash the bank guarantee of Rs. 2 crore offered by the petitioners and further, to direct the respondents to grant renewal of permission to the petitioner medical college for the academic session 201718 and permit the college to admit students for the current year.2.	Issue
One Amma Chandravati Educational and Charitable Trust, New Delhi had applied to respondent No.1, Ministry of Health Family Welfare, Government of India (for short MHFW) for permission to establish a medical college at Jhajjar, Haryana in the name and style of World College of Medical Sciences Research, Jhajjar from the academic session 201617 onwards.	Facts
In light of the opinion of the Oversight Committee (for short OC) appointed by this Court, the MHFW vide letter order dated 20th August, 2016, issued a Letter of Permission to the petitioners to establish the medical college, for the academic session 201617, subject to certain conditions, including submission of a bank guarantee of Rs. 2 crore and inspection to be carried out by the OC for verification of compliance.3.	Facts
Thereafter, MCI conducted an assessment on 26th27th October, 2016 with regard to verification of the conditions stipulated in the Letter of Permission issued on 20th August, 2016 and after considering this assessment report, the Executive Committee of the MCI, in its meeting held on 22nd December, 2016, noted certain deficiencies in the petitioner college.	Facts
The MCI, vide letter dated 26th December, 2016, submitted its recommendation to the Central Government that the petitioner college should be debarred from admitting students for two academic sessions i.e. 201718 201819 and that the bank guarantee furnished by the petitioners ought to be encashed.	Facts
After receipt of the said recommendation, the Director General of Health Services (for short DGHS) gave a personal hearing to the petitioners on 17th January, 2017 and then submitted its report to the Competent Authority.	Facts
The relevant portion of the report reads thus12.	None
Whereas the Ministry decided to grant a personal hearing to the College on 17.01.2017 by the DGHS.	Facts
The Hearing Committee after considering the oral and written submission of the College, submitted its report to the Ministry.	Facts
In its report, the Hearing Committee remarked as underSrl.	Facts
No.	Facts
Deficiencies reported by MCIRemarks of hearing committeei.	Facts
Deficiency of faculty is 29.23 as detailed in the reportNo satisfactory replyii.	Facts
Shortage of Residents is 28.26 as detailed in the report.	Facts
No satisfactory replyiii.	Facts
Bed Occupancy is 34 on day of assessment.	Facts
No satisfactory replyiv.	Facts
There was NIL Normal Delivery NIL Caesarean Section on day of assessment.	Facts
There was NIL woman in Labour Room.	Facts
No satisfactory replyv.	Facts
ICUs There was NIL patient in ICCU MICU, only 1 in NICU PICU and only 2 in SICU on day of assessment.vi.	Facts
Central Library	None
It is partially airconditioned.	None
There is no separation of Students Reading Room (Outside)	None
Students Reading room (Inside).To be verified in medical collegevii.	None
Anatomy department There are only 65 mounted specimens.	Facts
To be verified in medical college4.	None
The Competent Authority forwarded the said report to the OC for guidance, which then conveyed its opinion to the MHFW vide letter dated 14th May, 2017, as follows(i)Faculty The College has explained the grounds on which the assessors had not accepted the 4 faculty members.	Facts
Faculty deficiency of 06.18 is within acceptable limits.(11 on leave 4 not considered being late) Which is acceptable hence there is no deficiency.(ii)Residents	Facts
The College has explained the grounds on which the assessors had not accepted the 6 residents.	None
Resident deficiency is 08.69 (3 on leave6 not considered being late) which is acceptable.	Facts
Hence there is no deficiency.(iii)Bed Occupancy The College has explained the grounds which are acceptable and hence there is no deficiency.(iv)Deliveries	Facts
This deficiency is subjective.	None
No MSR.(v)ICUs	None
This deficiency is subjective.	None
No MSR.(vi)Central Library Explanation of the College is acceptable.(vii)Anatomy department This deficiency is subjective.	Facts
No MSR.LOP Confirmed 5.	None
Despite the aforesaid opinion of the OC, confirming that there was no deficiency, respondent No.1 passed an order on 31st May, 2017, whereby it debarred the petitioner medical college from admitting students for two academic sessions i.e. 201718 and 201819 and also authorised the MCI to encash the bank guarantee offered by the petitioners.6.	Facts
Aggrieved, the petitioners filed this writ petition on 3rd July, 2017 and the same was heard along with connected matters involving similar issues, being Glocal Medical College and Super Speciality Hospital and Research Centre v. Union of India Anr., 2017(3) S.C.T. 642 2017(5)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 63 2017 (8) SCALE 356	Facts
This Court vide judgment and order dated 1st August, 2017 issued directions to the Competent Authority to reconsider the matter afresh and to record reasons.	Facts
The relevant portion of the order reads as under24.	None
Having regard to the fact that the Oversight Committee has been constituted by this Court and is also empowered to oversee all statutory functions under the Act, and further all policy decisions of the MCI would require its approval, its recommendations, to state the least, on the issue of establishment of a medical college, as in this case, can by no means be disregarded or left out of consideration.	Facts
Noticeably, this Court did also empower the Oversight Committee to issue appropriate remedial directions.	Facts
In our view, in the overall perspective, the materials on record bearing on the claim of the petitioner institutions colleges for confirmation of the conditional letters of permission granted to them require a fresh consideration to obviate the possibility of any injustice in the process.25.	Facts
In the above persuasive premise, the Central Government is hereby ordered to consider afresh the materials on record pertaining to the issue of confirmation or otherwise of the letter of permission granted to the petitioner colleges institutions.	Facts
We make it clear that in undertaking this exercise, the Central Government would reevaluate the recommendations views of the MCI, Hearing Committee, DGHS and the Oversight Committee, as available on records.	Facts
It would also afford an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner colleges institutions to the extent necessary.	Facts
The process of hearing and final reasoned decision thereon, as ordered, would be completed peremptorily within a period of 10 days from today.	Facts
The parties would unfailingly cooperate in compliance of this direction to meet the time frame fixed.	Facts
In light of the aforesaid order, the petitioners were granted a fresh hearing before respondent No.1 on 3rd August, 2017 during which the petitioners submitted a fresh representation to respondent No.1.	Facts
Despite the fresh hearing, respondent No.1 issued an order dated 10th August, 2017, confirming its earlier order and rejected the said representation.	Facts
The relevant portion of the order is enumerated hereunder16.	Facts
Now, in compliance with the above direction of Honble Supreme Court dated 01.08.2017, the Ministry granted hearing to the college on 03.08.2017.	Facts
The Hearing Committee after considering the record and oral written submission of the college submitted its report to the Ministry.	Facts
The findings of Hearing Committee are as underThe committee noted that the inspection was conducted on 26th  27th October, 2016.	Facts
Diwali was on 29th October.	Facts
The argument of the college that the inspection was too close to a major national festival cannot be disputed.	Facts
As per regulations MCI should not conduct inspections two days before or after major festivals.	Facts
In this case the head count on the first day of inspection on 26.10.2016 was 3 days before Diwali.	Facts
Further, 10 faculty have been verified by the assessors but were not considered in head count since they came later than the appointed time of 1100 AM.	Facts
The college has submitted declaration form for the 27 faculty residents who were not considered by MCI.	Facts
The salary slips in respect of these 27 staffs do not bear details of bank account, PAN PRAN etc.	Facts
The college has submitted from MCI vendor that the Biometric Attendance Machine have been installed.	Facts
It suggests 140 faculty are available of which 112 were enrolled.	Facts
Since this happened subsequently to the inspection, it does not have bearing on the extent of deficiency as on the day of inspection.	Facts
The bed occupancy figure of 62 as claimed by the college is supported by the MRD data.	Facts
The assessors have noted as only 34.In view of the magnitude of the deficiencies pointed out in the inspection the Committee agrees with the decision of the Ministry conveyed by letter dated 31.05.2017 to debar the college for 2 years and also permit MCI to encash bank guarantee.17.	Facts
Accepting the recommendations of the Hearing Committee, the Ministry reiterates its earlier decision dated 31.05.2017 to debar the college from admitting students for a period of two years i.e. 201718 and 201819 and also to authorize MCI to encash the Bank Guarantee of Rs. 2 Crores.7.	Facts
The petitioners, aggrieved by the aforementioned decision, have filed an Interlocutory Application in the pending writ petition bearing I.A. No.79050 of 2017, praying for quashing the orders passed by respondent No.1 dated 31st May, 2017 and	Facts
10th August, 2017, which debarred the petitioner college for two years and authorised respondent No.2 to encash the bank guarantee of Rs. 2 crore offered by the petitioners.	Facts
The petitioners have also prayed for further direction against the respondents to confirm the LOP of the petitioner medical college for the year 201617 and grant renewal of permission to the petitioner medical college for the academic session 201718 and allow the petitioner medical college to admit 150 students in the MBBS course for the academic session 201718 by participating in the current year counselling process on the basis of conditional LOP.	Facts
This application has been heard along with the writ petition.8.	Facts
The petitioners contend that the Competent Authority has once again passed a mechanical order without considering the relevant record and completely disregarded the opinion of the OC, which was after due consideration of the explanation offered by the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the inspection conducted on 26th27th October, 2016 was too close to a major national festival.	Arguments of Petitioner
That fact is not in dispute as Diwali was on 29th October, 2016.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was not permissible to conduct inspection two days before or after any major festival.	Arguments of Petitioner
That stipulation is to obviate the possibility of ascertaining the correct position regarding the faculty, residents, bed occupancy and absence on account of the festival.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the inspecting team adopted a hyper technical approach in ignoring the presence of staff faculty who came in later than the appointed time of 11.00 a.m.	Arguments of Petitioner
The explanation offered by the petitioners had found favour with the OC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the factum of salary slips, in respect of 27 staff members, which did not bear details of bank account, PAN PRAN etc., was in the nature of clerical lapse and not pertaining to infrastructure and academic requirement.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the inspecting team had any suspicion, it could have made further inquiries to reassure itself before reckoning that fact to deny grant of permission.	Arguments of Petitioner
Significantly, the college had submitted Biometric Attendance Machine records but that has been completely disregarded because it was furnished subsequent to the inspection.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Competent Authority mechanically adopted the same reasons given by the MCI, as on the earlier occasion, which rendered the statutory remedy under Section 10A (4) of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, meaningless.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statutory remedy provided by the enactment is to enable the college to produce material in rebuttal of a fact noticed by the MCI in its negative recommendation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, the explanation offered by the college regarding bed occupancy, supported by MRD data, has been disregarded and instead the noting made by the Assessing Officer has been preferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the avowed object of relegating the petitioner college before the Competent Authority, with direction to the Competent Authority to reconsider the entire matter afresh and to record reasons, has been defeated by the mechanical approach adopted by the Competent Authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
No analysis has been done in reference to the opinion recorded by the OC in its letter dated 14th May, 2017, which had accepted the explanation offered by the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Competent Authority has not given any tangible reason as to why the opinion of the OC was incorrect or unacceptable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is therefore submitted that the writ petition and the application be allowed and appropriate directions be issued to the respondents.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents, on the other hand, would contend that it is not open to this Court to sit over the subjective satisfaction of the inspecting body, which is an independent body consisting of respectable persons from the field of medicine.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that no fault can be found with the decision of the Competent Authority, which has decided the matter on the basis of the recommendation made by the MCI.	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned decision is a well considered one and deals with all the relevant matters necessitating the action of debarring the petitioner college from admitting students for two academic sessions and authorising MCI to encash the bank guarantee of Rs. 2 crore offered by the petitioners.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents have essentially relied on the assessment report founded on the information gathered during the inspection conducted on 26th27th October, 2016.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the verification and head count was done on 26th October, 2016, which was three days before Diwali, inasmuch as Diwali was on 29th October, 2016.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, the head count conducted on 26th October, 2016 was not in breach of the statutory provision.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, the finding of the assessors could neither be ignored nor disregarded on the basis of some specious plea taken by the college.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreso, because discrepancy was also noticed in the salary slips in respect of almost 27 staff members, raising grave suspicion.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that even the finding regarding bed occupancy noted in the assessment report cannot be taken lightly, merely because the petitioners are relying on MRD data.	Arguments of Respondent
The possibility of manipulating the MRD data cannot be ruled out.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the physical verification done by an independent agency on the spot must be given more credence, particularly when the statutory authority such as MCI and Competent Authority have accepted the same.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents contend that the writ petition is devoid of merits and ought to be dismissed.10.	Arguments of Respondent
Having considered the rival submissions, we are in agreement with the petitioners that the Competent Authority has once again failed to consider the relevant matters in the spirit of the direction given by this Court on 1st August, 2017.	Reasoning
It has mechanically adverted to the recommendation of the Hearing Committee, which, in turn, has reproduced the factual position narrated in the assessment report in respect of the inspection conducted on 26th27th October, 2016.	Reasoning
The Competent Authority has not examined the matter with respect to the specific plea taken by the petitioners which had found favour with the OC.	Reasoning
The OC in its recommendation dated 14th May, 2017 had noted that the faculty deficiency was only 06.18 which was within the acceptable norms.	Reasoning
The OC had noted that the assessing team completely glossed over the fact that some staff was on leave due to the ensuing Diwali festival and that 4 staff members had come late after the scheduled time.	Reasoning
The explanation offered by the petitioners in that behalf found favour with the OC.	Reasoning
However, neither the Hearing Committee nor the Competent Authority has dealt with the factual matrix and in particular, the explanation offered by the petitioners, including the fresh representation.11.	Reasoning
Having said thus, we would have proceeded to issue directions to the respondents to allow the petitioner medical college to admit students in the MBBS course for the academic session 20172018.	None
However, in the present case, we find that the MCI, which is an expert body, on the day of assessment has noticed deficiency of 29.23 of Faculty, 28.26 of Residents and 34 of Bed Occupancy, each of which was beyond the permissible limits.	None
It has also taken into account the factum of Nil Normal Delivery and NIL Caesarean Section on the day of the assessment.	Reasoning
Further, there was only 1 patient in NICU PICU and 2 in SICU on the day of assessment and none in ICCU and MICU.	Reasoning
It has also noticed that the Central Library was partially airconditioned and there was no separation of Students Reading Room (Outside) and Students Reading Room (Inside).	Reasoning
Further, there were only 65 mounted specimens in the Anatomy Department.	Reasoning
Indeed, the OC in its letter dated 14th May, 2017 has noted that the explanation submitted by the college regarding deficiencies of Faculty, Residents and Bed Occupancy was acceptable and, therefore, within the permissible norms.	Reasoning
As has been noticed earlier, the Competent Authority in the impugned decision did not accept the explanation offered by the petitioner college but, as aforesaid, no analysis is found in the impugned decision as to why the same was rejected and, moreso, no tangible reason is forthcoming as to why it chose to deviate from the opinion expressed by the OC.	Reasoning
At the same time, we also find that the OC has not dealt with the factum noticed by the Competent Authority in the impugned decision that the salary slips in respect of 27 staff members of the college did not bear details of bank account, PAN, PRAN etc.	Reasoning
That presupposes that there was no clear identity about the staff employed by the college to the extent of 27 persons which is quite significant and raises grave suspicion.	Reasoning
The communication sent by the OC also does not explain as to why the Bed Occupancy figure of 62, as claimed by the college, should be accepted as against the physical verification done by the assessor on the given day which found only 34 Bed Occupancy.	Reasoning
The OC has also not recorded any reason as to why the abysmal level of occupancy and indoor patients in ICCU MICU PICU and SICU was irrelevant.	Reasoning
Absence of indoor patients was a reflection on the performance of the hospital as a whole, which inevitably would deprive the students of the said college of proper experience and exposure.	Reasoning
The deficiencies noticed by the MCI were significant and beyond the permissible limits and the Competent Authority has not dealt with the relevant material including the fresh representation submitted by the petitioners.12.	Reasoning
As we are not satisfied with the manner in which the Competent Authority has handled the issue in spite of remitting the matter for reconsideration and for recording reasons, we may follow the course adopted in the case of Shri Venkateshwara University through its Registrar and Another v. Union of India and Another, Writ Petition (C) No. 445 of 2017, decided on 1st September, 2017.	None
and Krishna Mohan Medical College and Hospital Anr.	None
v. Union of India and Another, Writ Petition (C)	None
No. 448 of 2017, decided on 1st September, 2017 In the latter case, the Court observed thus21.	None
No endeavour whatsoever, in our comprehension, has been made by the respondents and that too in the face of an unequivocal direction by this Court, to fairly and consummately examine the materials on record in details before recording a final decision on the issue of confirmation or otherwise of the LOP granted to the petitioner college institution as on 12.09.2016.	None
True it is that the Regulations do provide for certain norms of infrastructure to be complied with by the applicant college institution for being qualified for the LOP depending on the stages involved.	None
This however does not obviate the inalienable necessity of affording a reasonable opportunity of hearing to the person or the college institution concerned visavis the scheme for establishment of a college before disapproving the same.	None
The manner in which the respondents, in the individual facts of the instant case, have approached the issue, leads to the inevitable conclusion that the materials on records do not support determinatively the allegation of deficiency in course of the process undertaken, as alleged.	None
We are thus of the considered opinion that in view of the persistent defaults and shortcomings in the decision making process of the respondents, the petitioner college institution ought not to be penalised.	None
Having regard to the progression of events, the assertions made by the petitioners in the representations countering the deficiencies alleged, the observations views expressed by the Oversight Committee in its communication dated 14.05.2017 and the DGHS in the hearing held on 17.01.2017 negate the findings with regard to the deficiencies as recorded by the assessors of the MCI in the inspections held.	None
Consequently, on an overall view of the materials available on record and balancing all relevant aspects, we are of the considered opinion that the conditional LOP granted to the petitioner college institution on 12.09.2016 for the academic year 201617 deserves to be confirmed.	None
We order accordingly.	None
However, as the Act and Regulations framed thereunder have been envisioned to attain the highest standards of medical education, we direct the Central Government MCI to cause a fresh inspection of the petitioner college institution to be made in accordance therewith for the academic year 201819 and lay the report in respect thereof before this Court within a period of eight weeks herefrom.	None
A copy of the report, needless to state, would be furnished to the petitioner college institution at the earliest so as to enable it to avail its remedies, if so advised, under the act and the Regulations.	None
The Central Government MCI would not encash the bank guaranteed furnished by the petitioner college institution.	None
For the present, the impugned order dated 10.8.2017 stands modified to this extent only.	None
The direction for a writ, order or direction to the respondents to permit the petitioner college institution to admit students for the academic year 201718, in the facts of the case, is declined.	None
The Registry would list the writ petition and I.A. No. 73716 of 2017 immediately after the expiry of period of eight weeks, as above mentioned.	None
In the case of Shri Venkateshwara University (supra), this Court observed thus17.	None
Though we have so held, yet we think it appropriate that the students who have been admitted in the Institution for the academic session 20162017, shall continue their studies.	None
The MCI shall send the inspecting team to the Institution within a period of two months.	None
After the report is filed, the MCI shall apprise the Institution with regard to the deficiencies and give a date for removal of the same so that the Institution would be in a position to do the needful.	None
We may hasten to add that the inspection that will be carried out and the further follow up action shall be done for the academic session 20182019.	None
16 18.	None
As we intend to appreciate the inspection report and the deficiencies and the action taken up thereon by the Institution, list the matter on 15th November, 2017.	None
The renewal application that was submitted for the academic session 20172018 may be treated as the application for the academic session 20182019.	None
The bank guarantee which has been deposited shall not be encashed and be kept alive.13.	None
Be that as it may, we shall revert to the grievance of the petitioners that inspection could not have been conducted on 26th27th October, 2016, as the said dates were too close to a major national festival.	Reasoning
This argument deserves to be rejected, bearing in mind the interpretation of Clause 8(3)(1)(d) of the Establishment of Medical College Regulations, 1999 in the case of Shri Venkateshwara University (supra), which postulates that the office of the Council shall ensure that such inspections are not carried out at least 2 days before and 2 days after important religious and festival holidays declared by the Central State Govt.	Reasoning
In the present case, the head count was carried out on the first day of inspection, on 26th October, 2016, as noted in the assessment report.	Reasoning
Diwali was on 29th October, 2016, and thus, the inspection on 26th October, 2016 in no way offended Clause 8.	Reasoning
Further, if the argument of the petitioners was to be accepted, it would result in a situation where the inspection report dated 26th27th October, 2016 will have to be discarded as a whole.	Reasoning
As the feasibility of grant of LOP for medical college is essentially founded on such assessment report, if that report is to be discarded then the petitioners cannot get any relief whatsoever, without fresh inspection.	Reasoning
It is not necessary for us to dilate either on this aspect or any other contention raised by the petitioners as we are inclined to adopt the course predicated in the aforementioned two recent decisions of this Court.14.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we deem it appropriate to direct that the students already admitted in the petitioner medical college for the academic session 20162017 be permitted to continue their studies.	Decision
However, we decline to issue directions for grant of renewal of LOP for the academic session 20172018.	None
We direct MCI to send its Inspecting Team to the petitioner college within a period of two months and inform the petitioner college about the deficiencies if any, with option to remove the same within the time limit specified in that behalf.	None
The petitioner medical college shall report its compliance and communicate the removal of deficiency to MCI, whereafter it will be open to the MCI to verify the position and then prepare its report to be submitted before this Court.	Decision
Be it noted that the purpose of said inspection would be to consider the renewal of LOP in favour of petitioner college for the academic session 20182019.	Decision
We further direct the respondents to treat the renewal application submitted by the petitioner college for the academic session 201718 for the academic session 201819.	None
The bank guarantee furnished by the petitioners shall not be encashed but the same be kept alive until further orders.	None
The Registry shall place the matter for further consideration after ten weeks.	Decision
