 	Issue
These appeals are directed against the judgment and order passed by the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jodhpur in D.B. Criminal Murder Reference No.02 of 2013 and D.B. Criminal Jail Appeal No. 293 of 2013, dated 09.04.2014.	Issue
By the impugned judgment and order, the High Court has confirmed the judgment of conviction and order of sentence passed by the learned Special Judge, Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act Cases, Sriganganagar in Original Sessions Case	Issue
No. 53 of 2012, dated 07.03.2013, whereby the learned Special Judge has convicted the appellantaccused for offence under Sections 363, 364, 376(2)(f), 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short the IPC) and awarded death sentence.	Issue
Facts The Prosecution case in a nutshell is On 04.05.2012, at 0100 PM, one Devilal Meghwal(PW1), a member of the Scheduled Caste, had submitted a written report to the Station House Officer, Police Station Lalgarh Jatan stating that on 03.05.2012, at about 830 AM, his granddaughter (referred to as the deceased hereinafter), aged four years, had gone missing while she was on her way back home from his younger brother Kashirams (PW5) residence in the neighbourhood.	None
He had stated that in spite of an intense search in entire village, her whereabouts could not be traced.	Facts
The following day, on 04.05.2012, at about 1000 AM, in the course of his search alongwith other members of the village, it was noticed that Jumman Khan, son of the appellantaccused, was burying something in a pit in the courtyard of his residence.	Facts
On being questioned, Jumman Khan had failed to provide any satisfactory answer to his activity.	Facts
Thus, dissatisfied by his suspicious response, PW1 as well as other villagers had dug the said spot, whereat they discovered the dead body of the deceased.	Facts
Thereafter, on further questioning, Jumman Khan disclosed that his father, the appellantaccused, had lured the deceased into his house by offering her berries and then prompted him to commit rape on her and subsequently, himself raped her.	Facts
He further divulged that since, the deceaseds physical condition was deteriorating, they killed her and concealed her dead body in the courtyard of their house.	Facts
On the basis of the said written report, a case was registered as FIR No. 86 of 2012 against the appellantaccused and Jumman Khan for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 364, 376(2)(f), 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 3(2)(v) and 3(2)(vi) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 (for short, the Act).	Facts
Thereafter, the investigating agency prepared an inquest report and recovered certain articles from the spot.	Facts
The dead body of the deceased was sent for postmortem.	None
The postmortem report disclosed the cause of death as extensive injuries at neck and other vital parts of the body and recorded medical conditions of having been raped before death.	None
During the course of investigation, the appellantaccused and Jumman Khan were arrested.	Facts
The investigating agency recovered the weapon of offencean iron spade, blood stained shirt of the appellantaccused, blood stained clothes of the deceased and other articles at the instance of the appellantaccused.	Facts
The said articles were sealed and thereafter, sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (for short, FSL) for their serological and chemical examination.	Facts
The FSL Report recorded that the blood stains on the clothes of the deceased, the weapon of offence and the clothes of the appellantaccused matched the deceaseds blood samples.	Facts
After completion of the investigation, a police report was filed before the competent court and the case was committed to the Court of learned Special Judge, Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act Cases, Sriganganagar.	Facts
The Trial Court had framed charges against the appellantaccused and Jumman Khan for commission of the offence punishable under Sections 363, 364, 376(2)(f), 302 and 201 of the IPC and Sections 3(2)(v) and 3(2)(vi) of the Act.	Facts
The appellantaccused and Jumman Khan had denied the aforesaid charges and thus, the case was committed to trial.	Facts
It is relevant to notice that since the coaccused, Jumman Khan was a juvenile at the time of commission of the offence, his case was separated and referred to the Juvenile Justice Board for further proceedings.	Facts
During the Trial, the prosecution examined 15 witnesses and produced 58 documents and 9 articles.	None
PW1 has maintained the version stated by him in the police report.	None
One Indraj (PW6) has deposed that on the fateful day, he had come to the house of PW5 when the deceased was leaving for PW1s house which is situated at the short distance of about a bigha.	None
He further stated that he saw the appellantaccused offering berries to the deceased and thereafter, carrying her in his lap.	Facts
During crossexamination, he has stated that such instance of the appellantaccused offering berries and carrying the deceased was not objected to by him as it was a casual instance in the daily village life.	Facts
The other prosecution witnesses viz, one Devilal, son of Balram, (PW2)	None
Shri Om Prakash (PW4), and PW5 are the neighbours of both the appellantaccused and PW1, who were also searching for the deceased.	None
These witnesses were present during the extrajudicial confession made by Jumman Khan and have corroborated the version of PW1 as stated in the police report.	Facts
Further, Dr. Prem Bajaj (PW3), in his evidence, has explained the cause of death and injuries on the body of the deceased and corroborated the observations recorded in the postmortem report.	Facts
Upon meticulous consideration of the evidence on record and the submissions made by the parties, the Trial Court has concluded that the testimonies of PW1, PW6, PW2, PW4 and PW5 are true and reliable and that the same alongwith the evidence of PW3, the medical report and the FSL report support the case of the prosecution.	Facts
The Trial Court has noticed that the entire evidence relied upon by the prosecution is circumstantial and establishes their case on the basis of recoveries at the instance of appellantaccused, extrajudicial confession of coaccused, Jumman Khan, and evidence of PW1 and PW6.	Facts
The Trial Court has recorded that the evidence of PW6, which states that the deceased was last seen in the company of appellantaccused, coupled with the lack of explanation for the same by the appellantaccused in his 313 statement provide a link in the chain of circumstances.	Facts
Further, that the recoveries made at the instance of the appellantaccused, including bloodstained shirt, clothes of the deceased and the weapon of murder alongwith the medical evidence, testimony of PW3 and the recovery of her dead body in the courtyard of the appellantaccuseds house clearly establish the factum of commission of rape and murder of the deceased by the appellantaccused.	Facts
The Trial Court, in light of the aforesaid, has concluded that the chain of circumstances, in the backdrop of the extrajudicial confession made by Jumman Khan, evince beyond any reasonable doubt that the appellantaccused has committed the aforementioned offence under the IPC.	Facts
Therefore, the Trial Court convicted the appellantaccused of the offence punishable under Sections 363, 364, 376(2)(f), 302 and 201 of the IPC.	Facts
Since the charges framed under Sections 3(2)(v) and 3(2)(vi) of the Act against the appellantaccused were not proved, he was acquitted of the same.	Facts
Further, after affording an opportunity of hearing to the appellantaccused on the question of quantum of punishment, the Trial Court has sentenced him to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence punishable under Section 364 of the IPC, rigorous imprisonment for seven years for the offence punishable under Section 363 of the IPC, life imprisonment for the offence punishable under Section 376(2)(f) of the IPC, rigorous imprisonment for seven years for the offence punishable under Section 201 of the IPC and awarded death sentence for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC.	Facts
The Trial Court, in its order of sentence, has noticed that the appellantaccused, who is a tantrik residing in the neighbourhood of the deceaseds family and other witnesses was vested with certain trust by the members of the community and was not expected to commit acts of such depravity.	Facts
Further, that the manner of commission of crime and age of the victim clearly indicate that the only punishment proportionate to the brutality exhibited by the appellantaccused would be the death penalty and relied upon the deterrent theory of punishment to classify the case as rarest of the rare.	Facts
Aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order, the appellantaccused filed appeals before the High Court which was heard alongwith the Death Reference under Section 366 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and disposed of by a common judgment and order, dated 09.04.2014.	Facts
The High Court has elaborately dealt with the evidence on record and extensively discussed the judgment and order of the Trial Court in order to ascertain the correctness or otherwise of the conviction and sentence awarded to the appellantaccused persons.	Facts
The High Court has carefully examined the evidence on record including testimonies of the Prosecution Witnesses and recorded the finding that the said statements do not reflect any discrepancy of facts and therefore, considered them as cogent and credible evidence.	Facts
Further, that the medical evidence clearly indicates the commission of rape and the murder of the deceased.	Facts
The High Court records that the recovery of weapon of murder has also been established beyond any shadow of doubt and that the appellantaccused has not suggested any explanation for recovery of dead body of the deceased,	Facts
the blood stained weapon of offence and the blood stained clothes from his house.	Facts
The High Court has concluded that chain of circumstantial evidence, being complete and established beyond any reasonable doubt, in all certainty points towards the guilt of appellantaccused and therefore, confirmed the judgment of conviction passed by the Trial Court.	Facts
The High Court, in respect of the quantum of sentence, has noticed that the heinous act of rape and murder committed by the appellantaccused obliterates any chance of his reformation and assigned the following reasons, in addition to the reasons recorded by the Trial Court, for affirming the death sentence of the appellantaccused Here the accused, a middle aged man of 48 years, residing in neighbourhood of the victim, working as Tantrik, kidnapped the girl and committed inhuman rape and then killed her.	Facts
He also got involved his son in this crime.	Facts
His entire act is a serious scar on human values.	Facts
He has broken the faith of the neighbours, the faith in humanity and further he also acted against the values to nurture the relations of father and son.	Facts
The accused committed murder when he was committing the serious offence of rape.	Facts
The entire crime was committed outrageously while involving inhuman treatment and torture to the victim.	Facts
The victim was a helpless child residing in neighbourhood of the accused.	Facts
He was a person who could have been trusted being a neighbour, but he acted adversely.	Facts
The heinous crime is committed without any provocation and with complete cold blooded planning.	Facts
The brutality on the part of accused not only pricks the judicial consciences but even conscience of the society.	Facts
The facts available are sufficient to satisfy ourselves that no other punishment except death penalty would be adequate in present set of circumstances.	None
The appellantaccused, aggrieved by the aforesaid confirmation of death sentence awarded to him, is before us in these appeals.	None
We have heard learned amicus appearing for the appellantaccused and learned counsel appearing for the respondentState.	None
At the outset, it is pertinent to notice that learned amicus would not press the challenge to the judgment of conviction, dated 07.03.2012, passed by the Trial Court and confirmed by the High Court, and would limit her case to the question of determination of quantum of sentence awarded by the Courts below and seek for commutation of the said sentence.	None
Learned amicus would submit that the conviction of the appellantaccused is entirely based on circumstantial evidence and therefore, the death sentence ought not have been awarded by the Trial Court and confirmed by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
She would submit that the circumstantial evidence where the last seen theory and an extra judicial confession of the coaccused serve as the foundation of prosecution case, though having been established and proved, could not be considered as compelling circumstances to record the crime as rarest of the rare.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned amicus further submitted that there exist mitigating factors such as no criminal antecedents or being a hardened criminal and that there is scant probability of the appellantaccused to indulge in commission of such crime again and if given an opportunity, he could be reformed and rehabilitated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, that these circumstances weigh in favor of the appellantaccused and have not been considered by the Courts below while recording and confirming the special reasons for awarding the sentence of death.	Arguments of Petitioner
To fortify her contentions, learned amicus would place reliance upon the decision of this Court in Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar, (2013) 10 SCC 421 to reflect that even in case of heinous crimes, this Court has considered similar mitigating circumstances and taken a humanitarian approach in placing the case outside the purview of rarest of rare.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, learned counsel for the respondentState would contend that the circumstances available from evidence on record form a complete chain of facts, where no conclusion but for the guilt of the appellantaccused is possible and the Courts below have reached their respective conclusions independent of any extra judicial confession made by the coaccused, Jumman Khan.	Arguments of Respondent
She would submit that the mere factor of conviction of the appellantaccused being based entirely on circumstantial evidence would not qualify his inhumane and dastardly act of committing rape and murder of a 4 year old child, as an act which falls short of having shocked the collective conscience of the society.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the learned counsel would stress that his act has caused an irreparable injury to the human and social values which render him beyond any reformation and rehabilitation, making this a case fit to be classified as rarest of the rare and therefore, the Courts below have rightly awarded the death sentence.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of her case, learned counsel would draw the attention of this Court to the decision in Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra, (2012) 4 SCC 37 , wherein in a case of rape and murder of a child of 3 years by the appellant therein based entirely on circumstantial evidence, this Court has confirmed the sentence of death awarded by the Courts below.	Arguments of Respondent
We have given our anxious consideration to the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties to the appeal and also carefully perused the evidence on record as well as the judgment(s) and order(s) passed by the Courts below.	None
We would not saddle the judgment with decisions reiterating the settled position of law in respect of the sentencing policy and the principles evolved by this Court for weighing the aggravating and mitigating factors in specific facts of the case.	None
However, we would only notice the relevant observations of this Court stating the principles visvis the sentencing policy in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab, (1980) 2 SCC 684 and Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab, (1983) 3 SCC 470 .	None
The Constitution Bench of this Court in Bachan Singh case has noted that there are as many circumstances justifying the passing of the lighter sentence as there are countervailing circumstances of aggravation.	None
It was observed that since all such situations are astrological imponderables of an imperfect and undulating social possibility, the court cannot risk adoption of a judicial formula to reach a conclusion.	None
Having said so, the Court cautioned that Judges should never be bloodthirsty and must tread careful scrutiny such that the scope and concept of mitigating factors, especially in the cases of death penalty, receive a liberal and expansive construction in accord with the sentencing policy.	None
In Bachan Singh case, this Court has observed that in such cases the Court is principally concerned with the aggravating or mitigating circumstances connected with the particular crime under inquiry.	None
In Machhi Singh case, a threeJudge Bench of this Court considered whether death sentence of the appellants be confirmed or not, when as a result of a family feud the appellants with a motive of reprisal, committed 17 murders in five incidents occurring in the same night in quick succession in the five neighbouring villages.	None
While the Court sentenced some of the accused to death and the rest to imprisonment for life, it culled out the following propositions as emerging from Bachan Singh case The extreme penalty of death need not be inflicted except in gravest cases of extreme culpability.	None
Before opting for the death penalty the circumstances of the offender also require to be taken into consideration along with the circumstances of the crime.	None
Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is an exception.	None
In other words death sentence must be imposed only when life imprisonment appears to be an altogether inadequate punishment having regard to the relevant circumstances of the crime, and provided, and only provided, the option to impose sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be conscientiously exercised having regard to the nature and circumstances of the crime and all the relevant circumstances.	None
A balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn up and in doing so the mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised.	None
Explaining the purpose behind discretion vested in the judges in our sentencing policy, this Court has observed in Shailesh Jasvantbhai v. State of Gujarat, (2006) 3 SCC 359, that generally, criminal law adheres to the principle of proportionality in prescribing liability according to the culpability of each kind of criminal conduct and ordinarily allows some significant discretion to the Judge in arriving at a sentence in each case to permit sentences that reflect more subtle considerations of culpability that are raised by the special facts of each case.	None
Further, this Court has noticed that for deciding just and appropriate sentence to be awarded for an offence, the aggravating and mitigating factors and circumstances in which a crime has been committed are to be delicately balanced on the basis of really relevant circumstances in a dispassionate manner by the Court after giving due consideration to the facts and circumstances of each case Such act of balancing is indeed a difficult task.	None
It has been very aptly indicated in Dennis Councle McGautha v. State of California, 402 US 183 that no formula of a foolproof nature is possible that would provide a reasonable criterion in determining a just and appropriate punishment in the infinite variety of circumstances that may affect the gravity of the crime.	None
In the absence of any foolproof formula which may provide any basis for reasonable criteria to correctly assess various circumstances germane to the consideration of gravity of the crime, the discretionary judgment in the facts of each case, is the only way in which such judgment may be equitably distinguished.	None
In Deepak Rai case, this Court in light of the aforesaid has noticed that only in certain exceptional cases where the crime is so brutal, diabolical and revolting so as to shock the collective conscience of the community, the award of death sentence would seem appropriate.	None
It is because such circumstances cannot be laid down as a straight jacket formula but require case to case ascertainment, the legislature has left it open for the Courts to examine the facts of the case and appropriately decide upon the sentence proportional to the gravity of the offence.	None
In Shankar Kisanrao Khade v. State of Maharashtra, (2013) 5 SCC 546 , it is observed that the nature, motive, and impact of crime, culpability, quality of evidence, socioeconomic circumstances, impossibility of rehabilitation are some of the factors the Court may take into consideration while dealing with such cases.	None
Herein, the contentions put forth by the appellantaccused gravitate towards quality of evidence as a mitigating factor, so as to indicate that the case proved entirely on circumstantial evidence must not be placed into the category of rarest of the rare without due examination of the factual matrix.	Reasoning
Therefore, it would be beneficial to analyse the evolving jurisprudence on this aspect.	Reasoning
In respect of award of death sentence in cases where sole basis for conviction is circumstantial evidence, this Court in Swamy Shraddananda v. State of Karnataka, (2007) 12 SCC 288 , has acknowledged that such cases have far greater chances of turning out to be wrongful convictions, later on, in comparison to ones which are based on fitter sources of proof.	None
This Court cautioned that convictions based on seemingly conclusive circumstantial evidence should not be presumed as foolproof incidences and the fact that the same are based on circumstantial evidence must be a definite factor at the sentencing stage deliberations, considering that capital punishment is unique in its total irrevocability.	None
Further, this Court observed that any characteristic of trial, such as conviction solely resting on circumstantial evidence, which contributes to the uncertainty in the culpability calculus, must attract negative attention while deciding maximum penalty for murder.	None
This Court noticed certain decisions under the American death penalty jurisprudence as follows One of the older cases in this league dates back to 1874, Merritt v. State, (1874)	None
52 Ga 82 where the Supreme Court of Georgia described the applicable law in Georgia as follows By the Penal Code of this State the punishment of murder shall be death, except when the conviction is founded solely on circumstantial testimony.	None
When the conviction is had solely on circumstantial testimony, then it is discretionary with the presiding judge to impose the death penalty or to sentence the defendant to imprisonment in the penitentiary for life, unless the jury shall recommend that the defendant be imprisoned in the penitentiary for life in that case the presiding judge has no discretion, but is bound to commute the punishment from death to imprisonment for life in the penitentiary.	None
Later case of Jackson v. State, (1883) 74 Ala 26 at pp. 2930 followed the aforementioned case.	None
Also see S.M. Phillipps, Famous Cases of Circumstantial Evidence with an Introduction on the Theory of Presumptive Proof, 5052 (1875).	None
In United States v. Quinones, 205 F. Supp.	None
2d 256 (S.D.N.Y. 2002)	None
the Court remarked Many States that allow the death penalty permit a conviction based solely on circumstantial evidence only if such evidence excludes to a moral certainty every other reasonable inference except guilt.	None
In Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar v. State of Maharashtra, (2009) 6 SCC 498 , all the accused persons including the appellant were unemployed young men in search of employment.	None
In execution of a plan proposed by the appellant and accepted by them, they kidnapped their friend with the motive of procuring ransom from his family but later murdered him and after cutting his body into pieces disposed of the same at different places.	None
One of the accused persons turned approver and the prosecution case was based entirely on his evidence.	None
The Trial Court awarded death sentence to the appellant.	None
The High Court confirmed the death sentence.	None
In appeal, this Court observed that punishment cannot be determined on grounds of proportionality alone.	None
This Court observed that though there was nothing to show that the appellant could not be reformed and rehabilitated and the manner and method of disposal of the dead body of the deceased reflected most foul and despicable case of murder, mere mode of disposal of the dead body may not by itself be made the ground for inclusion of a case in the rarest of rare category for the purpose of imposition of death sentence.	None
Other factors require to be considered along with the aforesaid.	None
This Court was of the view that the fact that the prosecution case rested on the evidence of the approver, will have to be kept in mind.	None
Further, that where the death sentence is to be imposed on the basis of circumstantial evidence, the circumstantial evidence must be such which leads to an exceptional case.	None
It was further observed that the discretion given to the court in such cases assumes onerous importance and its exercise becomes extremely difficult because of the irrevocable character of death penalty.	None
Where two views ordinarily could be taken, imposition of death sentence would not be appropriate.	None
In the circumstances, the death sentence was converted to life imprisonment.	None
This Court in Sahib Hussain v. State of Rajasthan, (2013) 9 SCC 778 , has dealt with the case where the appellantaccused had murdered five persons by inflicting multiple injuries on various parts of their bodies.	None
There was no eye witness to the incident and the prosecution had established the offences by circumstantial evidence.	None
Such evidence included (i) postmortem report, antemortem injuries memo, evidence of the doctors indicating that the death were homicidal (ii) extra judicial confession made by the accused to PW4 therein and (iii) corroborative evidence of other witnesses.	None
The Court in light of the aforesaid and a clear motive having been established, incriminating FSL and DNA reports being on record reached a conclusion that the circumstances relied upon by the prosecution are reliable, acceptable and establish guilt of the appellantaccused.	None
However, keeping in view the circumstances of the case, in respect of the quantum of sentence, this Court upheld the judgment and order of the High Court commuting the sentence of death awarded by the Trial Court.	None
In Sebastian v. State of Kerala, (2010) 1 SCC 58 , the appellant had trespassed into the complainants house, kidnapped his twoyearold daughter and, after raping her, committed her murder.	None
The Trial Court sentenced him to death, which was confirmed by the High Court.	None
This Court considered the fact that the appellant was a young man at the time of incident and that the case rested on circumstantial evidence, and commuted the death sentence by sentence for life.	None
This Court in Sushil Sharma v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2014) 4 SCC 317 has commuted the sentence of death awarded to the appellantaccused to life imprisonment.	None
The appellant was convicted of murdering his wife and disposing of her corpse by burning it in tandoor of restaurant.	None
The case being entirely based on circumstantial evidence including theory of last seen together, discovery of incriminating evidence and medical evidence, while this Court reached a conclusion that the conviction requires to be upheld, it commuted the sentence, keeping in its view, the following factors and trends in sentencing policy We notice from the above judgments that mere brutality of the murder or the number of persons killed or the manner in which the body is disposed of has not always persuaded this Court to impose death penalty.	None
Similarly, at times, in the peculiar factual matrix, this Court has not thought it fit to award death penalty in cases, which rested on circumstantial evidence or solely on approvers evidence.	None
Where murder, though brutal, is committed driven by extreme emotional disturbance and it does not have enormous proportion, the option of life imprisonment has been exercised in certain cases.	None
Extreme poverty and social status has also been taken into account amongst other circumstances for not awarding death sentence.	None
In few cases, time spent by the accused in death cell has been taken into consideration along with other circumstances, to commute death sentence into life imprisonment.	None
Where the accused had no criminal antecedents where the State had not led any evidence to show that the accused is beyond reformation and rehabilitation or that he would revert to similar crimes in future, this Court has leaned in favour of life imprisonment.	None
In the nature of things, there can be no hardandfast rules which the court can follow while considering whether an accused should be awarded death sentence or not.	None
The core of a criminal case is its facts and, the facts differ from case to case.	None
Therefore, the various factors like the age of the criminal, his social status, his background, whether he is a confirmed criminal or not, whether he had any antecedents, whether there is any possibility of his reformation and rehabilitation or whether it is a case where the reformation is impossible and the accused is likely to revert to such crimes in future and become a threat to the society are factors which the criminal court will have to examine independently in each case.	None
Decision whether to impose death penalty or not must be taken in the light of guiding principles laid down in several authoritative pronouncements of this Court in the facts and attendant circumstances of each case.	None
In Mahesh Dhanaji Shinde v. State of Maharashtra, (2014) 4 SCC 292 , the conviction of appellantaccused was upheld keeping in view that the circumstantial evidence pointed only in the direction of their guilt given that the modus operandi of the crime, homicidal death, identity of 9 of 10 victims, last seen theory and other incriminating circumstances were proved.	None
However, the Court has thought it fit to commute the sentence of death to imprisonment for life considering the age, socioeconomic conditions, custodial behavior of the appellantaccused persons and that the case was entirely based on circumstantial evidence.	None
This Court has placed reliance on the observations in Sunil Dutt Sharma v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi), (2014) 4 SCC 375 as follows In a recent pronouncement in Sunil Dutt Sharma v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) it has been observed by this Court that the principles of sentencing in our country are fairly well settled the difficulty is not in identifying such principles but lies in the application thereof.	None
Such application, we may respectfully add, is a matter of judicial expertise and experience where judicial wisdom must search for an answer to the vexed question Whether the option of life sentence is unquestionably foreclosed?	None
The unbiased and trained judicial mind free from all prejudices and notions is the only asset which would guide the Judge to reach the truth.	None
In the instant case, admittedly the entire web of evidence is circumstantial.	Reasoning
The appellantaccuseds culpability rests on various independent evidence, such as, him being last seen with the deceased before she went missing the extrajudicial confession of his coaccused before PW1 and the village members corroborative testimonies of the said village members to the extrajudicial confession and recovery of deceaseds body coupled with the medical evidence which when joined together paint him in the blood of the deceased.	Reasoning
While the said evidence proves the guilt of the appellantaccused and makes this a fit case for conviction, it does not sufficiently convince the judicial mind to entirely foreclose the option of a sentence lesser than the death penalty.	Reasoning
Even though there are no missing links in the chain, the evidence also does not sufficiently provide any direct indicia whereby irrefutable conclusions can be drawn with regard to the nexus between the crime and the criminal.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the aggravating circumstances reflected through the nature of the crime and young age of the victim make the crime socially abhorrent and demand harsh punishment.	Reasoning
However, there exist the circumstances such as there being no criminal antecedents of the appellantaccused and the entire case having been rested on circumstantial evidence including the extra judicial confession of a coaccused.	None
These factors impregnate the balance of circumstances and introduce uncertainty in the culpability calculus and thus, persuade us that death penalty is not an inescapable conclusion in the instant case.	None
We are inclined to conclude that in the present scenario an alternate to the death penalty, that is, imprisonment for life would be appropriate punishment in the present circumstances.	Reasoning
In our considered view, in the impugned judgment and order, the High Court has rightly noticed that life and death are acts of the divine and the divines authority has been delegated to the human Courts of law to be only exercised in exceptional circumstances with utmost caution.	Reasoning
Further, that the first and foremost effort of the Court should be to continue the life till its natural end and the delegated divine authority should be exercised only after arriving at a conclusion that no other punishment but for death will serve the ends of justice.	Reasoning
We have critically appreciated the entire evidence in its minutest detail and are of the considered opinion that the present case does not warrant award of the extreme sentence of death to the appellantaccused and the sentence of life imprisonment would be adequate and meet the ends of justice.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that the four main objectives which the State intends to achieve namely deterrence, prevention, retribution and reformation can be achieved by sentencing the appellantaccused for life.	Reasoning
Before parting, we would reiterate the sentiment reflected in the following lines by this Court in Shailesh Jasvantbhai case Protection of society and stamping out criminal proclivity must be the object of law which must be achieved by imposing appropriate sentence.	None
Therefore, law as a cornerstone of the edifice of order should meet the challenges confronting the society.	Reasoning
Friedman in his Law in a Changing Society stated that State of criminal law continues to beas it should bea decisive reflection of social consciousness of society.	Reasoning
Therefore, in operating the sentencing system, law should adopt the corrective machinery or deterrence based on factual matrix.	Reasoning
By deft modulation, sentencing process be stern where it should be, and tempered with mercy where it warrants to be.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeals are partly allowed and the sentence of death awarded to the appellantaccused is commuted to imprisonment for life.	Decision
The judgment and order passed by the High Court	None
is modified to the aforesaid extent.	None
The appeals are disposed of in the aforesaid terms.	Decision
