 B. Sinha, J.1.	None
Accused No.3 before the learned Trial Court is before us aggrieved by and dissatisfied with a judgment and order dated 17.12.2003 passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore in Criminal Appeal No.1820 of 2003 modifying his sentence from death to rigorous imprisonment for life arising out of a judgment dated 11.11.2003 passed by the I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Bangalore Rural District, Bangalore in SC No.73 of 2000.	Issue
PW3, Manjusetty was the driver of a truck bearing Registration No.AP094948.	None
Deceased Shivashankar (Shekar) was the cleaner in the said truck.	None
Accused No.5	None
Jayamma is said to be a member of a gang of dacoits comprising of accused Nos. 1 to 4 being Krishna, Manjunath, Ramesh (appellant) and Shivalinga.	None
The truck belonged to one Natraja Transport Company having its office at Prashanth Nagar, Bangalore.	None
A First Information Report was lodged by PW2, Puttaswamy alleging that on 24.12.1998 when he had gone to Kunigal for work, he received a call in his mobile phone at about 7.45 am from his office informing him that the aforementioned truck had been stolen by some persons.	None
He was asked to look into the matter.	None
He with Driver Eshwara went in search of the said truck in a Maruti Van bearing Registration No.KA02 7055.	None
Near a factory which is on the side of highway No.48 at Kunigal, he found that some people had gathered by the side of the road.	None
Upon enquiries made by them, they came to know that a pair of chappal was lying at some distance away from the road.	None
They proceeded further and found one pant and two undergarments.	None
Proceeding further they found blood stains and a severed hand of a man on the field.	None
It now stands established that the same was that of the driver of the lorry.	None
They thereafter went towards Solur, Nelamangala, Shivagange and Kudur.	None
On the way from Kudur to Shivagange, they again found that some people had gathered near Thoreramanahalli and upon enquiries made, they were informed that one dead body was lying at some distance.	None
They found the dead body to be that of the cleaner, Shekar.	None
They informed the owner of the vehicle thereabout.	None
They furthermore went in search of the truck.	None
They came to learn that the driver of the truck, Manja had been admitted to Mallige Medical Centre at Bangalore City whereupon they visited the nursing home and found him to be in a seriously injured condition, his left hand having been severed.	None
He was instructed by the owner of the truck to lodge a complaint with the police pursuant whereto a First Information Report was lodged.	None
It was registered under Section 302, 392 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
The prosecution case, as disclosed by PW3 is as under While he was driving the said truck on 22.12.1998 with some goods to Bhadravathi, he visited his sisters house at Marishetty Halli, village in Channaryapattana Taluk.	Facts
He left his sisters village at 7.30 pm in the night on 23.12.1998.	Facts
He came near the Johnson factory at about 10 pm.	Facts
The road was under repair.	Facts
He saw accused No.5	Facts
Jayamma standing by the side of the road.	Facts
She came to him by making a signal with her hand whereupon he sent the cleaner Shivashankar to enquire as to what was the matter about.	Facts
He returned back after speaking to her stating that she intended to go to KMDL factory.	Facts
She had asked him to give her Rs.50/. As PW3 had no money with him, he borrowed the said sum from the cleaner, got down from the truck and proceeded towards the place where she had been standing.	Facts
Jayamma led him towards the field.	Facts
When apparently they were having sex, accused No.1 to 4 came from behind and suddenly caught hold of him.	Facts
Krishna, accused No.1 is said to have inflicted an injury on the backside of his neck with a hatchet.	Facts
He tried to run away.	Facts
He was chased by the other accused persons.	Facts
They again tried to hit him on his neck.	Facts
However, he raised his hand to protect his neck as a result whereof, the blow fell on his left hand resulting in severing of his left palm.	Facts
He became unconscious.	Facts
He regained his consciousness at around 3.30.	Facts
He felt thirsty.	Facts
When he tried to drink water from a nearby dhaba, it came down through his neck.	Facts
He went by the side of the road to stop some vehicle.	Facts
He also noticed that the truck was missing.	Facts
He lost his consciousness again.	Facts
He regained his consciousness at Mallige Nursing Home at Bangalore.	Facts
He was in hospital for about 20 days.	Facts
He was called to the police station to identify one of the culprits and he identified the appellant.	Facts
Fifteen days thereafter he was again called to the police station and found appellant Jayamma there.	Facts
She was identified to be the woman who had actually made signal to stop the truck on the way.	Facts
Seven days thereafter he was again called to the police station and found accused No.2 to be present there.	Facts
He, however, could not identify accused Nos.1 and 4.5.	Facts
Admittedly, no identification parade was held.	Facts
It was alleged that from the truck, a tape recorder, one watch, two tyres, one jack and one tarpaulin with a rope was stolen.	Facts
Those articles were said to have been recovered at the instance of the accused.	Facts
At the instance of the appellant, a blue coloured tarpaulin was said to have been recovered from PW4.6.	Facts
The place of occurrence is said to be the Johnson factory which is situated at a distance of three kilometers ahead of Kunigal as one proceeds towards Bangalore.	Facts
Near the said factory, there was a Dhaba on the left side.	Facts
A little ahead, there was another dhaba on the right side.	Facts
Behind the dhaba, on the left side there are agricultural fields.	Facts
The area where the incident took place is known as Karikal Gudda cross.	Facts
There were lights in the Johnson factory.	Facts
PW3, in his evidence, stated that near the place of occurrence, only he, Shivashankar (the cleaner) and accused No.1 to 5 were present.	Facts
He removed his pant and chappal.	Facts
Accused No.5 removed her undergarments for having illicit sex.	Facts
The accused had caught hold of him from behind.	Facts
He allegedly had conversation with them as to who else were in there in the lorry and as to where he had been going.	Facts
The said place is said to be at a distance of about 100 ft. from the road.	Facts
Ragi crops were standing in the field, when the assault, in the manner stated, took place.	Facts
Accused No.1 Krishna was said to have been holding a Machu.	Facts
Accused No.4 was holding a chaku.	Facts
Accused No.2, however, was unarmed.7.	Facts
During the course of investigation whereas at the instance of the appellant, the tarpaulin was recovered from PW4, the jack, tape recorder and two tyres were stated to have been recovered at the instance of accused No.1 from different persons.8.	Facts
Relying on or on the basis of the statement of PW3 as also the recovery of the said articles, a judgment of conviction and sentence was recorded.	Facts
Death sentence was awarded to accused No.1 to 4.	Facts
Accused No.5, however, was awarded life imprisonment.	Facts
All the accused were furthermore convicted under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years.9.	Facts
On appeals having been preferred by the accused, the same were allowed in part and the death sentence awarded against respondent Nos.1 to 4 were reduced to life imprisonment.10.	Facts
This appeal has been filed by the appellant who was accused No.3 alone.	None
Ms. Deepshikha Bharati, learned amicus, appearing on behalf of the appellant, would submit that the place of occurrence being about 400 meters to 500 meters from the Johnson factory and the appellant being unknown to the said PW3, it was impossible to identify him in a dark night.	Arguments of Petitioner
The purported substantial evidence whereupon reliance has been placed by the learned Sessions Judge as also the High Court was not such which would lead to the conclusion that the prosecution case was proved beyond all reasonable doubts.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Mishra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State, however, supported the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
We have noticed heretobefore that no test identification parade was held.	Reasoning
In the First Information Report, the appellant was not named.	Reasoning
We, however, are conscious of the fact that PW2, Puttaswamy, when lodged the First Information Report, might not have received the details of incident from PW3 as he was undergoing treatment in the nursing home.	Reasoning
According to PW3, however, he came to know the names of all the assailants during the incident as one would call the other by his name.	Reasoning
In his statement before the police, however, admittedly he did not disclose the name of the appellant.	Reasoning
Strangely enough, according to PW30, the Head Constable, PW23, and another constable produced accused No.5 before him at about 3.45 pm on 12.1.1999.	Reasoning
She was arrested and interrogated.	Reasoning
It was on that day itself, he called PW3 who identified her whereupon his further statement was recorded.	Reasoning
The said prosecution witness, however does not state that even accused No.5, on interrogation, disclosed the name of accused No.s 1 to 4.	Reasoning
Accused No.3 was arrested on 9.2.1999.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that he is a taxi driver.	Reasoning
He was kept in custody during the night.	Reasoning
On the next day, allegedly, he was taken to the house of one Ibrahim who is said to have purchased from him the tarpaulin in question.13.	Reasoning
PW4, in his evidence disclosed that the tarpaulin purchased by him was blue in colour.	Reasoning
PW2 and PW3, in their evidences, however, stated that the tarpaulin which was used in the truck was of mash green colour.	Reasoning
Yet again when the tarpaulin was produced, its colour had faded but despite the same, it was identified as the same tarpaulin.14.	Reasoning
We have noticed hereinbefore that according to PW3, he was called upon to identify the accused No.3 first in the police station.	Reasoning
He, after three weeks, was again called to the police station to identify accused No.5.	Reasoning
PW13, however, as indicated hereinbefore, in his statement stated the date of arrest of accused No.5 as 12.1.1999.	Reasoning
The incident having taken place on 24.12.1998 and PW3 being in hospital for at least 20 days and he having been called to police station three weeks thereafter, it is beyond comprehension as to how he could be asked to identify accused No.3 first and then accused No.5, although accused No.5 was arrested on 12.1.1999 and the appellant was arrested on 9.2.1999.	Reasoning
PW4, Ibrahim, was the owner of hotel.	Reasoning
He knew the appellant No.3 as he used to take his meals in his hotel.	Reasoning
In his statement, the appellant was a regular customer as he had been transporting sand in his truck regularly.	Reasoning
He was examined on 19.11.2002.	Reasoning
According to him, about four years prior thereto, he had asked for some loan stating that he had no money to pay for food.	Reasoning
When, however, he expressed his inability to pay the said sum stating that he had no money, he allegedly borrowed the said amount from another person on pledging a terpauline.	Reasoning
After one and a half months, he came with the Kudur police and asked him to give his money back.	Reasoning
At the instance of the police, the terpauline was produced.	Reasoning
Measurement of the terpauline was taken.	Reasoning
A panchnama was prepared.	Reasoning
What was the measurement of the terpauline, however, has not been disclosed.	Reasoning
The purported measurement of the terpauline said to have been stolen had not been verified with the recovered one.	Reasoning
None of the prosecution witnesses denied or disputed the fact that appellant was a driver.	Reasoning
It appears rather strange that Shanthakumar PW6 would be panch witnesses for recovery of MO.12 although he had advanced the amount of Rs.500 to PW4.	Reasoning
If the tarpauline was pledged to him, there was no reason as to why it should be recovered from PW4.	Reasoning
The special features of the tarpauline which could be identified by PW2 and PW3 have not been stated.	Reasoning
Tarpaulines are common goods being available in the market.	Reasoning
It has also been accepted by Shanthakumar, PW6.15.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that other accused are not before us, we are of the opinion that it is difficult to uphold the judgment of conviction and sentence against the appellant herein.	Reasoning
The place where the assault took place was said to be at a distance of 400 to 500 meters from the factory.	Reasoning
Not only the place of occurrence was agricultural fields as stated by PW3 but the crop had also been standing thereon.16.	Reasoning
If accused No.5 was arrested first and accused No.3 one month thereafter, it does not stand to any reason as to why PW3 would be called to identify accused No.3 first which according to him took place 20 days after his discharge from the hospital and 15 days thereafter he was again summoned to identify accused No.5.17.	Reasoning
We have noticed hereinbefore the respective dates of arrest of accused No.5 and accused No.3 respectively.	Reasoning
It is difficult to conceive that accused No.5 would still be available so that the Investigating Officer could ask the witnesses to come to the police station.	Reasoning
There is nothing to show that she was in custody of the police for more than 30 days.	Reasoning
A presumption must be drawn that by that time, she was in judicial custody.	Reasoning
It is also wholly unlikely that names of all the accused person would be disclosed during commission of the offence by one another.	Reasoning
It furthermore appears to be somewhat unusual that although PW3 and accused No.5 were caught while they were indulging in illicit sex and all of them came from behind and the first attack was on the back of his neck, still conversations would not only took place by and between PW3 and the accused persons the former even in that condition would be able to follow the same.	Reasoning
Mr. Chaudhary would submit that in all cases, it is not necessary to hold test identification parade.	None
That may be so.	None
In a case of this nature, the test identification parade would have been meaningless as appellant were shown to PW3 in the police station.	None
Appellant was shown to PW3 at the police station.	None
He was identified in court also.	None
Reliance has been placed by Mr. Chaudhary on Malkhansingh Ors.	None
V. State of M.P. (2003) 5 SCC 746 , wherein this Court opined The evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.	None
The purpose of a prior test identification, therefore, is to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.	None
It is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identification proceedings.	None
This rule of prudence, however, is subject to exceptions, when, for example, the court is impressed by a particular witness on whose testimony it can safely rely, without such or other corroboration.	None
The identification parades belong to the stage of investigation, and there is no provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which obliges the investigating agency to hold, or confers a right upon the accused to claim, a test identification parade.	None
They do not constitute substantive evidence and these parades are essentially governed by Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
Failure to hold a test identification parade would not make inadmissible the evidence of identification in court.	None
The weight to be attached to such identification should be a matter for the courts of fact.	None
In appropriate cases it may accept the evidence of identification even without insisting on corroboration.	None
It was furthermore held It is no doubt true that much evidentiary value cannot be attached to the identification of the accused in court where identifying witness is a total stranger who had just a fleeting glimpse of the person identified or who had no particular reason to remember the person concerned, if the identification is made for the first time in court.	None
Judged by the aforementioned legal principles laid down therein, in our opinion, the identification of appellant PW3 in court cannot be held to be trustworthy.	None
Reliance has also been placed by Mr. Chaudhary on a judgment of this Court in Asharfi Ors.	None
V.	None
The State AIR 1961 All. 153 , wherein it was held that identification by only one person may not be relied upon stating Hence, only one identification cannot eliminate the possibility of the pointing out being purely through chance and for this reason is insufficient to establish the charge.	None
In Heera Anr.	None
V. State of Rajasthan (2007) 10 SCC 175 , a test identification had been held in presence of a Civil Judge and a Judicial Magistrate.	None
The said decision, therefore, is not applicable.	None
In Ravindra Laxman Mahadik v. State of Maharashtra (1997 Criminal Law Journal 3833) in a case involving Section 395 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it was opined I find merit in Mr. Moomans submission that it would not be safe to accept the identification evidence of Manda Sahani.	None
Manda Sahani in her examinationinchief stated that on the place of the incident, there was no light.	None
In her crossexamination (para 6) she stated that it was dark at the place of the incident but, slight light was emanating from the building situate on the shore.	None
The distance between the building and the place where Manda Sahani and her husband were looted has not been unfolded in the evidence.	None
The learned trial Judge has observed that the evidence of Vinod Sahani is that the incident took place at a distance of about 100 ft. from the Gandhi statute, where the meeting was held.	None
What he wanted to convey was that hence there must have been light at the place of incident in my view, on the face of the definite statement of Manda that it was dark as there was only slight light, and bearing in mind that the incident took place at 9.30 p.m. in the month of February, 1992, it would not be safe to conclude that there was sufficient light on the place of the incident enabling Manda Sahani to identify the appellant.	None
The decision of the Allahabad High Court in Asharfi lal (supra) was followed therein.	None
In Kanan Ors.	None
V. State of Kerala AIR 1979 SC 1127 , this Court held It is well settled that where a witness Identifies an accused who is not known to him in the Court for the first time, his evidence Is absolutely valueless unless there has been a previous T. I. parade to test his powers of observations.	None
The Idea of holding T.I. parade under Section 9 of the Evidence Act is to test the veracity of the witness on the question of his capability to identify an unknown person whom the witness may have seen only once.	None
If no T. I. parade is held then it will be wholly unsafe to rely on his bare testimony regarding the identification of an accused for the first time in Court.	None
As identification of PW3 is highly doubtful, in our opinion, having regard to the nature of other evidences brought on record by the State, i.e., purported recovery of a tarpauline by itself cannot be said to be sufficient to convict the appellant for a charge of such grave offence.21.	Decision
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
The appellant should be set at liberty forthwith unless wanted in connection with any other case.	Decision
