Dipak Misra, J. The seminal issues that emanate for consideration, unequivocally on the bedrock of fiscal sanctity and decidedly on the plinth of prevalent mindset of borrowers from public financial institutions including banks, are whether a borrower or borrowers after availing finance by creating mortgage on the base of certain documents which, as alleged, are forged, and ingeniously adopt the same modus operandi to avail the benefit from number of banks, who in due course facing the problem set the criminal law in motion by lodging different FIRs and in the ultimate eventuate in an adroit manner enter into settlements and pay the amount and thereafter, knock at the doors of the High Court seeking exercise of inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) or the extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution for quashment of the criminal proceedings and should the High Court on the foundation that the continuance of the criminal proceedings would be a Sisyphean endeavour after the settlement has taken place to quash the same and further whether a former Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes can be allowed to advance a plea, obviously a remarkable one, that she had signed the documents either as a guarantor or as a coapplicant, showing deference to her late husbands desire	Issue
and, therefore, this Court, in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution, should not unsettle the common order by which the High Court has quashed criminal proceedings.	None
Additionally, it has also become obligatory to decisively lay down whether continuance of such proceedings would be an unnecessary load on the criminal justice dispensation system and hence, there is neither any warrant nor justification for interference with the order of the High Court.	None
We are invited by the astute proponements to dwell upon the said issues, and we shall do so in due course of our delineation.	None
The factual narrative has a narrow compass.	Facts
The first respondent, accused No. 2, along with her husband submitted an application for home loan to the Centurion Bank of Punjab, presently known as HDFC Bank Ltd. for a sum of Rs. 6 lakhs by depositing the sale deed dated 31.10.2001.	Facts
The HDFC Bank found that documents were forged and accordingly filed a complaint with the Commissioner of Police, Chennai on 20.12.2005 which eventually gave rise to registration of FIR No. 579/06 dated 19.7.2006.	Facts
Another FIR came to be lodged on 3.8.2006 by Bank of India, Cathedral Branch from which the couple had availed a loan of Rs.25 lakhs for a Company Development (Medicrops and Medigel) on the grounds that the documents were forged.	Facts
On 10.7.2006, Vijaya Bank, G.N. Chetty Road Branch filed a complaint that the husband of the accused had applied for a mortgage loan of Rs.18 lakhs with forged documents by depositing the title deed and the wife stood as a surety.	Facts
Taking into consideration the complaints lodged by the aforesaid banks, the Inspector of Police, Central Crime Branch, TeamXII, Egmore Chennai, registered the FIRs and commenced the investigation.	Facts
When the matter stood thus, the Syndicate Bank, Mylapore Branch filed a complaint with the Commissioner of Police, Chennai on 11.01.2007 to the effect that the husband of the first respondent herein had submitted an application for grant of home improvement loan for a sum of Rs.12 lakhs with forged documents and the wife was the guarantor and on that basis another FIR was registered and investigation took place.	Facts
Thus, the first respondent was a coapplicant in respect of the loans availed from HDFC Bank and Bank of India and was a guarantor in respect of the loans availed from Vijaya Bank and Syndicate Bank.	Facts
FIR Nos.	Facts
in respect of HDFC Bank, Bank of India, Vijaya Bank and Syndicate Bank were 579/06, 643/06, 550/06 and 206/07 respectively.	Facts
After due investigation, chargesheets were filed before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai and Metropolitan Magistrate, Saidepet, Chennai and the proceedings before the trial court were instituted bearing CC No. 1624/2010, CC No. 5669/2010, CC No. 6258/2010 and CC No. 11697/2010.3.	Facts
After placing of the chargesheets, the accused persons moved the High Court in Criminal OP No. 1475914762 of 2011 for quashing of the criminal proceedings.	Facts
During the pendency of the cases, the husband, accused No. 1 breathed his last and thereafter before the High Court it was contended that she was not aware of any transaction done by her husband as she was working as a public servant and that apart she was not aware of the business activities carried on by her husband that she had signed the documents as instructed by her husband without any intention or knowledge to cheat the banks that after demise of her husband, she had come to know about the cases pending against her due to the alleged involvement of her husband and immediately she had taken necessary steps to settle the entire dues of the banks and, therefore, there was no justification for continuance of the criminal proceedings.	Facts
The stand and stance put forth by the accused person was combated by the prosecution on the ground that she was in employment in Commercial Tax Department in the rank of Assistant Commissioner and had availed voluntary retirement and hence, she could not claim ignorance of the transaction despite being a coapplicant to the loans by executing the pronotes jointly along with her husband as a borrower and being a guarantor in respect of the loans availed of by her husband from two banks.	Facts
The quashment of the criminal proceedings was also resisted by the respondent Bank in Criminal	Facts
O.P. No. 14762 of 2011 that certain loan availed of by her husband had remained unpaid and One Time Settlement was arrived at without prejudice to the rights regarding pending cases against her before the learned 11th Metropolitan Magistrate, Saidapet, Chennai.	Facts
Learned counsel for the accused had placed reliance on Nikhil Merchant v. Central Bureau of Investigation, 2008(4) R.C.R.(Criminal) 102 2008(5)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 156 (2008) 9 SCC 677 , Manoj Sharma v. State and others, 2008(4) R.C.R.(Criminal)	Facts
827 2008(6) Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 191 (2008) 16 SCC 1 , State of Karnataka v. L. Muneswamy, (1977) 2 SCC 699 , Madhvrao Jiwajirao Scindia and others v. Sambhajirao Chandrojirao Angre and others, 1988(1) R.C.R.(Criminal) 565 (1988) 1 SCC 692 , Hira Lal Hari Lal Bhagwati v. C.B.I., New Delhi, 2003(3) R.C.R.(Criminal) 273 (2003) 5 SCC 257 , and Shiji Pappu and others v. Radhika and another, 2012(1) R.C.R.(Criminal) 9 2011(6)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 210 (2011) 10 SCC 705 before the High Court for quashing of the criminal proceedings.	Facts
On behalf of the prosecution, reliance was placed on Sushil Suri v. CBI and Anr., 2011(3) R.C.R.(Criminal) 356 2011(3)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 450 (2011) 5 SCC 708 4.	Facts
The High Court adverted to the authorities cited at the Bar and thereafter came to hold that as No due certificate had been issued by the respective banking institutions and further settlements had been arrived at under the scheme, continuance of the prosecution would be an exercise in futility and, therefore, quashing of the criminal proceedings was required to prevent the abuse of the process of law.	Facts
Being of this view, the High Court has quashed all the proceedings.5.	Facts
We have heard Mr. Subramonium Prasad, learned senior counsel for the appellant and Mr. Vivek Tankha, learned senior counsel for the first respondent.	Facts
It is submitted by Mr. Subramonium Prasad, learned senior counsel for the State that regard being had to the facts and circumstances of the case, it was absolutely inapposite on the part of the High Court to quash the criminal proceedings as the allegation by the prosecution pertain to availing of loan by depositing documents which were forged.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by him that the plea taken by the respondentaccused that she was unaware of any transaction does not remotely appeal to the common sense and, in any case, such a plea cannot be entertained for the purpose of quashing criminal cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further urged that even if there are settlements and dues have been cleared, in such type of cases the accused cannot be absolved from the criminal culpability without the trial taking place.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Resisting the aforesaid submissions it is canvassed by Mr. Tankha, learned senior counsel for the first respondent that when the High Court, considering the controversy from all the requisite angles has quashed the proceedings, this Court should not interfere with the impugned order in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel would contend that when the respondent has already paid the amount due to the Bank from her own savings and settled the matter with grieved financial institutions, continuance of the criminal proceeding is not desirable as it is unlikely to serve any fruitful purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
That apart, submits Mr. Tankha, continuation of the proceeding would unnecessarily load the criminal justice dispensation system as there is likelihood of an order of acquittal at the end of the trial.	Arguments of Respondent
To appreciate the submissions advanced at the bar, we may straightaway refer to the authority in State of Maharashtra through CBI v. Vikram Anantrai Doshi and others, 2014(4) R.C.R. (Criminal) 381 2014(4)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 382 2014 (10) SCALE 690.	None
In the said case, the accused was charged for the offences punishable under Sections 120B, 406, 420, 467, 468 and 471 IPC.	None
The allegation in the said case was that the accused No. 1 had obtained Letters of Credit from the State Bank of India and Dena Bank in favour of fictitious companies formed by the accused and used the said Letters of Credit to siphon off the funds from the banks.	None
During the pendency of the case, the accused settled the dispute with the Bank by paying the amount and the Bank in turn had issued no due certificate.	None
The Court referred to case in CBI v. A. Ravishankar Prasad and others 2009(3) R.C.R.(Criminal) 466 2009(4)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 222 (2009) 6 SCC 351 , wherein the pronouncements in CBI v. Duncans Agro Industries Ltd., 1996(3) R.C.R.(Criminal) 60 (1996) 5 SCC 581 and Nikhil Merchant (supra) were distinguished.	None
It is necessary to note that the Court in Ravi Shankar Prasads case referred to Inder Mohan Goswami v. State of Uttaranchal, 2007(4) R.C.R.(Criminal) 548 2007(5) Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 451 (2007) 12 SCC 1 and stated thus Let us consider the facts of this case and apply the ratio of Goswami case where facts are as follows(I)	None
The allegations are that the accused have committed serious offences such as forgery, fabrication of documents and used those documents as genuine.(II) The allegations are that the respondentaccused herein A. Ravishankar Prasad and A. Manohar Prasad have entered into a conspiracy with the Chairman and Managing Director and other officials of Indian Bank, Chennai with the object of cheating Indian Bank in the matter of recommending, sanctioning, disbursing huge credit facilities running over hundreds of crores.(III) Trial of all four cases are at an advanced stage in which 92 witnesses have already been examined.	None
While applying the ratio of Goswami case, how can any court in its legitimate exercise of power under Section 482 CrPC quash the proceedings against accused A. Ravishankar Prasad and A. Manohar Prasad in the face of the aforesaid allegations?	None
In the instant case, wrong application of the ratio of the said judgment has led to grave miscarriage of justice.39.	None
Careful analysis of all these judgments clearly reveals that the exercise of inherent powers would entirely depend on the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
The object of incorporating inherent powers in the Code is to prevent abuse of the process of the court or to secure ends of justice.40.	None
Both English and the Indian courts have consistently taken the view that the inherent powers can be exercised in those exceptional cases where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if are taken on their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused.	None
When we apply the settled legal position to the facts of this case it is not possible to conclude that the complaint and the chargesheet prima facie do not constitute any offence against the respondents.	None
Being of this view, the Court in A. Ravishankar Prasad (supra) allowed the appeal preferred by the CBI.	None
Apart from above, in Vikram Anantrai Doshi Ors.	None
(supra) the Court referred to Gian Singh v. State of Punjab and Another, 2012(4) R.C.R.(Criminal) 543 2012(4)	None
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 549 (2012) 10 SCC 303 , with regard to the power of the High Court as regards the quashing of the criminal proceedings on the basis of a compromise.	Facts
This Court also referred to Narinder Singh Ors.	None
v. State of Punjab Anr., 2014(2) R.C.R.(Criminal) 482 2014(2)	None
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 621 (2014) 6 SCC 466 , Dimpy Gujral v. Union Territory through Administrator, 2012(4) R.C.R.(Criminal) 543 2012(4)	None
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 549 AIR 2012 SCW 5333 and State of Rajasthan v. Sambhu Kevat, 2014(1) R.C.R.(Criminal) 199 2013(6)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 543 2013 (14) SCALE 235 and thereafter dwelt upon the ratio in CBI, ACB, Mumbai v. Narendra Lal Jain Ors., 2014(2) R.C.R.(Criminal) 15 2014(2)	None
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 220 (2014) 5 SCC 364 wherein the charges were framed under Section 120B read with Section 420 IPC.	None
A passage from the said judgment was reproduced which is to the following effect The offences are certainly more serious they are not private in nature.	None
The charge of conspiracy is to commit offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act.	None
The accused has also been charged for commission of the substantive offence Under Section 471 Indian Penal Code.	None
Though the amount due have been paid the same is under a private settlement between the parties unlike in Nikhil Merchant (supra) and Narendra Lal Jain (supra) where the compromise was a part of the decree of the Court.	None
There is no acknowledgement on the part of the bank of the exoneration of the criminal liability of the accusedAppellant unlike the terms of compromise decree in the aforesaid two cases.	None
In the totality of the facts stated above, if the High Court has taken the view that the exclusion spelt out in Gian Singh (supra) (para 61) applies to the present case and on that basis had come to the conclusion that the power Under Section 482 Code of Criminal Procedure should not be exercised to quash the criminal case against the accused, we cannot find any justification to interfere with the said decision.	None
After distinguishing many a decision, the Court relied upon Central Bureau of Investigation v. Jagjit Singh, 2013(4) R.C.R.(Criminal) 607 2013(5)	None
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 499 (2013) 10 SCC 686 wherein the court being moved by the CBI had overturned the order of the High Court quashing the criminal proceeding and in that backdrop had taken note of the fact that accused persons had dishonestly induced delivery of the property of the bank and had used forged documents as genuine.	None
Thereafter, the Court proceeded to state that 23availing of money from a nationalised bank in the manner, as alleged by the investigating agency, vividly exposits fiscal impurity and, in a way, financial fraud.	None
The modus operandi as narrated in the chargesheet cannot be put in the compartment of an individual or personal wrong.	None
It is a social wrong and it has immense societal impact.	None
It is an accepted principle of handling of finance that whenever there is manipulation and cleverly conceived contrivance to avail of these kind of benefits it cannot be regarded as a case having overwhelmingly and predominantingly of civil character.	None
The ultimate victim is the collective.	None
It creates a hazard in the financial interest of the society.	None
The gravity of the offence creates a dent in the economic spine of the nation.	None
The cleverness which has been skillfully contrived, if the allegations are true, has a serious consequence.	None
A crime of this nature, in our view, would definitely fall in the category of offences which travel far ahead of personal or private wrong.	None
It has the potentiality to usher in economic crisis.	None
Its implications have its own seriousness, for it creates a concavity in the solemnity that is expected in financial transactions.	None
It is not such a case where one can pay the amount and obtain a no due certificate and enjoy the benefit of quashing of the criminal proceeding on the hypostasis that nothing more remains to be done.	None
The collective interest of which the Court is the guardian cannot be a silent or a mute spectator to allow the proceedings to be withdrawn, or for that matter yield to the ingenuous dexterity of the accused persons to invoke the jurisdiction Under Article 226 of the Constitution or Under Section 482 of the Code and quash the proceeding.	None
It is not legally permissible.	None
The Court is expected to be on guard to these kinds of adroit moves.	None
The High Court, we humbly remind, should have dealt with the matter keeping in mind that in these kind of litigations the accused when perceives a tiny gleam of success, readily invokes the inherent jurisdiction for quashing of the criminal proceeding.	None
The courts principal duty, at that juncture, should be to scan the entire facts to find out the thrust of allegations and the crux of the settlement.	None
It is the experience of the Judge comes to his aid and the said experience should be used with care, caution, circumspection and courageous prudence.	None
Recently, in CBI v. Maninder Singh, 2015(4)	None
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 498 2015 (9) SCALE 365 , the allegation against the accused was that bill of lading presented by the proprietors of the accused firms were found forged and cases were registered under Section 120B IPC read with Section 420 IPC and Section 5(2) read with Section 5(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 and further substantive offences under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 IPC.	None
The accused person arrived at a settlement with the Bank and thereafter moved the High Court under Section 482 CrPC for quashing of the FIR.	None
The High Court placed reliance on the decision in Nikhil Merchant (supra) and allowed the petition and directed for quashing of the criminal proceedings.	None
This Court placed reliance on Vikram Anantrai Doshi and others (supra) and came to hold as follows The allegation against the respondent is forgery for the purpose of cheating and use of forged documents as genuine in order to embezzle the public money.	None
After facing such serious charges of forgery, the Respondent wants the proceedings to be quashed on account of settlement with the bank.	None
The development in means of communication, science technology etc. have led to an enormous increase in economic crimes viz.	None
phishing, ATM frauds etc. which are being committed by intelligent but devious individuals involving huge sums of public or Government money.	None
These are actually public wrongs or crimes committed against society and the gravity and magnitude attached to these offences is concentrated at public at large.11.	None
The inherent power of the High Court Under Section 482 Code of Criminal Procedure should be sparingly used.	Reasoning
Only when the Court comes to the conclusion that there would be manifest injustice or there would be abuse of the process of the Court if such power is not exercised, Court would quash the proceedings.	Reasoning
In economic offences Court must not only keep in view that money has been paid to the bank which has been defrauded but also the society at large.	Reasoning
It is not a case of simple assault or a theft of a trivial amount but the offence with which we are concerned is a well planned and was committed with a deliberate design with an eye of personal profit regardless of consequence to the society at large.	Reasoning
To quash the proceeding merely on the ground that the accused has settled the amount with the bank would be a misplaced sympathy.	Reasoning
Testing the present controversy on the anvil of the aforesaid principles, we are disposed to think that the High Court has been erroneously guided by the ambit and sweep of power under Section 482 CrPC for quashing the proceedings.	Reasoning
It has absolutely fallaciously opined that the continuance of the proceeding will be the abuse of the process of the Court.	Reasoning
It has been categorically held in Janta Dal v. H.S. Chowdhary, (1992) 4 SCC 305 , that the inherent power under Section 482 CrPC though unrestricted and undefined should not be capriciously or arbitrarily exercised, but should be exercised in appropriate cases, ex debito justitiae to do real and substantial justice for the administration of which alone the courts exist.	Reasoning
In Inder Mohan Goswami (supra), it has been emphasised that inherent powers have to be exercised sparingly, carefully and with great caution.13.	Reasoning
We will be failing in our duty unless we advert to the proponements propounded with regard to other aspects.	Reasoning
They are really matters of concern and deserve to be addressed.	Reasoning
The submission as put forth is that the first respondent is a lady and she was following the command of her husband and signed the documents without being aware about the transactions entered into by the husband and nature of the business.	Reasoning
The allegation in the chargesheet is that she has signed the pronotes.	Reasoning
That apart, as further alleged, she is a coapplicant in two cases and guarantor in other two cases.	Reasoning
She was an Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and after taking voluntary retirement she has joined the public life, and became a member of the Rajya Sabha.	Reasoning
Emphasis is also laid that she is a lady and there is no warrant to continue the criminal proceeding when she has paid the dues of the banks, and if anything further is due that shall be made good.	Reasoning
The assertions as regards the ignorance are a mere pretence and sans substance given the facts.	Reasoning
Lack of awareness, knowledge or intent is neither to be considered nor accepted in economic offences.	Reasoning
The submission assiduously presented on gender leaves us unimpressed.	Reasoning
An offence under the criminal law is an offence and it does not depend upon the gender of an accused.	Reasoning
True it is, there are certain provisions in CrPC relating to exercise of jurisdiction under Section 437, etc.	Reasoning
therein but that altogether pertains to a different sphere.	Reasoning
A person committing a murder or getting involved in a financial scam or forgery of documents, cannot claim discharge or acquittal on the ground of her gender as that is neither constitutionally nor statutorily a valid argument.	Reasoning
The offence is gender neutral in this case.	Reasoning
We say no more on this score.14.	Reasoning
As far as the load on the criminal justice dispensation system is concerned it has an insegragable nexus with speedy trial.	Reasoning
A grave criminal offence or serious economic offence or for that matter the offence that has the potentiality to create a dent in the financial health of the institutions, is not to be quashed on the ground that there is delay in trial or the principle that when the matter has been settled it should be quashed to avoid the load on the system.	Reasoning
That can never be an acceptable principle or parameter, for that would amount to destroying the stem cells of law and order in many a realm and further strengthen the marrows of the unscrupulous litigations.	Reasoning
Such a situation should never be conceived of.15.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid analysis, we allow the appeal, set aside the order passed by the High Court and direct the trial magistrate to proceed in accordance with law.	Decision
