 P. Wadhwa, J. The Appellants (Harendra H. Mehta Ors.) are challenging the judgment dated February 24, 1995 of the Bombay High Court enforcing the foreign award dated October 31, 1990 on a petition filed by the Respondents (Mukesh H. Mehta Ors.).	Issue
It was, however, directed that the enforcement of the same or execution of the decree shall be subject to the respondents obtaining the necessary permission under Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 1973 (FERA, for short) as regards the enforcement part in India is concerned.	Issue
The matter came to this Court on a certificate granted by the High Court under Article 134A read with Article 134(1)(c) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The impugned judgment had been rendered by a single Judge.	Reasoning
There was some controversy if a single Judge could grant such a certificate.	Reasoning
However, considering the importance of the issue involved, this Court admitted the appeal.	Reasoning
The controversy, therefore, does not survive in the present appeal.	Reasoning
For convenience, we refer to the appellants as Harendra and respondents as Mukesh.	Facts
Both Harendra and Mukesh are brothers.	Facts
Harendra is elder to Mukesh.	Facts
They appointed their older brother Lalit Mehta as arbitrator to divide their businesses and properties both in the United States of America (USA) and India.	Facts
Lalit Mehta gave his award in New York.	Facts
Some proceedings arising out of the arbitration agreement and the award were held there in the courts.	Facts
Arbitration agreement was entered into at New York where arbitration proceedings held and award given.	Facts
Mukesh applied to the Bombay High Court here under the provisions of the Foreign Awards (Regulation and Enforcement) Act, 1961 (for short, the Foreign Awards Act) for enforcing the award.	Facts
High Court after contest ordered the award to be filed and pronounced judgment according to the award as required under Section 6 of the Foreign Awards Act.	Facts
Harendra finds himself aggrieved by the judgment.	Facts
That is how the matter before us.	None
We may now consider the controversy between the brothers in detail.	Facts
Harendra and Mukesh were having vast businesses in the USA and India.	Facts
They also acquired properties in both the countries.	Facts
Disputes having arisen, they decided to divide and distribute their jointly held assets.	Facts
Both have equal share in all the properties and businesses.	Facts
On October 25, 1989, they entered into an agreement to refer their disputes to their elder brother Lalit Mehta.	Facts
Their submission to the arbitrator is in the following terms Lalit Mehta, 48 Arbor Lane, Roslyn Hts., Y. 11577.	None
Dear lalitbhai, We, Harendra Mehta and Mukesh Mehta hereby appoint you as our sole arbitrator for the following difference of opinions.	Facts
They are related to All our business in USA India Social relationship.	None
Your award in the matter shall be binding on both of us and our legal heirs.	None
In areas where you need any assistance of any lawyers and or technical or outside persons you are fully authorised to take such assistance.	None
On our part we agree to offer our fullest cooperation in giving you all the documents, papers and any information you call for from time to time.	None
We shall ensure full participation.	None
In the meetings and clarify whatever explanations and clarification you may seek.	None
We shall be prepared to sign any papers in advance that you ask for before the beginning of the arbitration proceedings which will remain solely in your custody.	None
If you require the signatures of our wives and any of our representatives we shall give you the same as may be called for by you.	None
Yours sincerely, Sd  393 Harendra Mehta Sd  Mukesh Mehta Sd  Witness.	None
Thereafter a formal agreement dated November 17, 1989 to refer the disputes to ARbitrator Lalit Mehta was entered into by the parties.	Facts
It was signed by Harendra, his wife Amita Mehta and Harendra Mehta as Manager (Karta) of his HUF on the one part and Mukesh Mehta, his wife Daksha Mehta and Mukesh Mehta as Manager (Karta) of his HUF on the other.	Facts
This agreement gave the details of the businesses carried on by the parties and their properties in USA and India.	Facts
The agreement was entered into in New York and was duly not arised there.	Facts
It would appear that the formal agreement dated November 17, 1989 to refer the disputes to Arbitrator superseded the earlier agreement dated October 25, 1989.	Facts
Harendra challenged the agreement dated November 17, 1989 in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Nassau County Court by motion dated February 16, 1990 on the ground that it was unconscionable, against public policy, entered under duress and coercion and that the arbitrator is biased and cannot be fair and impartial.	Facts
This challenge was negatived by judgment dated March 12, 1990.	Facts
It will be seen that the challenge to the agreement was made after the arbitrator had entered into reference.	Facts
The court observed that Harendra was a seasoned businessman, having managed numerous successful businesses both in USA and in India.	Facts
He signed not just one but two submission agreements.	Facts
Court wondered why did he consent on two occasions that Lalit Mehta be chosen arbitrator if he allegedly had strained relations with him.	Facts
There was nothing to show that any duress or coercion was caused.	Facts
In short, the Court negatived all the pleas of Harendra and said that the agreement could not be declared invalid on a motion under Article 7503 of CPLR (Civil Practice Law Rules) and, therefore, an application to declare the agreement invalid must await a trial and, therefore, was premature.	Facts
During the pendency of the arbitration proceedings, parties settled their differences by entering into a detailed agreement on March 20, 1990.	Facts
The agreement was to be retroactively effective as on March 1, 1999.	Facts
The agreement detailed various properties and businesses which the parties were having.	Facts
Harendra was to draw four packages A, A1, B and B1 as under  A  USA properties and businesses A1  U.S. Note for payment in US and share in jointly held in US properties and businesses.	Facts
B  Indian properties and businesses B1  Indian Note for payment in Indian rupees and certain Indian properties and share and interest in jointly held Indian properties and businesses.	None
It was agreed that one party would choose AB1 or BA1 First choice was to be exercised by Mukesh.	None
The arbitrator was to make his award in accordance with the selection of packages.	Facts
Parties were to execute transfer and closing documents in terms of the award.	Facts
The form in which the documents were to be executed were also prescribed.	Facts
It was also agreed that the parties shall execute, from time to time, any and all further documents that may be required at any time to effectuate the award made in pursuance to the agreement.	Facts
On refusal of any of the parties to execute the transfer and closing documents, it was agreed that Mr. Vinod Mehta shall be duly appointed attorney of each of the parties to execute the transfer and closing documents.	Facts
There was also a penalty clause in case of failure or refusal to execute the transfer and closing documents.	Facts
That was irrespective of any other remedy open to the parties.	Facts
Mukesh opted for the package BA1.	Facts
On March 20, 1990 itself, the arbitrator rendered his award after the proceedings were held under CPLR 7507 incorporating the aforesaid settlement agreement of the same date.	Facts
CPLR 7507 provides that the award shall be in writing, signed and acknowledged by the arbitrator making it within the time fixed by the agreement, or if the time is not fixed, within such time as the court orders.	Facts
There is also provision for delivering a copy of the award to each of the parties.	Facts
In proceedings under CPLR 7507 which were held on March 20, 1990, Amita Mehta, wife of Harendra, represented her husband as his attorney and appeared inperson.	Facts
Both Mukesh and his wife Daksha Mehta were present.	Facts
They all waived notice of the hearing.	Facts
They agreed that they had entered into and executed an agreement involving all the issues of the arbitration proceedings.	Facts
Judge Ralph Diamond, before whom the proceedings under CPLR 7507 were held, examined the parties who were present along with their counsel as to the execution of the settlement agreement by each of the parties and thereafter the award made by the arbitrator.	Facts
It was recorded that Mukesh had given the choice of packages A1 with B.	Facts
It was also recorded that the arbitrator had two fold functions (1) to make the award and (2) to implement the award.	Facts
Now, Mukesh Mehta brought a motion for an order pursuant to CPLR 7510 for confirmation of the award in the Nassau County Court in the State of New York.	Facts
Harendra also filed cross motion for an order pursuant to CPLR 7511(b) for vacating the award or in the alternative seeking modification of the award on the grounds mentioned in the cross motion.	Facts
By judgment dated October 22, 1990, the Court confirmed the award granting the motion of Mukesh Mehta with certain modifications.	Facts
It observed that Harendra failed to demonstrate that the award either dealt with matters beyond the scope of what had been submitted or that he gave a completely irrational construction to the settlement agreement between the parties which was incorporated in the award and formed part of the award.	Facts
There were certain typographical errors in the judgment which were corrected by Order dated October 31, 1990.	Facts
A formal order was drawn on January 14, 1991 which read as under ORDERED AND ADJUDGED, pursuant to CPLR 7510 and 7514 that the award of the arbitrator, Lalit Mehta, dated October 31, 1990 is hereby confirmed and shall constitute a judgment of this court, provided however, that payments by A.D. Development Ltd. to Mukesh Mehta for the purchase of his shares of A.D. Development Ltd. shall be limited pursuant to Business Corporation Law 514 to the availability of surplus, and it is further, ORDERED AND ADJUDGED, that the branch of the motion of Mukesh Mehta and Daksha Mehta seeking reargument of this courts order and decision dated October 22, 1990 be, and the same hereby is granted, and it is declared that the limitation of payments by A.D. Development Ltd. for the repurchase of shares to years in which the Corporation has a surplus is not applicable to others obligated to make such payments, and it is further ORDERED, that the crossmotion of Harendra pursuant to CPLR 7511(b) for an order vacating such arbitration award on grounds of fraud or for modification of the award to substitute a different neutral party to determine certain matters be, and the same hereby is, denied without a hearing, and it is further ORDERED, that the branch of Harendras crossmotion pursuant to CPLR 7514 seeking to compel Mukesh Mehta to comply with certain obligations pursuant to such arbitration award, and conditioning enforcement of any judgment against Harender upon Mukesh Mehtas first fully complying therewith be, and the same hereby is, denied and it is further ORDERED AND ADJUDGED, that other remedies to enforce the award flow from this judgment and enforcement proceedings may be brought in an appropriate forum and it is further ORDERED, that the branch of Harendras crossmotion pursuant to CPLR 6302 and 6311 to enjoin Mukesh Mehta and Daksha Mehta from taking any additional action concerning certain Indian documents released to them by the law firm of D.M. Harish Co., and compelling Mukesh Mehta to deliver such documents to the court pending further proceedings be, and the same hereby is denied, and it is further ORDERED AND ADJUDGED, that pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 12, 15 and 17 of the Settlement Agreement dated March 20, 1990 incorporated into the award of the arbitrator, Mukesh Mehta, residing at 48 Arbor Lane, Roslyn Heights, New York 11577 shall recover from A.D. Development Ltd., a New York Corporation having its principal place of business located at 22, Athex Drive, Glen Cove, New York 11542 the sum of 265,00 less the sum of 146,293.79 paid on account thereof, making the net sum of 188,706.21, with interest upon 68,706.31 of said sum from October 31, 1990 to December 31, 1990 at the rate of 9 per annum, in the amount of 1,030.59 and interest on 25,000 from November 1, 1990 to December 31, 1990 at the rate of 9 per annum, in the amount of 187.50 and making in all a judgment of 120,299.30 as of December 31, 1990 and it is further Objections of Harendra to the award were, thus, rejected by the Nassau County Court.	Facts
It, however, modified the award limiting and restricting the payment to be made to Mukesh by the US company for his shares and passed judgment confirming the award so modified.	Facts
In those proceedings under CPLR 7510, the Court noticed that arbitration proceedings were recorded under oath held before a Court Reporter and Notary Public and though language of the award showed that the arbitrator had signed and affirmed the award but, in fact, he did not actually sign the award or deliver a copy to each party as required by CPLR 7507.	Facts
The Court, however, observed that the parties agreed that the failure of the arbitrator to issue an award shall not affect the validity or binding effect of settlement agreement.	Facts
The Court, therefore, remitted to the arbitrator to sign and affirm the award in compliance with CPLR 7507 and serve a copy on the parties or their attorneys.	Facts
Liberty was then granted to Mukesh to renew his application to confirm the signed award.	Facts
In pursuance with this direction by the Court, the arbitrator signed his award on October 31, 1990.	Facts
Amita Mehta then filed an affidavit on February 13, 1992 in Nassau County Court alleging that duly initialed schedule A and B of the Settlement Agreement had been fraudulently substituted by other noninitialed schedules which contained some entirely new clauses.	Facts
By order dated September 20, 1993, the Supreme Court of New York Appellate Division rejected her plea regarding fraudulent substitution of schedules.	Facts
Now, the scene shifted to India when Mukesh moved the Bombay High Court under provisions of the Foreign Awards Act for enforcement of the Award dated October 31, 1990 of Lalit Mehta, the arbitrator, contending the same to be a foreign award.	Facts
Harendra raised various pleas in opposition thereto.	Facts
High Court after elaborate discussion rejected all of them and ordered that the award be filed and proceeded to pronounce judgment according to the award and thereafter decree followed.	Facts
Mr. Ganesh, learned counsel for the appellant, submitted that the High Court could not order the award to be filed and give judgment in terms thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
His objections to the impugned judgment were It is not an arbitral award inasmuch as there was no dispute on the basis of which the arbitrator could give his award.	None
The arbitrator merely acted as a rubber stamp.	Arguments of Petitioner
2.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not an award under the Foreign Awards Act as the award is merely effecting a family settlement.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not of commercial nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dispute did not arise out of any international trade.	Arguments of Petitioner
3. Chapter XXC of the Income Tax Act, 1961 has been violated and the enforcement of the award in violation of the law of this country would be against the public policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The award merged in the foreign judgment of a New York Court which modified the award.	Arguments of Petitioner
So only the judgment could be enforced.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
A fraud has been committed in getting the award and further that certain schedules which formed part of the agreement to refer the disputes to arbitration have been fraudulently substituted.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Supreme Court of the State of New York already passed judgment on June 6, 1995 directing enforcement of the award which would now be foreign judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent has, in fact, filed a suit in the Bombay High Court on the basis of the foreign judgment which suit was filed in 1996 and service was effected on the appellant only in 1997.	Arguments of Petitioner
Detailing his objections Mr. Ganesh said He read the objects and reasons of the Foreign Awards Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Definition of Foreign Award is given in Section 2 of the Act and also Articles I and II of the New York Convention of Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Awards which is schedule to the Foreign Awards Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Argument was that Foreign Awards Act is inapplicable as it is not a foreign award.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 2 of the Foreign Awards Act defines the foreign award to mean an award on differences between persons arising out of legal relationship, whether contractual or not considered as commercial under the law in force in India, made on or after the 11th day of October, 1960  (a) in pursuance of an agreement in writing for arbitration to which the Convention set forth in the Schedule applies, and (b) in one of such territories as the Central Government being satisfied that reciprocal provisions have been made, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be territories to which the said Convention applies.	None
Article 1 of the New York Convention is as under Article	None
I This convention shall apply to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made in the territory of a State other than the State where the recognition and enforcement of such awards are sought, and arising out of differences between persons, whether physical or legal.	None
It shall also apply to arbitral awards not considered as domestic awards in the State where their recognition and enforcement are sought.	None
The term arbitral awards shall include not only awards made by arbitrators appointed for each case but also those made by the permanent arbitral bodies to which the parties have submitted.	None
When signing, ratifying or acceding to this Convention, or notifying extension under article X hereof, any declare that it will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State.	None
It may also declare that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the State making such declaration.	None
Article II of the Convention is in somewhat similar terms as the expression foreign award under Section 2 of the Foreign Awards and it is as under Article II	None
Each Contracting State shall recognise an agreement in writing under which the parties undertake to submit to arbitration all or any differences which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not, concerning a subject matter capable of settlement by arbitration.	None
The term agreement in writing shall include an arbitral clause in a contract or an arbitration agreement, signed by the parties or contained in an exchange of letters or telegrams.	None
The Court of a Contracting State, when seized of an action in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an agreement within the meaning of this article, shall, at the request of one of the parties, refer the parties to arbitration, unless it finds that the said agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.	None
Submission of Mr. Ganesh was that it is not a foreign award because (i) there was no commercial dispute arising out of any international trade (ii) award does not relate to any commercial dispute arising in the course of international trade and (iii) legal relationship between the parties was of family members having equal shares in the properties and businesses who merely sought separation and partition of their respective shares.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said that mere fact that some of the properties happened to be derived from the business done by the parties could not convert the award into foreign award.	Arguments of Petitioner
To support his submission, he referred to two decisions of this Court in R.M. Investment and	Arguments of Petitioner
Trading Co.	Arguments of Petitioner
Pvt. Ltd. v. Boeing Co. and another, 1994(4) SCC 541 and Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric Co. and another, 1984(4) SCC 679.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view these two judgments do not help the appellants.	Reasoning
Rather the stress in these judgments is that broad and not restricted construction should be given to the word commercial appearing in Section 2 of the Foreign Awards Act.	Reasoning
In R.M. Investment and Trading Companies Pvt.	Reasoning
Limiteds case, terms of the agreement required the petitioner to play an active role in promoting the sale and to provide commercial and managerial assistance and information which may be helpful in respondents sales efforts.	Reasoning
It was held that relationship between the appellants and respondents was of commercial nature.	Reasoning
This Court said that the word commercial under Section 2 of the Foreign Awards Act should be liberally construed.	Reasoning
In Renusagars case no doubt this Court observed that the Foreign Awards Act was calculated and designed to subserve the cause of facilitating international trade and promotion thereof by providing for speedy settlement of disputes arising in such trade through arbitration and also said that any expression or phrase occurring therein should receive consistent with its literal and grammatical sense, a liberal construction.	Reasoning
In ordinary parlance commercial means 1. of, engaged in, or concerned with, commerce.	None
2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having profit as a primary aim rather than artistic etc. value Philistine.	None
(The Concise Oxford Dictionary).	None
In Blacks Law Dictionary, commercial is defined as Relates to or is concerned with trade and traffic or commerce in general is occupied with business and commerce.	None
Anderson v. Humble Oil Refining Co., 226 Ga. 252, 174 S.E. 2d 415, 416. 21.	None
The word trade is also defined in the Blacks Law Dictionary.	None
It is the act or the business or buying and selling for money traffic barter.	None
May v. Sloan, 101 U.S. 231, 25 L.Ed.	None
797.	None
Purchase and sale of goods or commodities by barter or by buying and selling for money (2) in that of a business occupation generally (3) in that of a mechanical employment, in contradistinction to the learned professions, agriculture, or the liberal arts.	None
People v. Polar Vent of America, Inc., 10 Misc.	None
2d 378, 174 N.Y.S. 2d 789, 793. 3p3	None
An occupation or regular means of livelihood and is business one practices or the work in which one engages regularly.	None
Ones calling occupation gainful employment means of livelihood.	None
People v. Carr, 163 Cal.	None
App.	None
2d 568, 329 P.2d 746, 752.	None
We do not understand as to how it could be said that the award was not a foreign award.	Reasoning
All the ingredients of foreign award were there.	Reasoning
Parties were having business both in India and in the United States of America as a joint venture and they also acquired properties.	Reasoning
Differences that arose between the parties were out of legal relationships and certainly of commercial nature under the laws of this country.	Reasoning
Agreement to refer the disputes to arbitration, in writing, was made in the United States where arbitration proceedings held and award given.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that United States is a country to which clause (b) of Section 2 of the Foreign Awards Act applies.	Reasoning
In the present case, the parties are no doubt related to each other but that could not take the award outside the ambit of the Foreign Awards Act.	Reasoning
We asked Mr. Ganesh as to what would happen if there were two strangers having businesses both in India and in United States or when there was a joint venture between an Indian and a US national having properties both moveable and immovable in both the countries and disputes having arisen and award given in the United States.	Reasoning
Mr. Ganesh, in spite of his resourcefulness, was unable to give any convincing reply.	Reasoning
There is no merit in the objection of the appellant that the award is not a foreign award and that it is outside the Foreign Awards Act.	Reasoning
That the award is not an arbitral award, submission of Mr. Ganesh was that the arbitration agreement which was entered into on November 17, 1989 stood revoked after the parties arrived at the settlement agreement dated March 20, 1990.	Arguments of Petitioner
Earlier agreement dated October 25, 1989 to refer the disputes to arbitration stood superseded by the agreement dated November 17, 1989.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ganesh read in detail the terms of the settlement agreement to contend that the parties themselves had resolved their disputes and that agreement was to take effect irrespective of the fact whether the arbitrator gave his award in terms thereof or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said arbitrator was to act merely as a rubber stamp after parties had opted for various packages containing their businesses and properties.	Arguments of Petitioner
Submission in brief was that unless there was a dispute or difference, there could be no arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
The arbitrator was not only not required to act judicially after the agreement dated November 17, 1989 had been arrived at between the parties but, in fact, he was prevented from acting judicially and giving any decision whatsoever affecting the rights of the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was not expected to hear or apply his mind or perform any of the arbitration functions.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such a situation, even though there was in existence an arbitration agreement that stood revoked for one basic and simple reason that at that time there existed no dispute.	Arguments of Petitioner
The agreement was straightaway made into the award.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submissions, Mr. Ganesh referred to a decision of this Court in K.K. Modi v. K.N. Modi and others, 1998(3) SCC 573 to contend that when a person has been authorised to decide a certain dispute between the parties but he has no function to perform as arbitrator, he could not give an award.	Arguments of Petitioner
But in that case, under clause (9) of the Memorandum of Understanding between the parties there were different contentions one contending that the clause constituted arbitration agreement, the other contending to the contrary.	None
This clause (9) was as follows Implementation will be done in consultation with the financial institutions.	None
For all disputes, clarifications etc. in respect of implementation of this agreement, the same shall be referred to the Chairman, IFCI or his nominees whose decisions will be final and binding on both the groups.	None
It was in this context that this Court said that looking at the nature of the functions expected to performed by the Chairman, IFCI, his decision is not arbitration award.	None
This judgment hardly helps Mr. Ganesh in his submissions.	None
In the present case, the parties entered into the settlement during pendency of the arbitration proceedings.	Reasoning
Appellant himself approached the courts in the United States never complaining that it was not an award.	Reasoning
In proceedings under CPLR 7507 and CPLR 7510.	Reasoning
Harendra had even accepted the execution of the settlement agreement and the award made by the arbitrator.	Reasoning
We find that no such plea was taken either in the High Court or in the grounds of appeal to this Court.	Reasoning
Nassau County Court noticed the functions to be performed by the arbitrator in the settlement agreement.	Reasoning
We do not find any merit in the argument of Mr. Ganesh that arbitration agreement stood revoked when the parties during the course of arbitration proceedings entered into a settlement among themselves and yet wanted the arbitrator to give his award in terms thereof.	Reasoning
It is nobodys case that authority of the arbitrator was revoked at any time.	Reasoning
This argument of Mr. Ganesh seems to us to be made in more desperation.	Reasoning
Nassau County Court did not modify the award as such it merely corrected the award so as to conform to the law of the State of New York.	Reasoning
Contention of the appellants that fraud was committed subsistuting schedules in the award which schedules formed part of the settlement agreement referring disputes to arbitration was also a subject matter of challenge in Nassau County Court by the appellants which was rejected.	Reasoning
Section 7 of the Foreign Awards Act details the circumstances under which a foreign award may not be enforced.	None
These are Conditions for enforcement of foreign awards.  	None
(i) A foreign award may not be enforced under this ACt  (a) if the party against whom it is sought to enforce the award proves to the Court dealing with the case that  the parties to the agreement were under the law applicable to them, under some incapacity, or the said agreement is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it, or failing an indication thereon, under the law of the country where the award was made or the party was not given proper notice of the appointment of the arbitrator or of the arbitration proceedings or was otherwise unable to present his case or the award deals with questions not referred or contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the agreement Provided that if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not submitted, that part of the award which contains decisions on matters submitted to arbitration may be enforced or the composition of the arbitral authority or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties or failing such agreement, was not in accordance with the law of the country where the arbitration took place or the award has not yet become binding on the parties or has been set aside or suspended by a competent authority of the country in which, or under the law of which, that award was made or (b) if the Court dealing with the case is satisfied that  the subjectmatter of the difference is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law of India or the enforcement of the award will be contrary to public policy If the court before which a foreign award is sought to be relied upon is satisfied that an application for the settling aside or suspension of the award has been made to a competent authority referred to in subclause (v) of clause (a) of subsection (1), the court may, if it deems proper, adjourn the decision on the enforcements of the award and may also, on the application of the party claiming enforcement of the away, order the other party to furnish suitable security.	Reasoning
Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division rejected the appellants plea regarding fraudulent substitution of the schedules to the award.	Reasoning
It will be seen that a competent court in the State of New York rejected the contention of the appellants that any fraud had been committed.	Reasoning
Therefore, subsection (2) of Section 7 of the Foreign Awards Act would not be applicable.	Reasoning
There are no conditions now exist under subsection (1) of Section 7 of the Foreign Awards Act not to enforce the award on the alleged ground of fraud.	Reasoning
We find no merit in the plea of the appellant that schedules to the award were substituted.	Reasoning
This contention of the appellants must fail.	None
It was then submitted by Mr. Ganesh that it was the case of the respondents themselves that the foreign award had already merged into judgment dated January 8, 1991 of the Nassau County Court of the New York State.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under CPLR 7514, a judgment shall be entered upon the confirmation of an award.	Arguments of Petitioner
CPLR 7514 of the New York Arbitration Law is as under 7514.	None
JUDGMENT ON AN AWARD Entry.	None
A judgment shall be entered upon the confirmation of an award.	Arguments of Petitioner
Judgmentroll.	None
The judgmentroll consists of the original or a copy of the agreement and each written extension of time within which to make an award the statement required by section seventyfive hundred eight 7508 where the award was by confession the award each paper submitted to the court and each order of the court upon an application sections 7510 and 7511 and a copy of the judgment.	None
He said the respondents filed a suit in the Bombay High Court on its original side (Suit No. 3787/96) on the basis of the judgment of Nassau County Court dated 8.1.1991 and that suit is pending of which service was effected on the appellants only in August 1996  	None
A copy of plaint in the suit filed by the respondents was shown to us during the course of hearing.	None
Respondents in that prayed as under That the Honble Court be pleased to order and declare that the said foreign judgment dated 8th January, 1991 delivered by the Supreme Court of Nassau.	None
USA as confirmed by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of New York dated 20th September 1993 is final, conclusive and binding upon the plaintiffs as well as the Defendants herein That this Honble Court be pleased to pass a decree in terms of the said Foreign Judgement dated 8th January, 1991 delivered by the Supreme Court of Nassau, USA as confirmed by the Nassau, USA as confirmed by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of New York dated 20th September, 1993.	None
Thus, the argument was that when respondents have themselves filed suit on the basis of the foreign judgment, they could not have recourse to Foreign Awards Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the foreign judgment in which the award merged which would now hold the field.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this submission reference was made to a decision of this Court in Badat Company v. East India Trading Co. 1964(4)	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 19.	Arguments of Petitioner
This judgment, in our view, is not applicable in the present case.	Reasoning
If read out of context, it may appear to be so applicable but it is not so.	Reasoning
In this case, dispute arose between Badat Co. an Indian firm and East Indian Trading Company, a Private Ltd. Company incorporated under the laws of the State of New York in USA for supply of turmeric by the Indian firm to the foreign company.	None
Parties had agreed to do business on the terms of the American Spice Trade Association.	None
Under the rules of the Association all questions and controversies and all claims arising under the contract shall be submitted to and settled by arbitration.	None
American company invoked the arbitration agreement.	None
It obtained two ex parte awards totalling US 18748.	None
American Company then adopted proceedings in the Supreme Court of the State of New York to have the said awards confirmed and judgment entered thereon.	None
Judgment confirming the awards was pronounced on April 13, 1950.	None
American company thereupon instituted the suit in the Bombay High Court on January 14, 1954.	None
Suit was substantially based on the foreign judgment and in the alternative on the two awards given by a domestic tribunal functioning in New York.	None
Indian firm raised number of pleas in defence.	None
It was submitted that Indian firm was not residing within the limits of the original jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the suit.	None
It was not disputed that the Indian firm on the date of the suit had ceased to reside or carry on business within the limits of the civil jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court.	None
The matter could have rested at that but this Court proceeded to examine the position regarding the enforcement of foreign awards and foreign judgments based upon awards.	None
It referred to the provisions of the Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937 and observed that it was common ground that the provisions of that Act were not applicable to the awards in question.	None
It said that apart from the provisions of that Act, foreign awards and foreign judgments based upon awards were enforceable in India on the same grounds and in the same circumstances on which they were enforceable in England under the common law on grounds of justice, equity and good conscience.	None
This Court then examined the law on the subject in England and said that there was conflict of opinion on a number of points concerning the enforcement of foreign awards and judgments based upon foreign awards.	None
However, certain propositions appear to be clear and these were stated as under One is that where the award is followed by a judgment in a proceeding which is not merely formal but which permits of objections being taken to the validity of the award by the party against whom judgment is sought, the judgment will be enforceable in England.	None
Even in that case, however, the plaintiff will have the right to sue on the original cause of action.	None
The second principle is that even a foreign award will be enforced in England provided it satisfies mutatis mutandis the tests applicable for the enforcement of foreign judgments on the ground that it creates a contractual arbitration.	None
On two matters connected with this there is difference of opinion.	None
One is whether an award which is followed by a judgment can be enforced as an award in England or whether the judgment alone can be enforced.	None
The other is whether an award which is not enforceable in the country in which it was made without obtaining an enforcement order or a judgment can be enforced in England or whether in such a case the only remedy is to sue on the original cause of action.	None
The third principle is that a foreign judgment or a foreign award may be sued upon in England as giving good cause of action provided certain conditions are fulfilled one of which is that it has become final.	None
Bearing in mind these principles this Court again considered whether judgment of the Supreme Court of New York would be enforced against the Indian firm by instituting a suit on the original side of the High Court and said that the judgment furnished an independent cause of action and, therefor, the question would be whether the cause of action furnished by it arose within the limits of the original jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court.	None
The judgment was rendered in New York and, therefore, the cause of action furnished by it arose at that place and not anywhere else.	None
This Court then said that that cause of action was really independent of the cause of action afforded by the contract and, therefore, if advantage was sought to be taken of it, the suit would not lie at Bombay.	None
Finally the Court said (1) that there was a contract between the parties whereunder disputes between them could be referred to arbitration to a tribunal in a foreign country (2) that the award is in accordance with the terms of the agreements (3) that the award is valid according to the law governing arbitration proceedings obtaining in the country where the award was made (4) that it was final according to the law of that country and (5) that it was a subsisting award at the date of suit.	None
Then the court observed as follows A view has been expressed in some English case that an award must also be enforceable in the country in which it was made before a suit can be brought in England on its basis.	None
But upon the view we are taking it is not necessary to brought by a plaintiff on the basis of an award it is not necessary for him to prove that the amount claimed was actually payable to him in respect of the dispute nor is it open to the defendants to challenge the validity of such an award on grounds like those which are available in India under S. 30 of the Arbitration Act.	None
A very limited challenge to the claim based on the award is permissible to the defendants and that is one of the reasons why it is important to ascertain whether the award has in fact attained finality in the country in which it was made.	None
We will assume that the plaintiffs have satisfactorily established the first three of the five conditions which we have set out above.	None
The question then is whether the fourth and the fifth conditions have been satisfied.	None
The Court then considered the requirements of the laws of New York State for giving an award finality and after examining various provisions said that from all these provisions it would be abundantly clear that the award has no finality till the entire procedure is gone through and that the award as such can never be enforced.	None
What is enforceable is the judgment.	None
It then added No doubt, as a result of the judgment the decision of the arbitrators became unchallengable in the New York State and for all practical purposes in INdia as well but in the process the award made by them has given way to the judgment of the Supreme Court of New York.	None
It is this judgment which can now furnish a cause of action to the plaintiffs and not the awards.	None
This Court then finally held No doubt, an award can furnish a fresh cause of action.	None
But the award must be final.	None
If the law of the country in which it was made gives finality to judgment based upon an award and not to the award itself, the award can furnish no cause of action for a suit in India.	None
In these circumstances, we hold that though the High Court of Bombay has jurisdiction to enforce a final award made in a foreign country in pursuance of a submission made within the limits of its original jurisdiction, the awards in question being not final, cannot furnish a valid cause of action for the suit.	None
Upon this view we allow the appeal and dismiss the suit with costs throughout.	None
The judgment of this Court in Badat Co. is based on the English Common Law.	Reasoning
Provisions of the Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937 were held to be inapplicable to the facts of the case.	Reasoning
Here we are concerning with the provisions of Foreign Awards Act which give effect to the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral)	Reasoning
Awards held at New York on June 10, 1958 to which India was a party.	Reasoning
To enforce a foreign award, what we have to see is if it is a foreign award within the meaning of Section 2 of the Foreign Awards Act and conditions as prescribed by Section 7 for its enforcement exist.	Reasoning
Under Section 4 of this Act, a foreign award shall, subject to the provisions of the Act, be enforceable in India as if it were an award made on a matter referred to arbitration in India.	Reasoning
The Court has to apply the provisions of the Foreign Awards Act to enforce a foreign award within the meaning of Section 2 of the said Act.	Reasoning
It would not be relevant to consider if the said Act.	Reasoning
It would not be relevant to consider if the foreign award has attained finality in the country where it was made.	Reasoning
Further, if a judgment has been obtained on the basis of the award in the country of its origin, the person in whose favour the judgment is made may also be entitled to file suit in this country based on that judgment if it satisfies the criteria laid by law in this country.	Reasoning
That may give that person an alternative mode to enforce the award but that would not mean that the provision of Foreign Award Act can be given a go by.	Reasoning
We, therefore, find no force in the submission of Mr. Ganesh that once the award attained finality in the Supreme Court of New York, proceedings to enforce foreign award would not be maintainable and that only suit could be filed on the foreign judgment, being the judgment given by the Supreme Court of New York.	Reasoning
In Renusagars case, this Court said Moreover, an examination of the relevant provisions of this Act (foreign Awards Act) and the Arbitration Act, 1940 will show that the schemes of the two Acts are not identical and as will be pointed out at the appropriate stage there are various differences which have a material bearing on the question under consideration and as such decisions on similar or analogous provisions contained in the Arbitration Act may not help in deciding the issue arising under the Foreign Awards Act because just as the Arbitration Act, 1940 is a consolidating enactment governing all domestic awards the Foreign Awards ACt constitutes a complete code by itself providing for all possible contingencies in relation to foreign awards made pursuant to agreements to which Article II of the Conviction applies.	None
Thus, as held in Renusagars case, 1984(4) SCC 679 Foreign Awards Act is a complete Code in itself providing for all the possible contingencies in relation to foreign awards.	Reasoning
Once it is held that an award is a foreign award, the provisions of the foreign Awards Act would apply and where the conditions for enforcement of such an award exist as mentioned in Section 7 of this Act, the Court shall order the award to be filed and shall proceed to pronounce judgment granting award and upon the judgment so pronounced, decree shall follow.	Reasoning
It is not material for the purpose of enforcement of a foreign award under the Foreign Awards Act that in any other country than India, a judgment has already been passed by a Court of competent jurisdiction in terms of that award.	Reasoning
A party may have other remedy for filing a suit passed on a foreign judgment but that will not oust jurisdiction of the Court to enforce a foreign award under the Foreign Awards Act.	Reasoning
Provisions as contained in Sections 13 and 14 of the Code of Civil Procedure (for short, the Code) would apply when a suit is brought on a foreign award.	Reasoning
Under Section 44A of the Code, there is a provision for execution of decrees passed by Courts in reciprocating territory.	Reasoning
Explanation 1 to this section defines reciprocating territory to mean any country or territory outside India which the Central Government may, by notification, in the Official Gazette, declare to be a reciprocating territory for the purposes of this section.	Reasoning
Reciprocating territory specified in Section 44A of the Code may not be same as that specified in clause (b) of Section 2 of the Foreign Awards Act.	Reasoning
We are not called upon to decide in the present proceedings what is the effect of the judgment given on the award in question in the United States and how the High Court would proceed in the matter when a suit has been filed on the basis of the judgment.	Reasoning
The argument that the foreign award has merged in the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of New York has, therefore, to be rejected.	Reasoning
Main stress of Mr. Ganesh has been on the plea that the award is bad for noncompliance with the provisions of Chapter XXC of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short, the II Act) Chapter XXC confers on the Central Government (through Incometax Department) preamptive right to purchase an immovable property for the amount of apparent consideration, where the Appropriate Authority (constituted under the II Act) finds that such apparent consideration is 15 or more below the fair market value of the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Chapter XXC gives the Incometax Department statutory right of purchase of immovable property in respect of which the parties have entered into an agreement for transfer within the meaning of Section 269 UA(a) of the IT Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 269 UC requires that if an agreement for transfer has been entered into, the parties must thereupon reduce it to writing and file the requisite statement in the prescribed form with the Appropriate Authority, thereby enabling the Appropriate Authority to consider the transaction and then to decide whether or not to exercise its statutory power of compulsory purchase.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 48 L (2) of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 lays down that the statement under Section 269UC must be furnished within 15 days from the date of the entering into the agreement for transfer.	Arguments of Petitioner
Failure to comply with this statutory requirement attracts criminal sanction under Section 276 AB.	Arguments of Petitioner
The term transfer has been given a wide meaning under Section 269 UA (f).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the purpose behind the insertion of these provisions is to ensure that each and every transaction concerning transfer of immovable property (which terms are very widely defined in Section 269 UA(f) and Section 269 UA(d) of the IT Act) comes under the scrutiny of the Appropriate Authority as only then can there be a check on proliferation of unaccounted money.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is stated that this Chapter was introduced in order to tackle the extremely grave problem of rampant tax evasion and generation of black money which is then utilised for acquisition of immovable properties at prices which are shown to be far below their real market value.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mere fact that the documents of conveyance exchange lease are to be executed subsequently in pursuance of the said agreement for transfer is of no relevance or consequence at all.	Reasoning
In fact, such documents of conveyance can be executed only if and after the requisite no objection certificate 9NOC) under the provisions of Chapter XXC is issued.	Reasoning
The scheme of Chapter XXC is that once an agreement for transfer has been entered into, the parties have to mandatorily comply with the requirements of Chapter XXC and are prohibited from effecting transfer of the property without first complying with the provisions of Chapter XXC, that is to say, filing the Section 269 UC statement within the specified time and obtain the requisite NOC from the Appropriate Authority.	Reasoning
It was submitted that the only situation in which Chapter XXC does not apply is where the transfer of property takes place without such an agreement ever having been reached and without the volition of the owner, such as, for example, when the property is sold by auction under a Courts order.	Reasoning
Conversely, whenever there is an agreement for transfer as defined under Chapter XXC, which has been entered into between the parties, Chapter XXC would be applicable in all force.	Reasoning
As to what was the background under which Chapter XXC came to be incorporated under the IT Act, Mr. Ganesh referred to a decision of this Court in C.B. Gautam v. Union of India and others, 1993(199) ITR 530 where this Court noticed the arguments of the Union of India as the main reason behind the introduction of this Chapter in the Incometax Act was the desire to curb large scale evasion of incometax and to counter to other modes of an evasion adopted by various assessees to deprive the Government of its legitimate tax dues.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was felt that a lot of tax evasion was involved in transfers of immovable properties in urban areas.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference is made in the affidavit to the recommendations of the Direct Taxes Inquiry Committee chaired by the Honble Mr. Justice Wanchoo, retired Chief Justice of India and known as the Wanchoo Committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this interim report in 1970, the Wanchoo Committee took the view that understatement of prices in the sale deeds of the immovable properties was a widespread method of tax evasion and recommended, by way of a drastic remedy, that the Government should empower.	Arguments of Petitioner
Itself to acquire the property where the consideration was found to be understated in the sale deeds.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was in pursuance of this recommendation that the provisions of Chapter XXA were introduced in the Incometax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the provisions of that Chapter were found inadequate for dealing with the evil of under valuation of immovable properties in sale deeds and agreements to sell with a view to evade tax and certain difficulties emerged in the effective enforcement of the provisions of Chapter XXA.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was in these circumstances that Chapter XXC was introduced in the Incometax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be mentioned here that the provisions of Chapter XXA ceased to operate in respect of transfers of immovable property made after September 30, 1986, and as from October 1, 1996, the provisions of Chapter XXC came into force.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ganesh submitted that the settlement agreement dated March 20, 1990 attracted the provisions of Chapter XXC of the Income Tax Act and, thus, it mandatorily required compliance with the provisions of that chapter.	Arguments of Petitioner
The award was at best only a consent award which stood on no better footing than or on the same footing as a consent decree.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said in view of the decision of this Court that a consent decree is nothing but a private agreement between the parties and that the seal of the Court which is added thereto does not in any manner change its character or effect in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Baldevdas Shivlal and another v. Filmistan Distributors (India) Pvt. Ltd. and others, AIR 1970 SC 406 , this Court was considering whether a consent decree operates as res judicata.	Reasoning
It said that consent decree does snot operate as res judicata as it is merely the record of a contract between the parties to a suit to which is superadded the seal of the court and that a matter in contest in a suit may operate as res judicata only if there is an adjudication by the court.	Reasoning
The Court said that the terms of Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure left no scope for a contrary view.	Reasoning
On this, Mr. Ganesh based an argument that award was nothing but a contract which contained transfer of interest, immoveable property in India by Harendra and Mukesh and, thus, fall within the scope of Chapter XXC of the IT Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Ruby Sales and Services (P) Ltd. and another v. State of Maharashtra and others, 1994(1) SCC 531, question before this Court was whether a consent decree whereunder the title of immovable property is conveyed expressly falls under the definition of conveyance under Section 2(g) or instrument under Section 2(1) of the Act or such consent decree falls outside the ambit and scope of the definition of conveyance or instrument under the Act.	None
This Court upheld the view of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court that having regard to the recital in the consent decree itself, the consent decree on its true interpretation, is a conveyance itself and is covered by the definition of conveyance under the Stamp Act and at any rate the consent decree fulfils all the requirements of transfer under the consent decree would be liable to stamp duty under the Act.	None
This Court noticed that the consent decree depends on the terms thereof.	None
Merely because an agreement is put in the shape of a consent decree it does not change the contents of the document.	None
It remains an agreement and it is subject to all rights and liabilities which any agreement may suffer.	None
Having a stamp of court affixed will not change the nature of the document.	None
A compromise decree does not stand on a higher footing than the agreement which preceded it.	None
A consent decree is a mere creature of the agreement on which it is founded and is liable to be set aside on any of the grounds which will invalidate the agreement.	None
Further submission of Mr. Ganesh was that an award is also an agreement for transfer within the meaning of Chapter XXC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The award declares the right of Mukesh to immovable properties comprised in the packages selected by him and also similarly declare the rights of Harendra in respect of immovable properties including in the packages allotted to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both these sets of packages including a large number of immovable properties located in and outside Mumbai in India and also in the United States.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, thus, submitted that the arbitral award which declares the rights of the parties in respect of immovable properties was compulsorily required to be registered under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908 and if the award was not registered, the Court cannot look at such an award or pass a decree in terms thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was made to a decision of this Court in Lachhman Dass v. Ram Lal and another, 1989(3) SCC 99.	Arguments of Petitioner
40.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, thus, submitted that since the award in the present case was not registered, the impugned judgment and decree passed which are in terms of the said unregistered award are to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
Judgment of this Court in Tehmi Sidhwa and others v. Shiv Banerjee and Sons Pvt. Ltd., 1974(2) SCC 574 was sought to be distinguished.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 269 UO of Chapter XXC prescribes registration of a transfer unless the requisite NOC obtained.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Lachhman Dass v. Ram Lal and another, 1989(3) SCC 99, there was dispute between the brothers respecting certain piece of land which stood in the name of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Claim of the respondent was that it was Benami in the name of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
They set an arbitration who gave his award and then filed the same in the Court for making that rule of the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of the objections raised by the appellant was that the award was bad and unenforceable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was not properly stamped nor it was registered one and as such could not be made rule of the court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The award which was under the Arbitration ACt, 1940 said that half ownership of the disputed land was now be owned by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Then the award gave certain directions.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court said that the award affected immovable property of the value of over Rs. 100/ and as such required to be registered under the Registration Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Mrs. Tehmi P. Sidhwa and others v. Shib Banerjee and Sons Pvt. Ltd. and another, 1974(2) SCC 574, the award under the Arbitration Act, 1940 directed partition of immovable property of the value of more than Rs. 1,00,000/.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question was if it requires registration under Section 17(1)(b) of the Registration Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court after (sic) the award said that if the award related to partition of immovable property of the value exceeding Rs. 100/, it would require registration but then it is to be seen if the award operated to create rights in immovable property or whether it merely created a right to obtain another document which would when executed create any such right.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the award merely created a right to obtain another document, it would fall under Section 17(2)(v) and not under Section 17(1)(b) of the Registration and would not require registration.	Arguments of Petitioner
41.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, it was submitted that if what the High Court in the impugned judgment says is correct, it would become extremely easy to bypass the provisions of Chapter XXC thereby effectively reducing it to a dead letter as it would always be possible for parties first to enter into an agreement and then to get an arbitral award in terms of such an agreement within or outside India and then claim that the provisions of Chapter XXC are not attracted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ganesh said that if this interpretation was to be accepted, Chapter XXC would become completely unworkable and meaningless and its underlying public purpose and policy would be totally frustrated.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think that submissions made by Mr. Ganesh on Chapter XXC of IT Act have any sound basis.	Reasoning
Settlement agreement dated March 20, 1990 is not a mere agreement for transfer.	Reasoning
As noted above, parties had vast businesses and properties both in India and in the USA.	Reasoning
Settlement agreement was between (1) Harendra Mehta, his wife Amita Mehta and he himself as Karta of Harendra Mehta HUF (2) Mukesh Mehta, his wife Daksha Mehta and he himself as Karta of Mukesh Mehta HUF (3) Mettaco Enterprises Trust and (4) A.D. Developments Ltd., a New York Corporation having its principal office at New York.	Reasoning
The settlement agreement runs into 57 long pages.	Reasoning
It is a complex agreement.	Reasoning
It also mentioned litigation between parties pending in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Nassau County Court.	Reasoning
After the parties have got their respective packages of the properties and businesses both in India and in the United States the award required the parties to execute transfer and closing documents.	Reasoning
In this respect, clause 5 of the settlement agreement would be relevant and is as under Further, at the closing, the parties will execute transfer and closing documents to be mutually agreed to by the parties attorneys cannot agree on documents, the firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meaghr Flom or if they refuse the firm of Simpson, Thacher Bartlett shall choose the appropriate transfer and closing documents and the choice made by this firm shall be binding upto	None
the parties of this agreement and the cost of any consultation or assistance in preparation of the Transfer and closing documents shall be shared equally between the parties.	None
It is specifically understood that the transfer and closing documents referred to herein are the United States Businesses and Properties Transfer and closing documents.	None
The parties have already agreed that the opinion of D.M. Harish Company with respect to the transfer and closing documents of Indian Businesses and properties will be final and binding on the parties.	None
This clause also provided as to how the documents would be executed if any party refuses to execute the aforesaid transfer and closing documents.	None
Then there are various terms regarding continuance of their obligations under the businesses and properties even though there is separation and division of assets between two different groups.	None
Settlement agreement also stipulates certain rights of one party with respect to the assets falling to the share of the other.	None
All these clauses are not to be read in isolation and they form part of one composite agreement.	None
It is not necessary to detail various clauses of the settlement agreement.	None
It will, however, be interesting to note some part of the proceedings under CPLR 7507 before Judge Ralph Diamond on March 20, 1990 Mr. Soiacca represented Harendra while Mr. Ravi Khanna represented Mukesh.	None
Anita Mehta appeared for herself and as attorney to her husband Harendra Mehta THE COURT	None
It is my understanding that the agreement as well as the plan that has been selected will all be included as part of the arbitrators award.	None
MR. SCIACCA Correct MR.	None
KHANNA Correct LALITA MEHTA (Arbitrator)	None
It is the further understanding of the arbitrator that wo plans of settlement have been, pursuant to said agreement, proposed by Harendra and presented to Mukesh for acceptance of one of the plans.	None
I now address Mukesh Mehta and ask of he has had an opportunity to review the plan and make a selection.	None
MUKESH MEHTA	None
Yes, I have selected the India Plan which is B combined with, I believe, A1, which is the second half of the B Plan.	None
The B plan is the Indian Package which enumerates the various assets including Mettaco Engineering, Mettaco Cold Rolling Private Limited, Mettaco Alloys Private Limited, Mettaco Rolling Industries, Mettaco Enterprises Trust, Daksh Holding and Trading Private Limited, Amish Holding and Trading Private Limited, Shaanamish Holding and Trading Private Limited, H.N. Associates, Amish Associates, D.M. Associates, an apartment in Urvachi Building.	None
LALIT MEHTA (Arbitrator) That is on Nepeancy Road in Bombay.	None
That is the Petit Hall Apartment.	None
MR. SCIACCA Dont read it.	None
We will sign it.	None
MR.	None
KHANNA The Indian Plan B is three pages.	None
It is in conjunction with another plan.	None
MUKESH MEHTA I have to take A1 with B. MR.	None
KHANNA That is two pages.	None
MUKESH MEHTA Plan B along with Plan A1.	None
That is how the pages are prepared.	None
MR.	None
KHANNA Thats it.	None
THE COURT Is there any problem ?	None
My understanding is there are two plans.	None
Each plan has two parts.	None
And the two parts you are talking about is part of that one plan.	None
MR.	None
KHANNA That is how the agreement is made out.	None
Anyone picking the India Plan will pick out Plan A1.	None
LALIT MENTA (Arbitrator)	None
There is no objection.	None
MR. SCIACCA That is right.	None
LALITA MEHTA (Arbitrator)	None
Therefore, that plan is what number ?	None
Let the lawyer see it.	None
MR. SCIACCA Plan A and Plan B1.	None
Let Mukesh Mehta singh A1 and Plan B. (Mukesh Mehts signed Agreement.)	None
LALAIT MEHTA (Arbitrator)	None
May I request that each side check each and every page.	None
MUKESH MEHTA Should we initial each page.	None
LALIT MEHTA (Arbitrator)	None
Yes.	None
(Each page initialed.)	None
THE COURT May I suggest the following when the arbitrators award is complete its going to include a number of exhibits.	None
Exhibit A will be the agreement itself.	None
Exhibit B will be the plan selected by Mukesh and Daksha.	None
Letts have the reporter so mark it so there will be no question as to what we are referring to.	None
(Settlement Agreement marked as Exhibit A for identification.	None
Plan B and Plan A1 marked as Exhibit B for identification.)	None
MR. SCIACCA Just to be clear, the plan that Mukesh has chosen is Exhibit B to this stipulation and arbitration proceeding.	None
Plan B which is the Indian Package and Plan A1 which is the United States note.	None
MR.	None
KHANNA Plan B is 3 pages and A1 is two pages.	None
Therefore, Exhibit B is 5 pages in all.	None
Each of which have been either initialed or signed by Mukesh.	None
MR. SCIACCA Attorneys for both side have initialed exhibit B immediately beneath the Exhibit mark.	None
THE COURT Regarding Exhibit C, which is being made a part of the arbitrator award, that is regarding Harendra Mehta which properties will be going to Harendra or Plan A, the united States package, and B1, the united States package, and B1, the Indian note, which we are collectively marking at this proceeding as Exhibit C. The United States Package is four pages and the Indian Note is four pages.	None
there is a total of eight pages in Exhibit C. (Plan A and Plan B1, the Indian Note, marked as Exhibit C for Identification).	None
MR.	None
KHANNA Each of these pages have been initialed by Amita Mehta and the attorneys immediately below the Exhibit mark.	None
THE COURT I would also like the reporter to mark as Exhibit D, the Power of Attorney, going from Harendra to Amita.	None
(Power of Attorney marked as Exhibit D for identification.)	None
THE COURT Regarding transfer documents, it is my understanding and the arbitrators understanding, that an agreement has been made regarding these transfer documents.	None
MR. SCIACCA Correct, that is provided for in a transfer agreement.	None
THE COURT according to the original submission, the arbitrator had two fold function.	None
One was to make the award.	None
And two was to implement that award.	None
Again a mere look at the agreement shows that it is not an agreement for transfer as understood in clause (a) of Section 269 UA of Chapter XXC of the IT Act.	None
The settlement agreement also does not stipulate exchange of any immoveable property.	Reasoning
It rather divides equally businesses and properties between Harendra and Mukesh.	Reasoning
Exchange has been defined under Section 118 of the Transfer of Property Act where two persons mutually transfer of Property Act where two persons mutually transfer the ownership of one thing for ownership of another.	Reasoning
When we consider exchange of immovable property falling within the definition of exchange in Section 118 both the properties would situated in India.	Reasoning
Agreement for transfer refers to immovable property falling within the definition of exchange in Section 118 both the properties would situated in India.	Reasoning
Agreement for transfer refers to immovable property which is defined in clause (d) of Section 269UA.	Reasoning
It is difficult to appreciate the arguments of Mr. Ganesh as to how in the present case, there is transfer of any immovable property under the settlement agreement.	Reasoning
It appears to us that the bone of contention is a flat in Urvashi building in Mumbai which formed part of BA1 of Mukesh.	Reasoning
It was not disputed before us that for this the appellants did execute a gift deed in favour of the respondents on advice received but n steps were taken to compel the transaction as, it appears, relations soured.	Reasoning
This would also show that the settlement agreement on the award did not require filing of any declaration under Chapter XXC of the IT Act.	Reasoning
Moreover, in our view in the case of a foreign award, provisions of Chapter XXC of the IT Act are not attracted.	Reasoning
It was said that under Chapter XXC a net has been thrown wide to bring within its purview all sorts of immovable properties but that net is not wide enough to cover foreign award covering businesses and properties both in India and in a foreign country.	Reasoning
Apprehension of Mr. Ganesh that if we give this interpretation a method can be found by the parties to escape the rigour of Chapter XXC knocking at the very provision of law which strikes at the root of blackmoney rampant in the sale and purchase of immovable property.	Reasoning
If that is so, legislature can always step in to block the gap if it finds there is any escapement of revenue.	Reasoning
We are also of the view that a foreign award under the Foreign Awards Act does not require registeration under the Registration Act.	Reasoning
A decree or order of a court does not require registration under clause (b) of subsection (1) of Section 17 of the Registration Act.	Reasoning
This is the effect of clause (vi) of Section 2 of Section 17.	Reasoning
Earlier under this clause (vi) before its amendment in 1929 even an award did not require registration.	Reasoning
However, after omission of the words and any award an award creating or declaring right or interest in immovable property of the value of Rs. 100 would require registration.	Reasoning
But then that award would be an award under the Arbitration Act, 1940 and certainly not an foreign award.	None
Let us examine this argument of Mr. Ganesh that foreign award required registration from another angle.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said that the foreign award has already merged in the foreign judgment on the basis of which Mukesh has brought suit in the Bombay High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
A foreign judgment does not require registration as the process of suit having been decreed on that basis will have to be gone through.	None
When a decree is passed by the Court, it does not require registration in view of clause (vi) of subsection 2 of Section 17 of the Registration Act.	Reasoning
A decree or order of a court affecting the rights mentioned in Section 17(1)(b) and (c) would not require registration.	Reasoning
It would, however, require registration where the decree or order on the basis of compromise affects the immovable property other than that which is the subject matter of the suit or proceeding.	Reasoning
Even a decree passed by the foreign court execution of which is sought under Section 44A of the Code of Civil Procedure would not require registration.	Reasoning
That being the position, we are of the view that foreign award under the provisions of the Foreign Awards Act does not require registration under the Registration Act.	Reasoning
In any case, in the present case the award creates a right to obtain transfer and closing documents which as regards Indian properties and businesses are yet to be executed by D.M. Harish Co., Chartered Accountants.	Reasoning
Decision of this Court in Mrs. Tehmi P. Sidhwa case, 1974(2) SCC 579 as rightly pointed by Mr. Dholakia, learned counsel appearing for the respondents, would be fully applicable and the argument that the award required registration has to be rejected on this ground as well.	Reasoning
45.	Arguments of Petitioner
After having examined all the contentions raised by the appellants, we find no ground to interfere in the impugned judgment of the High Court.	Decision
Appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.	Decision
