 Kapur, J.1.	None
The appellant is a Bank registered under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912 (Act II of 1912) and is deemed to be registered under the Bihar and Orissa Cooperative Societies Act.	Facts
1935 (Bihar Act VI of 1935) which in Bihar has replaced the Cooperative Societies Act of 1912.	Facts
It was carrying on banking business on the State o Bihar.	Facts
One of the objects of the Bank is to carry on general business of banking not repugnant to the provisions of the Bihar Act and rules framed thereunder for the time being in force (ByeLaw 3(a) vi).	Facts
In the calendar years 1945, 1946 and 1947, the appellant Bank received by way of interest on deposits with the Imperial Bank of India the sums of Rs. 7,192, Rs. 20,250 and Rs. 22,600 respectively.	Facts
It is these sums which are the subject matter of dispute in these three appeals which relate to the respective assessment years 194647, 194748 and 194849.	Facts
These sums were not assessed when assessment was made under S. 23(3) of the Incometax Act, but subsequently under S. 34 they were assessed as being income under the head other sources.	None
This order was upheld by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
A case was then stated to the High Court under S. 66(1) of the Act, but was decided against the appellant.	Facts
The appellant brought three appeals in this Court in regard to the three assessment years.	Facts
In each one of them the respondent is the Commissioner of Incometax, Bihar and Orissa.	Facts
As the appeals involve a common question of law they were consolidated and can conveniently be disposed of by one judgment.2.	Facts
In its return the appellant showed these various sums as other sources, but nothing turns on the manner in which the appellant chose to show this income in its return.	Facts
The Incometax Officer, however, assessed the interest for these three years under S. 12 of the Income Tax Act, as income from other sources.	Facts
The appellant took an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner where it was contended that as the business of the appellant Bank consisted of lending money and the deposits had been made not for the purpose of investment but for that business and thereby fulfilling the purpose for which the Cooperative Bank was constituted these various sums of interest were not subject to incometax because of the Notification issued by the Central Government under S. 60 of the Income Tax Act.	Facts
The relevant portion of that Notification C.B.R. Notification No. 35 dated October 20. 1934, and No. 33 dated August 18, 1945. was The following classes of income shall be exempt from the tax payable under the said Act but shall be taken into account in determining the total income of an assessee for the purpose of the said Act 2.	Facts
The profits of any Cooperative Society other than the Sanikatta Salt Owners Society in the Bombay Presidency for the time being registered under the Cooperative Society Act, 1912 (Act II of 1912), the Bombay Act VII of 1925), or the Madras Cooperative Societies Act, 1932 (Madras Act VI of 1932), or the dividends or other payments received by the members of any such Society out of such profits.	Facts
Explanation For this purpose the profits of a Cooperative Society shall not be deemed to include any income, profits or gains from (1) Investment in (a) securities of the nature referred to in S. 8 of the Indian Income Tax Act or (b) property of the nature referred to in S. 9 of that Act (2) dividends, or(3) the other sources referred to in S.12 of the Indian Income Tax Act.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner, however, repelled the contention of the appellant.	None
He held that the business of the appellant consisted of lending money and selling agricultural and other products to its constituents which could be planned ahead and required no provision for extraordinary claims.	Facts
He remarked that it appeared from the balancesheets that in the accounting year 1945 the Bank invested Rs. 13, 50,000 as fixed deposits, which in the following year was raised to Rs. 15,00,000	Facts
and it was only in the accounting year 1947 that the fixed deposits were realised on maturity with interest.	Facts
He was also of the opinion that the length of the period during which this money was kept looked in this way showed clearly that not the exigencies of pressing necessities, but the motives of investment of surplus fund had actuated the deposits .	Facts
He therefore held that the fixed deposits with the Imperial Bank were held as an investment quite a part from the business of the appellant and the interest from these deposits was not exempt from incometax.	Facts
He further held that the exemption as to the profit of a Cooperative Society extended to its sphere of cooperative activities and therefore interest from investments was no part of the appellants business profits exempt from taxation.	Facts
Against this order an appeal was taken to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal and it was there contended that the Bank did not make the deposits as investments, but in order that cash might be available to the appellant continuously for the carrying on of the purposes of its business, and that the deposits were intimately connected with the business of the appellant and therefore the interest should have been held to be profits arising from the business activities of the Bank, and that the finding that the shortterm deposits in the Imperial Bank were separate from the appellants banking business was erroneous.	Facts
The Incometax Appellate Tribunal, by its order dated April 11, 1955, held (1) That the interest was an income rightly to be included under the head of other sources 2.	Facts
The profits of a Cooperative Society indicates the profit derived from the business which can be truly called the business of the Cooperative Society.	Facts
Investments by the society either in securities or in shares or in bank fixed deposits are made out of surplus funds.	Facts
The interest or dividend derived from such investment cannot be regarded as part of the profits of the business (sic) qua such bank and therefore, it is not exempt from incometax (Vide Hoshiarpur Central Cooperative Bank v. Commissioner of Incometax, 195324 ITR 346, 350 (AIR 1954 Punj 2 at p.	Facts
3.).Against this order a case was stated at the instance of the appellant under S. 66(1) of the Act, and the following two questions of law were referred for the opinion of the High Court 1.	None
Whether, in the facts and circumstances of this case, the receipt of interest on fixed deposits was an income under the head of other sources and2.	None
Whether in the facts and circumstances of this case, the receipt of interest from the fixed deposits was an income not exempt from taxation under the C. B. R. Notification No. 35 dated 20th October, 1934 and No. 33 dated the 18th August, 1945.3.	Facts
In the High Court the appellants contention was that the fixed deposits were made with the Imperial Bank of India not with the idea of making investments, but for the reason that cash should be available to the appellant as and when it was needed for the purposes of its business.	Facts
It was also contended that the deposits were shortterm deposits and that the Bank could not carry on its business without such shortterm deposits.	Facts
In other words, the contention was that making deposits with the Imperial bank was intimately connected with the business activities of the appellant Bank and that the interest received on the deposits was profit attributable to its business activities.	Facts
But the High Court did not accept this contention.	Facts
It held that if the income derived by a Cooperative Society as such, it fell within the exemption, but if it arose out of the business with third parties as in the case of investment of surplus assets, the exemption was inapplicable because the investment of fluid assets was not a part of the business of the Cooperative Bank and the reason for the Notification was to exempt profits accruing to a Cooperative Society from carrying on business of a mutual cooperative society and upon the ground that a man cannot make profit or loss out of himself.4.	Facts
The ground of mutuality was not relied upon before us by the learned SolicitorGeneral who appeared for the respondent.	None
So the sole question for determination is whether the investment by a Cooperative Bank of its assets in fixed deposits in the manner that the appellant Bank had deposited its moneys falls within the terms business and is therefore assessable under S. 10 of the IncomeTax Act, or it is an investment the interest from which would fall under the term other sources and therefore within S. 12 of the Income Tax Act.	Issue
It was contended by the learned SolicitorGeneral that the finding of the Appellate Tribunal as to the nature of these deposits was one of fact.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention is not sustainable.	None
It has not been treated as a finding of fact either by the Appellate Tribunal or by the High Court.	Reasoning
They have both treated it as a question of law and it is on that basis that the reference was made.	Reasoning
The decision of the question depends on what is comprised within the ordinary business of a bank and whether the business of the appellant bank is in any way different.5.	None
Relying upon the decision of the Privy Council in Punjab Cooperative Bank Ltd. v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, Punjab 19408 ITR 635 (AIR 1940 PC 230 ), counsel for the appellant submitted that the business of a bank is one of dealing in money and credit and that laying out moneys in deposit with other banks is just as much a mode of conducting business as lending moneys to borrowers whether members of the society or to other cooperative societies, and is therefore a part of the appellants business.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, where out of moneys in deposit with a bank a portion is put away or laid out in securities or in deposits with another banker, two objects are served (1) the moneys which are not immediately required do not remain idle but earn interest and (2) if and when money is required to meet any demand, the investment i. e.	None
the deposits as well as the securities provide a source from which these requirements can easily be met.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus the credit of the bank remains unimpaired and its moneys continue to earn interest.6.	None
Counsel for the respondent argued that where moneys are so laid out they cannot be termed carrying on business of the bank and therefore any sums coming in from such investments cannot be termed profits arising from business, but they are income from other sources.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this argument reliance was placed by counsel on Commr. of Income Tax, Madras v.	Arguments of Respondent
Madras Central Urban Bank (Ltd.) Mylapore, ILR 52 Mad 640 (AIR 1929 Mad 387) (FB) Madras Provincial Cooperative Bank Ltd., Madras v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras,	Arguments of Respondent
ILR 56 Mad 837 (AIR 1933 Mad 489 ) (FB) Commissioner of Income Tax, Burma v. Bengalee Urban Cooperative Credit Society Ltd., 19432 ITR 121 (AIR 1934 Rang 27) Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras v. Madras Provincial Cooperative Bank Ltd. ILR (1943)	Arguments of Respondent
Mad 390 (AIR 1943 Mad 152 ) 195324 ITR 346 (AIR 1954 Punj 2) Cochin Cottage Industries Cooperative Marketing Society Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax Mysore and c. , 195630 ITR 356 (TravCo).	Arguments of Respondent
But none of these cases supports the argument raised on behalf of the respondent.	None
In the Madras Central Urban Bank case ILR 52 Mad 640 (AIR 1929 Mad 387) (FB), the society was required to invest 40 per cent.	None
of its total liability under call deposits in a liquid or fluid form and society invested it in Government securities which produced interest.	None
It was held that interest from securities was not part of the profits of the business of the society as it was not obliged to invest in such securities.	None
Similarly in the Madras Provincial Cooperative Bank Case ILR 56 Mad 837 (AIR 1933 Mad 489 ) (FB) also the income which was the subject matter of dispute was interest received by the bank from its investments in Government securities and it was held that it was not part of the income derived from its business.	None
The Rangoon case, 19342 ITR 121 (AIR 1934 Rang 27) was also a case relating to income derived from interest on capital invested in Government securities.	None
At page 128 (of ITR) (at p. 30 of AIR), Page C. J. said , and prima facie therefore neither interest from securities nor income derived from property are profits within the meaning of that term as used in the notification It may be that investment of capital in properties or securities is part of the business of an assessee, and in such a case, in my opinion, the net income accruing from such investments would be, and be chargeable as, profits of the business,(As the matter had not been considered from this point of view the case was sent back for doing so).These cases before the amendment of the Notification show that the income which was exempted was profit from business and not income from sources which fell under Ss. 8 and 9 of the Income Tax Act.	None
ILR (1943)	None
Mad 390 (AIR 1943 Mad 152 ) was a case where moneys had been invested in debentures and for reasons similar to the ones given in the cases above mentioned, it was held that interest derived therefrom was not profits of the business.7.	None
Counsel for the respondent relied on a judgment of the Punjab High Court in 195324 ITR 346 (AIR 1954 Punj 2).	None
In that case the Government authorised the Bank to deal in sugar, oil and standard cloth and it made profit therefrom.	None
Those activities were neither its business under the byelaws nor within its objects.	None
The question was whether this profit was exempt from incometax on account of its being profits of a cooperative society and it was held that the decided cases showed that where income was derived by a cooperative society, the profits were within the exemption, but not if the business was of the nature not covered by the objects of the society.	None
This line of reasoning has not formed part of the respondents argument in this Court and the case therefore has no application to the facts of the present case.	None
The decision in 195630 ITR 356 (TravCo) proceeded on the same ground.	None
In that case the profit which was held not to be exempt under the Notification was the apportioned profit of the society from its dealings with nonmembers.8.	None
In the Surat Peoples Cooperative Bank Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Incometax, Ahmedabad, 195833 ITR 396 (AIR 1958 Bom 443 ) the profit arose during the course of banking business out of the sale of Government securities which formed part of the stockintrade and as it was a Cooperative bank the profits made from such sales were held to be exempt from taxation under the Notification.9.	None
In the instant case the cooperative society (the appellant) is a Bank.	None
One of its objects is to carry on the general business of banking.	Reasoning
Like other banks money is its stockintrade or circulating capital and its normal business is to deal in money and credit.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that the business of such a Bank consists only in receiving deposits and lending money to its members or such other societies as are mentioned in the objects and that when it lays out its moneys so that they may be readily available to meet demand of its depositors if and when they arise, it is not a legitimate mode of carrying on of its banking business.	Reasoning
The Privy Council in 19408 ITR 635 (AIR 1940 PC 230 ) where the profits arose from the sale of Government securities pointed out at page 645 (of ITR ) (at p. 236 of AIR), that in the ordinary cases the business of a Bank essentially consists of dealing with money and credit.	None
Depositors put their money in the Bank at a small rate interest and in order to meet their demands if and when they arise the Bank has always to keep sufficient cash or easily realisable securities.	None
That is a normal step in the carrying on of the banking business.	None
In other words that is an act done in what is truly the carrying on or carrying out of a business.	None
It may be added that another mode of conducting business of a Bank is to place its funds in deposit with other banks and that also is to meet demands which may be made on it.	None
It was however argued that in the instant case the moneys had been deposited with the Imperial Bank on long term deposits inasmuch as they were deposited for one year and were renewed from time to time also for a year but as is shown by the accounts these deposits fell due at short intervals and would have been available to the appellant had any need arisen.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Stress was laid on the use of the word surplus both by the tribunal as well as by the High Court and it was also contended before us that in the byelaws under the heading business of the bank it was provided, that the bank could invest surplus funds when not required for the business of the bank in one or more ways specified in S. 19 of the Bihar Act (Cl. 4 III (I) of the Bye Laws).	Arguments of Petitioner
Whether funds invested as provided in S. 19 of the Bihar Act would be surplus or not does not arise for decision in this case, but it has not been shown that the moneys which were in deposit with other banks were surplus within that bye law so as to take it our of banking business.	None
As we have pointed out above, it is a normal mode of carrying on banking business to invest moneys in a manner that they are readily available and that is just as much a part of the mode of conducting a Banks business as receiving deposits or lending moneys or discounting hundies or issuing demand drafts.	None
That is how the circulating capital is employed and that is the normal course of business of a bank.	Reasoning
The moneys laid out in the form of deposits as in the instant case would not cease to be a part of the circulating capital of the appellant nor would they cease to form part of its banking business.	Reasoning
The returns flowing from them would form part of its profits from its business.	Reasoning
In a commercial sense the directors of the company owe it to the bank to make investments which earn them interest instead of letting moneys lie idle.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that the funds of the Bank which were not lent to borrowers but were laid out in the form of deposits in another bank to add to the profit instead of lying idle necessarily ceased to be a part of the stockintrade of the bank, or that the interest arising therefrom did not form part of its business profits.	Reasoning
Under the byelaws one of the objects of the appellant bank is to carry on the general business of banking and therefore subject to the Co operative Societies Act, it has to carry on its business in the manner that ordinary banks do.	Reasoning
It may be added that the various heads under S. 6 of the IncomeTax Act and the provisions of that Act applicable to these various heads are mutually exclusive.	Reasoning
Section 12 is a residuary section and does not come into operation until the preceding heads are excluded Commissioner of Incometax v. Basant Rai Takhat Singh, 19331 ITR 197 at p. 201 (AIR 1933 PC 180 , 182).11.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the High Court was in error in treating interest derived from deposits as not arising from the business of the Bank and therefore not falling within the income exempted under the Notification.	Reasoning
The appeal must therefore be allowed and the judgment and order of the High Court set aside.	Decision
The appellant will have its costs in this Court and in the Court below.12.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
