 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is preferred against the order of the Madras High Court in a reference made to it by the incometax Appellate Tribunal under S. 66 (1) of the Incometax Act, 1922, hereinafter called the Act.2.	None
The facts leading up to the reference and relevant to the present enquiry are as follows.	Facts
The Free Press of India (Madras) Ltd., hereinafter called the Free Press Company, was a private limited company carrying on business as printers and publishers of certain newspapers, namely, Indian Express, Dhinamani and Andhra Prabha, at Madras, Eastern Express and Bharat at Calcutta and Sunday Standard and Morning Standard at Bombay.	Facts
On August 31, 1946, the Free Press Company passed a resolution transferring to the Express Newspapers Limited, a new company formed on or about April 22, 1946, hereinafter called the assesseecompany, the right to print and publish the said newspapers from September 1, 1946, letting out its machinery and assets and authorizing the assesseecompany to collect the book debts and pay off the liabilities of the Free Press Company.	Facts
The assesseecompany accordingly started publishing newspapers from September 1, 1946.	Facts
On October 31, 1946, the Free Press Company resolved at a General Body Meeting to wind up the company voluntarily.	Facts
The liquidator appointed thereunder was directed not to carry on the business of the company.	Facts
On November 1, 1946, the liquidator ascertained the value of the assets over the liabilities taken over by the assesseecompany as per the balancesheet at Rs. 19,36,000  and this amount was credited to the account of the two directors of the Free Press Company in the assessees books.	Facts
The profit of the Free Press Company was worked out to be Rs. 6,08,666/ being the difference between the written down value and the sale price of the machinery.	Facts
That sum was made up of, (i) the difference between the original cost price and the written down price of the machinery Rs. 2,14,090/, (ii) the amount in excess over the original cost price Rs. 3,94,576 .	Facts
The Incometax Officer included the said two items in the total income of the assesseecompany under the following heads, (i) profit under proviso to S. 10 (2)(vii) Rs. 2,14,090/, and (ii) capital gains under S. 12B Rs. 394,576  and assessed each to tax.	Facts
The Incometax Appellate Tribunal upheld the validity of the inclusion of the item under capital gains in the total income of the assessee but decided against the inclusion of the first item.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal referred the following two questions, among others, for the decision of the High Court of Madras under S. 66(1) of the Incometax Act 4.	None
Whether Free Press Company made a business profit of Rs. 2,14,090/ under proviso to Section 10(2)(vii) of the Act?6.	Issue
Whether the capital gain made by the Free Press Company is liable to be assessed in the hands of the Express Company, under Section 26(2) of the Act?The reference was heard by a Division Bench of the High Court, consisting of Rajagopalan and Ramchandra Iyer, JJ., who by their judgment answered the two questions in the negative and against the department.	Facts
The present appeal is preferred against the said judgment of the High Court.3.	Issue
The argument in the appeal proceeded on the basis of the following facts.	Arguments of Petitioner
During the accounting year 194647 the Free Press Company did not do the business of printing and publishing newspapers from September 1, 1946, and thereafter the assesseecompany alone was carrying on the said business.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Free Press Company went into voluntary liquidation on October 31, 1946, and the liquidator, on November 1, 1946, confirmed the transfer of the assets made by the Free Press Company to the assesseecompany.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, on November 1, 1946, the aforesaid machinery was sold yielding a profit of Rs. 6,08,666/ to the Free Press Company being the difference between the written down value and the sale price of the machinery.	Arguments of Petitioner
Broadly stated, the machinery was sold by the Free Press Company during the accounting year after it went into voluntary liquidation.	Arguments of Petitioner
On those facts learned counsel for the Revenue raised before us the following two contentions (1) The first item of Rs. 2,14,090 , representing the surplus over the written down value of the machinery was assessable in accordance with the proviso to S. 10(2) (vii) of the Act and (2) the second item of Rs. 3,94,576 representing the capital gains made by the Free Press Company is assessable in the hands of the assesseecompany, who succeeded to the said business, under S. 26(2) of the Act.4.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondent contended that neither the conditions laid down in S. 10(2)(vii) of the Act nor those laid down in S. 26(2) thereof attracted the said two items of income and, therefore, they were not assessable in the hands of the assesseecompany.5.	Arguments of Respondent
The first question turns upon the relevant provisions of S. 10 of the Act.	None
To have a clear view of the scope of the relevant provisions it will be convenient to read them at once place.	None
Section 10.	None
(1) The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vacation in respect of the profit or gains of any business profession or vocation carried on by him.(2) Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely x x x x x(iv) in respect of insurance against risk of damage or destruction of buildings, machinery, plant, furniture, stocks or stores, used for the purposes of the business, profession or vocation, the amount of any premium paid(v) in respect of current repairs to such buildings, machinery, plant or furniture, the amount paid on account thereof(vii) in respect of any such building, machinery or plant which has been sold or discarded or demolished or destroyed, the amount by which the written down value thereof exceeds the amount for which the building, machinery or plant, as the case may be, is actually sold or its scrap value	None
x x x x xProvided further that where the amount for which any such building, machinery or plant is sold, whether during the continuance of the business or after the cessation thereof, exceeds the written down value so much of the excess as does not exceed the difference between the original cost and the written down value shall be deemed to be profits of the previous year in which the sale took place x	None
x x x x x xWe are concerned with the second proviso to S. 10(2)(vii) of the Act.	None
The substantive clause grants a balancing allowance in respect of the building, machinery or plant which has been sold or discarded or demolished or destroyed.	None
The allowance represents the excess of the written down value over the sale price.	None
Under the proviso, if the sale price exceeds the written down value, but does not exceed the original cost price, the difference between the original cost and the written down value shall be deemed to be profits of the year previous to that in which the sale takes place that is to say, the difference between the price fetched at the sale and the written down value is deemed to be the escaped profits for which the assessee is made liable to tax.	None
As the sale price is higher than the written down value the difference represents the excess depreciation mistakenly granted to the assessee.	None
To illustrate assume that the original cost of a machinery or plant is Rs. 100  and depreciation allowed is Rs.	None
25/ the written down value is Rs. 75.	None
If the machinery is sold for Rs. 100/, it is obvious that depreciation of Rs.	None
25/ was wrongly allowed.	None
If it had not been allowed that amount would have swelled the profits to that extent.	None
When it is found that it was wrongly allowed that profit is brought to charge.	None
The second proviso, therefore, in substance, brings to charge an escaped profit or gain of the business carried on by the assessee.	None
The scope of this proviso cannot be ascertained in vacuum.	None
The conditions for its applicability can be ascertained only in its relation to the other related provisions.	None
Under S.3 of the Act incometax shall be charged for any year in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Act in respect of the total income of the previous year of every assessee under S. 6, one of the heads of taxable income is profits and gains of business, profession or vocation under S.10(1), the tax under that head is payable in respect of profit or gains of any business carried on by the assessee during the accounting year.	None
The main condition which attracts all the other subsection and clauses of the section is that the tax shall be payable by an assessee in respect of the profit or gains of business etc. carried on by him.	None
The crucial words are business carried on by him.	None
If the profit or gains were not earned when the business was being carried on by the assessee during the accounting year, they would fall outside the provision of S. 10(1).	None
For instance, if the machinery sold after the business was closed or when the business was under liquidation, it would not be appropriate to hold that the profit or gains earned by the sale were in respect of the business that was being carried on by the assessee.	None
The second condition that attracts the second proviso is implicit in the adjective such preceding building machinery or plant sold.	None
The adjective such refers back to Cls.	None
(iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) of S.10(2).	None
Under Cl.	None
(iv) an allowance is allowed in regard to any premium paid in respect of insurance against risk of damage or destruction of buildings, machinery, plant etc. used for the purpose of the business, profession or vocation.	None
Under this clause allowance is allowed only in respect of the machinery used for the purpose of the business.	None
Clauses (v), (vi) and (vii) refer to such buildings, machinery, plant etc., that is to say, such buildings, machinery, plant etc. used for the purpose of the business.	None
The result is that the second proviso will only apply to the sale of such machinery which was used for the purpose of the business during the accounting year.	None
It brings in to charge the escaped profits under the guise of superfluous allowances if the machinery sold was used for the business during the accounting year when the business was being carried on.	None
Therefore, to bring the sale proceeds to charge the following conditions shall be fulfilled (1) During the entire previous year or a part of it the business shall have been carried on by the assessee (2) the machinery shall have been used in the business and (3) the machinery shall have been sold when the business was being carried on and not for the purpose of closing it down or winding it up.	None
If these were the conditions for the applicability of the said proviso, the sale of the machinery in the instant case having taken place after the business was closed and during the winding up proceedings, it would fall outside the scope of the said proviso and therefore the first item is not assessable to tax.6.	None
This point directly arose for consideration in Liquidators of Pursa Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, Bihar, (1954)	None
25 ITR 265 (AIR 1954 SC 253 ).	None
There, the assesseecompany carried on the business of growing sugarcane and manufacturing and selling sugar.	None
In the year 1943 it negotiated for the sale of the factory and other assets with the object of winding up the company.	None
It received a firm offer on August 9, 1943, and concluded the agreement of sale on December 7, 1943.	None
Between August 9, 1943, and December 7, 1943, it never used the machinery and plant for the purpose of manufacturing sugar or any other purpose except that of keeping them in trim and running order.	None
In the assessment of the company to incometax for the accounting period from October 1, 1943 to September 30, 1944, the Incometax authorities treated the surplus made by the company on the sale of the buildings, plant and machinery as profits under proviso (2) to S. 10(2) (vii) of the Act.	None
This Court held that the said amount was not taxable.	None
This Court rejected the contention of the Revenue that the said excess was taxable on two grounds, namely,(1) the sale of the machinery and plant was not an operation in furtherance of the business carried on by the company but was a realisation of its assets in the process of gradual winding up of its business which eventually culminated in the voluntary liquidation of the company, (2) even if the sale of the stock of sugar be regarded as carrying on of business by the company and not a realisation of its assets with a view to winding up, the machinery or plant not being used in the accounting year at all and in any event not having had connection with the carrying on of that limited business during the accounting year, S. 10(2)(vii) could have no application to the sale of any such machinery or plant.	None
Learned counsel for the Revenue contends that the main reason for the decision was that the machinery or the plant was not used in the accounting year for the business and that the second reason, namely, that the assets were sold in the process of gradual winding up of the company was only an observation and that the decision was not based upon the said observation.	None
But a careful perusal of the judgment discloses beyond any reasonable doubt that the decision was based upon both the grounds.	None
As in the present case the machinery was sold not for the business but only for closing it during the liquidation proceedings, this decision directly covers the present case.	None
This question again fell to be considered by this Court in Commr. of Incometax, Bombay v. National Syndicate Bombay 19612	None
SCR 229 at p. 238 (AIR 1961 SC 398 at p. 401).	None
There the National Syndicate, a Bombay firm, acquired on January 11, 1945, a tailoring business as a going concern for Rs. 89,321/ which included the consideration paid for sewing machines and a motor lorry.	None
Soon after the purchase the respondent found it difficult to continue the business, and therefore it closed its business in Aug., 1945.	None
Between August 16, 1945, and February 14, 1946, sewing machines and the motor lorry were sold at a loss.	None
The respondent closed its account books on February 28, 1946, showing the two losses and writing them off.	None
For the assessment year 194647, the respondent claimed a deduction under S.10 (2) (vii) of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
The question fell to be considered on a construction of the provisions of S. 10(2) (vii) of the Act.	None
This Court speaking through Hidayatullah, J., held that the loss was a business loss, though the machines and the motor lorry were sold after the business was closed down, as the said machines and lorry were used for the purpose of the business during a part of the accounting year and were sold during the accounting year.	None
This Court after noticing the decision under appeal and that of this Court in 195425 ITR 265 (AIR 1954 SC 253 ) and the amendment introduced in the second Proviso to S. 10(2) (vii) of the Act, observed But it is to be noticed that no such amendment was made in Cl.	None
(vii) to exclude loss over buildings, machined or plant after the closure of the business.	None
It is thus clear that the principles which govern the proviso cannot be used to govern the main clause, because profit or loss arise in different ways in business.	None
The two rulings do not, therefore, apply to the facts here.	None
It is contended that the principle accepted by this decision is in conflict with that laid down in the case of Liquidators of Pursa, Ltd., (1954) 25 ITR 265 (AIR 1954 SC 253 ).	None
It is said that the condition that the sale of the machinery at a loss should have been before the closing of the business is impliedly laid down by Section 10 (1) of the Act which applies equally to Cl.	None
(vii) as well as to the second proviso thereof, and that if the condition need not be fulfilled in the case falling under the substantive part of Cl.	None
(vii) of Section 10 (2) of the Act, it will be incongruous to apply it to a case falling under the second proviso before it was amended.	None
So stated there is some plausibility in the argument.	None
But this Court in express terms made a distinction between the scope of the substantive part of Cl.	None
(vii) and that of the second proviso thereto and expressly distinguished those rulings on the ground that they would not apply to the construction of the substantive part of Cl.	None
(vii).	None
When this Court expressly confined the scope of the decision to the substantive part of Cl.	None
(vii) without disturbing the validity of the decisions governing the second proviso, it is not proper that we should rely upon it in preference to a direct decision on the second proviso to Cl.	None
(vii) of S.10(2) of the Act before it was amended.	None
This Court in K.M.S. Reddy, Commr. of Incometax, Kerala v. West Coast Chemical and Industrial Ltd., 1962 Supp (3) SCR 960 at p. 965 (1962) 46 ITR 135 held that a winding up sale was not trading or doing business.	None
There, chemicals and other raw materials were sold not in the course of ordinary trading but only in realisation sale after the company had been wound up.	None
This Court speaking through Hidayatullah, J., posed the following question The question, therefore, is whether there can be said to be a sale in the carrying on of the business in respect of the chemicals and other raw materials.	None
After referring to the passages in Halsburys Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 20 pp. 115117, wherein it was stated that mere realisation of assets is not trading and that there was distinction between sales forming part of the trading activities and those where the realisation was not an act of trading, the learned Judge observed that the said distinction was a sound one.	None
The learned Judge, on a consideration of other decisions, also accepted as correct the distinction made between a sale of the entire stock as part of trading and the sale of a part of the stocks as a winding up sale.	None
Then the learned Judge applied the principles to the facts of the case and held that it was impossible to infer that the chemicals and raw materials were sold in the ordinary way of business or that the assessee company was carrying on a trading business.	None
This decision again accepts the distinction between a sale held in the ordinary way of business and that held for the purpose of winding up the business and that in the latter case the profits accrued are not trading profits.	None
This case no doubt did not turn upon the provisions of the second proviso to Cl.	None
(vii) of S. 10(2) of the Act, but the principle accepted therein is the basis for the application of S. 10 of the Act and that will apply to all provisions of S. 10 unless an exception is made in a particular provision.	None
For the foregoing reasons we hold that the first item is not liable to tax and the High Court has given the correct answer to the first question submitted to it.7.	None
The second item relates to capital gains.	None
That represents the excess of the price obtained on the sale of the machinery over its original cost price.	None
It is conceded that it does not represent profits and gains of business, but it falls under the heading capital gains.	None
But it is argued that, as the Free Press Company was wound up and, therefore, could not be found, the assessee, who had succeeded to it, would be liable to be assessed for the said capital gains under the proviso to S. 26(2) of the Act.	None
To appreciate the contention some of the relevant provisions of the Act may be read Section 6, Save as otherwise provided by this Act, the following heads of income, profits and gains, shall be chargeable to incometax in the manner hereinafter appearing, namely x x x x(iv)	None
Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation.x x x x(vi)	None
Capital gains.	None
Section 10.(1)	None
The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head profits and gains of business, profession or vocation in respect of the profit or gains of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him.(2) Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely x x x x x x x xSection 12B. (I)	None
The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head Capital gainsin respect of any profits or gains arising from the sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer of a capital asset effected after the 31st day of March, 1956, and such profits and gains shall be deemed to be income of the previous year in which the sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer took place Section 24.(2A)  	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), where the loss sustained is a loss falling under head Capital gains such loss shall not be set off except against any profits and gains falling under that head.(2B) Where an assessee sustains a loss such as is referred to in subsection (2A) and the loss cannot be wholly set off in accordance with the provisions of that subsection, the portion not so set off shall be carried forward to the following year and set off against capital gains for that year, and if it cannot be so set off, the amount thereof not so set off shall be carried forward to the following year and so on, so however that no such loss shall be carried forward for more than eight yearsProvided that where the loss sustained by an assessee, not being a company, in any previous year does not exceed five thousand rupees, it shall not be carried forward.	None
S.26.	None
(2) Where a person carrying on any business, profession or vocation has been succeeded in such capacity by another person, such person and such other person shall, subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of Section 25, each be assessed in respect of his actual share, if any, of the income, profits and gains of the previous yearProvided that, when the person succeeded in the business, profession or vocation cannot be found, the assessement of the profits of the year in which the succession took place up to the date of succession, and for the year preceding that year shall be made on the person succeeding him in like manner and to the same amount as it would have been made on the person succeeded or when the tax in respect of the assessment made for either of such years assessed on the person succeeded cannot be recovered from him, it shall be payable by and recoverable from the person succeeding, and such person shall be entitled to recover from the person succeeded the amount of any tax so paid.	None
A conspectus of the said sections discloses a clearcut scheme.	Reasoning
Though incometax is only one tax levided on the total income, S. 6 enumerates six heads whereunder the income of an assessee falls to be charged.	Reasoning
This Court in United Commercial Bank Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, West Bengal, (1957) 32 ITR 688 ((S) AIR 1957 SC 918 ) laid down that Ss.7 to 12 are mutually exclusive and where an item of income falls specifically under one head it is to be charged under that head and no other.	Reasoning
The expression income, profits and gains in S. 6 is a composite concept which takes in all the six heads of income mentioned therein.	Reasoning
The 4th head is profits and gains of business, profession or vocation and the 6th head is capital gains.	Reasoning
Section 10 taxes the profits and gains of a business, profession or vocation carried on by an assessee it also enumerates the different kinds of allowances that can be made in computing the profits.	Reasoning
Under S.10(1), as we have already pointed out, the necessary condition for the application of the section is that the assessee should have carried on the business for some part of the accounting year.	Reasoning
Section 26(2) indicates the manner of assessment of the income, profits and gains of any business, profession or vocation.	Reasoning
This section does not provide for the assessment of income under any other head.	Reasoning
It only says that if there is a succession to a person carrying on business during in accounting year, the person succeeded and the person succeeding can each of them be assessed in respect of his actual share.	Reasoning
The proviso deals with a case where the person succeeded cannot be found in that event, the assessment of the profits of the year in which the succession took place up to the date of the succession and for the year preceding that year shall be made on the person succeeding him.	Reasoning
If an assessment has already been made in respect of the said years on the person succeeded, it can be recovered from the person succeeding.	Reasoning
But both subs.	Reasoning
(2) and the proviso deal only with income, profits and gains of the business, that is to say, for the assessment made in respect of profit and gains under the 4th head of S. 6.	Reasoning
Now turning to S.12B, it provides for capital gains.	Reasoning
Under that section the tax shall be payable by the assessee under the head capital gains in respect of any profits or gains arising from the sale of a capital asset effected during the prescribed period.	Reasoning
It says further that such profits or gains shall be deemed to be income of the previous year in which the sale etc. took place.	Reasoning
This deeming clause does not lift the capital gains from the 6th head in S. 6 and place it under the 4th head.	Reasoning
It only introduces a limited fiction, namely, that capital gains accrued will be deemed to be income of the previous year in which the sale was effected.	Reasoning
The fiction does not make them the profit or gains of the business.	Reasoning
It is well settled that a legal fiction is limited to the purpose for which it is created and should not be extended beyond its legitimate field.	Reasoning
Subsections (2A) and (2B) of S. 24 provide for the setting off of the loss falling under the head capital gains against any capital gains falling under the same head.	Reasoning
Such loss cannot be set off against an income falling under any different head.	Reasoning
These three sections indicate beyond any doubt that the capital gains are separately computed in accordance with the said provisions and they are not treated as the profits from the business.	Reasoning
The profits and gains of business, and capital gains are two distinct concepts in the Incometax Act the former arises from the activity which is called business and the latter accrues because capital assets are disposed of at a value higher than what they cost the assessee.	Reasoning
They are placed under different heads they are derived from different sources and the income is computed under different methods.	Reasoning
The fact that the capital gains are connected with the capital assets of the business cannot make them the profit of the business.	Reasoning
They are only deemed to be income of the previous year and not the profit or gains arising from the business during that year.8.	Reasoning
If that be the scheme of the Act, the contention of the learned counsel for the Revenue can easily be answered.	Reasoning
He asks that if S. 26(2) deals with only profits and gains of the business, why should the Legislature use the word income therein?	Reasoning
As we have indicated, the expression income, profits and gains is a compendious term to connote the income from the various sources mentioned in S. 6 therefore, the use of such an expression does not efface the distinction between the different heads, but only describes the income from the business.	Reasoning
The expression profits in the proviso makes it clear that the income, profits and gains in subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 26 only refer to the profits under the 4th head in S. 6.	Reasoning
On the other hand, if the interpretation sought to be put upon the expression income in subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 26 by the Revenue is accepted, then the absence of that word in the proviso destroys the argument.	Reasoning
But the more reasonable view is that both the subsection and the proviso deal only with the profits under the 4th head mentioned in S. 6 and, so construed, excludes capital gains.	Reasoning
The argument that subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 26 read with the proviso thereto indicates that the total income of the person succeeded is the criterion for separate assessment under subs.	Reasoning
(2) and for assessment and realisation under the proviso is on the assumption that subs.	Reasoning
(2) and the proviso deals with all the heads mentioned in S. 6 of the Act.	Reasoning
But if, as we have held, the scope of subs (2) of S.26 is only limited to the income from the business, the share under subs.	Reasoning
(2) and the assessment and realisation under the proviso can only relate to the income from the business.	Reasoning
The argument is really begging the question itself.	Reasoning
In the result we agree with the High Court in regard to the answer it has given in respect of the second question.9.	Reasoning
In this view no other question arises for our consideration.10.	Decision
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.11.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
