 ASHOK BHUSHAN, J. These appeals have been filed by the appellant(landlord), questioning the judgment of Allahabad High Court in Small Causes Court Revision filed by the respondents(tenant) challenging the decree of eviction passed by Additional District Judge, Firozabad.	Issue
The issue which has arisen in these appeals pertains to the jurisdiction of Court of Additional district Judge in deciding Small Causes Suit on Reason The facts necessary to be noticed for deciding these appeals are The appellant, the landlord of premises in question filed Judge Small Causes Suit No. 1 of 2008 in the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division), Small Cause Court, Firozabad praying for decree of eviction, rent and damages.	Facts
By order dated 05.04.2010 passed by District Judge, the suit was transferred to the Court of District Judge, Firozabad and was registered as S.C.C. Suit No. 1 of 2010.	Facts
The pecuniary jurisdiction of a Judge, Small Cause Court, which at the time of filing of the suit was Rs.25,000/ was raised from Rs.25,000/ to Rs. 1 lakh w.e.f. 07.12.2005 vide Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015.	Facts
The Additional District Judge to whom the suit was transferred earlier on the ground that pecuniary jurisdiction of the suit is more than Rs.25,000/ i.e. Rs.27,775/, proceeded to decide the suit vide its judgment and order dated 22.10.2016 and the suit for eviction, rent and compensation was decreed.	Facts
Aggrieved against the judgment of Addl.	Facts
District Judge, revision under Section 25 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 was filed by the tenant (respondents to this appeal).	Facts
One of the grounds taken in the revision was that after enactment of Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, the Court of Additional District Judge ceased to have any jurisdiction to try the suit between lessor and lessee of a value upto Rs. 1 lakh.	Facts
The assumption subsequent thereto of the jurisdiction by the Additional District Judge is without jurisdiction.	None
Some other grounds were also taken for challenging the judgment dated 22.10.2016.	None
The High Court vide its impugned judgment dated 07.12.2016 allowed the Small Cause Court revision taking a view that order passed by Additional District Judge was without jurisdiction in view of Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 w.e.f. 07.12.2015, after which date, such case of valuation of Rs.27,775/ could have been decided by Civil Judge (Senior Division) working as Judge Small Causes Court.	Facts
The High Court relied on the earlier judgment of High Court in SCC Revision No. 278 of 2016 Shobhit Nigam Vs. Smt.	Facts
Batulan and another decided on 29.08.2016.	Facts
The High Court remanded back the Revision for a fresh decision by Small Causes Court presided over by a Civil Judge (Senior Division).	Facts
The landlord aggrieved by said judgment has come up in this appeal.	Facts
Shri A.K. Singla, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant contended that High Court committed an error in allowing the Revision.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 w.e.f. 07.12.2015 has only enhanced the jurisdiction for institution of small causes suit, which amendment shall have no effect on the pending cases.	None
In the Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, there was no stipulation that pending cases of having valuation of more than Rs.25,000/ before the Court of District Judge should be transferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that no objection to the pecuniary jurisdiction of Additional District Judge was taken by the respondents before the Additional District Judge, hence by virtue of Section 21 of the Civil Procedure Code, they were estopped from taking any such objection in the Revision.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri S.U. Khan, learned counsel appearing for the respondents refuting the submission of the appellant contends that the Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 w.e.f. 07.12.2015, uses the word ?cognizance?.	Arguments of Respondent
If a suit is cognizable by a Court then the Court has got the jurisdiction not only to receive the plaint but also to decide the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
After the amendment by Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, the Court of Additional District Judge was not only debarred from receiving plaints but was also not competent to decide Small Causes Suit, which has valuation upto Rs. 1 lakh.	Arguments of Respondent
To the view taken by the High Court in Shobhit Nigam?s case (supra), there is a contrary view taken by the High Court in Pankaj Hotel Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Bal Mukund, (2018) 1 ALJ 2017.	Arguments of Respondent
The principles and objections of pecuniary jurisdiction as contemplated in Section 21(2) is not attracted in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
In Shobhit Nigam?s case (supra) High Court had issued a general direction for transferring of Regular Judge Small Causes Court Suits upto valuation of Rs. 1 lakh to the Civil Judge (Senior Division).	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that special leave petition deserves to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
From the above submissions of learned counsel for the parties and the pleadings on record, following are the issues, which arise for consideration in this appeal Whether the Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 is only prospective in nature and confined only to the fresh institution of suits in the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division) w.e.f. 07.12.2015 upto valuation of Rs. 1 lakh and shall not affect the cognizance hearing of pending suits upto the valuation of Rs. 1 lakh pending in the Court of District Judge Additional District Judge?	Issue
(ii) Whether the Court of District Judge Additional District Judge, which Court was vested with the jurisdiction of Small Causes suit of the valuation of more than Rs.25,000/ w.e.f. 08.02.1991 shall cease to have or could have still exercised the pecuniary jurisdiction on the Small Causes Suits of Valuation upto Rs. 1 lakh?	Issue
(iii) Whether respondents (tenants) having not raised any objection regarding jurisdiction of the Court of Additional District Judge where the suit was pending after amendments made by Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, the respondent (tenant) is precluded to question the competence of the Court of Additional District Judge to decide the suit vide his judgment dated 22.10.2016 in view of Section 21 of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 in revision filed under Section 25 of the Provincial Small Causes Court Act?	Issue
Before we proceed to consider the issues, which has arisen for consideration in this appeal, it is useful to refer the relevant statutory provisions relevant for the subject.	None
Two enactments namely (i) The Bengal, Agra, Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 and (ii) The Provincial Small Causes Courts Act, 1887, were passed with regard to constitution, jurisdiction of Civil Courts in the then NorthWestern Provinces both being enforced w.e.f. 01.07.1887.	None
The Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to Civil Courts in Bengal, the NorthWestern Provinces and Assam.	None
Section 3 of the Act provides for Constitution of Civil Courts.	None
Section 4 relates to number of District Judges, Subordinate Judges and Munsifs.	None
Section 17 dealt with continuance of proceeding of Courts ceasing to have jurisdiction.	None
Section 18 dealt with extent of original jurisdiction of District or Subordinate Judge (for the State of Uttar Pradesh, the word ?	None
Subordinate?	None
was substituted with the word ?	None
Civil?).	None
Section 19 dealt with extent of jurisdiction of Munsif.	None
Section 19 as applicable in the State of Uttar Pradesh was substituted by U.P. Act No. 17 of 1991 was to the following effect ?	None
19(1)	None
Save as aforesaid, and subject to the provisions of subsection(2), the jurisdiction of a Munsif extends to all like suits of which the value does not exceed ten thousand rupees.	None
(2) The High Court may direct by notification in the official Gazette, with respect to any munsif named therein, that his jurisdiction shall exceed to all like suits of such value not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees as may be specified in the notification.?	None
Section 25 deals with power to invest Subordinate Judges and Munsifs with Small Cause Court Jurisdiction.	None
Section 25 of the Act as applicable in the State of Uttar Pradesh is as follows  ?	None
25.1	None
The High Court may by notification in the official Gazette, confer within such local limits as it thinks fit, upon any Civil Judge or Munsif, the jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 for the trial of suits cognizable by such Courts up to such value not exceeding five thousand rupees as it thinks fit, and may withdraw any jurisdiction so conferred Provided that in relation to suits of the nature referred to in the proviso to subsection (2) of Section 15 of the said Act, the reference in this subsection to five thousand rupees shall be construed as reference to twenty five thousand rupees.	None
(2) The High Court may, by notification in the Official Gazette, confer upon any District Judge or Additional District Judge the jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, for the trial of all suits(irrespective of their value), by the lessor for the eviction of a lessee from a building after the determination of his lease, or for the recovery from him of rent in respect of the period of occupation thereof during the continuance of the lease or of compensation for the use and occupation thereof during the continuance of the lease or of compensation for the use and occupation thereof after such determination of lease, and may withdraw any jurisdiction so conferred.	None
Explanation For the purposes of this sub section, the expression building? has the same meaning as in Article (4) in the Second Schedule of the said Act.	None
(3)x x x (4) Where the jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes is conferred upon any District Judge of Additional District Judge by notification under section, then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 15 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, all suits referred to in subsection (2) shall be cognizable by Court of Small Causes.?	None
The Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to courts of small causes established beyond the Presidency town.	None
AS the name suggests, the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act 1887 was enacted to deal with ?	None
Small Causes?.	None
The Object of the Act was to create a separate court for dealing with small causes.	None
The object obviously was that small causes may be dealt with expeditiously.	None
A summary procedure was also envisaged for dealing with small causes.	None
The Presidency Small Cause Courts Act, 1882 was already in place in Calcutta, Bombay and Madras.	None
In this country, before the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act 1887 was enacted, there were different legislations applicable in different areas with the same object, i.e., to deal with cases of small causes effectively and summarily.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of Provincial Small Cause Courts Act 1887 was to the following effect ?	None
The suits cognizable in Courts of Small Causes are subject to certain provisos, described in Section 6, Act XI of 1865, as ?claims for money due on bond or other contract, or for rent, or for personal property, or for the value of such property, or for damages, when the debt, damage or demand does not exceed in amount or value the sum of five hundred rupees whether on balance of account or otherwise and Sec.	None
586 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that no second appeal shall lie in any suit of the nature cognizable in Courts of Small Causes, when the amount or value of the subjectmatter of the original suit does not exceed five hundred rupees.	None
Since Section 6 of the Act of 1865 was enacted, a vast quantity of caselaw has grown up around it, and, as the rulings of the Courts have not been uniform, doubts constantly arise on the question whether a suit is or is not a suit of the nature cognizable by a Court of Small Causes, and, consequently, whether or not, where the suit is of value not exceeding five hundred rupees and the original decree made in it was not final but was open to appeal, an appeal will also lie from the appellate decree in the suit.	None
It appears to the Government of India that the conflicting constructions placed on Section 6, of which some are due to the progress of legislation during the last twenty years (ILR 3 All 66), render a more accurate definition necessary of the suits of which Courts of Small Causes may take cognizance, and that legislation to this end should follow Sections 18 and 19 of the Presidency Small Cause Courts Act, 1882, in declaring the jurisdiction of those Courts to extend to all suits of a civil nature, subject to specified exceptions.	None
This Bill has accordingly been prepared, its primary object being to remove the doubts now felt as to the effect of Section 6, Act XI of 1865 and, as several sections and parts of sections of that Act have, from time to time, been repealed and other sections are obsolete as regards both expression and utility, it has been considered desirable to repeal the Act and reenact the substance of the extant portions of it.	None
Gazette of India, 1886, Part V, page 8.?	None
Blacks Law Dictionary has referred to ?	None
Small Claims Court?, which explained it in following manner A court that informally and expeditiously adjudicates claims that seek damages below a specified monetary amount, usu. claims to collect small accounts or debts.	None
Also termed smalldebts court conciliation court.?	None
The object as is delineated from Statements of Objects of enactment was to provide for speedy machinery for small claims.	None
Although, Code of Civil Procedure is applicable by virtue of Section 17 of Small Causes Courts Act, but the Code of Civil Procedure itself in Order L provides a simplified procedure excluding various rules and orders of the C.P.C. for small causes cases.	None
Order L of the C.P.C. is as follows ?	None
1.	None
Provincial Small Cause Courts  The provisions hereinafter specified shall not extend to Courts constituted under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (9 of 1887)or under the Berar Small Cause Courts Law, 1905 or to Courts exercising the jurisdiction of a Court of Small Causes under the said Act or Law, or to Courts in any part of India to which the said Act does not extend exercising a corresponding jurisdiction that is to say (a) so much of this Schedule as relates to (i) suits excepted from the cognizance of a Court of Small Causes or the execution of decrees in such suits (ii) the execution of decrees against immovable property or the interest of a partner in partnership property (iii) the settlement of issues and (b) the following rules and orders Order II, rule 1 (frame of suit) Order X, rule 3 (record of examination of parties) Order XV, except so much of rule 4 as provides for the pronouncement at once of judgement Order XVIII, rules 5 to 12 (evidence)	None
Orders XLI to XLV (appeals) Order XLVII, rules 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 (review) Order LI.?	None
Section 5 provided for establishment of small causes courts by the State Government.	None
Chapter III of the Act deals with ?	None
Jurisdiction of Courts of Small Causes?.	None
Section 15 of the Act provides  Cognizance of suits by Courts of Small Causes(1)	None
A Court of Small Causes shall not take cognizance of the suits specified in the Second Schedule as suits expected from the cognizance of a Court of Small Causes.	None
(2) Subject to the exceptions specified in that Schedule and to the provisions of any enactment for the time being in force, all suits of a civil nature of which the value does not exceed five hundred rupees shall be cognizable by a Court of Small Causes.	None
(3) Subject as aforesaid, the State Government may, by order in writing, direct that all suits of a civil nature of which the value does not exceed one thousand rupees shall be cognizable by a Court of Small Causes mentioned in the order.	None
The Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 1972 (U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972) was enacted by Uttar Pradesh Legislature with the Presidential assent.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972, which are relevant for understanding the Scheme and purpose of the amendment are to the following effect ?	None
Prefatory NoteStatement of Objects and Reasons.(1)	None
The Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, provides for a summary procedure in the trial of suits.	None
Moreover, the decisions of such courts are not appealable, and only one revision is provided.	None
However such courts cannot take cognizance of suits for possession of immovable property.	None
By a recent amendment contained in Section 20(6) of the U.P. Urban Buildings (Regulation of Letting, Rent and Eviction) Act, 1972 (U. P. Act XIII of 1972), eviction suits against the tenant after the expiration of his tenancy have been taken out from the purview of this exception and have been made cognizable by the small cause courts.	None
This has been done because in such suits the issues are usually simple.	None
In cases where the question of title comes to be in issue, a small cause court has power to return the plaint for presentation to a regular court.	None
It is now proposed to delete the aforesaid amendment from U. P. Act XIII OF 1972, and instead, to incorporate a wider amendment directly in the Provincial Small Causes Court Act, 1887, so that all buildings, and not merely those buildings which are governed by U. P. Act XIII of 1972, may be covered thereby.	None
It is further proposed that in respect of such suits the ordinary small cause courts may be conferred jurisdiction to decide cases of a value up to Rs. 5,000 (instead of only Rs. 2,000 in some districts and Rs.1,000 in most districts, as at present) and that cases of a higher value may be decided by District Judges sitting as Judges of Small Causes, and revisions against such decisions of District Judge shall lie to the High Court, while revision against decisions of other Courts of Small Causes may continue to lie to the District Judge.	Reasoning
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx?	None
As per Section 15(1), A Court of Small Causes was not competent to take cognizance of the suits specified in the Second Schedule.	None
Clause (4) of the Second Schedule of the Act was to the following effect ?	None
(4) a suit for the possession of immoveable property or for the recovery of an interest in such property?	None
By Act No. 37 of 1972 amendments were made in Section 15, Section 25 and Second Schedule of the Act.	None
Sections 2, 3 and 4 of the U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972 provides as follows ?	None
2. Amendment of Section 15 of Act IX of 1887.	None
In Section 15 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, as amended in its application to Uttar Pradesh, hereinafter referred to as the principal Act, in sub section (3), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely Provided that in relation to suits by the lessor for the eviction of a lessee from a building after the determination of his lease, or for recovery from him of rent in respect of the period of occupation thereof during the continuance of the lease, or of compensation for the use and occupation thereof after such determination of lease, the reference in this subsection to two thousand rupees shall be construed as a reference to five thousand rupees.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this subsection, the expression building has the same meaning as in Article (4) in the Second Schedule.	None
3. Amendment of Section 25 of Act IX of 1887.	None
In Section 25 of the principal Act the following proviso thereto shall be inserted, namely Provided that in relation to any case decided by a District Judge or Additional District Judge exercising the jurisdiction of Judge of Small Causes, the power of revision under.	None
this section shall vest in the High Court.	None
4. Amendment of the Second Schedule to Act IX of 1887.	None
In the Second Schedule to the principal Act, for Article (4) the following Article shall be substituted, namely (4) a suit for the possession of immovable property or for the recovery of an interest in such property, but not including a suit by a lessor for the eviction of a lessee from a building after the determination of his lease, and for the recovery from him of compensation for the use and occupation of that building after such determination of lease.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this Article, the expression buildings, means a residential or nonresidential roofed structure, and includes any land (including any garden), garages and outhouses, appurtenant to such building, and also includes any fittings and fixtures affixed to the building for the more beneficial enjoyment thereof.	None
One more amendment, which was affected by U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972 was amendment in Section 25 of Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, which was made by Section 5 of the Act, which is to the following effect ?	None
5. Amendment of Section 25 of Act XII of 1887.	None
Section 25 of the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887, as amended in its application to Uttar Pradesh shall be re numbered as subsection (1) thereof, and (i) in subsection (1), as so re numbered, for the existing proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely Provided that in relation to suits of the nature referred to in the proviso to subsection (3) of Section 15 of the said Act the references in this subsection to one thousand rupees and five hundred rupees shall be construed respectively as references to five thousand rupees and one thousand rupees.	None
(ii) after subsection (1) as so re numbered, the following subsection shall be inserted, namely (2) The State Government may by notification in the official Gazette, confer upon any District Judge or Additional District Judge the jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, for the trial of all suits (irrespective of their value), by the lessor for the eviction of a lessee from a building after the determination of his lease, or for the recovery from him of rent in respect of the period of occupation thereof during the continuance of the lease or of compensation for the use and occupation thereof after such determination of lease, and may withdraw any jurisdiction so conferred.	None
ExplanationFor the purposes of this subsection, the expression building has same meaning as in Article (4) in the Second Schedule to the said Act.	None
(3) The State Government may by notification in the official Gazette delegate to the High Court its powers under this section.	None
As noted above, the jurisdiction of Small Causes Court in so far as State of Uttar Pradesh was concerned was to be vested in both in the Court of Munsifs now known as Civil Judge (Junior Division) and Civil Judge now designated as Civil Judge (Senior Division).	None
As noted above, Court of Small Causes were empowered to take cognizance of small causes having particular pecuniary jurisdiction only.	None
Section 25 of the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 empowered the State Government by notification to confer upon any Subordinate Judges and Munsifs with jurisdiction of Small Cause Court for the trial of suits and cognizance of such suits upto the value as fixed in the Act.	Reasoning
Section 25 of the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 as applicable in the State of Uttar Pradesh has been amended as has been noticed above, where the High Court exercising power under Section 25(2) of the Bengal, Agra Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 can confer upon any District Judge or Additional District Judge the jurisdiction of a Judge of Small Causes Court for the trial of all suits(irrespective of their value), by the lessor for the eviction of a lessee of a building after the determination of his lease.	None
In Section 15 of Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, for subsection (2) and (3), following was substituted by U.P. Act 17 of 1991 w.e.f. 15.01.1991 ?	None
(2) Subject to the exceptions specified in that Schedule and to the provisions of any enactment for the time being in force, all suits of a civil nature of which the value does not exceed five thousand rupees shall be cognizable by a Court of Small Causes Provided that in relation to suits by the lessor for the eviction of a lessee from a building after the determination of his lease or for recovery from him of rent in respect of the period of occupation thereof during the continuance of the lease, or of compensation for use and occupation thereof after the determination of the lease, the reference in this subsection to five thousand rupees shall be construed as a reference to twentyfive thousand rupees.	None
Explanation For the purposes of this sub section, the expression building?	None
has the same meaning as in Art.(4) in the Second Schedule.?	None
Section 17 of the Act makes the Code of Civil Procedure applicable to the Court of Small Causes in all suits cognizable by it and all proceedings arising out of all such suits.	None
By Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 w.e.f. 07.12.2015, Section 19, Section 21 of the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 and Section 15 of Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, were amended.	None
The act contains only four sections which is to the following effect  ?	None
AN ACT further to amend the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 and the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act 1887 in their application to Uttar Pradesh.	None
IT IS HEREBY enacted in the Sixtysixth year of Republic of India as follows CHAPTER	None
I PRELIMINARY 1.(1)	None
This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, (2) It shall extend to whole of Uttar Pradesh.	None
CHAPTER II Amendment of Bengal, Agra and Assam, Civil Courts Act1887. 2.	None
Bengal, Agra and Assam, Civil Courts Act 1887 hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the principal Act, (a) in subsection (1) for the words ?ten thousand rupees?	None
the words ?one lakh rupees?	None
shall be substituted (b) in subsection (2) for the words ?twenty five thousand rupees?	None
the words ?	None
five lakh rupees?	None
shall be substituted.	None
3.	None
In section 21 of the principal Act, in subsection (1), in clause (b) (a) for the words ?one lakh rupees?	None
the words ?	None
five lakh rupees?	None
shall be substituted and (b) for the words ?	None
five lakh rupees?	None
the words ?twenty five lakh rupees?	None
shall be substituted.	None
CHAPTER  III Amendment of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 4.	None
In Section 15 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, (a) in subsection(2) for the words ?five thousand rupees?	None
the words ?twenty five thousand rupees?	None
shall be substituted (b) in the proviso to subsection (2) for the words ?twenty five thousand rupees?	None
the words ?one lakh rupees?	None
shall be substituted.?	None
By the above amendment in the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 the limit of pecuniary jurisdiction of small causes court was increased from Rs.25,000/ to Rs.1 Lakh.	None
The Judge, Small Causes Court in the State of U.P. is seniormost Civil Judge, working in the district.	None
Although the Court of Small Causes was empowered to take cognizance of a suit upto the valuation of Rs.1 lakh w.e.f. 07.12.2015, the suit in question namely Small Causes Suit No.1 of 2010 which was pending in the Court of Additional District Judge, Firozabad continued to proceed in the court of Additional District Judge.	None
None of the parties raised any objection with regard to hearing of suit by Additional District Judge, consequently, the Additional District Judge heard the parties and by judgment dated 22.10.2016 decreed the suit for eviction and due rent compensation.	None
The tenant aggrieved by the judgment of Additional District Judge filed a revision under Section 25 of Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, before the High Court.	Facts
One of the grounds taken before the High Court was that in view of the U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, the Court of Additional District Judge ceased to have jurisdiction to try suit between lessor and lessee of value upto Rs.1 Lac w.e.f. 07.12.2015, assumption of jurisdiction subsequent thereto, is without jurisdiction.	Facts
The High Court accepted the above submissions raised by learned Counsel for the respondent visavis and decreed the suit and allowed the revision by remanding the suit for fresh decision before Small Causes Court presided by Civil Judge, Senior Division.	None
Following are the reasons given by the High Court for allowing the revision ?	None
The controversy as to the jurisdiction of the Judge Small Causes Court has been decided by this Court, vide judgment dated 29.08.2016 passed in SCC Revision No.278 of 2016, Shobhit Nigam Vs. Smt.	None
Batulan and another.	None
It has been held that consequent to the amendment, in Section 15 of the Provincial Small Causes Court Act, an SCC Suit having a valuation between Rs.25,000/ to Rs.1 lac shall lie before the Small Cause Court presided over by a Civil Judge(Senior Division).	None
The suits having a valuation of more than Rs.1 Lac would lie before the Additional District Judge District Judge constituting a Small Causes Court.	None
Shri Satendra KumarI, who has filed their counter affidavit in Court today, has not been able to effectively rebut the submissions made by the counsel for the revisionist.	None
Under the circumstances, this Court finds that the order impugned is without jurisdiction and is hereby set aside.	None
The SCC revision is allowed?	None
Now we proceed to consider the issues which have arisen in the present appeals ISSUE NO.1 2	None
Prior to Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, as per Section 15(2) of Provincial Small Cause Court, 1887 as applicable in the State of Uttar Pradesh in relation to suits by lessor for eviction of lessee from building after determination of his lease after recovering from him of rent, the Court of Small Causes would have taken cognizance of suits value of which does not exceed Rs.25,000/.	None
The suit was filed with the valuation of Rs.21,175/. The Suit was initially filed in the Court of Civil Judge, Senior Division, Small Cause Court, Firozabad.	None
Plaintiff filed a application for amendment which was allowed permitting the valuation to be enhanced to Rs.27,775/.	None
The suit thereafter was transferred to the Court of District Judge and re numbered as S.C.C.Suit No.1 of 2010.	None
The main issue to be answered is as to whether after 07.12.2015, the court of Additional District Judge where the suit in question was pending could still have pecuniary jurisdiction to decide the suit or suit ought to have been transferred back to the court of Civil Judge, Senior Division.	None
The High Court while in allowing the revision has relied on an earlier judgment of the High Court in Shobhit Nigam vs. Smt.	None
Batulan and another (supra).	None
In above case also the valuation of small causes suit was Rs.44,000/ and the suit was pending in the court of Additional District Judge who after U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 proceeded to decide the suit wide its judgment dated 24.05.2016.	None
S.C.C. Revision filed in the High Court, the same very argument was pressed that the order of Additional District Judge is without jurisdiction.	None
The High Court noticed the provisions of Section 15 of the Provincial Small Causes Courts Act, the U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 and had also taken note of the objects and reason of U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015.	None
The High Court held that the phrase ?institution?	None
as occurring in the objects and reasons does not confine to institution of civil suits only and after the amendment w.e.f. 07.12.2015, rather, District Judge and Additional District Judge could have no jurisdiction to decide suits having valuation of less than Rs.1 lac and their jurisdiction shall be only with regard to those cases which has valuation of over Rs.1 lac.	None
The High Court in Shobhit Nigam?s Case held that assumption of jurisdiction of Additional District Judge deciding the suit having valuation of Rs.44,000/ is illegal and set aside the judgment.	None
In Shobhit Nigam?s case, the High Court also directed that copy of judgment be circulated to all District Judges of U.P. for necessary compliance to ensure that all pending suits of rent and eviction from a building after determination of lease falling under proviso to Section 15(2) of the Act upto the valuation of Rs.1,00,000/ be transferred to the Small Causes Court presided over by the senior most Civil Judge, Senior Division of the district irrespective of the date of their institution.	None
Learned Counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that judgment of Shobhit Nigams case does not lay down the correct law.	Arguments of Respondent
He has relied on another judgment of learned Single Judge decided on 30.08.2017 in S.C.C. Revision No.171 and 172 of 2017, Pankaj Hotel and others vs. Bal Mukund and others.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Single Judge who decided the case of Pankaj Hotel and others took the contrary view and held that U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 is only prospective in nature and was applicable with regard to institutions of fresh suits only.	Arguments of Respondent
In the suits pending, the Court of District Judge Additional District Judge continued to have pecuniary jurisdiction to decide Small Causes Suits upto the valuation of Rs.1 lac even after U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 enforced w.e.f. 07.12.2015.	None
Learned Single Judge referred to an earlier judgment in S.C.C. Revision defective No. 76 of 2017, Sanjay Sharma alias Pintu vs. Anil Dua alias Titu, decided on 13.07.2017 where learned Singe Judge had taken a contrary view to the judgment of learned Single Judge in Shobhit Nigam?s Case (Supra).	None
One of the issues, which has to be answered is as to whether the Court of Additional District Judge, which has been invested with the jurisdiction of Small Causes Court after amendment by Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 could still have proceeded to decide the Small Causes Suit w.e.f. 07.12.2015, which suits became cognizable by a Judge Small Causes Court, i.e., a Court presided by a Civil Judge.	Issue
For answering the above issue, we need to find out the Scheme of Small Cause Courts Act.	None
As noticed above, Small Cause Courts were envisaged to be Courts, which may expeditiously dispose of small causes.	None
Small causes were contemplated to be disposed of by the Courts by following the procedure less cumbersome as compared to those applicable in the regular civil courts.	None
By U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972, the cases by a lessor for eviction of lessee and for recovery of rent in respect of the period of occupation was also taken in fold of small causes, which could be taken cognizance by Small Causes Court after amendment of Clause (4) of Second Schedule of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887.	None
The amendment made in Section 25 of the Bengal, Agra Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 by U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972 empowered the State Government to confer upon any District Judge or Additional District Judge power of Judge of Small Causes Court ?	None
for the trial of suits irrespective of their value by the lessor for the eviction of lessee?	None
The above amendment was necessitated since the Court of Small Causes presided by Civil Judge could have entertained small causes suits having value of only five thousand rupees, as per amendment by U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972 cases by lessor for the eviction of lessee having valuation of more than five thousand rupees could not have been taken cognizance by Civil Judges, who were designated as Judges of Small Causes Court to take up such cases.	None
When Legislature treated all suits by the lessor for the eviction of lessee from a building as a ?Small Cause Suit?, a forum had to be created for deciding such cases as small cause cases.	None
The expression ?irrespective of their value? used in Section 25 as amended was with clear intention that irrespective of the value, the cases filed by the lessor for the eviction of lessee should be treated as small causes cases and should be dealt as a small cause case.	None
By subsequent amendment, the Small Causes Courts presided by Civil Judge become empowered to decide cases of small cause upto twenty five thousand rupees and cases above twentyfive thousand rupees by lessor against lessee were to be taken cognizance by Court of Additional District Judges.	None
The legislative Scheme contains a clear dichotomy between cases, which could have been taken cognizance by small causes courts presided by Civil Judge and those of small cause cases presided by District Judge or Additional District Judge.	None
The dividing line was only valuation of small cause cases relating to suits by lessor against the lessee.	None
Necessity to empower the District Judge Additional District Judge to decide small cause cases relating to eviction by lessor against lessee was with the above intent.	None
The Legislature never intended that all cases pertaining to suits by lessor against the lessee of any valuation could be filed in any Small Causes Court.	None
It is true that District Judge or Additional District Judge functioning as Small Causes Courts can take cognizance of all suits irrespective of their value.	Reasoning
But use of the words ?irrespective of their value?	Reasoning
was in contradiction of the pecuniary value, which was given to Judge of Small Causes Courts presided by Civil Judge.	Reasoning
The fact that District Judge or Additional District Judge can take cognizance of all suits irrespective of their value shall not whittle down or dilute the line of separation between two courts in taking cognizance of small cause cases.	Reasoning
The mere fact that District Judge or Additional District Judge can take cognizance of suits of unlimited value will not empower them to take cognizance of cases, which, according to statutory Scheme can be taken only by small causes courts presided by Civil Judge.	Reasoning
It is relevant to notice that the Allahabad High Court had occasion to consider the provisions of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 as applicable in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
A reference is made to M.P. Mishra Vs.	Reasoning
Sangam Lal Agarwal, AIR 1975 Allahabad 425.	Reasoning
In the above case before the Allahabad High Court, a small cause suit was decided by the Additional District Judge, which had valuation of more than five thousand rupees.	Reasoning
Arguments were raised that valuation of small cause case is more than five thousand rupees, hence Additional District Judge could not have decided the case as small cause case rather it ought to have been decided as a normal civil suit.	Reasoning
In the above context, provision of U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972 and U.P. Act No. 19 of 1973 by which Section 25 of Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 was amended by adding another subsection, i.e. subsection(4), and the notifications issued by the High Court in above respect were noticed.	Reasoning
Paragraph Nos. 5 to 8, which are relevant are as follows ?	None
5.	None
By the U.P. Civil Laws Amendment Act of 1973 (Presidents Act No. 19 of 1973) another subsection, namely, Subsection (4) was added to Section 25.	None
The said Subsection (4) reads as follows Where the jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes is conferred upon any District Judge or Additional District Judge by notification under this section, then, notwithstanding anything contained in Section 15 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 all suits referred to in Sub section (2) shall be cognizable by Court of Small Causes.	None
By virtue of Section 1 (3) of the said Act of 1973 it shall be deemed that the said Sub section (4) came into force on the 20th September, 1972, i.e. the date on which the U.P. Civil Laws Amendment Act of 1972 came into force.	None
6.	None
Certain notifications which have been issued may also be noticed here.	None
Notification No. 4111 (8) VIIA580/72, dated September 22, 1972, published in Uttar Pradesh Gazette, dated 30972, Part I (Page 5252), issued by the State Government lays down as under In exercise of the powers conferred by Subsection (3) of Section 15 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (Act IX of 1887) as amended by the U.P. Civil Laws Amendment Act, 1972 (U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972) and in continuation of Government Notification No. 1 (8) 69Nyaya (KaII), dated September 23, 1969, the Governor is pleased to direct, that subject to the exceptions specified in the Second Schedule to the first mentioned Act, and to the Provisions of any enactment for the time being in force, all suite referred to in the proviso to the said subsection of which the value does not exceed five thousand rupees, shall, with effect from the date of publication of this notification, be cognizable by the Courts of Judge.	None
Small Causes, Bareilly, Moradabad, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Aligarh, Kanpur, Allahabad, Varanasi, Agra, Lucknow, and the Court of additional Judge, Small Causes, Lucknow.	None
7.	None
The State Government issued another notification on the same day i.e. Sep. 22, 1972 dated September 22, 1972, published in Uttar Pradesh Gazette, Part I, dated October 7, 1972 (page No. 5973), which lays down as under In exercise of the powers under Subsection (3) of Section 25 of the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 (Act XII of 1887) as amended by the Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 1972, (U.P. Act No. 37 of 1972) and in supersession of all earlier notifications issued in this behalf, the Governor is pleased to delegate to the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad the powers of the State Government under the said section.	None
8.	None
By Notification No. 525 dated 25101972 the High Court conferred upon all the District Judges and Additional District Judges, the jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (Act IX of 1887), for the trial of all suits (irrespective of their value) of the nature referred to in the said Subsection (2).	None
The High Court also noticed the object and purpose of Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 1972 and High Court held that Additional District Judge had jurisdiction to take cognizance of cases of valuation of more than five thousand rupees.	None
In Paragraph Nos. 11 and 12, following was stated ?	None
11.	None
The amendments which were effected by the U.P. Civil Laws Amendment Act of 1972 were motivated by a consideration that the suits for eviction filed by the lessors against the lessees of buildings took an unduly long time to be finally decided and, therefore, it was thought advisable that such suits should be tried as suits of the nature of small causes suits so that they could be disposed of expeditiously and there could be no appeal against the decision of the trial Court.	None
This change was sought to be brought about by amending Article 4 of the Second Schedule of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act so that a suit by a lessor for the eviction of a lessee from a building after the determination of his lease and for the recovery from him of compensation for the use and occupation of the buildings after such determination of lease was no longer excepted from the cognizance of the court of small causes.	None
Such suits, therefore, became triable by the Courts of Judge, Small Causes and by virtue of Section 16 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act they became exclusively triable by such courts.	None
Of course, the limitation on account of the valuation of the suit remained, This limitation was contained in Section 15(2) and in Section 15(3).	None
Ordinarily, the jurisdiction of the Small Causes Court stretched up to Rs. 1,000 under Section 15(2) of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act.	None
But under Section 15(3) the State Government was empowered to raise the pecuniary limit of such jurisdiction to Rs. 5,000 in respect of suits between the lessors and the lessees for eviction of the latter after the determination of their tenancy from buildings.	None
This result was brought about by the addition of the proviso to Section 15(3) by the U.P. Civil Laws Amendment Act, 1972.	None
As has been stated, the State Government issued a Notification dated Sept. 22, 1972, whereby the Court of Judge, Small Causes situated at Bareilly, Moradabad, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Aligarh, Kanpur, Allahabad, Varanasi, Agra, Lucknow and the Court of Additional Judge, Small Causes, Lucknow were empowered to take cognizance of the suits between the lessors and the lessees for the latters eviction from buildings whose value does not exceed Rs. 5,000.	None
In view of the addition of Subsection (2) to Section 25 of the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act it became possible to confer upon the District Judge or Additional District Judge the jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes for the trial of suits for eviction of lessees and for recovery of rents and damages (disregarding some minor aspects of the matter).	None
Such a jurisdiction has been conferred upon the District Judges and the Additional District Judges by the aforesaid Notification dated 25101972 issued by this Court.	None
12.	None
In view of the aforesaid amendments, in the district of Allahabad (from where this revision has arisen) the Court of Judge of Small Causes had a jurisdiction to take cognizance of the suits between the lessors and the lessees in respect of the latters eviction from buildings provided the valuation of such suits does not exceed Rs. 5,000.	None
If the valuation exceeds Rs. 5,000 then the court of the District Judge and the Additional District Judge who have been empowered to take cognizance of such suits can try the same in the manner in which suits of the Small Cause Court nature are tried.	None
In Section 25(2), it is clearly stated that the District Judge or the Additional District Judge will have the jurisdiction of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes for the trial of the aforesaid variety of suits irrespective of their value.	None
In my view, if the contention on behalf of the applicant were to be accepted then it will be doing violence to the said expression.	None
Any interpretation which seeks to put a limitation on the valuation of the Suits cognizable by the District Judge or the Additional District Judge will be contrary to the clear expression used in Subsection (2) of Section 25 irrespective of their value.	None
Learned counsel for the applicant placed reliance on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported in Raja Soap Factory v. S. P. Shantharaj AIR (1965)	None
SC 1449 .	None
In my view, the said pronouncement does not support the contention on behalf of the applicant.	None
Counsel also sought to support his contention by inviting my attention to Subsection (4) added to Section 25 by the U.P. Civil Laws Amendment Act of 1973.	None
The said Subsection (4) has been reproduced above and in the concluding portion thereof the words used are all suits referred to in Subsection (2) shall be cognizable by court of Small Causes.	None
It is urged that if the legislative intention were that the District Judge or the Additional District Judge on whom the powers of a Judge of a Court of Small Causes have been conferred should take cognizance of the aforesaid variety of suits between the lessor and the lessee then in the concluding portion of Sub section (4) the legislature would not have used the words Court of Small Causes but would have used the expression District Judge or Additional District Judge, counsel contended that there is a distinction between a Court of Small Causes established under the Provincial Small Causes Court and officers who are invested with the powers of a Judge of Court of Small Causes.	None
In my opinion this contention is not valid.	None
In Mt. Sukha v. Raghunath (AIR 1917 All. 62) D. D. Vidyarthi v. Ram Pearey Lal (AIR 1935 All 690) Badal Chandra v. Srikrishna Dey (AIR 1929 Cal 354)	None
Bhagwan Das v. Keshwar Lal (AIR 1923 Pat 49) and Narayan Sitaram v. Bhagu (1907)	None
ILR 31	None
Bom 314) it has been laid down that the Courts on which Small Cause Courts powers are conferred shall also be deemed to be Courts of Small Causes.	None
Section 4 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act lays down as under In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context, Court of Small Causes means a Court of Small Causes constituted under this Act. and includes any person exercising jurisdiction under this Act in any such Court.	None
It is clear that the expression Court of Small Causes has to be interpreted in the context in which the said expression is used.	None
In my view, the expression Court of Small Causes used at the end of subsection (4) of Section 25 really means and refers to a District Judge or Additional District Judge on whom the jurisdiction of a Judge of Small Causes has been conferred.?	None
The Allahabad High Court has followed the above judgment in several cases subsequently.	None
Whether the Additional District Judge, in the facts of the present case, had jurisdiction to take cognizance of small causes suits having valuation upto Rs. 1 lakh and could still have proceeded to decide the suit, whose valuation was less than Rs. 1 lakh?	Issue
We may also notice provision of Section 15 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which provides that suits shall be instituted in the Court of the lowest grade competent to try it.	None
Section 15 of Code of Civil Procedure is as follows ?	None
Every suit shall be instituted in the Court of the lowest grade competent to try it.?	None
The purpose of Section 15 is obvious that even though more than one court has jurisdiction to try the suit, it should be instituted in the Court of lowest grade.	Reasoning
For example, a small cause case can be instituted in Court of Small Cause presided by Civil Judge having valuation of upto Rs. 1 lakh as on date and small cause suit having valuation of more than Rs. 1 lakh can be instituted in the Court of District Judge or Additional District Judge.	Reasoning
As per Section 15 of the Code of Civil Procedure, suit of less than Rs. 1 lakh valuation has to be instituted in Small Causes Court presided by Civil Judge.	Reasoning
Although, District Judge or Additional District Judge has unlimited pecuniary jurisdiction but under the legislative Scheme, the suit is not to be taken cognizance by the District Judge or Additional District Judge, which has valuation upto Rs. 1 lakh.	Reasoning
Even though if Section 15 of the C.P.C. is a provision, which regulate the institution of suits and does not affect the jurisdiction of Courts, reading the provision of Section 15 alongwith relevant provisions of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 and the Bengal, Agra, Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887, the legislative Scheme is clear that small cause cases should be taken cognizance by Small Cause Courts presided by Civil Judge upto the valuation of Rs. 1 lakh and cases having valuation of more than Rs. 1 lakh by District Judge or Additional District Judge, who have been invested with the power of Small Cause Courts.	Reasoning
Unless the above legislative intent and Scheme is followed, there shall be confusion and inconsistency.	Reasoning
The legislative provisions have to be interpreted in a manner, which may advance the object and purpose of the Act.	Reasoning
When clear dichotomy regarding taking cognizance of small causes suits presided by Civil Judge and by District Judge or Additional District Judge have been provided for, the said dichotomy and separation to take cognizance of cases has to be followed to further the object and purpose of legislation.	Reasoning
In Pankaj Hotel case (supra), the Court took the view that since the Court of District Judge or Additional District Judge, which have been invested with the power of small causes Court had unlimited pecuniary jurisdiction, they can validly adjudicate small causes suits having valuation of less than Rs. 1 lakh even after amendment by Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, we do not approve the above view.	None
When the Court of District Judge or Additional District Judge could no longer take cognizance of small cause suits of having less than Rs. 1 lakh valuation, it was no longer in the competence of Small Cause Court presided by District Judge or Additional District Judge to proceed to decide the suit of having valuation of less than Rs. 1 lakh.	Reasoning
Proper course was to transfer the cases before a competent court to decide the suits.	None
It is a different matter that the Court of District Judge or Additional District Judge when proceeded to decide the small cause suits after 07.12.2015 of valuation of less than Rs. 1 lakh and neither any objection was raised by either of the parties nor attention of the Court was drawn towards the amendment, Section 21 of the C.P.C. is there to deal with such eventuality, which provision we shall	None
hereinafter deal separately.	None
Learned Single Judge in Pankaj Hotels Case(Supra) has referred to and relied on various judgments of this Court which shall be referred to hereinafter.	None
Section 15 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 bears the title ?	None
Cognizance of Suits by Courts of Small Causes?.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 15 provides that a Court of Small Causes shall not take cognizance of the suits specified in the Second Schedule as suit excepted from the cognizance of Court of Small Causes.	None
Subsection (2)(as applicable in Uttar Pradesh) provides that all suits of the civil nature of which the value does not exceed Rs.5,000/ shall be cognizable by Court of Small Causes.	None
As per the proviso to subsection (2) in relation to suits by lessor for the eviction of lessee from building after determination of lease, the reference of Rs.5,000/ shall be construed as a reference to Rs.25,000/. The keyword in the provision is ?shall be cognizable by Court of Small Causes.?	None
What is the meaning of the phrase Cognizable by Court of Small Causes??	None
The word Cognizance? has been defined in Black?s Law Dictionary in following manner  ?	None
Cognizance (1) A court?s right and power to try and to determine cases Jurisdiction, (2) The taking of judicial or authoritative notice.	None
Advanced Law Lexicon by P.Ramanatha Aiyar defines Cognizance?	None
in the following manner  ?	None
Cognizance.	None
Judicial notice or knowledge the judicial recognition or hearing of a cause jurisdiction, or right to try and determine causes.	None
It is a word of the largest importembracing all power, authority and jurisdiction.	None
The word ?cognizance? is used in the sense of ?	None
right to take notice of and determine a cause.?	None
Taking cognizance does not involve any formal action, or indeed action of any kind, but occurs as soon as a Magistrate, as such, applies his mind of the suspected commission of an offence?	None
This Court in (2004) 2 SCC 349 , State of Himachal Pradesh vs. M.P.Gupta, had occasion to consider the expression Cognizance?.	None
The definition of word Cognizance?	None
as given in Black?s Law Dictionary was quoted with approval.	None
In paragraph 10 of the judgment, following was stated  ?	None
10According to Black?s Law Dictionary the word ?	None
cognizance? means ?jurisdiction?	None
or ?the exercise of jurisdiction?	None
or ?power to try and determine causes?.	None
In common parlance, it means taking notice of.	None
A court, therefore, is precluded from entertaining a complaint or taking notice of it or exercising jurisdiction if it is in respect of a public servant who is accused of an offence alleged to have been committed during discharge of his official duty.	Reasoning
The statutory provisions of Section 15(2) of Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 uses the expression ?	None
shall be cognizable by the Court of Small Causes?.	None
The word Cognizable? is a word of wide import.	None
It takes into its fold institution, hearing and decision of a case cognizable by it.	None
In Pankaj Hotels Case, learned Single Judge of the High Court had noted the statement of objects of U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 and has given emphasis on word ?for institution?	None
and concluded that amendment is prospective in nature and is applicable only to suits and appeals being instituted after the amendment.	None
When the plain word in the statute i.e. Section 15(2) uses the word ?cognizable?	None
whether ?statements of objects and reasons?	None
which uses the word ?institution?	None
shall whittle down, the word cognizable?	None
as used in Section 15(2).	None
The statement of objects and reasons of U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, are to the following effect  ?	None
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS WHEREAS the value of the subject matters brought to the courts has increased substantially, the pecuniary jurisdiction of the Civil Courts as well as those of Small Cause Courts in the State of Uttar Pradesh requires to be raised for institution of Civil Suits and appeals.	Reasoning
It has, therefore, become necessary to amend the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887 and Provincial Small Cause courts Act, 1887 to increase the pecuniary jurisdiction of Civil Courts and those of small Cause Courts in the State of Uttar Pradesh for securing better administration of Justice.	None
The Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2015 is introduced accordingly.?	None
It is true that statement of objects noticed that value of subject matters brought to the courts has increased substantially, hence, pecuniary jurisdiction of the Civil Courts as well those of Small Causes Courts in State of Uttar Pradesh requires to be raised for the institution of civil suits and appeals.	Reasoning
The amendment has raised pecuniary limits in Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887.	Reasoning
The statement of objects and reasons explains the reason for increase of pecuniary jurisdiction but use of word for institution?	Reasoning
in statement of object cannot control the express language of the statutory provisions.	Reasoning
A threeJudge Bench of this Court in S.S. Bola v. B.D. Sardana , (1997) 8 SCC 522 , has held that statement of objects and reasons of the statute can be looked into only as extrinsic aid to find out the legislative intent only when the meaning of statute by its ordinary language is obscure and ambiguous.	None
In paragraph 176, following was laid down  ?	None
176But it is a cardinal rule of interpretation that the Statement of Objects and Reasons of a statute is to be looked into as an extrinsic aid to find out the legislative intent only when the meaning of the statute by its ordinary language is obscure or ambiguous.	None
But if the words used in a statute are clear and unambiguous then the statute itself declares the intention of the legislature and in such a case it would not be permissible for a court to interpret the statute by examining the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the statute in question.?	None
In Subha Ram vs. state of maharashtra, (2003) 1 SCC 506 , this court again laid down that statement of objects and reasons can be looked into for limited purpose of ascertaining condition prevailing at the time which prompted or actuated the proposal of bill to introduce the same and the extent of existing evil of the society.	None
Further, in Bhaiji vs. SubDivisional Officer, (2003) 1 SCC 692 , this court again reiterated the following principles of statutory interpretation in paragraph 11 ?11.	None
Reference to the Statement of Objects and Reasons is permissible for understanding the background, the antecedent state of affairs, the surrounding circumstances in relation to the statute, and the evil which the statute sought to remedy.	None
The weight of judicial authority leans in favour of the view that the Statement of Objects and Reasons cannot be utilized for the purpose of restricting and controlling the plain meaning of the language employed by the legislature in drafting a statute and excluding from its operation such transactions which it plainly covers.	None
(See Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, 8th Edn., 2001, pp. 20609.)?	None
The statement of object of U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 thus explains the reason for bringing the amendment for increasing the pecuniary jurisdiction but the word institution?	None
used in statement of object shall not control the expressed language of Section 15.	None
The expression cognizance? used in Section 15 shall mean and include institution hearing and decision of the case.	None
When statute provides that cognizance of particular cause is to be taken by a particular court, no other court can take cognizance of the cause, since legislature never creates or provides for parallel jurisdiction in two different courts for taking cognizance of a cause.	None
When Section 15 provides that all suits of civil nature of which the value does not exceed Rs.25,000/ ?shall be cognizable by the Courts of Small Causes?, the cognizance shall be taken by that very Court and no other Court.	None
As noted above, the proviso to subsection (2) provides that figure Rs.5,000/ shall be construed to Rs.25,000/. By U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, the figure of Rs.25,000/ stood substituted by Rs.1 lac.	None
Reading subsection(2) read with proviso and U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment Act), 2015 clearly means that Small Cause suits with valuation not exceeding Rs.1 lac shall be cognizable by Court of Small Causes.	Reasoning
When a Small Cause suit not exceeding value of Rs.1 lac is cognizable by Court of Small Causes, obviously, no other court can take cognizance.	None
Additional District Judge to whom small causes suit in question was transferred since its valuation was more than of Rs.25,000/ was not competent to take cognizance of the suit after U.P. Civil Laws (Amendment Act), 2015 w.e.f.07.12.2015, when the suit in question became cognizable by Small Causes Court i.e. Court of Civil Judge, Senior Division.	Arguments of Respondent
To the above extent, the judgment of learned Single Judge in Shobhit Nigam?s Case has to be approved and judgment of Single Judge in Pankaj Hotels (Supra) laying down that even after 07.12.2015, the Additional District Judge had jurisdiction to decide the suit in question cannot be approved.	None
We further observe that learned Single Judge in Pankaj Hotels case having noticed an earlier view of learned Single Judge in Shobhit Nigam?s case, and he being of the opinion that judgment does not lay down the correct law, appropriate course open for Single Judge was to refer the matter for consideration by a larger bench.	Reasoning
The judgments of the High Court are relied on and followed by all subordinate courts in the State.	Reasoning
It is always better to achieve certainty by an authoritative opinion by the High Court instead of giving conflicting views by different learned Single Judges which may confuse the litigants, lawyers and subordinate courts in applying the law.	Reasoning
ISSUE NO.3	None
It is the submission of learned counsel for the appellant that even if the Additional District Judge was not competent to decide the small causes suit on 22.10.2016, the judgment of the Additional District Judge was not liable to be interfered with by the revisional court in view of Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure relates to objection to jurisdiction.	None
Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure is as follows ?	None
21.	None
Objections to jurisdiction.	None
(1) No objection as to the place of suing shall be allowed by any Appellate or Revisional Court unless such objection was taken in the Court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and in all cases where issues are settled at or before such settlement, and unless there has been a consequent failure of justice.	None
(2) No objection as to the competence of a Court with reference to the pecuniary limits of its jurisdiction shall be allowed by any Appellate or Revisional Court unless such objection was taken in the Court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity, and, in all cases where issues are settled, at or before such settlement, and unless there has been a consequent failure of justice.	None
(3) No objection as to the competence of the executing Court with reference to the local limits of its jurisdiction shall be allowed by any Appellate or Revisional Court unless such objection was taken in the executing Court at the earliest possible opportunity, and unless there has been a consequent failure of justice.?	None
The policy underlying Section 21 of Code of Civil Procedure is that when the case has been tried by a court on merits and the judgment rendered, it should not be liable to be reversed purely on technical grounds, unless it has resulted in failure of justice.	None
The provisions akin to Section 21 are also contained in Section 11 of the Suit Valuation Act, 1887 and Section 99 of Code of Civil Procedure.	None
This Court had occasion to consider the principle behind Section 21, Code of Civil Procedure and Section 11 of the Suit Valuation Act, 1887 in AIR 1954 SC 340, Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan.	None
In paragraph 7 of the judgment following was laid down  ?	None
7The policy underlying Sections 21 and 99 of the Civil Procedure Code and Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act is the same, namely, that when a case had been tried by a court on the merits and judgment rendered, it should not be liable to be reversed purely on technical grounds, unless it had resulted in failure of justice, and the policy of the legislature has been to treat objections to jurisdiction both territorial and pecuniary as technical and not open to consideration by an appellate court, unless there has been a prejudice on the merits.	None
The contention of the appellants, therefore, that the decree and judgment of the District Court, Monghyr, should be treated as a nullity cannot be sustained under Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act.?	None
One more submission which was raised in the said appeal was considered by this Court.	None
One of the submission of the appellant who had instituted the suit in the subordinate court was that as per the revised valuation, the appeal against the decree of subordinate judge did not lay before the District Court but to the High Court, hence, the judgment of the District Judge in appeal should be ignored.	None
The appeal in the High Court be treated as first appeal.	None
It was contended that appellant has been prejudiced in the above manner.	None
Rejecting the above submissions, this court laid down following in paragraphs 11 and 12 ?	None
11.This argument proceeds on a misconception.	None
The right of appeal is no doubt a substantive right, and its deprivation is a serious prejudice but the appellants have not been deprived of the right of appeal against the judgment of the Subordinate Court.	None
The law does provide an appeal against that judgment to the District Court, and the plaintiffs have exercised that right.	None
Indeed, the undervaluation has enlarged the appellants?	None
right of appeal, because while they would have had only a right of one appeal and that to the High Court if the suit had been correctly valued, by reason of the undervaluation they obtained right to two appeals, one to the District Court and another to the High Court.	None
The complaint of the appellants really is not that they had been deprived of a right of appeal against the judgment of the Subordinate Court, which they have not been, but that an appeal on the facts against that judgment was heard by the District Court and not by the High Court.	None
This objection therefore amounts to this that a change in the forum of appeal is by itself a matter of prejudice for the purpose of Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act.	None
12.	None
The question, therefore, is, can a decree passed on appeal by a court which had jurisdiction to entertain it only by reason of undervaluation, be set aside on the ground that on a true valuation that court was not competent to entertain the appeal?	None
Three High Courts have considered the matter in Full Benches, and have come to the conclusion that mere change of forum is not a prejudice within the meaning of Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act.	None
Vide Kelu Achan v. Cheriya Parvathi Nethiar Mool Chand v. Ram Kishan and Ramdeo Singh v. Raj Narain.	None
In our judgment, the opinion expressed in these decisions is correct?	None
The above principle has been reiterated by this Court in AIR (1962)	None
SC 199 , Hiralal vs. Kalinath and AIR 1963 SC 634, Bahrain Petroleum Co. vs. P.J.Pappu and Another.	None
This court in (1993) 2 SCC 130 , R.S.D.V. Finance Company Private Limited vs. Shree Vallabh Glass Works Ltd. had again considered Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
In paragraphs 7 and 8, following has been laid down  ?	None
7It may be further noted that the learned Single Judge trying the suit had recorded a finding that the Bombay Court had jurisdiction to entertain and decide the suit.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that no objection as to the place of suing shall be allowed by any appellate or revisional court unless such objection was taken in the court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and in all cases where issues are settled at or before such settlement and unless there has been consequent failure of justice.	None
The above provision clearly lays down that such objection as to the place of suing shall be allowed by the appellate or revisional court subject to the following conditions (i) That such objection was taken in the court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity (ii) in all cases where issues are settled then at or before such settlement of issues (iii) there has been a consequent failure of justice.	None
8.	None
In the present case though the first two conditions are satisfied but the third condition of failure of justice is not fulfilled.	None
As already mentioned above there was no dispute regarding the merits of the claim.	None
The defendant has admitted the deposit of Rs 10,00,000 by the plaintiff, as well as the issuing of the five cheques.	None
We are thus clearly of the view that there is no failure of justice to the defendant by decreeing of the suit by the learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court, on the contrary it would be totally unjust and failure of justice to the plaintiff in case such objection relating to jurisdiction is to be maintained as allowed by the Division Bench of the High Court in its appellate jurisdiction.?	None
In (2005) 7 SCC 791 , Harshad Chiman Lal Modi vs. DLF Universal Ltd., this court had again considered Section 21 and other provisions of Code of Civil Procedure.	None
In paragraph 30, following has been laid down  ?	None
30The jurisdiction of a court may be classified into several categories.	None
The important categories are (i) territorial or local jurisdiction (ii) pecuniary jurisdiction and (iii) jurisdiction over the subjectmatter.	None
So far as territorial and pecuniary jurisdictions are concerned, objection to such jurisdiction has to be taken at the earliest possible opportunity and in any case at or before settlement of issues.	None
The law is well settled on the point that if such objection is not taken at the earliest, it cannot be allowed to be taken at a subsequent stage.	None
Jurisdiction as to subjectmatter, however, is totally distinct and stands on a different footing.	None
Where a court has no jurisdiction over the subject matter of the suit by reason of any limitation imposed by statute, charter or commission, it cannot take up the cause or matter.	None
An order passed by a court having no jurisdiction is a nullity.?	None
Again in (2007) 13 SCC 650 , Subhash Mahadevasa Habib v. Nemasa Ambasa Dharmadas, this court held that there is distinction between lack of inherent jurisdiction and objection to territorial and pecuniary jurisdiction.	None
This court noticed the amendments made in Section 21 in the year 1976.	None
Following was stated in paragraph 34, 37 and 41 ?	None
34.	None
It may be noted that Section 21 provided that no objection as to place of the suing can be allowed by even an appellate or revisional court unless such objection was taken in the court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and unless there has been a consequent failure of justice.	None
In 1976, the existing section was numbered as subsection (1) and subsection (2) was added relating to pecuniary jurisdiction by providing that no objection as to competence of a court with reference to the pecuniary limits of its jurisdiction shall be allowed by any appellate or revisional court unless such objection had been taken in the first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and unless there had been a consequent failure of justice 37.	None
As can be seen, Amendment Act 104 of 1976 introduced subsection (2) relating to pecuniary jurisdiction and put it on a par with the objection to territorial jurisdiction and the competence to raise an objection in that regard even in an appeal from the very decree.	None
This was obviously done in the light of the interpretation placed on Section 21 of the Code as it existed and Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act by this Court in Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan5 followed by Hiralal Patni v. Kali Nath6 and Bahrein Petroleum Co. Ltd. v. P.J. Pappu4.	None
Therefore, there is no justification in understanding the expression ?	None
objection as to place of suing?	None
occurring in Section 21A as being confined to an objection only in the territorial sense and not in the pecuniary sense.	None
Both could be understood, especially in the context of the amendment to Section 21 brought about by the Amendment Act, as objection to place of suing.	None
41.	None
In the light of the above, it is clear that no objection to the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court which tried OS No. 61 of 1971 could be raised successfully even in an appeal against that very decree unless it had been raised at the earliest opportunity and a failure of justice or prejudice was shown.	None
Obviously therefore, it could not be collaterally challenged.	None
That too not by the plaintiffs therein, but by a defendant whose alienation was unsuccessfully challenged by the plaintiffs in that suit.?	None
Now, reverting back to facts of this case it is apparent from the judgment dated 22.10.2016 of Additional District Judge, that no objection to the competence of Additional District Judge to decide the case was taken by any of the parties.	Reasoning
No objection having been taken to the pecuniary jurisdiction of the Additional District Judge, Section 21 of the Civil Procedure Code comes into play.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of Section 21 provides that no objection as to the competence of the Court with reference to the pecuniary limits of the jurisdiction shall be allowed by any Appellate or Revisional Court unless conditions mentioned therein are fulfilled.	Reasoning
No objection having been raised by respondent tenant regarding competence of the Court.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) precludes the revisionist to raise any objection regarding competence of the court and further revisional court ought not to have allowed such objection regarding competence of Court of Additional District Judge to decide the suit.	Reasoning
The respondent tenant did not raise any objection regarding competence of the Court and took a chance to obtain judgments in his favour on merits, he cannot be allowed to turnround and contend that the court of Additional District Judge had no jurisdiction to try the Small Cause Suit and the judgment is without jurisdiction and nullity.	Reasoning
Section 21 has been enacted to thwart any such objection by unsuccessful party who did not raise any objection regarding competence of court and allowed the matter to be heard on merits.	Reasoning
Further, in deciding the small cause suit by Additional District Judge, the tenant has not proved that there has been a consequent failure of justice.	Reasoning
The High Court in the impugned judgment has not adverted to Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
In judgment of Shobhit Nigam(Supra) also, affect of Section 21 was neither considered nor raised.	None
Section 21 contains a legislative policy which policy has an object and purpose.	None
The object is also to avoid retrial of cases on merit on basis of technical objections.	None
There is another judgment of Single Judge of the High Court referred to by the learned counsel for the respondent i.e. SCC Revision No.305 of 2016, Tejumal vs. Mohd.	None
Sarfraz, 2017 (121) ALR 392.	None
In the above case, learned Single Judge had allowed the revision under Section 25 against the judgment dated 12.08.2016 passed by Additional District and Sessions Judge on the ground that the judgment of Additional District Judge was without jurisdiction.	None
In paragraph 6 of the judgment, High Court had noticed judgment of this court in R.S.D.V. Finance Company Private Limited vs. Shree Vallabh Glass Works Ltd. where it was held that in view of Section 21(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure, objection as to the place of suing should be taken by the party concerned in the court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and the objection to this effect shall not be allowed by the Appellate or Revisional Court but relying on the judgment of this Court in Kiran Singh Vs. Chaman Paswan, learned Single Judge held that defect of jurisdiction whether pecuniary or territorial or to the subject matter cannot be cured and can be set up at any stage of the proceeding.	None
We are of the view that the above view of the learned Single Judge is neither in consonance with the judgment of this Court in Kiran Singh?s case nor with R.S.D.V. Finance Company Private Limited (supra) which has been noted and referred to by learned Single Judge.	Reasoning
Section 21 is statutory recognition of the legislative policy which cannot be ignored or given a goby by the litigants who challenges an unfavourable decision.	Reasoning
We thus of the view that the view of the learned Single Judge in Tejumal Vs. Mohd.	Decision
Sarfraj does not lay down the correct law and cannot be approved.	Decision
61.	Decision
In the foregoing discussion, we are of the view that High Court committed error in allowing the S.C.C. Revision filed by the respondent tenant without taking into consideration Section 21 of the Civil Procedure Code.	Decision
We thus hold that even when the court of Additional District Judge was not competent to decide the Small Causes Suit in question on the ground that the pecuniary jurisdiction is vested in Court of Small Causes i.e. Civil Judge, Senior Division w.e.f. 07.12.2015, no interference was called in the judgment of Additional District Judge in the exercise of Revisional Jurisdiction by High Court in view of the provisions of Section 21 of Civil Procedure Code.	Decision
63.	Decision
In result, the appeals are allowed.	Decision
The judgment of the High Court dated 07.12.2016 is set aside.	Decision
Parties shall bear their own costs.	Decision
