 B. Sinha, J. ISSUE Effect of a writ of or in the nature of mandamus issued by a High Court directing implementation of an enactment visvis a subsequent legislation altering or modifying the right of the beneficiaries under the former Act, inter alia, is the question involved in these appeals.	Issue
They arise out of a judgment and order dated 24th August, 2000 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam.	Issue
BACKGROUND FACTS	None
The State of Kerala enacted the Kerala Scheduled Tribes (Restriction on Transfer of Lands and Restoration of Alienated Lands) Act, 1975 (Act No.31 of 1975) (for short the 1975 Act) with the object of providing restriction on transfer of land by Members of Scheduled Tribes in the State of Kerala and for restoration of possession of lands alienated by such members and for matters connected therewith.	Facts
The said Act received the assent of the President of India.	Facts
It was included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution of India, being item No.150, by the Constitutional 40th Amendment Act.	Facts
It was published in the Kerala Gazette Extraordinary on 14th November, 1975.	Facts
However, only on 24th January, 1986 a Notification was issued bringing the said Act into force with retrospective effect from 1st January, 1982.RULES UNDER THE SAID ACT Kerala Scheduled Tribes (Restriction on Transfer of lands and Restoration of Alienated Land) Rules, 1986 (1986 Rules) were framed for effective implementation of the 1975 Act and were published in the Kerala Gazette Extraordinary on 18th October, 1986.	Facts
PROCEEDINGS Members of the Scheduled Tribes filed applications for restoration of their lands in the year 1988 in terms of the provisions of the 1975 Act and the 1986 Rules.	None
As the said Act was not implemented in letter and spirit, one Dr. Nallathampy Thera filed a writ petition which was marked as O.P. No.8879 of 1988 praying inter alia for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus compelling the State to implement the provisions of the Act and directing the concerned authorities to deal with and dispose of the applications filed therein.	None
Before the High Court the learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the State submitted that utmost steps would be taken for the disposal of the applications and that the Act would be enforced in all its rigour.	None
Relying on or on the basis of the said statement, O.P. No. 8879 of 1988 was disposed of by the High Court on 15th October, 1993, inter alia, calling upon the State to give directions to the Authorities under the 1975 Act to dispose off the applications pending before them within 6 months from the said date.	None
The State, however, did not comply with the said directions within the said time frame.	None
Extensions of time were sought for complying with the said directions.	None
By the said process, a period of two years lapsed.	None
Another application for extension of time was filed for implementation of the Act and the High Court granted six months time but issued certain directions inter alia for the purpose of monitoring the progress of the implementation of the Act.	None
The said conditions are as under The State shall ensure that all the applications are disposed of within the extended time.	None
The State shall immediately communicate copies of this order to the Revenue Divisional Officers of all the Districts for compliance.	None
The Authorities under the Act, i.e., the Revenue Divisional Officers of the concerned Districts shall file affidavits before this court once in a month showing the progress achieved in the disposal of applications during that month.	None
The first of these affidavit showing the progressmade until 31.12.1995 shall be filed before 15.1.1996.	None
The next of the affidavits showing progress till 31.1.1996 shall be filed before 15.2.1996 and so on.	None
The State shall provide the necessary back up and support to the Revenue Divisional Officers to complete the work within the extended time now granted.	None
The State or any of the Revenue Divisional Officers shall be at liberty to approach this court in the event of any difficulty being felt in disposing off the applications.	None
It is seen from the affidavit filed by the Government that the pendency of applications in the Districts of Palakkad, Wayanad, Idukki and Kottayam is unusually large.	None
The Revenue Divisional Officers of these Districts are directed in particular to dispose of all the applications within the extended time.	None
Applications for restoration of lands which were pending were disposed of pursuant to the said directions.	None
Appeals were filed in a few cases but in most of them the orders directing restoration of lands became final.	None
Strangely however, no actual restoration of land was effected.	None
Another application was filed by the writ petitioner on 1st March, 1996 complaining about nonimplementation of the said order.	None
The learned Additional Advocate General once again gave an assurance that the order of the authorities under the 1975 Act would be implemented.	None
On or about 28th March, 1996 the High Court directed  The learned Additional Advocate General assures the court that all out efforts will be made to dispose of all the pending applications within the time stipulated by this court and further that wherever there has been final orders passed, actual restoration will also be formal orders are necessary today.	None
Post on 31.5.1996.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Further affidavits were filed by the Revenue Divisional Officers reporting progress in the disposal of the applications made under the Act.	None
On or about 13th August, 1996 the High Court issued the following directions  The Revenue Divisional Officers are directed to cause delivery of the properties covered by orders for restoration against which, no appeals are pending and in which no compensation is payable, forthwith and in any event within six weeks from today.	None
In view of the submission that the officers are meeting with resistance in restoring possession the State and the District Superintendents of Police of all Districts are directed to afford the needed protection to the Revenue Divisional Officers to carry out their duty of restoring possession to the Tribals.	None
The State and the Collectors of the various Districts are directed to make available to the Revenue Divisional Officers the necessary man power and support to carry out the implementation of the orders for restoration passed under the Act.	None
The Revenue Divisional Officers will file statements before this court by 30.9.1996 reporting compliance with direction No.1 An intra court appeal was preferred thereagainst.	None
The matter was referred to a Full Bench.	None
An order of stay was passed relying on or on the basis of a statement made before the Court that amendments to the 1975 Act were proposed to be made.	None
However, as the President of India declined to give his assent to the Bill passed by the Legislature of the State of Kerala for amendment of the said Act, the order of stay was vacated.	None
The Full Bench on 21st May, 1998 passed the following order Heard learned Additional Advocate General, Mr. T. Mohammed Youseff and Mr. A.X. Varghese, Advocate.	None
The above application is filed to extend the order of stay granted in the Writ Appeal for a further period of six months from 21.5.1998.	None
This Court granted the interim order of stay since at the time the Bill passed by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Kerala was pending consideration before the Honble President of India.	None
It is now stated in the affidavit that the Honble President of India has declined assent to the Bill passed by the State Legislative Assembly.	None
In the light of the Honble President of India having declined assent to the Kerala Scheduled Tribe (Restriction on Transfer of Lands and Restoration of Alienated Lands)Amendment Act, 1996, there is no justification for this court extending the order to stay granted earlier.	None
The interim stay granted earlier is vacated.	None
The learned Single Judge, while disposing of C.M.P. No. 28950 of 1995 in O.P. 8879 of 1988, was pleased to grant time till 30.9.1996 for reporting compliance with direction No.1 in the order.	None
The time was extended from time to time for compliance with the directions till the order of stay was granted.	None
Now that the order of stay having been vacated, we grant six months time to the State for carrying out the direction contained in the order of the learned single judge dated 13th August 1996, passed in C.M.P. No. 28950 of 1995, without prejudice to the right of the Government in considering the various aspects of the matter to bring forward suitable legislation with suitable changes, if they so desire.	None
(emphasis added) On or about 23rd November, 1998 an application for initiating proceedings under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 was filed against the State and its officers on the premise that orders of the High Court had not been complied with.	None
A notice was issued therein.	None
A petition was filed by the State for extension of the period by six months from 21st November, 1998.	None
However, a statement was made before the Full Bench that a new Bill would be introduced before the Legislative Assembly in terms whereof a permanent solution to the problem of alienation of tribal lands which had taken place during the period from 1.1.1960 and 1.1.1986 shall be dealt with.	None
The Full Bench, by its order dated 6th January, 1999, directed  This petition has been filed by the State to extend the time (sic) granted already by a period of six months from 21.11.98.	None
We have perused the affidavit and heard the arguments of both sides.	None
We have also heard Dr. P. Nalla Thampy Thera.	None
He opposed the petition for extension of time tooth and nail.	None
This Court has already granted six months time.	None
The State has explained the reasons for its inability to introduce the new bill within the time granted earlier.	None
We are satisfied with the reasons given in the affidavit.	None
It is now stated in the affidavit that the Legislative Assembly is expected to commence its next session on 22.1.99 and that the new bill formulated by the Government will be introduced in this session.	None
According to the Government, the new bill is expected to find a permanent solution to the problem of alienation of tribal lands which had taken for the period from 1.1.1960 to 1.1.1986.	None
Therefore, they pray that in the interest of justice the State may be granted extension of time to introduce the Bill in this session.	None
We have considered the rival submissions and are of the opinion that in the interest of justice, the time already granted has to be extended by three months from today.	None
As already noticed, the Assembly session is to commence on 22.1.1999 and the State is proposing to introduce the Bill in this session.	None
In view of the above, the time already granted by this Court is hereby extended by three months from today.	None
The State shall introduce the Bill in this session of the Assembly and complete all the other formalities within the time now granted.	None
We make it clear that there will be no further extension of time.	None
The State is directed to pay cost of this petition to Dr. Nalla Thampy Thera which is fixed at Rs.5000/, by way of demand draft drawn in his name, within three weeks from today.	None
(emphasis supplied) WRIT PROCEEDINGS Indisputably the Legislature of the State thereafter enacted the Kerala Restriction on Transfer by and Restoration of Lands to the Scheduled Tribes Act, 1999 (for short the 1999 Act), which inter alia deals with transfer and alienation of agricultural lands.	Facts
Constitutional validity of the 1999 Act, specially the proviso appended to Section 5(1), Section 5(2), Section 6 and Section 22 were challenged by filing two writ petitions one marked as O.P. No.25332 of 1999 filed by Niyamvedi, respondent No.1 in Civil Appeal No.105 of 2001 and another O.P. No.26499 of 1999 by Peoples Union for Civil Liberties, Kerala State Unit, respondent No.1 in Civil Appeal No.104 of 2001.	None
In the aforesaid writ petitions counteraffidavits were filed on behalf of the Union of India supporting the stand of the tribes.	None
Malayora Karshaka Federation (appellant before us in C.A. No.899 of 2001) was impleaded as a party therein.	None
By reason of the impugned judgment and order dated 24th August, 2000, the High Court declared the aforesaid provisions as ultra vires.	None
FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT The High Court, while acknowledging, the legislative intent of the State of Kerala, opined that it was colourable in nature as by reason of the provisions of the 1975 Act and the orders passed in favour of the members of the Scheduled Tribes, a vested right accrued to the members of Scheduled Tribes was destroyed by reason of the provisions of 1999 Act.	None
Proviso to Sections 5(1), Section 5(2), Section 6 and Section 22 of the 1999 Act were held to be arbitrary.	None
The said provisions were also held to be discriminatory and thus violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
The issue in regard to violation of Article 19(1)(e) of the Constitution of India was determined on the premise that no sufficient material had been placed before the Court.	None
Inter alia relying on or on the basis of the decision of this Court in Madan Mohan Pathak v. Union of India, (1978) 2 SCC 50 , the High Court held that in effect and substance, by reason of the provisions of the 1999 Act, a judicial decision was sought to be nullified.	None
The contention of the respondents that Presidential assent having not been obtained, the 1999 Act was violative of Article 254 of the Constitution of India was, however, rejected.	None
With regard to compliance of the requirements of Article 338 of the Constitution of India, consultation with Scheduled Castes Scheduled Tribes Commission was held to be not imperative.	None
Section 22 of the 1999 Act was held to be ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution of India, having regard to the accrued rights of the members of the Scheduled Tribes in view of the issuance of the writ of mandamus issued, the High Court directed  In the light of our discussion as above, we declare the proviso to Section 5(1), Section 5(2), Section 6 and Section 22 of the Kerala Restriction on Transfer by and Restoration of Lands to Scheduled Tribes Act, 1999, Act 12 of 1999 as unconstitutional and void.	Arguments of Respondent
We strike down the proviso to Section 5(1), Section 5(2), Section 6 and Section 22 of Act 12 of 1999.	None
We direct the State and the Authorities under Act 31 of 1975 to implement the orders for restoration passed under the Kerala Scheduled Tribes (Restriction of Transfer of land and Restoration of Alienated Lands) Act, 1975, Act 31 of 1975 and restrain the State and the Authorities under Act 12 of 1999 from enforcing the proviso to Section 5(1), Section 5(2), Section 6 and Section 22 of Act 12 of 1999.	None
THE APPEALS BEFORE US Civil Appeal Nos. 104105 of 2003 have been filed by the State of Kerala against the common judgment and order dated 24th August, 2000 passed by a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in O.P. Nos. 25332 and 26499 of 1999 filed by Niyamavedi and Peoples Union for Civil Liberties, Kerala State Unit striking down the proviso to Section 5(1), Section 5(2), Section 6 and Section 22 of the 1999 Act.	None
Civil Appeal No.899 of 2001 has been filed by Malayora Karshaka Federation Kerala Meenangadi (respondent No.7 before the High Court in O.P. No.25332 of 1999) against the aforesaid order dated 24th August, 2000.	None
Civil Appeal No.7079 of 2001 has been filed by M. Mohan Kumar, Chief Secretary, Government of Kerala against the order dated 4th December, 2000 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court in C.C.C. No. 542 of 1986 whereby the Court directed the appellant to appear before it for framing charges against him in not complying with the final direction issued by the Court on 18th December, 1999.	None
CONTENTIONS Mr. T.L. Viswanath Iyer, learned senior counsel and Mr.Dayan Kishnan, Advocate, appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit i)	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court committed a manifest error in holding that the 1999 Act suffers from the vice of colourable exercise of power or is otherwise mala fide despite holding that the Legislature of the State of Kerala had the requisite legislative competence therefor.ii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The members of the Scheduled Tribes had no fundamental or common law right to obtain restoration of possession of their lands which had already been alienated.iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a right having been conferred upon them by reason of the provisions of 1975 Act, the same could be taken away and or modified or altered by reason of a subsequent Act which comes within Entry 18 of the List II of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.iv) Only because nonagricultural lands had been kept out of purview of 1999 Act, the same by itself did not attract the wrath of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.v)	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisions of the 1999 Act being more beneficial compared to the provisions of 1975 Act, only because the tribes would be allotted lands outside their original habitants, the same would not attract Article 21 of the Constitution of India, particularly when they would be getting 2 hectares of land as also grant for payment of compensation to the land holder in stead and place of repayable amount of loan as provided for in the 1975 Act.vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
Keeping in view the nature of mandamus issued by the High Court in the earlier round of litigation, it would not mean that the State was not precluded from amending or repealing the 1975 Act.vii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of this Court in Madan Mohan Pathak (supra) and Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. State of Bihar, (1983) 4 SCC 45 having been explained in Indian Aluminium Co. v. State of Kerala, (1996) 7 SCC 637 as also a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Tamilnadu v. Arooran Sugars Ltd., (1997) 1 SCC 326 , the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.viii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The tribals in whose favour the orders of restoration had been passed having not filed any writ petition, it must be presumed that they were not aggrieved by the provisions of the 1999 Act, particularly in view of the fact that their association had been consulted by the Government Officials and in that view of the matter the writ petitioner  association had no locus standi to maintain the public interest litigation having regard to Baba Charan Dass Udhasi v. Mahant Basant Das Babaji Chela Baba Laxmandas Udasi Sadhu (2000) 6 SCC 1 .(x)	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, a declaration by a Superior Court that a subsequent statute is ultra vires would not wipe off the earlier statute automatically.(xi)	Arguments of Petitioner
The purchasers of land having acquired the properties in 1950s must be held to have acquired an indefeasible right over the same and thus the 1975 Act even to that extent was not applicable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rajinder Sachar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf ofrespondents in C.A. Nos. 104105 of 2001, on the other hand, would contendi)	Arguments of Respondent
The 1999 Act being in the teeth of the mandamus issued by the High Court has rightly been held to be unconstitutional in view of the fact that nothing has been brought on record to show that the 1999 Act was enacted by the legislature despite knowledge that the directions issued by the High Court had attained finality.ii) The 1975 Act having conferred a right of restoration on the Members of the Scheduled Tribes, both in respect of agricultural and nonagricultural lands, the provisions of 1999 Act and in particular Section 6 thereof having confined its operation only to agricultural land and that too with retrospective effect from 24th January, 1986, must be held to be ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution of India.iii) The Members of the Scheduled Tribes being mostly residents of forests and the lands restored in their favour being forest lands, no legal infirmity was committed by the High Court in holding that the tribals the community being weakest of weak, should not be deprived therefrom having regard to their constitutional right of life as adumbrated in Article 21 of the Constitution of India.iv) As from the statistics furnished by the State itself it would appear that only about 10 percent of the applicants had more than 2 hectares of land, the right of restoration of the marginal farmers could not have been taken away.v)	Arguments of Respondent
Once a statutory protection is granted to the beneficiaries, the same could not have been withdrawn.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Verghese, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No.1 in Civil Appeal No.899 of 2001 supplementing the arguments of Mr. Sachar urgedi) That the Members of Scheduled Tribes having come under attack by economically more advanced and politically more powerful ethnic groups who infiltrated into tribal regions in search of land and new economic possibilities, keeping in view Article 46 of the Constitution of India, they were entitled to restoration of land in terms of the judgment of the High Court passed in O.P. No.8879 of 1988.ii) Provisions of 1975 Act having been found to be constitutionally valid, the accrued and vested rights of the tribals could not have been taken away by reason of 1999 Act or otherwise.iii)	Arguments of Respondent
The WritPetitioner  association having been fighting for the cause of the tribals for a long time, it cannot be said that they had no locus standi to file the public interest litigation.iv) Even the Union of India having supported the case of the tribals, there is no reason as to why this Court should interfere with the impugned judgment.v)	Arguments of Respondent
The 1999 Act being not a validating statute, the impugned judgment is unassailable, particularly having regard to the objective of 1975 Act visvis 1999 Act.vi)	Arguments of Respondent
It is incorrect to contend that the State before enactment of 1999 Act consulted the true representatives of the tribals.vii)	Arguments of Respondent
In any view of the matter as the members of the tribal community became entitled to restoration of their land by reason of the provisions of the 1975 Act, there was no reason as to why the original land would not be restored to them.	Arguments of Respondent
The 1975 ACT The 1975 Act was enacted by the State in terms of Entry 6 of List IIIof	None
Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
Section 2 contains interpretation clauses defining the terms specified therein.	None
Section 2(b) defines immovable property to include standing crops and trees but does not include growing grass.	None
Scheduled tribe has been defined in Section 2(e) to mean any of the Scheduled Tribes relating to the State as specified in the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950.	None
Section 2(g) defines transfer as under  transfer , in relation to immovable property, means an act by which immovable property, is conveyed to any documentary or oral transaction, whether by way of mortgage with or without possession, lease, sale, gift or exchange, or in any other manner, not being a testamentary disposition and includes a charge, vilapanayam, unduruthi, contract relating to immovable property, mortgage, pledge or hypothecation of crops or standing trees on payment of consideration or otherwise, voluntary surrender and abandonment.	None
Explanation.  	None
For the purposes of this clause.	None
vilapanyam means hypothecation of crops on payment of consideration or otherwise unduruthi means an assignment of the right to collect the usufructs available or anticipated to be available to any land during specified term for a specified price.	None
Section 4 imposes restrictions on transfer by providing a non obstante clause in terms whereof after the commencement of the Act any transfer effected by a member of the Scheduled Tribe of immovable property possessed, enjoyed or owned by him to a person other than a member of a Scheduled Tribe, without the previous consent in writing of the competent authority, would be invalid.	None
Section 5 of the Act invalidated certain transfers made by tribals to persons other than tribals after the first of January, 1970 and before commencement of the Act  Certain transfers to be invalid Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for time being in force, or in any contract, custom or usage, or in any judgment, decree or order of any court, any transfer of immovable property possessed, enjoyed or owned by a member of a Scheduled Tribe to a person other than a member of a Scheduled Tribe, effected on or after the Ist day of January, 1960, and before the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be invalid.	None
Under Section 6 of the 1975 Act members of the Schedule Tribes became entitled to restoration of possession of the properties, transfers which stood invalidated by operation of Section 4 and Section 5 of the Act.	None
It provided for applications to be made by the Tribals for restoration of alienated lands to the Revenue Divisional Officer within the time prescribed therefor.	None
The Revenue Divisional Officer was to make enquiries and after being satisfied with the application of the Act was to direct restoration of possession to the applicant.	None
Section 6 which is material for our purpose, inter alia, reads as under Reconveyance of property  (1) Where by reasons of a transfer of immovable property which is invalid under Section 4 or Section 5, a member of a Scheduled Tribe has ceased or ceases to be in possession or enjoyment thereof he shall be entitled to the restoration of possession or enjoyment, as the case may be of such property.	None
Any person entitled to be restored to the possession or enjoyment of any immovable property under subsection (1) or any other person on his behalf may make an application, either orally or in writing to the Revenue Divisional Officer within a period of one year from the date of commencement of this Act or such further period as may be specified by Government by notification in the Gazette (a) for restoration of possession, or enjoyment, as the case may be, of such property, if such transfer had been made before the date of commencement of this Act.	None
(b) for restoration of possession or enjoyment, as the case may be, of such property and for the prosecution of the person who has procured such transfer, if such transfer was made on or after the date of commencement of this Act.	None
Section 11 provides for liability to pay amount.	None
Section 12 provides for advancement of loan by the Government for payment of the amount on such terms and conditions as has been laid down under subsections (2) and (3) thereof.	None
The Act also prescribed offences and provided for penalties etc.	None
Section 22 contains the rule making power.	None
1999 ACT The 1999 Act was published in the Kerala Gazette Extraordinary on 20th April, 1999.	None
It was given a retrospective effect and retroactive operation from 24th January, 1986.	None
Land has been defined in 2(b) to mean any agricultural land.	None
Section 5 of the Act reads as under Certain transfer to be invalid Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, or in any contract, custom or usage, or in any judgment, decree or order of any court, any transfer of land possessed, enjoyed or owned by a member of a Scheduled Tribe to a person other than a member of a Scheduled Tribe, effected on or after the 1st day of January, 1960, and before the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be invalid Provided that nothing in this section shall render invalid any transfer of land possessed, enjoyed or owned by a member of a Scheduled Tribe to a person other than a member of a Scheduled Tribe effected during the aforesaid period and the extent of which does not exceed two hectares.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub section (1) or in any judgment, decree or order of any Court or other authority, in cases where the land involved in such transfer is used for agricultural purposes, the transferee thereof shall be entitled to retain in his possession the said land upto an extent of two hectares which shall be demarcated by the Revenue Divisional Officer by order and in the manner as may be prescribed.	None
Section 6 providing for allotment of lands reads thus  Allotment of lands.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 5 or in any judgment, decree or order of any Court or other authority, a member of a Scheduled Tribe who had effected any transfer of land, possessed, enjoyed or owned by him, to a person other than a member of a Scheduled Tribe, between the 1st day of January, 1960 and the 24th day of January, 1986 and where an application for restoration of right under Section 6 of the Kerala Scheduled Tribes (Restriction of Transfer of Lands and Restoration of Alienated Lands) Act, 1975 (31 of 1975) has been filed before publication of this Act in the Gazette, but the possession or enjoyment thereof, has not been restored to him and such transfer has been validated by the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 5 or the transferee thereof has been made eligible for the retention of said land under subsection (2) of Section 5, shall be entitled to restoration of equal extent of land by way of allotment from the Government Provided that where the extent of the land so allotted in respect of which there is eligibility for restoration of rights, is less than forty ares, Government shall allot the rest of the land required to make the total extent equal to forty ares (One acre).	Facts
Section 8 providing for liability to pay amount reads  Liability to pay amount.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, where the possession or enjoyment of any land is restored to a member of a Scheduled Tribe under this Act, an amount equal to the aggregate of the actual amount of consideration received by such member at the time of the transfer and an amount determined by the competent authority for improvements, if any, made after the transfer and before such restoration shall be paid by him to the person from whom possession or enjoyment, as the case may be, was restored, in accordance with the rules made under this Act Provided that no amount shall be payable if the transfer was effected on or after the commencement of this Act.	None
The amount determined by the competent authority under subsection (1) shall be final and shall not be called in question in any court.	None
The amount payable under subsection (1) shall be recoverable in such manner as may be prescribed.	None
Section 10 provides for assignment of land, which reads  Assignment of land.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 6 or in the Kerala Government Land Assignment Act, 1960 (30 of 1960) and the rules issued thereunder, the Government shall assign land to the landless families of the Scheduled Tribes in the State, an extent not exceeding forty ares of land in the district they reside within a period of two years from the date of publication of this Act in the Gazette, or such further period as may be specified by Government by notification in the Gazette, and in the manner as may be prescribed.	None
Where the extent of the land in the possession and enjoyment of any family of the Scheduled Tribe in the State, is less than 40 Ares such family shall be entitled to get assigned more land which is necessary to make the total extent of the land equal to 40 Ares.	None
Section 11 provides for constitution of Scheduled Tribe Rehabilitation and Welfare Fund and utilization thereof.	None
Section 21 provides for power to make Rules.	None
Section 22 is the Repealing and Saving clause.	None
It reads as under Repeal and saving.	None
The Kerala Scheduled Tribes (Restriction on Transfer of Lands and Restoration of Alienated Lands) Act, 1975 (31 of 1975) is hereby repealed.	None
Notwithstanding the repeal of the said Act, all orders issued by the competent authority or the Revenue Divisional Officer, so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of this Act and shall continue to be in force accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken under this Act.	None
Every proceedings pending before a Court on a complaint under Section 14 of the said Act shall be deemed as a proceeding under the corresponding provisions of this Act and shall be continued accordingly.	None
CONSTITUTIONAL VALIDITY OF 1999 ACT LEGISLATIVE BACKDROP	None
The validity of 1975 Act is not in question.	None
It, having regard to its inclusion in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution of India by Constitution 40th Amendment Ac, 1976 read with Article 31B which precludes an attack to the provisions of such an enactment on the ground that it violates any provisions of Part III of the Constitution of India, the validity thereof was upheld by a leaned Single Judge of the Kerala High Court in Bhavani v. State of Kerala, 1989 (1) KLT (Short Note Case No.58) at 37.	None
We may also notice that Jagannadha Rao, C.J. (as His Lordship then was) in Fr.	None
Thomas Kubukkat v. Union of India, 1994 (2) KLT 25 also upheld the provisions of Section 1(3) of 1975 Act stating the said provision to be conditional legislation and not a delegated legislation.	None
The Constitutional validity of statutes enacted for the benefit of the members of Scheduled Tribe by some other State although not identical has been upheld by this Court in Manchegowda and others v. State of Karnataka and others, (1984) 3 SCC 301 , Lingappa v. State of Maharashtra, (1985) 1 SCC 479	None
P. Rama Reddy v. State of A.P. (1988) 3 SCC 433 and Samtha v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1997) 8 SCC 191 .	None
These decisions have been rendered on statutes which are not absolutely identical.	None
All of which are not in pari materia with the other.	None
However, we may notice that in Manchegowda (supra) this Court held We have earlier noticed that the title which is acquired by a transferee in the granted lands, transferred in contravention of the prohibition against the transfer of the granted lands, is a voidable title which in law is liable to be defeated through appropriate action and possession of such granted lands transferred in breach of the condition of prohibition could be recovered by the grantor.	None
The right or property which a transferee acquires in the granted lands, is a defeasible right and the transferee renders himself liable to lose his right or property at the instance of the grantor.	None
We have further observed that by the enactment of this Act and particularly Section 4 and Section 5 thereof, the Legislature is seeking to defeat the defeasible right of the transferee in such lands without the process of a prolonged legal action with a view to speedy resumption of such granted lands for distribution thereof to the original grantee or their legal representatives and in their absence to other members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes communities.	None
In our opinion, this kind of defeasible right of the transferee in the granted lands cannot be considered to be property as contemplated in Articles 31 and	None
31A.	None
The nature of the right of the transferee in the granted lands on transfer of such lands in breach of the condition of prohibition relating to such transfer, the object of such grant and the terms thereof, also the law governing such grants and the object and the scheme of the present Act enacted for the benefit of the weaker sections of our community, clearly go to indicate that there is in this case no deprivation of such right or property as may attract the provisions of Articles 31 and 31A of the Constitution.	None
We are not concerned with the constitutional validity of 1975 Act.	None
We would at an appropriate stage deal with the matter in regard to the effect thereof.	None
COLOURABLE LEGISLATION We have noticed hereinbefore that the Division Bench of the High Court has upheld the legislative competence of the Legislature of the State of Kerala.	None
We, therefore, really at pains to understand as to how the doctrine of Colourable Legislation could be invoked by the learned Judge of the High Court.	None
The doctrine of Colourable Legislation is directly connected with the legislative competence of the State.	None
Whereas the 1975 Act was enacted in terms of Entry 6 List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India providing for transfer of lands the 1999 Act was enacted in terms of Entry 18 List II thereof.	None
It reads as under  Land, that is to say, right in or over land, land tenures, including the relation of landlord and tenant, and the collection of rents transfer and alienation of agricultural land land improvement and agricultural loans colonization.	None
The 1999 Act, thus, having confined itself to agricultural land, indisputably the State Legislature only has the requisite legislative competence therefor.	None
It is one thing to say that an enactment suffers from vice of colourable legislation on the premise that it does not have legislative competence but it is another thing to say that only because the Act was amended purporting to nullify an earlier Act (in the words of the High Court), the same by itself would attract the said doctrine.	None
For invoking the doctrine of Colourable Legislation the legislature must have transgressed the limits of its constitutional power patently, manifestly and directly.	None
The doctrine of Colourable Legislation, in our opinion, has no application in the instant case.	None
The said doctrine is founded on legislative competence of the State.	None
An act of mala fide on the part of the legislature also is beyond the province of judicial review.	None
In fact no motive can be attributed to the Legislature for enacting a particular statute.	None
The question in regard to the constitutionality of the statute must be considered keeping in view only the provisions of the Constitution.	None
In K.C. Gajapathi Narayan Deo v. The State of Orissa (1954) 1	None
SCR 1 , this Court held It may be made clear at the outset that the doctrine of colourable legislation does not involve any question of bona fides or mala fides on the part of the legislature.	None
The whole doctrine resolves itself into the question of competency of a particular legislature to enact a particular law.	None
If the legislature is competent to pass a particular law, the motives which impelled it to act are really irrelevant.	None
On the other hand, if the legislature lacks competency, the question of motive does not arise at all.	None
Whether a statute is constitutional or not is thus always a question of power.	None
In R.S. Joshi, Sales Tax Officer, Gujarat and Others v. Ajit Mills Limited and Another (1977) 4 SCC 98 , this Court held as under A prefatory caveat.	None
When examining a legislation from the angle of its vires, the Court has to be resilient, not rigid, forwardlooking, not static, liberal, not verbal  in interpreting the organic law of the nation.	None
We must also remember the constitutional proposition enunciated by the U.S. Supreme Court in Munn v. Illinois1 viz.	None
that courts do not substitute their social and economic beliefs for the judgment of legislative bodies.	None
Moreover, while trespasses will not be forgiven, a presumption of constitutionality must colour judicial construction.	None
These factors, recognised by our Court, are essential to the modus vivendi between the judicial and legislative branches of the State, both working beneath the canopy of the Constitution.	None
Bearing in mind the quintessential aspects of the rival contentions, let us stop and take stock.	None
The facts of the case are plain.	None
The professed object of the law is clear.	None
The motive of the legislature is irrelevant to castigate an Act as a colourable device.	None
The interdict on public mischief and the insurance of consumer interests against likely, albeit, unwitting or ex abundanti cautela excesses in the working of a statute are not merely an ancillary power but surely a necessary obligation of a social welfare state.	None
One potent prohibitory process for this consummation is to penalize the trader by casting a nofault or absolute liability to cough up to the State the total unjust takings snapped up and retained by him by way of tax where tax is not so due from him, apart from other punitive impositions to deter and to sober the merchants whose arts of dealing with customers may include many a little makes a mickle.	None
If these steps in reasoning have the necessary nexus with the power to tax under Entry 54 List II, it passes ones comprehension how the impugned legislation can be denounced as exceeding legislative competence or as a colourable device or as supplementary, not complementary.	None
See also Dharam Dutt and others v. Union of India, (2004) 1 SCC 712 .	None
The principles of determining the constitutionality of statute has been stated in Gujarat Ambuja Cements Ltd. v. Union of India, (2005) 4 SCC 214 thus Having determined the parameters of the two legislative entries the principles for determining the constitutionality of a statute come into play.	None
These principles may briefly be summarised thus The substance of the impugned Act must be looked at to determine whether it is in pith and substance within a particular entry whatever its ancillary effect may be Prafulla Kumar Mukherjee v. Bank of Commerce Ltd., AIR at p. 65, A.S. Krishna v. State of Madras, State of Rajasthan v. G. Chawla, Katra Educational Society v. State of U.P., D.C. Johar Sons (P) Ltd. v. STO and Kannan Devan Hills Produce v. State of Kerala.	None
Where the encroachment is ostensibly ancillary but in truth beyond the competence of the enacting authority, the statute will be a colourable piece of legislation and constitutionally invalid (A.S. Krishna v. State of Madras, A.B. Abdul Kadir v. State of Kerala, SCC at p. 232 and Federation of Hotel Restaurant Assn. of India v. Union of India, SCC at p. 651).	None
If the statute is legislatively competent the enquiry into the motive which persuaded Parliament or the State Legislature into passing the Act is irrelevant (Dharam Dutt v. Union of India).	None
Apart from passing the test of legislative competency, the Act must be otherwise legally valid and would also have to pass the test of constitutionality in the sense that it cannot be in violation of the provisions of the Constitution nor can it operate extraterritorially.	None
(See Poppatlal Shah v. State of Madras.)	None
Has the legislature of the State of Kerala transgressed the limitations of its constitutional power, as has been held by the High Court, is the question?	None
We have pointed out heretobefore that the doctrine of colourable legislation is strictly confined to the question of legislative competence of the State Legislature to enact a statute.	None
Once it was opined by the High Court that having regard to Entry 51, List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, the Legislature of the State of Kerala had the requisite legislative competence to enact the 1999 Act, that should have been held to be the end of the matter.	None
The High Court could not have, in our respectful opinion, entered into the said question through a sidedoor so as to hold that the transgression of the limitations of constitutional power may be disguised, covert or indirect.	None
The High Court, in our opinion, again with utmost respect, has committed a fundamental error in failing to keep a distinction in mind in regard to the power of a law making authority which is of a qualified character and the power granted to a legislative authority which is absolutely without any limitation and restriction, being plenary in character.	None
A statute in view of the decision of this Court in Gujarat Ambuja Cements Ltd. (supra), in the event of it being held within the ambit of the legislative competence of the State, could be declared ultra vires only on the premise that it is violative of the provisions of Part III of the Constitution of India or any other provisions but not on the ground of colourable exercise of power or mala fide on the part of the legislature.	None
The object, purpose or design referred to by the High Court should be taken into consideration for the purpose of examining its constitutionality on the touchstone of the provisions of Part III of the Constitution of India and not otherwise.	None
In that view of the matter, the High Court committed a serious error in relying upon Dwarkadas Shrinivas of Bombay v. Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Company Ltd. and Others AIR 1954 SC 119 and Jagannath Baksh Singh v. State of U.P. AIR 1962 SC 1563 , which did not deal with the question of legislative competence of the legislature of a State, as was the question before the High Court.	None
No material was placed before the High Court to establish that the 1999 Act was confiscatory in nature.	None
It is one thing to say that a citizen of India having been conferred with a right on lands by reason of a statutory provision, has been deprived therefrom without payment of any compensation and, thus, the same would be violative of Article 300A of the Constitution of India, but, it is another thing to say that on that ground alone the legislation should be held to be a colourable one.	None
We have adverted to the statement of Objects and Reasons of the 1999 Act.	None
The legislature had a broad object in mind.	None
Whether the Act stands the scrutiny of limitations of the States power so as to achieve its object and purpose is one question, but, it is another question that while doing so it has adopted a device and a cloak to confiscate the property of the citizen taxed as was the case in K.T. Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala	None
AIR 1961 SC 552 The High Court in its judgment has referred to Shankaranarayana v. State of Mysore AIR 1966 SC 1571 .	None
But, in our opinion, and with utmost respect, it again failed to apply the principles laid down therein correctly.	None
Therein itself the court had noted that if the legislature is competent to pass a particular law, the motives which impel it to pass the same become really irrelevant.	None
The High Court furthermore committed a serious error insofar as it made an incidental observation that the tribals who enjoy the protection of Constitution of India and sought to be protected by the 1975 Act could not have been denied the benefits under the 1999 Act, which in our opinion, was not a relevant question.	None
The provisions of the Constitution in this behalf are enabling in nature.	None
When a constitutionality of an enactment comes to be questioned, the superior courts are required to pose unto themselves the right question.	None
The question, in our opinion, should have been whether the statute is valid having been enacted to achieve the constitutional goal set out not only in Part III of the Constitution of India but also Part IV and IVA thereof.	None
The rights conferred upon the class of persons including the protected class, in terms of 1975 Act, were statutory in nature.	None
They cannot be categorized as plainly constitutional rights.	None
It is one thing to say that some rights are constitutional in nature origin being part of the expansive regime of Article 21, but, it would not be correct to raise the same to the exalted status of constitutional rights.	None
A right which primarily flows from a statute, cannot claim its constitutional pedigree to become a constitutional threshold, against which constitutionality of a statute can be tested.	None
It is trite that a right which may be conferred by a statute can also be taken away by another.	None
It is also a trite law that the State is entitled to change its legislative policy having regard to the ground realities and changing societal condition.	None
In fact, the legislature is expected to take steps for enacting a new statute or amending the same so as to keep pace with the changing societal condition as well as taking into consideration the development of law, both domestic and international.	None
The High Court, in our opinion, furthermore committed a serious error in opining that although the legislature had the legislative competence to enact Act 12 of 1999, but nevertheless, proviso to Sections 5(1) and 5(2) thereof would be held to be colourable.	None
The High Court should have examined the question of their constitutionality on the touchstone of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India and not on the premise that the said provisions are colourable in nature.	None
PRESIDENTIAL ASSENT It was held by the High Court that Presidential Assent was necessary and the 1999 Act was enacted to bypass the mandatory requirement of the Presidents Assent.	None
In determining the said issue, it again ought to have posed unto itself the right question, viz., whether the Presidential Assent was necessary for enacting a statute which came within the purview of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
The answer thereto must be rendered in negative.	None
The 1975 Act dealt with both agricultural and nonagricultural lands.	None
Transfer of land comes within the purview of Entry 6, List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
There exists a Parliamentary Act in that behalf, as for example, Transfer of Property Act.	None
Only because the 1975 Act could be held to be in conflict with the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act, the Presidential Assent was necessary having regard to Clause (2) of Article 254 of the Constitution of India but once the said statute is repealed and in its place a new Act is brought on the statute book, which comes strictly within the purview of Entry 49, List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, no Presidential Assent would be necessary.	None
Presidential Assent would be necessary for the purpose of amendment of the Act and not for enacting a separate statute which came within the purview of a different entry and a different List.	None
It is furthermore wellknown that Article 254 of the Constitution of India would be attracted only in a case where two statutes are enacted under the Concurrent List, viz., one by the State Legislature and the other by the Parliament of India, and not in any other case.	None
EFFECT OF ISSUANCE OF A WRIT OF MANDAMUS Before adverting to the said question, we may notice the background facts leading to the issuance of a writ of mandamus.	None
Admittedly the State was not implementing the provisions of the 1975 Act.	None
Dr. P. Nalla Thampy Thera filed O.P. No.8879 of 1988 for direction upon the State and its officers to implement the provisions of the 1975 Act.	None
The learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the State gave an undertaking to the effect that utmost steps would be taken for the disposal of the applications and that the Act would be enforced in all its rigour, on the basis whereof the Original Petition was allowed on 15th October, 1993 directing the State to give directions to the Authorities under the Act to dispose of the applications pending before them within six months of that date.	None
As the State had taken extension of time by an order dated 13th August, 1996, a learned Single Judge, inter alia, directed the Revenue Divisional Officers to cause delivery of the properties covered by orders for restoration against which no appeals were pending and in which no compensation was payable, forthwith and in any event within six weeks from that date.	None
A writ appeal was preferred thereagainst and an interim order of stay was passed on 11th October, 1996.	None
The matter was referred to a Full Bench.	None
We have noticed heretobefore the order dated 25th November, 1998.	None
We have also noticed the order of the Full Bench dated 6th January, 1999.	None
The High Court was, thus, aware of the impending legislation.	None
The extension of time was subject to a new legislation.	None
The 1975 Act was a conditional legislation.	None
It came into force with effect from 24th January, 1986.	None
Directions were issued only in regard to implementation of the statutory provisions It was not a case where by reason of issuance of writ of mandamus, certain benefits were conferred on a person or a group of persons.	None
In Madan Mohan Pathak (supra), the Calcutta High Court had issued a writ of mandamus directing the Life Insurance Corporation to pay annual cash bonus to Class III and Class IV employees for years April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976 along with their salary for the month of April, 1976 as provided by the Settlement.	None
The said decision attained finality as Letters Patent Appeal preferred thereagainst had been withdrawn by the Life Insurance Corporation.	None
In the meantime a Parliamentary Act, known as Life Insurance Corporation (Modification of Settlement) Act, 1976 came into force.	None
In the said factual backgrounds, it was held  	None
But before we proceed further, it would be convenient at this stage to refer to one other contention of the petitioner based on the judgment of the Calcutta High Court in Writ Petition 371 of 1976.	None
The contention was that since the Calcutta High Court had by its judgment dated May 21, 1976 issued a writ of mandamus directing the Life Insurance Corporation to pay annual cash bonus to Class III and Class IV employees for the year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976 along with their salary for the month of April, 1976 as provided by the Settlement and this judgment had become final by reason of withdrawal of the Letters Patent Appeal preferred against it, the Life Insurance Corporation was bound to obey the writ of mandamus and to pay annual cash bonus for the year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976 in accordance with the terms of clause 8(ii) of the Settlement.	None
It is, no doubt, true, said the petitioners, that the impugned Act, if valid, struck at clause 8(ii) of the Settlement and rendered it ineffective and without force with effect from April 1, 1975 but it did not have the effect of absolving the Life Insurance Corporation from its obligation to carry out the writ of mandamus.	None
There was, according to the petitioners, nothing in the impugned Act which set at naught the effect of the judgment of the Calcutta High Court or the binding character of the writ of mandamus issued against the Life Insurance Corporation.	None
This contention of the petitioners requires serious consideration and we are inclined to accept it.	None
It is significant to note that there was no reference to the judgment of the Calcutta High Court in the Statement of Objects and Reasons, nor any non obstante clause referring to a judgment of a Court in Section 3 of the impugned Act.	None
The attention of Parliament does not appear to have been drawn to the fact that the Calcutta High Court has already issued a writ of mandamus commanding the Life Insurance Corporation to pay the amount of bonus for the year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976.	None
It appears that unfortunately the judgment of the Calcutta High Court remained almost unnoticed and the impugned Act was passed in ignorance of that judgment.	None
Section 3 of the impugned Act provided that the provisions of the Settlement insofar as they relate to payment of annual cash bonus to Class III and Class IV employees shall not have any force or effect and shall not be deemed to have had any force or effect from April 1, 1975.	None
But the writ of mandamus issued by the Calcutta High Court directing the Life Insurance Corporation to pay the amount of bonus for the year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976 remained untouched by the impugned Act.	None
So far as the right of Class III and Class IV employees to annual cash bonus for the year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976 was concerned, it became crystallised in the judgment and thereafter they became entitled to enforce the writ of mandamus granted by the judgment and not any right to annual cash bonus under the Settlement.	None
This right under the judgment was not sought to be taken away by the impugned Act.	None
The judgment continued to subsist and the Life Insurance Corporation was bound to pay annual cash bonus to Class III and Class IV employees for the year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976 in obedience to the writ of mandamus.	None
The error committed by the Life Insurance Corporation was that it withdrew the Letters Patent Appeal and allowed the judgment of the learned Single Judge to become final.	None
By the time the Letters Patent Appeal came up for hearing, the impugned Act had already come into force and the Life Insurance Corporation could, therefore, have successfully contended in the Letters Patent Appeal that, since the Settlement, insofar as it provided for payment of annual cash bonus, was annihilated by the impugned Act with effect from April 1, 1975, Class III and Class IV employees were not entitled to annual cash bonus for the year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976 and hence no writ of mandamus could issue directing the Life Insurance Corporation to make payment of such bonus.	None
If such contention had been raised, there is little doubt, subject of course to any constitutional challenge to the validity of the impugned Act, that the judgment of the learned Single Judge would have been upturned and the writ petition dismissed.	None
But on account of some inexplicable reason, which is difficult to appreciate, the Life Insurance Corporation did not press the Letters Patent Appeal and the result was that the judgment of the learned Single Judge granting writ of mandamus became final and binding on the parties.	None
It is difficult to see how in these circumstances the Life Insurance Corporation could claim to be absolved from the obligation imposed by the judgment to carry out the writ of mandamus by relying on the impugned Act Madan Mohan Pathak (supra) has been followed in P. Venugopal v. Union of India, (2008) 5 SCC 1 , wherein it was opined  As in Mohan Pathak case (para 8), as quoted hereinabove, in the instant case also Parliament does not seem to have been apprised about the pendency of the proceedings before the Delhi High Court and this Court and declaration made and directions issued by the Delhi High Court at different stages.	None
In the impugned amendment, there is no non obstante clause.	None
The impugned amendment introducing the proviso, therefore, cannot be treated to be a validating Act.	None
A distinction must be made between issuance of writ of mandamus conferring right upon a person or class of persons and the one directing implementation of the Act.	None
However, in this case while the learned Single Judge of the High Court issued a direction that the applications filed by the members of the Scheduled Tribes should be determined by the Revenue Authorities in terms of the provisions of the 1975 Act the same, in our opinion, did not mean that the High Court itself had issued a writ of mandamus directing restoration of the lands in question.	None
As in most of the cases members of the Scheduled Tribes have not been paid compensation through their vendees in terms of the provisions of 1975 Act.	None
They did not attain finality.	None
If that be so, in our opinion question of invoking the decision of Madan Mohan Pathak (supra) in the factual matrix involved herein does not arise.	None
Further, it is one thing to say that a writ of mandamus shall be obeyed despite passing of a subsequent Act as it had attained finality or that it had not been brought to the notice of the Legislature, but it is another thing to say that no writ of mandamus was issued conferring rights upon the parties.	None
Directions to implement the provisions of the Act by itself did not confer any right upon the parties.	None
The lis has to be adjudicated upon.	None
It did not attain finality in that sense of the term.	None
We may notice that scope of Madan Mohan Pathak (supra) has been explained in Indian Aluminium Co. (supra), stating  	None
In Madan Mohan Pathak v. Union of India, on the basis of a settlement, bonus became payable by the LIC to its Class III and Class IV employees.	None
In a writ, a Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court issued mandamus directing payment of bonus as provided in the settlement.	None
During the pendency of letters patent appeal, LIC (Modification of Settlement) Act, 1976 was enacted denying bonus payable to the employees.	None
The appeal was withdrawn.	None
The validity of 1976 Act was challenged in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.	None
A Bench of seven Judges had held that Parliament was not aware of the mandamus issued by the court and it was declared that the 1976 Act was void and writ of mandamus was issued to obey the mandamus by implementing or enforcing the provisions of that Act and directed payment of bonus in terms of the settlement.	None
It was pointed out that there was no reference to the judgment of the High Court in the Statement of Objects and Reasons, nor any non obstante clause referring to the judgment of the Court was made in Section 3 of the Act.	None
Attention of Parliament was not drawn to the mandamus issued by the High Court.	None
When the mandamus issued by the High Court became final, the 1976 Act was held invalid.	None
Shri R.F. Nariman laid special emphasis on the observations of learned Chief Justice Beg who in a separate judgment had pointed out that the basis of the mandamus issued by the court could not be taken away by indirect fashion as observed at p. 743, C to F. From the observations made by Bhagwati, J. per majority, it is clear that this Court did not intend to lay down that Parliament, under no circumstance, has power to amend the law removing the vice pointed out by the court.	None
Equally, the observation of Chief Justice Beg is to be understood in the context that as long as the effect of mandamus issued by the court is not legally and constitutionally made ineffective, the State is bound to obey the directions.	None
Thus understood, it is unexceptionable.	None
But it does not mean that the learned Chief Justice intended to lay down the law that mandamus issued by court cannot at all be made ineffective by a valid law made by the legislature, removing the defect pointed out by the court.	None
Madan Mohan Pathak (supra), thus, stood explained in Indian Aluminium Co. v. State of Kerala (supra) to be understood in the context that as long as the effect of mandamus issued by the court is not legally and constitutionally made ineffective, the State is bound to obey the directions.	None
Yet again, in National Agricultural Coop.	None
Marketing Federation of India Ltd. v. Union of India, (2003) 5 SCC 23 , explaining Madan Mohan Pathak, it has been held  The decision is an authority for the principle that a judicial decision which has become final inter partes, cannot be set at naught by legislative action, a principle that is well entrenched.	None
Therefore, if, as has been contended by the appellant, the High Court in 1981 had in proceedings between the appellant and the Revenue held that the appellant was entitled to the benefit of the deduction under Section 80 P(2)(a)(iii) of the Act, and the Revenue has not impugned the High Courts decision, that decision binds the parties for the assessment years in question and cannot be reopened because of the 1998 Amendment.	None
This principle, however, does not in any way detract from the principle that the legislature may cure the statute so that it more correctly represents its intention.	None
Such curative legislation does not in fact touch the validity of a judicial decision which may have attained finality albeit under the preamended law.	None
In Mylapore Club v. State of T.N. (2005) 12 SCC 752 , P.K. Balasubramanyan, J opined  The power to legislate is a plenary power vested in the legislature and unless those who challenge the legislation clearly establish that their fundamental rights under the Constitution are affected or that the legislature lacked legislative competence, they would not succeed in their challenge to the enactment brought forward in the wisdom of the legislature.	None
Conferment of a right to claim the benefit of a statute, being not a vested right, the same could be withdrawn by the legislature which made the enactment.	None
It could not be said that the Amendment Act lacked either legislative competence or that it is unconstitutional.	None
Where a new Act is enacted removing the very basis on which the High Court made a preceding Act invalid it matters not whether the same is not termed as a validating statute or not.	None
In this case, however, in our opinion, such a question does not arise as the 1975 Act was not declared to be invalid.	None
In Bakhtawar Trust v. M.D. Narayan, (2003) 5 SCC 298 this Court held  	None
In order to validate an executive action or any provision of a statute, it is not sufficient for the legislature to declare that a judicial pronouncement given by a court of law would not be binding, as the legislature does not possess that power.	None
A decision of a court of law has a binding effect unless the very basis upon which it is given is so altered that the said decision would not have been given in the changed circumstances.	None
The reason is not far to seek.	None
The Legislature can not overrule a judgment but it can remove the basis on which the judgment has been rendered.	None
The Act was implemented both in respect of those who had two acres of land and those who had more.	None
The 1999 Act removes the basis for passing of the judgments so far as the applications for restoration filed by Members of the Scheduled Tribes in regard to their lands which was less than 2 hectares is concerned.	None
It provides that the term land would mean only agricultural land and the application for restoration shall lie only in case where the extent of the land exceed two hectares.	None
(See Section 2(b) and Section 5 of 1999 Act).	None
Admittedly, the 1999 Act was made effective retrospectively from 24th day of January, 1986.	None
It contains a Repeal and Savings clause.	None
In that view of the matter, in our opinion, it was not necessary to term the statute as a validating statute containing a nonobstante clause.	None
It is difficult to conceive, having regard to the orders issued by the Full Bench, that the Legislature were not aware of the orders passed by the High Court.	None
In any event the Full Bench of the High Court has stated that the directions issued by it would be subject to the new enactment.	None
We, therefore, are of the opinion that Madan Mohan Pathak (supra) has no application to the present cases.	None
VESTED RIGHT VISVIS ARTICLE 14	None
A vested right has been defined in P. Ramanatha Aiyars Advanced Law Lexicon, 3rd edition, page 4888, in the following terms Vested rights.	None
Property rights.	None
The expression vested right means an absolute or indefeasible right.	None
It is an immediate fixed right in present or future enjoyment in respect of property.	None
The claim based on the vested right or settled expectation to obtain sanction cannot be set up against statutory provisions.	None
It cannot be countenanced against public interest and conveniences which are sought to be served.	None
In Southern Petrochemical Industries Co. Ltd. v. Electricity Inspector ETIO (2007) 5 SCC 447 , this Court held Furthermore, exemption from payment of tax in favour of the appellants herein would also constitute a right or privilege.	None
The expression privilege has a wider meaning than right.	None
A right may be a vested right or an accrued right or an acquired right.	None
Nature of such a right would depend upon and also vary from statute to statute.	None
It has been so held by this Court, while construing Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, in Gurcharan Singh Baldev Singh v. Yashwant Singh in the following terms (SCC p. 432, para 3)	None
The objective of the provision is to ensure protection of any right or privilege acquired under the repealed Act.	None
The only exception to it is legislative intention to the contrary.	None
That is, the repealing Act may expressly provide or it may impliedly provide against continuance of such right, obligation or liability.	None
See also Kusumam Hotels Private Limited v. Kerala State Electricity Board and Others (2008) 13 SCC 213 and State of Punjab and Others v. Bhajan Kaur and Others (2008) 12 SCC 112	None
The question as to whether the members of Scheduled Tribe had a vested right or not, may now be considered.	None
The properties were sold by them to persons who were not the members of the Schedule Tribes long back.	None
Such transactions, when entered into, were valid being not barred by any statute.	None
The vendees, thus, acquired indefeasible right.	None
They, however, were invalidated by Section 5 of the 1975 Act.	None
The consequence of rendition of such transactions as invalid was to restore the lands back to possession of the tribals wherefor certain procedural requirements were to be complied with.	None
The 1975 Act, however, was only brought into force in 1986, that too with retrospective effect from 1982.	None
In the meanwhile, many purchasers again acquired prescriptive rights.	None
It was furthermore made effective only when the Rules were framed in 1986.	None
The right of restoration was of two kinds, one, in respect of agricultural land and the other in regard to nonagricultural land.	None
We intend to deal with them separately.	None
Indisputably, despite the 1975 Act having been brought in force and the Rules having been framed for the effective implementation thereof, the State and the Revenue Officers took no steps for implementation therefor for a long time.	None
The process started only when a writ of mandamus was issued by the High Court.	None
For its implementation, the substance of the proceedings has been noticed by us heretobefore.	None
The 1975 Act and the 1986 Rules provided for several stages.	None
The procedure laid down in the 1986 Rules consists of filing of application for restoration, calling for objections, determination of the issues, filing of appeals.	None
Once that stage reached finality, the applicants are required to pay compensation to the land holder in terms of Section 9 of the 1975 Act which was a condition precedent therefor.	None
The 1975 Act contemplated raising of loan from the government by the members of the Scheduled Tribe, subject to the conditions laid down in the Rules.	None
The procedure for grant of loan and consequent payment of compensation to the owners of land was a precondition for actual restoration thereof.	None
When, thus, loans are raised and amount of compensation is paid to the transferees, in our opinion, only then the vested right for getting back possession of the lands gets accrued and not prior thereto.	None
We say so because the 1975 Act itself provides for a statute depriving the land holders from a right of property, which is otherwise protected by reason of Article 300A of the Constitution of India.	None
It is also a human right.	None
See Vimlaben Ajitbhai Patel v. Vatslaben Ashokbhai Patel and Others (2008) 4 SCC 649 and Union of India Ors.	None
v. M s. Martin Lottery Agencies Ltd. (2009 4 SCALE 34	None
The provisions of the 1975 Act, therefore, deserve strict construction.	None
Although we are not required to consider the validity of the 1975 Act stricto sensu, we may place on record that even the decisions of this Court have declared similar provisions to be intra vires.	None
Before, however, we advert thereto, we would like to make some general observations.	None
No territory in the State of Kerala has been declared as Scheduled Area within the meaning of Article 244 read with the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
A distinction, thus, must be borne in mind in regard to the enactments which deal with tribal areas and which do not.	None
If a law (e.g. Scheduled Area Regulation Act) deals with the tribal areas, the same amends provisions of the other Acts including the Limitation Act, 1963.	None
If a person is in possession of a land, which he had obtained by reason of a valid transaction as it then was, which was subsequently sought to be invalidated, he would ordinarily receive protection by reason of doctrine of prescription provided for under the Limitation Act, by reason whereof if he has been in possession thereof for a period of more than 12 years, he would have acquired an indefeasible right thereto despite the fact that the transaction has been invalidated by a later Act.	None
It was so held in Manchegowda (supra).	None
Therein, a distinction was made between a defeasible right and an indefeasible right and this Court was concerned with a transaction which was voidable in nature.	None
It is, however, not a case where a transfer has been made in contravention of the terms of the grant or any law, regulation or rule governing such grant which could be legally avoided or possession thereof could be recovered through process of law.	None
Therein, this Court clearly held Though we have come to the conclusion that the Act is valid, yet, in our opinion, we have to make certain aspects clear.	None
Granted lands which had been transferred after the expiry of the period of prohibition do not come within the purview of the Act, and cannot be proceeded against under the provisions of this Act.	None
The provisions of the Act make this position clear, as Sections 4 and 5 become applicable only when granted lands are transferred in breach of the condition relating to prohibition on transfer of such granted lands.	None
Granted lands transferred before the commencement of the Act and not in contravention of prohibition on transfer are clearly beyond the scope and purview of the present Act.	None
Also in case where granted lands had been transferred before the commencement of the Act in violation of the condition regarding prohibition on such transfer and the transferee who had initially acquired only a voidable title in such granted lands had perfected his title in the granted lands by prescription by long and continuous enjoyment thereof in accordance with law before the commencement of the Act, such granted lands would also not come within the purview of the present Act, as the title of such transferees to the granted lands has been perfected before the commencement of the Act.	None
Since at the date of the commencement of the Act the title of such transferees had ceased to be voidable by reason of acquisition of prescriptive rights on account of long and continued user for the requisite period, the title of such transferees could not be rendered void by virtue of the provisions of the Act without violating the constitutional guarantee.	None
We must, therefore, read down the provisions of the Act by holding that the Act will apply to transfers of granted lands made in breach of the condition imposing prohibition on transfer of granted lands only in those cases where the title acquired by the transferee was still voidable at the date of the commencement of the Act and had not lost its defeasible character at the date when the Act came into force.	None
Transferees of granted lands having a perfected and not a voidable title at the commencement of the Act must be held to be outside the pale of the provisions of the Act.	None
Section 4 of the Act must be so construed as not to have the effect of rendering void the title of any transferee which was not voidable at the date of the commencement of the Act.	None
In Lingappa (supra), this Court held The impugned Act in its true nature and character is a law relating to transfers and alienations of agricultural lands by members of Scheduled Tribes in the State to persons not belonging to Scheduled Tribes.	None
Such a law does not fall within Entries 6 and 7 in List III but is within Entry 18 in List II.	None
We may here set out Entries 6 and 7 in List III Transfer of property other than agricultural land registration of deeds and documents.	None
Contracts, including partnership, agency, contracts of carriage, and other special forms of contracts, but not including contracts relating to agricultural lands.	None
The words other than agricultural land in Entry 6 and the words but not including contracts relating to agricultural land in Entry 7 in List III have the effect of delimiting the legislative power of the Union to make a law with respect to transfers and alienations of agricultural lands or with respect to contracts in relation thereto.	None
The power to legislate cannot be denied to the State on the ground that the provisions of Sections 3(1) and 4 which provide for annulment of transfers by tribals incidentally trench upon the existing law, namely, the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 or a law made by Parliament viz.	None
the Specific Relief Act, 1963.	None
The power of the State Legislature to make a law with respect to transfer and alienation of agricultural land under Entry 18 in List II carries with it not only a power to make a law placing restrictions on transfers and alienations of such lands including a prohibition thereof, but also the power to make a law to reopen such transfers and alienations.	None
Such a law was clearly within the legislative competence of the State Legislature being relatable to Entry 18 in List II of the Seventh Schedule.	None
It was observed That apart, members of Scheduled Tribes i.e. tribals who are mostly aboriginals constitute a distinct class who need a special protection of the State.	None
Further, the question as to how far and by what stages such laws are to be implemented involves a matter of policy and therefore beyond the domain of the courts.	None
Secondly, the Act no doubt makes a distinction between a nontribal transferee who had diverted the lands obtained by him under a transfer from a tribal during the period from April 1, 1957 to July 6, 1974 and had put such lands to nonagricultural purpose, and other nontribal transferees who got into possession under transfers effected by tribals during the same period but continued to use the lands for agricultural purposes.	None
There is no question of any differential treatment between two classes of persons equally situate.	None
When a part of the land is diverted to a nonagricultural purpose viz.	None
the construction of a dwelling house or the setting up of an industry, the State Legislature obviously could not have made a law for annulment of transfer of such lands by tribals under Entry 18 in List II as the lands having been diverted to nonagricultural purposes ceased to be agricultural lands.	None
In the case of such nonagricultural land, if the State Legislature made such a law it would not be effective unless it was reserved for the assent of the President and received such assent.	None
Therein, thus, this Court found that Subsection (1) of Section 3 of Maharashtra Restoration of Lands to Scheduled Tribes Act, 1974 made detailed provision to strike a balance between the mutual rights and obligations of the parties, upon making of an order for restoration of such land to the members of the Scheduled Tribes.	None
It was furthermore held that the said Act having been placed in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution of India, the validity thereof could not have been challenged for contravention of Articles 14, 19(1)(f) or Article 31 of the Constitution of India.	None
Yet again in P. Rami Reddy and Others v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Others (1988) 3 SCC 433 , there existed a law prohibiting transfer in the agency tract areas, viz., the Agency Tracts Interest and Land Transfer Act, 1917.	None
Those areas were notified as Scheduled Areas after coming into force of the Constitution by reason of the Scheduled Area (Part A States) Order, 1950.	None
By reason of the power conferred on the Governor of the State by Para 5(2) of the Fifth Schedule, the regulations named as A.P. Scheduled Areas Land Transfer Regulation, 1959 were made.	None
In the aforementioned backdrop, it was opined 19The community cannot shut its eyes to the fact that the competition between the tribals and the nontribals partakes of the character of a race between a handicapped onelegged person and an ablebodied twolegged person.	None
True, transfer by nontribals to nontribals would not diminish the pool.	None
It would maintain status quo.	None
But is it sufficient or fair enough to freeze the exploitative deprivation of the tribals and thereby legalize and perpetuate the past wrong instead of effacing the same?	None
As a matter of fact it would be unjust, unfair and highly unreasonable merely to freeze the situation instead of reversing the injustice and restoring the status quo ante.	None
The provisions merely command that if a land holder voluntarily and on his own volition is desirous of alienating the land, he may do so only in favour of a tribal.	None
It would be adding insult to injury to impose such a disability only on the tribals (the victims of oppression and exploitation themselves) and discriminate against them in this regard whilst leaving the nontribals to thrive on the fruits of their exploitation at the cost of tribals.	None
The non tribal economic exploiters cannot be installed on the pedestal of immunity and accorded a privileged treatment by permitting them to transfer the lands and structures, if any, raised on such lands, to nontribals and make profits at the cost of the tribals.	None
It would not only tantamount to perpetuating the exploitation and injustice, it would tantamount to placing premium on the exploitation and injustice perpetrated by the non tribals.	None
Thus it would be the height of unreasonableness to impose the disability only on the tribals whilst leaving out the nontribals.	None
It would also be counterproductive to do so.	None
However, in K.T. Huchegowda v. Dy. Commissioner (1994) 3 SCC 536 , this Court held On a plain reading, granted land will mean, any land granted by the Government to a person, who is a member of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes which includes land allotted to such persons.	None
Grant may be of different types it may be by absolute transfer of the interest of the State Government to the person concerned it may be only by transfer of the possession of the land, by way of allotment, without conveying the title over such land of the State Government.	None
If by grant, the transferee has acquired absolute title to the land in question from the State Government, then subject to protection provided by the different provisions of the Act, he will be subject to the same period of limitation as is prescribed for other citizens by the provisions of the Limitation Act, in respect of extinguishment of title over land by adverse possession.	None
On the other hand, if the land has been allotted by way of grant and the title remains with the State Government, then to extinguish the title that has remained of the State Government by adverse possession, by a transferee on the basis of an alienation made in his favour by an allottee, the period of limitation shall be 30 years.	None
Incidentally, it may be mentioned that some of the States in order to protect the members of the Scheduled Tribes from being dispossessed from the lands which belong to them and of which they are absolute owners, for purpose of extinguishment of their title by adverse possession, have prescribed special period of limitation, saying that it shall be 30 years.	None
In Bihar, vide Regulation No. 1 of 1969, in Article 65 of the Limitation Act, it has been prescribed that it would be 30 years in respect of immovable property belonging to a member of the Scheduled Tribes as specified in Part III to the Schedule to the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950.	None
There is no dispute that so far as the Act with which we are concerned, no special period of limitation has been prescribed, in respect of lands which have been granted to the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes with absolute ownership by the State Government.	None
In this background, when this Court in the case of Sunkara Rajayalakshmi v. State of Karnataka said that the period of limitation, which has to be taken into account for the purpose of determining, whether the title has been perfected by prescription, shall be that which runs against the State Government and therefore it would be 30 years and not 12 years, has to be read in context with the lands, the ownership whereof, has not been transferred absolutely, to the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes the lands having been only allotted to them, the title remaining with the State Government.	None
The cases where the transfer by the State Government by way of grant has been absolute, then unless there is an amendment so far the period of limitation is concerned, it is not possible to apply the special limitation of 30 years, so far such grantees are concerned, when the question to be determined, is as to whether a transferee in contravention of the terms of the grant, has perfected his title by remaining in continuous and adverse possession.	None
The transferee, who has acquired the land from the grantee, in contravention of the terms of the grant shall perfect his title by adverse possession by completing the period of 12 years.	None
When this Court said in its main judgment, in the case of Manchegowda v. State of Karnataka that in cases where granted lands had been transferred before the commencement of the Act in violation of the condition, regarding prohibition on such transfer and the transferee who had initially acquired only a voidable title, in such granted lands had perfected his title in the granted lands by prescription by long and continuous enjoyment thereof in accordance with law before the commencement of the Act, has to be read, for purpose of determining the period of limitation in respect of lands granted with absolute ownership, to mean 12 years and grant by way of allotment without transfer of the ownership in favour of the grantee, to mean 30 years.	None
See also Papaiah v. State of Karnataka (1996) 10 SCC 533	None
The statutory provisions, therefore, must be interpreted in the light of the constitutional provisions.	None
The decisions of this Court, therefore, are clear and unambiguous.	None
In a case involving members of the Scheduled Tribe living in Scheduled Area the period of limitation can be extended, but it is not permissible in respect of an area which has not been declared to be a Scheduled Area.	None
When a person acquires an indefeasible right, he can be deprived therefrom only by taking recourse to the doctrine of Eminent Domain.	None
If a person is sought to be deprived of an indefeasible right acquired by him, he should be paid an amount of compensation.	None
In a case of this nature, therefore, where an amount of compensation has not actually been tendered, the vendees of the land could not be deprived of their right to be dispossessed.	None
In that view of the matter, a distinction must be made between a case where an amount of compensation has been paid and in a case where it has not been.	None
If a vested right has not been taken away, the question of applicability of Article 14 of the Constitution of India would not arise.	None
The High Court, however, proceeded to apply Article 14 of the Constitution of India on the premise that the provisions of the 1999 Act clearly seek to destroy the right conferred on Scheduled Area by Act 31 of 1975.	None
The approach of the High Court being not correct, the same cannot be sustained.	None
REASON FOR AMENDMENT This brings us to the question as to whether the 1999 Act is invalid inter alia because the State was apprehensive that the assignees may offer organized resistance for implementation of the 1975 Act and the State wanted to avert a conflict between the tribals and the nontribals.	None
The short answer to the said question is that the State cannot shut its eyes to the ground realities.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons would clearly show that the State did not take an action in a halfhearted manner.	None
It consulted the tribal organizations.	None
It is stated in its Counter Affidavit by the State before the High Court as under Under the above circumstances, urgent steps were taken to have discussion with the various tribal organisations did not insist upon getting the very same land that had been alienated but would prefer to obtain an equal extent of land from the Government.	None
Many organisations did not insist that the Act 31 of 1975 should be implemented in its original form.	None
The Government also had serious discussions with various political parties and other concerned with tribal welfare.	None
Discussions were also held with the present occupants of the alienated tribal lands.	None
On the basis of the discussions and deliberations the Government thought it proper to introduce a suitable legislation which would adequately take care of the interests of the Tribals and also find a solution to the problems of landlessness and homelessness of the Tribals.	None
Accordingly, the Kerala Restriction on transfer by and Restoration of Land to the Scheduled Tribes Act, 1999 was introduced in the State Assembly and the same was unanimously passed by the Assembly.	Facts
The Bill became an Act (Act 12 of 1999) on 20.4.1999.	None
If the contention of the State is correct that most of the tribal organizations did not insist upon getting the same land that they had been alienated from but would have preferred to have alternate land allotted to them by the government and as many organizations insisted that the 1975 Act may not be implemented in its original form, we think that action of the State cannot be termed to be arbitrary so as to attract the wrath of the equality clause contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
While doing so, the State had taken into consideration the change in the situation by reason of passage of time.	None
The tribals had been out of possession of their lands for decades.	None
It was for the elected representatives of the people to determine as to whether by reason of the provisions of the 1999 Act the members of the Scheduled Tribe would face dislocation or that it would impinge on their culture connected with their lands.	None
The ground realities are presumed to be known to the State and if anybody raises a contrary contention, it would be for him to bring on record sufficient materials to show so as to enable the court to arrive at a conclusion that the States action was arbitrary.	None
It is furthermore a wellsettled principle of law that the superior court in exercise of their power of judicial review of legislation would not ordinarily determine the merit of the legislation by entering into a broad question as to whether materials placed before the Legislature were sufficient for bringing out the legislation in question or not.	None
Such inquisitorial inquiry on the part of the court, in our opinion, is beyond the province of the court.	None
BENEFICIENT NATURE OF THE 1999 ACT VISAVS 1975 ACT The 1999 Act, in our opinion, is more beneficial in nature so far as the people of the State of Kerala are concerned.	None
The 1975 Act came into force with retrospective effect from 1.01.1982.	None
But, as noticed hereinbefore, the Rules were framed only on 18.10.1986.	None
Act 12 of 1999, however, came into force on 20.04.1999 but was given a retrospective effect and retroactive operation from 24.01.1986.	None
We heretobelow may notice a comparative chart of the salient provisions of the two Acts Act 31/75  Came into force on Act 12/99 came into force 01.01.1982 Pages 135  142 on 20.04.1999 Page Nos.161  169, but deemed to have come into force on 24.01.1986 2(b) Immovable property defined 2(4) Section as including standing crops and trees.	None
Act applies to such Land defined means property agricultural land  Act applies to such land.	None
Transfer of any immovable 4.	None
Transfer of any land (i.e. property by a tribal to a non Agricultural land) by tribal tribal without previous consent to nontribal after of competent authority after commencement of Act commencement of the Act shall without previous consent of be void.	None
competent authority shall be void.	None
Transfer of immovable property 5.	None
(1) Transfer of land by tribal by Tribal to non tribal after to non tribal after 01.01.1960 shall be deemed to 01.01.1960 and before Act be invalid shall be deemed to be invalid.	None
Proviso	None
But this will not invalidate transfers where the extent of land transferred does not exceed two hectares Notwithstanding (1) above, where the land transferred is used for agriculture purpose the transferor may retain the transferred land or 2 Hectres to be demarcated by the RDO.	None
6(1)	None
The Tribal whose transfer is 6 Styled as allotment of land.	None
invalidated under Sections 4 and 5 shall be entitled to restoration 1)	None
Tribal who has effected of possession of the property.	None
transfer of land between Sub Section (5) provide for a 01.01.1960 and 2.4.1986 and remedy of appeal to the aggrieved persons to the a) who has filed an competent authority.	None
application for restoration u s. 6 of Act 31 of 1975 b) but whose possession has not been restored.	None
c) and which transfer has been validated by the provisions of Sec.5 above shall be entitled to allotment of equal extent of land by Government to the extent of 40 Ares.	None
Govt.	None
may take Suomoto action Proviso for restoration Where the extent of land to be so allotted is less than 40 Ares (One Acre) Government will make further allotment to make the total extent 40 Ares.	None
Where possession is restored to 7.	None
Where a transfer of land is tribal under Section 6 he shall invalidated U s.4 and 5 of pay to the quantum transferee	None
the Tribal is entitled to the consideration received as restoration of such land.	None
also the value of the improvement effected by the transferee as determined by the competent authority.	None
Government may advance loans Subsection 2 to 4 prescribe to tribal for payment of the the procedure for restoration amount u s.11 to be repaid in with a right of appeal under half yearly or annual instalment sub section 6 (Akin to and to be recovered as an arrear section 6 of Act 31 of 75) of land revenue if kept in arrears.	None
8. 1	None
Similar to section 11 of Act 31 of 75) Government shall provide grant to eligible tribal liable to pay the amount under Section 8. 10.	None
(1) Government shall assign land to landless tribal families not exceeding 40 Ares in extent in his own district within two years or extended time.	None
If any family owns land below 40 Ares I extent Govt.	None
to assign such extent of land as is necessary to make up 40 Ares.	None
Schedule Tribe rehabilitation and Welfare Fund to be constituted for construction of houses for tribal families and for other welfare measures.	None
Provision for legal assistance 22 Repeal of Act 31 of 1975 with usual saving clause.	None
Broadly, speaking, the provisions of the 1999 Act are more beneficial to the members of the Scheduled Tribe.	None
For determining the said question, we must take a holistic view of the matter.	None
However, we are not oblivious of the fact that restoration in respect of nonagricultural land and to the extent of 2 acres are not contemplated by the 1999 Act.	None
We are also not oblivious of the fact that, it would appear, on the basis of the statistics furnished by the learned Additional Advocate General before the High Court, to which we have referred to heretobefore itself that a large number of members of the Scheduled Tribe would be deprived of the benefit of restoration of their own lands constituted in forest areas.	None
In the counteraffidavit filed by the State, it is stated It is submitted that the Government found that Act 31 of 1975 would not really serve the purpose of ameliorating the problems of the scheduled tribes and might instead lead to law and order situation in various parts of the State.	None
After a comprehensive study of the matter the Government passed Act 12 of 1999.	None
The allegation that the intention of Act 12 of 1999 is other than protection of the rights of schedule tribes is incorrect and denied.	None
A reading of all the provisions of the Act 12 of 1999 would make it clear that the legislature has kept the over all interests of the tribals and all the people of the State is general while enacting Act 12 of 1999.	None
It is submitted that no right conferred by Act 31 of 1975 has been taken away by Act 12 of 1999.	None
The allegation that Act 12 of 1999 is meant to protect the right of tribals is incorrect and is denied.	None
It is submitted that the various provisions of Act 12 of 1999 had already been delineated elsewhere in the counter affidavit and the reasons for the enactment of Act 12 of 1999 have also been explained.	None
Out of 4724 applications for restoration filed, 1475 applications involved transfer of less than 50 cents, 898 applications involved transfer of extent between 50 cents and 1 acre, 904 applications covered cases of transfer of extent between 1 and 2 acres and 1074 applications related to transfer of extent between 2 acres and 5 acres and that only 373 applications involved cases of transfer of more than 5 acres or 2 hectares.	None
The State has clearly brought on record the fact that it had conducted further studies wherefrom it came to learn that about 12,000 tribal families in the State did not possess any land of their own and 30,000 families did not have any house of their own.	None
It is necessary, according to us, to bear in mind that the law postulates grant of compensation in a case where the right on a land is sought to be taken away.	None
The 1975 Act postulates grant of compensation to the alienees, the amount wherefor was required to be determined by a competent authority.	None
The amount of compensation so determined was to be paid by the members of the Scheduled Tribe to their vendees in respect whereof he was to take loan from the State.	None
The amount of loan taken was, thus, required to be repaid.	None
The 1999 Act, however, provides for a grant which need not be repaid.	None
The members of the Scheduled Tribe were further to get one acre of land from the State although they might have transferred even 5 or 10 cents of land.	None
In the case of a transfer made upto two acres, he is to be allotted two acres of land by the State.	None
Whether such land is available with the State Government or not is a different question, which we intend to deal with separately.	None
The statute also contemplates building of houses for the members of the Scheduled Tribes.	None
It provides that the land to the extent of one acre also be provided to the landless tribals.	None
It contemplates constitution of a rehabilitation fund.	None
The 1999 Act, therefore, if given a holistic view, is more beneficial to the members of the Scheduled Tribe than the 1975 Act.	None
If the State contemplated a legislative policy for grant of more benefits to a vast section of people, taking care of not only restoration of land but those who have not transferred any land at all or otherwise landless, the statute by no stretch of imagination can be treated to be an arbitrary and an unreasonable one.	None
ARTICLE 21 ISSUE Article 21 deals with right to life and liberty.	None
Would it bring within its umbrage a right of tribals to be rehabilitated in their own habitat is the question?	None
If the answer is to be rendered in the affirmative, then, for no reason whatsoever even an inch of land belonging to a member of Scheduled Tribe can ever be acquired.	None
Furthermore, a distinction must be borne between a right of rehabilitation required to be provided when the land of the members of the Scheduled Tribe are acquired visvis a prohibition imposed upon the State from doing so at all.	None
The question must be considered from another angle.	None
The Scheduled Tribes are not in an agency area or Scheduled Area.	None
The literacy rate of the tribals of Kerala is 57 which is much more than the national average.	None
Most of the tribal children have elementary education.	None
In the schools and colleges of Kerala, Malayalam, Tamil or English is taught.	None
It has been noticed by various writers that the tribal teachers have not been interacting with the students in the tribal terms and, thus, gradually the tribal students have lost respect for their language and begun to disregard their language, their culture and, thus, their own primitive way of life.	None
See Tribes of Kerala  Identity Crisis by Rayson K. Alex	None
The learned author states What is the criterion for the government to label a tribe as a scheduled tribe in the constitution?	None
Has the government conducted a detailed study on the culture, traditions, their interrelationship with the place they live in, their socioeconomic structures and judiciary before labeling them as scheduled tribes?	None
The reason for this categorization can be attributed to their supposed backwardness and not their distinct identity from the dominant society of the country.	None
Without taking into consideration aforementioned aspects of the culture of the tribes, to create awareness and to finally develop (in the narrow sense of the word) them, the tribes were forced to merge and condition themselves along the lines of the so called mainstream Indian society.	None
When that was challenged, the ideologues of the aggressing society presented the theory of integration which in reality is the other side of the same coin.	None
And now has come the final blow from the armory of the India state for the indigenous people of the country in the form of total denial of their existence in India.	None
India does not have indigenous population Thus declared the Indian Permanent Mission in the United Nation in Geneva (Mullick et al 7).	None
This is not an argument made to showcase the tribes of Kerala as scheduled tribes.	None
Now a question of serious importance can be raised Is there a need to uphold preserve this indigenous culture?	None
The outer (can be read as other) influences have spread their roots so strong that their minds have been colonized (can be read as altered).	None
Even though the tribes carry wonderful memories of their rich past, they do not want to be in the same situation as they were in days of yore.	None
So, the need for conservation of the tribal culture is the problem of the nontribes, especially the researchers, scholars and activists working in this area.	None
Intentionally or unintentionally, changes are the only constant feature of any culture.	None
It can be observed that no culture can retain its flavor at different points of time.	None
But the questions to be addressed to the mainstream and its government are Are the tribes given freedom to accept or deny what ever they want?	None
Are they given a free space to think, act and establish (as they used to in days of yore?)	None
We may notice that in Indigenous and Tribal Populations Convention, 1957 which has been ratified by 27 countries including India contained following clauses Article 11	None
The right of ownership, collective or individual, of the members of the populations concerned over the lands which these populations traditionally occupy shall be recognised.	None
Article 12	None
The populations concerned shall not be removed without their free consent from their habitual territories except in accordance with national laws and regulations for reasons relating to national security, or in the interest of national economic development or of the health of the said populations.	None
When in such cases removal of these populations is necessary as an exceptional measure, they shall be provided with lands of quality at least equal to that of the lands previously occupied by them, suitable to provide for their present needs and future development.	None
In cases where chances of alternative employment exist and where the populations concerned prefer to have compensation in money or in kind, they shall be so compensated under appropriate guarantees.	None
Persons thus removed shall be fully compensated for any resulting loss or injury.	None
Article 13 Procedures for the transmission of rights of ownership and use of land which are established by the customs of the populations concerned shall be respected, within the framework of national laws and regulations, in so far as they satisfy the needs of these populations and do not hinder their economic and social development.	None
Arrangements shall be made to prevent persons who are not members of the populations concerned from taking advantage of these customs or of lack of understanding of the laws on the part of the members of these populations to secure the ownership or use of the lands belonging to such members.	None
Thus, removal of the population, by way of an exceptional measure, is not ruled out.	None
It is only subject to the condition that lands of quality at least equal to that of the lands previously occupied by them, suitable to provide for their present needs and future development.	None
We may, however, notice that this Convention has not been ratified by many countries in the Convention held in 1989.	None
Those who have ratified the 1989 Convention are not bound by it.	None
Furthermore, the United Nations adopted a declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples in September, 2007.	None
Articles 3 to 5 thereof read as under Article 3 Indigenous peoples have the right to self determination.	None
By virtue of that right they freely determine their political status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development.	None
Article 4 Indigenous peoples, in exercising their right to selfdetermination, have the right to autonomy or selfgovernment in matters relating to their internal and local affairs, as well as ways and means for financing their autonomous functions.	None
Article 5 Indigenous peoples have the right to maintain and strengthen their distinct political, legal, economic, social and cultural institutions, while retaining their right to participate fully, if they so choose, in the political, economic, social and cultural life of the State.	None
It is now accepted that the Panchasheel doctrine which provided that the tribes could flourish and develop only if the State interfered minimally and functioned chiefly as a support system in view of passage of time is no longer valid.	None
Even the notion of autonomy contained in the 1989 Convention has been rejected by India.	None
However, India appears to have softened its stand against autonomy for tribal people and it has voted in favour of United Nations declaration on the rights of indigenous people which affirms various rights to autonomy that are inherent in the tribal peoples of the world.	None
This declaration, however, is not binding.	None
This Court furthermore in Narmada Bachao Andolan v. Union of India and Others (2000) 10 SCC 664 while considering the validity of acquisition of lands by the State of Madhya Pradesh for a project known as Sardar Sarovar Project (SSP) by constructing a dam on river Narmada as a result whereof the residence of tribals in various States, viz., Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan were affected, opined as under The displacement of the tribals and other persons would not per se result in the violation of their fundamental or other rights.	None
The effect is to see that on their rehabilitation at new locations they are better off than what they were.	None
At the rehabilitation sites they will have more and better amenities than those they enjoyed in their tribal hamlets.	None
The gradual assimilation in the mainstream of the society will lead to betterment and progress.	None
For the purpose of going into the question with regard to the adjudication of the water dispute regarding the interState River Narmada and the river valley thereof in terms of the provisions of the interState Water Disputes Act, the award inter alia provided for relief and rehabilitation stating that no submergence of an area would take place unless the oustees are rehabilitated.	None
This Court referred to Article 12 of the ILO Convention No. 107 holding The said article clearly suggested that when the removal of the tribal population is necessary as an exceptional measure, they shall be provided with land of quality at least equal to that of the land previously occupied by them and they shall be fully compensated for any resulting loss or injury.	None
The rehabilitation package contained in the award of the Tribunal as improved further by the State of Gujarat and the other States prima facie shows that the land required to be allotted to the tribals is likely to be equal, if not better than what they had owned.	None
Noticing that construction of a dam is of utmost importance for development of the country as it plays an important role in providing irrigation for food security, domestic and industrial water supply, hydroelectric power and keeping flood waters back.	None
It repelled a submission that the execution of SSP without a comprehensive assessment and evaluation of its environmental impact and a decision regarding its acceptability would be in violation of the rights of the affected people under Article 21 of the Constitution of India stating that requisite environmental clearance had been taken opining that the same had been granted on due application of mind.	None
It took into consideration the question of relief and rehabilitation, consequent upon the displacement of people, holding The displacement of the people due to major river valley projects has occurred in both developed and developing countries.	None
In the past, there was no definite policy for rehabilitation of displaced persons associated with the river valley projects in India.	None
There were certain project specific programmes for implementation on a temporary basis.	None
For the land acquired, compensation under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 used to be given to the projectaffected families.	None
This payment in cash did not result in satisfactory resettlement of the displaced families.	None
Realising the difficulties of displaced persons, the requirement of relief and rehabilitation of PAFs in the case of Sardar Sarovar Project was considered by the Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal and the decision and final order of the Tribunal given in 1979 contains detailed directions in regard to acquisition of land and properties, provision for land, house plots and civic amenities for the resettlement and rehabilitation of the affected families.	None
The resettlement policy has thus emerged and developed along with the Sardar Sarovar Project.	None
This Court opined that where two views are permissible, the court ordinarily would not sit in appeal over a policy decision adopted by the government.	None
Regarding displacement of people on proposed project, it was held It is not fair that tribals and the people in undeveloped villages should continue in the same condition without ever enjoying the fruits of science and technology for better health and have a higher quality of lifestyle.	None
Should they not be encouraged to seek greener pastures elsewhere, if they can have access to it, either through their own efforts due to information exchange or due to outside compulsions.	None
It is with this object in view that the RR plans which are developed are meant to ensure that those who move must be better off in the new locations at government cost.	None
In the present case, the RR packages of the States, specially of Gujarat, are such that the living conditions of the oustees will be much better than what they had in their tribal hamlets.	None
As regards the question of necessity to balance the loss of forest because of activities carried on therein and construction of a dam, it was held The loss of forest because of any activity is undoubtedly harmful.	None
Without going into the question as to whether the loss of forest due to river valley project because of submergence is negligible, compared to deforestation due to other reasons like cutting of trees for fuel, it is true that large dams cause submergence leading to loss of forest areas.	None
But it cannot be ignored and it is important to note that these large dams also cause conversion of wasteland into agricultural land and make the area greener.	None
Large dams can also become instruments in improving the environment, as has been the case in western Rajasthan, which transformed into a green area because of Indira Gandhi Canal which draws water from Bhakra Nangal Dam.	None
This project not only allows the farmers to grow crops in deserts but also checks the spread of Thar Desert in the adjoining areas of Punjab and Haryana.	None
It is of some significance to note that this Court in Balco Employees Union (Regd.)	None
v. Union of India and Others (2002) 2 SCC 333 in regard to the decision of this Court in Samatha v. State of A.P. (1997) 8 SCC 191 , by drawing a necessary distinction between an area which is covered by Fifth Schedule of the Constitution and an area which is not, opined as under While we have strong reservations with regard to the correctness of the majority decision in Samatha case, which has not only interpreted the provisions of the aforesaid Section 3(1) of the A.P. Scheduled Areas Land Transfer Regulation, 1959 but has also interpreted the provisions of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, the said decision is not applicable in the present case because the law applicable in Madhya Pradesh is not similar or identical to the aforesaid Regulation of Andhra Pradesh.	None
Article 145(3) of the Constitution provides that any substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution can only be decided by a Bench of five Judges.	None
In Samatha case, it is a Bench of three Honble Judges who by majority of 21, interpreted the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution.	None
However, what is important to note here is, as already observed hereinabove, that the provisions of the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959 and Section 165, in particular, are not in pari materia with the aforesaid Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Regulation.	None
Furthermore, the cutoff date in terms of the 1975 Act was 1.01.1960.	None
Any transaction which had taken place between 1960 and 1975 thereafter had been declared invalid.	None
Admittedly, even after the provisions thereof having been given full effect, the members of the Scheduled Tribe had not been put in possession of their own land for decades.	None
Furthermore, we have noticed hereinbefore that the members of the Scheduled Tribe are educated and we can safely presume that most of them are serving various institutions in the State of Kerala and or in other parts of India.	None
Indisputably, the question of restoration of land should be considered having regard to their exploitation and rendering them homeless from the touchstone of Article 46 of the Constitution of India.	None
For the aforementioned purpose, however, it may be of some interest to consider that the insistence of autonomy and the view of a section of people that tribals should be allowed to remain within their own habitat and not be allowed to mix with the outside world would depend upon the type of Scheduled Tribe category in question.	None
Some of them are still living in jungle and are dependant on the products thereof.	None
Some of them, on the other hand, have become a part of the mainstream.	None
The difference between Scheduled Tribes of NorthEast and in some cases the Islands of Andaman and Nicobar, on the one hand, and of those who are on the highlands and plains of the Southern regions must be borne in mind.	None
We are satisfied that the legislature of Kerala kept in view the necessity of protecting the interest of the small land holders who were in possession and enjoyment of property which had belonged to tribal community and at the same time ensured that the tribals are not thrown out of their land and rendered homeless.	Reasoning
Having regard to the studies conducted by the State Government and as a balance of interest between tribals and nontribals which has been sought to be achieved, the provisions of the 1999 Act are intra vires.	None
In the counteraffidavit filed by the State, it is stated It is no doubt true that Act 31 of 1975 was integrated in the light of the nontribals depriving tribals of their land and the tribals being exploited.	None
However, over the years considering the population of land ratio even the nontribals occupying land which was once in possession of the tribals stood to have their livelihood seriously jeopardise by total implementation of Act 31 of 1975.	None
Ultimately, the Government had to consider all the aspects of the matter and the Government found that the optimum solution would be to bring a new legislation.	None
It is in view of this that Act 12 of 1999 has been passed by the State legislature NONAVAILABILITY OF THE LAND Mr. Iyer, learned counsel would contend that the State of Kerala is striving hard for making the lands available to the tribal people.	None
The learned counsel contended that the State has approached the Forest Bench of this Court for this purpose.	None
We are, however, not concerned therewith.	None
Keeping in view the promises made by the 1999 Act, it is obligatory on the part of the State to provide the land meant for the members of the Scheduled Tribe.	Reasoning
If they do not have sufficient land, they may have to take recourse to the acquisition proceedings but we are clear in our mind that the State in all situations will fulfill its legislative promise failing which the persons aggrieved would be entitled to take recourse to such remedies which are available to them in law.	Reasoning
We must also make it clear that while allotting land to the members of the Scheduled Tribe, the State cannot and must not allot them hilly or other types of lands which are not at all fit for agricultural purpose.	Reasoning
The lands, which are to be allotted, must be similar in nature to the land possessed by the members of Scheduled Tribe.	Reasoning
If in the past, such allotments have been made, as has been contended before us by the learned counsel for the respondent, the State must allot them other lands which are fit for agricultural purposes.	Reasoning
Such a process should be undertaken and completed as expeditiously as possible and preferably within a period of six months from date.	None
EFFECT OF INVALIDATING THE ACT AND CONSEQUENTLY REVIVING OF THE OLD ACT Whether striking down of an enactment as unconstitutional would result in automatic revival of an earlier Act which has been repealed?	None
The High Court wherefor, as noticed hereinbefore, has struck down Section 22 of 1999 Act providing for repeal of 1975 Act.	None
On the aforesaid premise it was held that the effect must be given to the right accrued under the 1975 Act.	None
Sections 6(1) and 7 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which are relevant for this purpose, read as under  Effect of repeal.	None
Where this Act, or any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencement of this Act, repeals any enactment hitherto made or hereafter to be made, then, unless a different intention appears, the repeal shall not (a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the repeal takes effect or (b) affect the previous operation of any enactment so repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder or (c) affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed or (d) affect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any enactment so repealed or (e) affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if the repealing Act or Regulation had not been passed.	None
Revival of repealed enactments In any (Central Act) or Regulations made after the commencement of this Act, it shall be necessary, for the purpose of reviving, either wholly or partially, any enactment wholly or partially repealed, expressly to state that purpose.	None
This section applies also to all (Central Acts) made after the third day of January, 1968 and to all Regulations made on or after the fourteenth day of January, 1887.	None
In our opinion, there exists a distinction between a statutory rule and a Legislative Act.	None
The Legislature did not want a vacuum to be created.	Reasoning
The 1999 Act was enacted repealing the 1975 Act only for certain purposes.	Reasoning
Section 22(2) of the 1999 Act upheld certain actions taken under the 1975 Act as if they had been taken in terms thereof.	Reasoning
The procedure for determining the rights and obligations of the parties by the Revenue Officers, under both the Acts, are more or less the same.	Reasoning
We may notice Sections 19 and 22 of 1999 Act, which are relevant.	Reasoning
They read  Saving of other laws.  	None
The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other law for the time being in force regulating any of the matters dealt with in this Act, except to the extent provided in this Act.	None
Repeal and saving.	None
The Kerala Scheduled Tribes (Restriction on Transfer of Lands and Restoration of Alienated Lands) Act, 1975 (31 of 1975) is hereby repealed.	None
Notwithstanding the repeal of the said Act, all orders issued by the competent authority or the Revenue Divisional Officer, so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of this Act and shall continue to be in force accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken under this Act.	None
Every proceedings pending before a Court on a complaint under Section 14 of the said Act shall be deemed as a proceeding under the corresponding provisions of this Act and shall be continued accordingly.	None
It is, therefore, evident that only those laws which are in derogation of the provisions of the 1999 Act would stand repealed.	Reasoning
We may in this connection notice certain decisions relied upon by Mr. Krishnan.	Reasoning
A.T.B. Mehtab Majid Co. v. State of Madras, AIR 1963 SC 928 1963 Supp (2)	Reasoning
SCR 435 was a case of substitution of an old rule by a new rule.	Reasoning
It, therefore, ceased to exist and did not automatically get revived when new rule was held to be invalid.	Reasoning
We are, however, dealing with a Legislative Act, validity whereof was determined in the light of constitutional provisions.	Reasoning
In B.N. Tiwari v. Union of India and others, 1965 2 SCR 421 , this Court was again dealing with a statutory rule.	None
It was held that the old rule did not revive opining  	None
When therefore this Court struck down the carry forward rule as modified in 1955 that did not mean that the carry forward rule of 1952 which had already ceased to exist, because the Government of India itself cancelled it and had substituted a modified rule in 1955 in its place, could revive.	None
However, the legal position was made clear by a Three Judge bench of this Court in West U.P. Sugar Mills v. State of U.P., (2002) 2 SCC 645 whereupon also the learned counsel had placed reliance, stating A perusal of Section 20 shows that several provisions of the Uttar Pradesh General Clauses Act have been made applicable in relation to statutory instruments including the statutory Rules issued under any Uttar Pradesh Act.	None
However, Section 6C does not find place in subsection (2) of Section 20 of the U.P. General Clauses Act.	None
In the absence of application of Section 6C to the statutory instrument, including the statutory rule, which is the case before us, the contention of the respondents deserves to be rejected.	None
Since Section 6C of the U.P. General Clauses Act has not been applied to the statutory rule framed by the Government of Uttar Pradesh, the substituted rule after it became inoperative, the old Rule 49 would not revive.	None
The aforementioned observations were, thus, made having regard to the fact that Section 6C of the U.P. General Clauses Act had not been applied to the statutory Rules, which reads as under  6C. Repeal or expiration of lawmaking textual amendments in other laws.(1)	None
Except as provided by subsection (2), where any Uttar Pradesh Act amends the text of any Uttar Pradesh Act or Regulation by the express omission, insertion or substitution of any matter, the amending enactment is subsequently repealed, the repeal shall not affect the continuance of any such amendment made by the enactment so repealed and in operation at the time of such repeal.	None
Where any such amendment of text is made by any temporary Uttar Pradesh Act or by an Ordinance or by any law made in exercise of the power of the State Legislature by the President or other authority referred to in subclause (a) of clause (1) of Article 357 of the Constitution, and such Act, Ordinance or other law ceases to operate without being reenacted (with or without modifications) the amendment of text made thereby shall also cease to operate.	None
However, the Bench opined It would have been a different case where a subsequent law which modified the earlier law was held to be void.	None
In such a case, the earlier law shall be deemed to have never been modified or repealed and, therefore, continued to be in force.	None
Where it is found that the legislature lacked competence to enact a law, still amends the existing law and subsequently it is found that the legislature or the authority was denuded of the power to amend the existing law, in such a case the old law would revive and continue.	None
But it is not the case here.	None
Mohd.	None
Shaukat Hussain Khan v. State of A.P., (1974) 2 SCC 376 is a case where the statute was modified and a different view was taken.	None
But the principle laid down therein has been held to be inapplicable in Indian Express Newspapers v. Union of India, (1985) 1 SCC 641	None
The rule in Mohd.	None
Shaukat Hussain Khan v. State of A.P. is inapplicable to these cases.	None
In that case the subsequent law which modified the earlier one and which was held to be void was one which according to the Court could not have been passed at all by the State Legislature.	None
In such a case the earlier law could be deemed to have never been modified or repealed and would, therefore, continue to be in force.	None
It was strictly not a case of revival of an earlier law which had been repealed or modified on the striking down of a later law which purported to modify or repeal the earlier one.	None
It was a case where the earlier law had not been either modified or repealed effectively.	None
Repeal of a statute, it is well known, is not a matter of mere form but one of substance.	None
It, however, depends upon the intention of the legislature.	Reasoning
If by reason of a subsequent statute, the legislature intended to abrogate or wipe off the former enactment, wholly or in part, then it would be a case of total or pro tanto repeal.	Reasoning
If the intention was merely to modify the former enactment by engrafting an exception or granting an exemption, or by adding conditions, or by restricting, intercepting or suspending its operation, such modification would not amount to a repeal.	Reasoning
In Southern Petrochemical Industries (supra), the subsequent Act did not contain the words unless a different intention appears.	None
It was held that the later Act was not different from the earlier Act.	None
This Court is required to assume that the Legislature did so deliberately.	None
In this case, however, the repealing clause is clear and unambiguous.	Reasoning
We, therefore, cannot accept the submission of Mr. Dayan Krishnan.	None
AGRICULTURAL AND NONAGRICULTURAL LAND Classification between agricultural and nonagricultural land is a valid one.	None
It is, however, accepted that all forest areas comprise of the agricultural land.	None
The State has admittedly no legislative competence to enact a legislation in exercise of its power of Entry No. 49, List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India in relation to nonagricultural land.	None
Such a power has been noticed hereinbefore.	None
It exists only in terms of Entry 6, List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
While enacting the 1999 Act, the State could not have deprived the persons who hold nonagricultural land, having enacted the 1975 Act and, thus, could not have repealed a portion thereof by raising the following contention	None
If in a given situation a tribal possess non agricultural land that only indicates that though the person is a tribal by birth he has come a long way from the way of Scheduled Tribe and has acquired the trappings of non tribals and thereafter has come to own immovable property other than the agricultural land.	None
The exploitation of the tribals has studied would indicate (sic) has always taken place by deprivation of the agricultural land of the tribals Once they have made an enactment, the legislative intent is clear and unambiguous, viz., such exploitation was possible also in so far as nonagricultural lands are concerned.	None
Such a right conferred on the owners of the nonagricultural land, therefore, could not have taken away without payment of compensation.	Reasoning
We, therefore, are of the opinion that to that extent the 1975 Act would continue to be applied.	Reasoning
The State has no legislative competence to repeal that portion of the 1975 Act.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforesaid, Civil Appeal Nos. 104105 of 2001 and 899 of 2001 are allowed in part to the extent mentioned above.	Decision
In view of our judgment in Civil Appeal Nos. 104105 of 2001 and 899 of 2001, no orders are called for in Civil Appeal No.7079 of 2001.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
